@@759517

txt //# variety of sources than any other writer , and from the very nature of his subject he is obliged to quote incessantly . The following pages embody the results of more than twelve years ' research in the libraries of America and Europe . In weaving my quotations into a continuous fabric I have adopted a plan which I believe to be ingenious , and which certainly saves space and annoyance . Instead of citing the full titles of books every time they are referred to either in the text or in footnotes , I merely give the author 's name and the page number , if only one of his books is referred to ; and if there are several books , I give the initials  --  say Brinton , M.N.W. , 130 ; which means Brinton 's Myths of the New World , page 130 . The key to the abbreviations will be found at the end of the volume in the bibliography , which also includes an author 's index , separate from the index of subjects . This avoids the repetition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and spares the reader the annoyance of constant interruption of his reading to glance at the bottom of the page . Not a few of the critics of my first book , ignoring the difference between a romantic love-story and a story of romantic love , fancied they could refute me by simply referring to some ancient romantic story . To prevent a repetition of that procedure I have adorned these pages with a number of love-stories , adding critical comments wherever called for . These stories , I believe , augment , not only the interest but the scientific value of the monograph . In gathering them I have often wondered why no one anticipated me , though , to be sure , it was not an easy task , as they are scattered in hundreds of books , and in scientific periodicals where few would look for them . At the same time I confess that to me the tracing of the plot of the evolution of love , with its diverse obstacles , is more fascinating than the plot of an individual love-story . At any rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ am perhaps not mistaken in assuming that the story of love itself will be welcomed as a pleasant change . H.T.F. NEW YORK , October 27 , 1899 . CONTENTS HISTORY OF AN IDEA Origin of a Book Skeptical Critics Robert Burton Hegel on Greek Love Shelley on Greek Love Macaulay , Bulwer-Lytton , Gautier Goldsmith and Rousseau Love a Compound Feeling Herbert Spencer 's Analysis Active Impulses Must be Added Sensuality the Antipode of Love The Word Romantic Animals Higher than Savages Love the Last , Not the First , Product of Civilization Plan of this Volume Greek Sentimentality Importance of Love HOW SENTIMENTS CHANGE AND GROW No Love of Romantic Scenery No Love in Early Religion Murder as a Virtue Slaughter of the Innocents Honorable Polygamy Curiosities of Modesty Indifference to Chastity Horror of Incest WHAT IS ROMANTIC LOVE ? Ingredients of Love . I. INDIVIDUAL PREFERENCE All Girls Equally Attractive Shallow Predilection Repression of Preference Utility versus Sentiment A Story of African Love Similarity of Individuals and Sexes Primary and Secondary Sexual Characters Fastidious Sensuality is not Love Two Stories of Indian Love Feminine Ideals Superior to Masculine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Enemies Mysteries of Love ,  --  An Oriental Love-Story II . MONOPOLISM Juliet and Nothing but Juliet Butterfly Love Romantic Stories of Non-Romantic Love Obstacles to Monopolism Wives and Girls in Common Trial Marriages Two Roman Lovers III . JEALOUSY Rage at Rivals Women as Private Property Horrible Punishments Essence of True Jealousy Absence of Masculine Jealousy Persian and Greek Jealousy Primitive Feminine Jealousy Absence of Feminine Jealousy Jealousy Purged of Hate A Virtuous Sin Abnormal States Jealousy in Romantic Love IV . COYNESS Women Who Woo Were Hebrew and Greek Women Coy ? Masculine Coyness Shy but not Coy Militarism and Mediaeval Women What Made Women Coy ? Capturing Women The Comedy of Mock Capture Why the Women Resist Quaint Customs Greek and Roman Mercenary Coyness Modesty and Coyness Utility of Coyness How Women Propose V. HOPE AND DESPAIR  --  MIXED MOODS Amorous Antitheses Courtship and Imagination Effects of Sensual Love VI . HYPERBOLE Girls and Flowers Eyes and Stars Locks and Fragrance Poetic Desire for Contact Nature 's Sympathy with Lovers Romantic but not Loving The Power of Love VII . PRIDE Comic Side of Love A Mystery Explained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Love VIII . SYMPATHY Egotism , Naked or Masked Delight in the Torture of Others Indifference to Suffering Exposing the Sick and Aged Birth of Sympathy Women Crueler than Men Plato Denounces Sympathy Sham Altruism in India Evolution of Sympathy Amorous Sympathy IX . ADORATION Deification of Persons Primitive Contempt for Women Homage to Priestesses Kinship Through Females Only Woman 's Domestic Rule Woman 's Political Rule Greek Estimate of Women Man-Worship and Christianity X. UNSELFISH GALLANTRY The Gallant Rooster Ungallant Lower Races of Men Egyptian Love Arabian Love The Unchivalrous Greeks Ovid 's Sham Gallantry Mediaeval and Modern Gallantry " An Insult to Woman , " Summary A Sure Test of Love XI . ALTRUISTIC SELF-SACRIFICE The Lady and the Tiger A Greek Love-Story Persian Love Hero and Leander The Elephant and the Lotos Suicide is Selfish XII . AFFECTION Erotic Assassins The Wisdom of Solomon Stuff and Nonsense Sacrifices of Cannibal Husbands Inclinations Mistaken for Affection Selfish Liking and Attachment Foolish Fondness Unselfish Affection XIII . MENTAL PURITY German Testimony English Testimony Maiden Fancies Pathologic Love A Modern Sentiment Persians , Turks , and Hindoos Love Despised in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ADMIRATION OF PERSONAL BEAUTY Darwin 's Unfortunate Mistake Decoration for Protection War " Decorations , " Amulets , Charms , Medicines Mourning Language Indications of Tribe or Rank Vain Desire to Attract Attention Objects of Tattooing Tattooing on Pacific Islands Tattooing in America Tattooing in Japan Scarification Alleged Testimony of Natives , Misleading Testimony of Visitors " Decoration " at the Age of Puberty " Decoration " as a Test of Courage Mutilation , Fashion , and Emulation Personal Beauty versus Personal Decoration De Gustibus non est Disputandum ? Indifference to Dirt Reasons for Bathing Corpulence versus Beauty Fattening Girls for the Marriage Market Oriental Ideals The Concupiscence Theory of Beauty Utility is not Beauty A New Sense Easily Lost Again Moral Ugliness Beautifying Intelligence The Strange Greek Attitude A COMPOSITE AND VARIABLE SENTIMENT Definition of Love Why called Romantic . SENSUALITY , SENTIMENTALITY , AND SENTIMENT . Appetite and Longing Wiles of an Oriental Girl Rarity of True Love . MISTAKES REGARDING CONJUGAL LOVE How Romantic Love is Metamorphosed Why Savages Value Wives Mourning to Order Mourning for Entertainment The Truth about Widow-Burning Feminine Devotion in Ancient Literature Wives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TO ROMANTIC LOVE I. Ignorance and Stupidity II . Coarseness and Obscenity III . War IV . Cruelty V. Masculine Selfishness VI . Contempt for Women VII . Capture and Sale of Brides VIII . Infant Marriages IX . Prevention of Free Choice X. Separation of the Sexes XI . Sexual Taboos XII . Race Aversions XIII . Multiplicity of Languages XIV . Social Barriers XV . Religious Prejudice SPECIMENS OF AFRICAN LOVE Bushman Qualifications for Love " Love in all Their Marriages , " False Facts Regarding Hottentots Effeminate Men and Masculine Women How the Hottentot Woman " Rules at Home , " " Regard for Women " Capacity for Refined Love Hottentot Coarseness Fat versus Sentiment South African Love-Poems A Hottentot Flirt Kaffir Morals Individual Preference for  --  Cows , Bargaining for Brides Amorous Preferences Zulu Girls not Coy Charms and Poems A Kaffir Love-Story Lower than Beasts Colonies of Free Lovers A Lesson in Gallantry Not a Particle of Romance No Love Among Negroes A Queer Story Suicides Poetic Love on the Congo Black Love in Kamerun A Slave Coast Love-Story The Maiden who Always Refused African Story-Books @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Baling out the Brook Proverbs about Women African Amazons Where Woman Commands No Chance for Romantic Love Pastoral Love Abyssinian Beauty and Flirtation Galla Coarseness Somali Love-Affairs Arabic Influences Touareg Chivalry An African Love-Letter ABORIGINAL AUSTRALIAN LOVE Personal Charms of Australians Cruel Treatment of Women Were Savages Corrupted by Whites ? Aboriginal Horrors Naked and not Ashamed Is Civilization Demoralizing ? Aboriginal Wantonness Lower than Brutes Indifference to Chastity Useless Precautions Survivals of Promiscuity Aboriginal Depravity The Question of Promiscuity Why do Australians Marry ? Curiosities of Jealousy Pugnacious Females Wife-Stealing Swapping Girls The Philosophy of Elopements Charming a Woman by Magic Other Obstacles to Love Marriage Taboos and " Incest " Affection for Women and Dogs A Horrible Custom Romantic Affliction A Lock of Hair Two Native Stories Barrington 's Love-Story Risking Life for a Woman Gerstaecker 's Love-Story Local Color in Courtship Love-Letters . ISLAND LOVE ON THE PACIFIC Where Women Propose Bornean Caged Girls Charms of Dyak Women Dyak Morals Nocturnal Courtship Head Hunters A-Wooing Fickle and Shallow Passion Dyak Love-Songs The Girl With the Clean Face Fijian Refinements How Cannibals Treat Women Fijian Modesty and Chastity Emotional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Traits Courtship Pantomime Two Samoan Love-Stories Personal Charms of South Sea Islanders Tahitians and Their White Visitors Heartless Treatment of Women Two Stories of Tahitian Infatuation Captain Cook on Tahitian Love Were the Tongans Civilized ? Love of Scenery A Cannibal Bargain The Handsome Chiefs Honeymoon in a Cave A Hawaiian Cave-Story Is this Romantic Love ? Vagaries of Hawaiian Fondness Hawaiian Morals The Helen of Hawaii Intercepted Love-Letters Maoris of New Zealand The Maiden of Rotorua The Man on the Tree Love in a Fortress Stratagem of an Elopement Maori Love-Poems The Wooing-House Liberty of Choice and Respect for Women Maori Morals and Capacity for Love HOW AMERICAN INDIANS LOVE The Red Lover The Foam Woman The Humpback Magician The Buffalo King The Haunted Grove The Girl and the Scalp A Chippewa Love-Song How " Indian Stories " are Written Reality versus Romance Deceptive Modesty Were Indians Corrupted by Whites ? The Noble Red Man Apparent Exceptions Intimidating California Squaws Going A-Calumeting Squaws and Personal Beauty Are North American Indians Gallant ? South American Gallantry How Indians Adore Squaws Choosing a Husband Compulsory " Free Choice " A British Columbia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Thwarting Free Choice Central and South American Examples Why Indians Elope Suicide and Love Love-Charms Curiosities of Courtship Pantomimic Love-Making Honeymoon Music in Indian Courtship Indian Love-Poems More Love-Stories " White Man Too Much Lie " The Story of Pocahontas Verdict : No Romantic Love The Unloving Eskimo . INDIA  --  WILD TRIBES AND TEMPLE GIRLS . " Whole Tracts of Feeling Unknown to Them " Practical Promiscuity " Marvellously Pretty and Romantic " Liberty of Choice Scalps and Field-Mice A Topsy-Turvy Custom Paharia Lads and Lasses Child-Murder and Child-Marriage Monstrous Parental Selfishness How Hindoo Girls are Disposed of Hindoos Far Below Brutes Contempt in Place of Love Widows and Their Tormentors Hindoo Depravity Temple Girls An Indian Aspasia Symptoms of Feminine Love Symptoms of Masculine Love Lyrics and Dramas I. The Story of Sakuntala II . The Story of Urvasi III . Malavika and Agnimitra IV . The Story of Savitri V. Nala and Damayanti Artificial Symptoms The Hindoo God of Love Dying for Love What Hindoo Poets Admire in Women The Old Story of Selfishness Bayaderes and Princesses as Heroines Voluntary Unions not Respectable DOES THE BIBLE IGNORE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Courting of Rebekah How Ruth Courted Boaz No Sympathy or Sentiment A Masculine Ideal of Womanhood Not the Christian Ideal of Love Unchivalrous Slaughter of Women Four More Bible Stories Abishag the Shunammite The Song of Songs GREEK LOVE-STORIES AND POEMS . Champions of Greek Love Gladstone on the Women of Homer Achilles as a Lover Odysseus , Libertine and Ruffian Was Penelope a Model Wife ? Hector and Andromache Barbarous Treatment of Greek Women Love in Sappho 's Poems Masculine Minds in Female Bodies Anacreon and Others Woman and Love in Aeschylus Woman and Love in Sophocles Woman and Love in Euripides Romantic Love , Greek Style Platonic Love of Women Spartan Opportunities for Love Amazonian Ideal of Greek Womanhood Athenian Orientalism Literature and Life Greek Love in Africa Alexandrian Chivalry The New Comedy Theocritus and Callimachus Medea and Jason Poets and Hetairai Short Stories Greek Romances Daphnis and Chloe Hero and Leander Cupid and Psyche UTILITY AND FUTURE OF LOVE . BIBLIOGRAPHY AND INDEX OF AUTHORS INDEX OF SUBJECTS PRIMITIVE LOVE AND LOVE-STORIES HISTORY OF AN IDEA " Love is always the same . As Sappho loved , fifty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; so will they love thousands of years hence . " These words , placed by Professor Ebers in the mouth of one of the characters in his historic novel , An Egyptian Princess , express the prevalent opinion on this subject , an opinion which I , too , shared fifteen years ago . Though an ardent champion of the theory of evolution , I believed that there was one thing in the world to which modern scientific ideas of gradual development did not apply  --  that love was too much part and parcel of human nature to have ever been different from what it is to-day . ORIGIN OF A BOOK It so happened that I began to collect notes for a paper on " How to Cure Love . " It was at first intended merely as a personal experiment in emotional psychology . Afterward it occurred to me that such a sketch might be shaped into a readable magazine article . This , again , suggested a complementary article on " How to Win Love "  --  a sort of modern Ovid in prose ; and then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ book on love ? There is none in the English language  --  strange anomaly  --  though love is supposed to be the most fascinating and influential thing in the world . It will surely be received with delight , especially if I associate with it some chapters on personal beauty , the chief inspirer of love . I shall begin by showing that the ancient Greeks and Romans and Hebrews loved precisely as we love . " Forthwith I took down from my shelves the classical authors that I had not touched since leaving college , and eagerly searched for all references to women , marriage , and love . To my growing surprise and amazement I found that not only did those ancient authors look upon women as inferior beings while I worshipped them , but in their descriptions of the symptoms of love I looked in vain for mention of those supersensual emotions and self-sacrificing impulses which overcame me when I was in love . " Can it be , " I whispered to myself , " that , notwithstanding the universal opinion to the contrary , love is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? " This hypothesis threw me into a fever of excitement , without the stimulus of which I do not believe I should have had the courage and patience to collect , classify , and weave into one fabric the enormous number of facts and opinions contained within the covers of Romantic Love and Personal Beauty . I believed that at last something new under the sun had been found , and I was so much afraid that the discovery might leak out prematurely , that for two years I kept the first half of my title a secret , telling inquisitive friends merely that I was writing a book on Personal Beauty . And no one but an author who is in love with his theme and whose theme is love can quite realize what a supreme delight it was  --  with occasional moments of anxious suspense  --  to go through thousands of books in the libraries of America , England , France , and Germany and find that all discoverable facts , properly interpreted , bore out my seemingly paradoxical and reckless theory . SKEPTICAL CRITICS When the book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a larger number pooh-poohed them . Here are a few specimen comments : " His great theses are , first , that romantic love is an entirely modern invention ; and , secondly , that romantic love and conjugal love are two things essentially different .... Now both these theses are luckily false . " " He is wrong when he says there was no such thing as pre-matrimonial love known to the ancients . " " I do n't believe in his theory at all , and ... no one is likely to believe in it after candid examination . " " A ridiculous theory . " " It was a misfortune when Mr. Finck ran afoul of this theory . " " Mr. Finck will not need to live many years in order to be ashamed of it . " " His thesis is not worth writing about . " " It is true that he has uttered a profoundly original thought , but , unfortunately , the depth of its originality is surpassed by its fathomless stupidity . " " If in the light of these and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nobody had anticipated Mr. Finck 's theory that love is a modern sentiment , we should say it might be because nobody who felt inspired to write about it was ever so extensively unacquainted with the literature of the human passions . " " Romantic love has always existed , in every clime and age , since man left simian society ; and the records of travellers show that it is to be found even among the lowest savages . " ROBERT BURTON While not a few of the commentators thus rejected or ridiculed my thesis , others hinted that I had been anticipated . Several suggested that Burton 's Anatomy of Melancholy had been my model . As a matter of fact , although one of the critics referred to my book as " a marvel of epitomized research , " I must confess , to my shame , that I was not aware that Burton had devoted two hundred pages to what he calls Love-Melancholy , until I had finished the first sketch of my manuscript and commenced to rewrite it . My experience thus furnished a striking verification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his book : " Known to few , unknown to fewer still . " However , after reading Burton , I was surprised that any reader of Burton should have found anything in common between his book and mine , for he treated love as an appetite , I as a sentiment ; my subject was pure , supersensual affection , while his subject is frankly indicated in the following sentences : " I come at last to that heroical love , which is proper to men and women ... and deserves much rather to be called burning lust than by such an honorable title . " " This burning lust ... begets rapes , incests , murders . " " It rages with all sorts and conditions of men , yet is most evident among such as are young and lusty , in the flower of their years , nobly descended , high fed , such as live idly , at ease , and for that cause ( which our divines call burning lust ) this mad and beastly passion ... is named by our physicians heroical love , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as Savonarola styles it , because noble men and women make a common practice of it , and are so ordinarily affected with it . " " Carolus a Lorme ... makes a doubt whether this heroical love be a disease .... Tully ... defines it a furious disease of the mind ; Plato madness itself . " " Gordonius calls this disease the proper passion of nobility . " " This heroical passion or rather brutish burning lust of which we treat . " The only honorable love Burton knows is that between husband and wife , while of such a thing as the evolution of love he had , of course , not the remotest conception , as his book appeared in 1621 , or two hundred and thirty-eight years before Darwin 's Origin of Species . HEGEL ON GREEK LOVE In a review of my book which appeared in the now defunct New York Star , the late George Parsons Lathrop wrote that the author " says that romantic love is a modern sentiment , less than a thousand years old . This idea , I rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not credit that philosopher with it . " I read this criticism with mingled emotions . If it was true that Hegel had anticipated me , my claims to priority of discovery would vanish , even though the idea had come to me spontaneously ; but , on the other hand , the disappointment at this thought was neutralized by the reflection that I should gain the support of one of the most famous philosophers , and share with him the sneers and the ridicule bestowed upon my theory . I wrote to Mr. Lathrop , begging him to refer me to the volume and page of Hegel 's numerous works where I could find the passage in question . He promptly replied that I should find it in the second volume of the Aesthetik ( 178-182 ) . No doubt I ought to have known that Hegel had written on this subject ; but the fact that of more than two hundred American , English , and German reviewers of my book whose notices I have seen , only one knew what had thus escaped my research , consoled me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Burton 's epitaph . His Aesthetik is an abstruse , unindexed , three-volume work of 1,575 pages , which has not been reprinted since 1843 , and is practically forgotten . Few know it , though all know of it . After perusing Hegel 's pages on this topic I found , however , that Mr. Lathrop had imputed to him a theory  --  my theory  --  which that philosopher would have doubtless repudiated emphatically . What Hegel does is simply to call attention to the fact that in the literature of the ancient Greeks and Romans love is depicted only as a transient gratification of the senses , or a consuming heat of the blood , and not as a romantic , sentimental affection of the soul . He does not generalize , says nothing about other ancient nations , 1 and certainly never dreamt of such a thing as asserting that love had been gradually and slowly developed from the coarse and selfish passions of our savage ancestors to the refined and altruistic feelings of modern civilized men and women . He lived long before the days of scientific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing as looking upon the emotions and morals of primitive men as the raw material out of which our own superior minds have been fashioned . Nay , Hegel does not even say that sentimental love did not exist in the life of the Greeks and Romans ; he simply asserts that it is not to be found in their literature . The two things are by no means identical . Professor Rohde , an authority on the erotic writings of the Greeks , expresses the opinion repeatedly that , whatever their literature may indicate , they themselves were capable of feeling strong and pure love ; and the eminent American psychologist , Professor William James , put forth the same opinion in a review of my book. 2 Indeed , this view was broached more than a hundred years ago by a German author , Basil von Ramdohr , who wrote four volumes on love and its history , entitled Venus Urania . His first two volumes are almost unreadably garrulous and dull , but the third and fourth contain an interesting account of various phases through which love has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vol. iii. ) that " the nature Wesen of love is unchangeable , but the ideas we entertain in regard to it and the effects we ascribe to it , are subject to alteration . " SHELLEY ON GREEK LOVE It is possible that Hegel may have read this book , for it appeared in 1798 , while the first manuscript sketches of his lectures on esthetics bear the date of 1818 . He may have also read Robert Wood 's book entitled An Essay on the Original Genius and Writings of Homer , dated 1775 , in which this sentence occurs : " Is it not very remarkable , that Homer , so great a master of the tender and pathetic , who has exhibited human nature in almost every shape , and under every view , has not given a single instance of the powers and effects of love , distinct from sensual enjoyment , in the Iliad ? " This is as far as I have been able to trace back this notion in modern literature . But in the literature of the first half of the nineteenth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarding the Greeks , 3 by Shelley , Lord Lytton , Lord Macaulay , and Theophile Gautier . Shelley 's ideas are confused and contradictory , but interesting as showing the conflict between traditional opinion and poetic intuition . In his fragmentary discourse on " The Manners of the Ancients Relating to the Subject of Love , " which was intended to serve as an introduction to Plato 's Symposium , he remarks that the women of the ancient Greeks , with rare exceptions , possessed " the habits and the qualities of slaves . They were probably not extremely beautiful , at least there was no such disproportion in the attractions of the external form between the female and male sex among the Greeks , as exists among the modern Europeans . They were certainly devoid of that moral and intellectual loveliness with which the acquisition of knowledge and the cultivation of sentiment animates , as with another life of overpowering grace , the lineaments and the gestures of every form which they inhabit . Their eyes could not have been deep and intricate from the workings of the mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Having painted this life-like picture of the Greek female mind , Shelley goes on to say perversely : " Let it not be imagined that because the Greeks were deprived of its legitimate object , that they were incapable of sentimental love , and that this passion is the mere child of chivalry and the literature of modern times . " He tries to justify this assertion by adding that " Man is in his wildest state a social being : a certain degree of civilization and refinement ever produces the want of sympathies still more intimate and complete ; and the gratification of the senses is no longer all that is sought in sexual connection . It soon becomes a very small part of that profound and complicated sentiment , which we call love , which is rather the universal thirst for a communion not merely of the senses , but of our whole nature , intellectual , imaginative , and sensitive . " Here Shelley contradicts himself flatly by saying , in two consecutive sentences , that Greek women were " certainly devoid of the moral and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the men nevertheless could feel such love . His mind was evidently hazy on the subject , and that is probably the reason why his essay remained a fragment . MACAULAY , BULWER-LYTTON , GAUTIER Macaulay , with deeper insight than Shelley showed , realized that the passion of love may undergo changes . In his essay on Petrarch he notes that in the days of that poet love had become a new passion , and he clearly realizes the obstacles to love presented by Greek institutions . Of the two classes of women in Greece , the respectable and the hetairai , he says : " The matrons and their daughters , confined in the harem  --  insipid , uneducated , ignorant of all but the mechanical arts , scarcely seen till they were married  --  could rarely excite interest ; while their brilliant rivals , half graces , half harpies , elegant and refined , but fickle and rapacious , could never inspire respect . " Lord Lytton wrote an essay on " The Influence of Love upon Literature and Real Life , " in which he stated that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which all the most refined and intellectual of modern erotic literature consists , viz. , the distinction between love as a passion and love as a sentiment .... He is the first of the Hellenic poets who interests us intellectually in the antagonism and affinity between the sexes . " Theophile Gautier clearly realized one of the differences between ancient passion and modern love . In Mademoiselle de Maupin , he makes this comment on the ancient love-poems : " Through all the subtleties and veiled expressions one hears the abrupt and harsh voice of the master who endeavors to soften his manner in speaking to a slave . It is not , as in the love-poems written since the Christian era , a soul demanding love of another soul because it loves .... ' Make haste , Cynthia ; the smallest wrinkle may prove the grave of the most violent passion . ' It is in this brutal formula that all ancient elegy is summed up . " GOLDSMITH AND ROUSSEAU In Romantic Love and Personal Beauty I intimated ( 116 ) that Oliver Goldsmith was the first author @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not the same everywhere and at all times . My surmise was apparently correct ; it is not refuted by any of the references to love by the several authors just quoted , since all of these were written from about a half a century to a century later than Goldsmith 's Citizen of the World ( published in 1764 ) , which contains his dialogue on " Whether Love be a Natural or a Fictitious Passion . " His assertion therein that love existed only in early Rome , in chivalrous mediaeval Europe , and in China , all the rest of the world being , and having ever been , " utter strangers to its delights and advantages , " is , of course a mere bubble of his poetic fancy , not intended to be taken too seriously , and , is , moreover , at variance with facts . It is odd that he overlooks the Greeks , whereas the other writers cited confine themselves to the Greeks and their Roman imitators . Ten years before Goldsmith thus launched the idea that most nations were and had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Jean Jacques Rousseau published a treatise , Discours sur l'inegalite ( 1754 ) , in which he asserted that savages are strangers to jealousy , know no domesticity , and evince no preferences , being as well pleased with one woman as with another . Although , as we shall see later , many savages do have a crude sort of jealousy , domesticity , and individual preference , Rousseau , nevertheless , hints prophetically at a great truth  --  the fact that some , at any rate , of the phenomena of love are not to be found in the life of savages . Such a thought , naturally , was too novel to be accepted at once . Ramdohr , for instance , declares ( III . 17 ) that he can not convince himself that Rousseau is right . Yet , on the preceding page he himself had written that " it is unreasonable to speak of love between the sexes among peoples that have not yet advanced so far as to grant women humane consideration . " LOVE A COMPOUND FEELING All these things are of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idea to emerge from the mist into daylight . The greatest obstacle to the recognition of the fact that love has a history , and is subject to the laws of evolution lay in the habit of looking upon it as a simple feeling . When I wrote my first book on love , I believed that Herbert Spencer was the first thinker who grasped the idea that love is a composite state of mind . I now see , however , that Silvius , in Shakspere 's As You Like It ( V. 2 ) , gave a broad hint of the truth , three hundred years ago . Phoebe asks him to " tell what ' t is to love , " and he replies : It is to be all made of sighs and tears .... It is to be all made of faith and service .... It is to be all made of fantasy , All made of passion , and all made of wishes , All adoration , duty , and observance , All humbleness , all patience , and impatience , All purity , all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ composite nature of love in the first stanza of his famous poem : All thoughts , all passions , all delights , Whatever stirs this mortal frame , All are but ministers of love , And feed his sacred flame . And Swift adds , in " Cadenus and Vanessa : " Love , why do we one passion call , When ' t is a compound of them all ? The eminent Danish critic , George Brandes , though a special student of English literature , overlooked these poets when he declared , in one of his lectures on literary history ( 1872 ) , that the book in which love is for the first time looked on as something composite and an attempt made to analyze it into its elements , is Benjamin Constant 's Adolphe ( which appeared in 1816 ) . " In Adolphe , " he says , " and in all the literature associated with that book , we are informed accurately how many parts , how many grains , of friendship , devotion , vanity , ambition , admiration , respect , sensual attraction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , enthusiasm , reasoning calculation , etc. , are contained in the mixtum compositum which the enamoured persons call love . " This list , moreover , does not accurately name a single one of the essential ingredients of true love , dwelling only on associated phenomena , whereas Shakspere 's lines call attention to three states of mind which form part of the quintessence of romantic love  --  gallant " service , " " adoration , " and " purity "  --  while " patience and impatience " may perhaps be accepted as an equivalent of what I call the mixed moods of hope and despair . HERBERT SPENCER 'S ANALYSIS Nevertheless the first thinker who treated love as a compound feeling and consciously attempted a philosophical analysis of it was Herbert Spencer . In 1855 he published his Principles of Psychology , and in 1870 appeared a greatly enlarged edition , paragraph 215 of which contains the following exposition of his views : " The passion which unites the sexes is habitually spoken of as though it were a simple feeling ; whereas it is the most compound , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Added to the purely physical elements of it are first to be noticed those highly complex impressions produced by personal beauty ; around which are aggregated a variety of pleasurable ideas , not in themselves amatory , but which have an organized relation to the amatory feeling . With this there is united the complex sentiment which we term affection  --  a sentiment which , as it exists between those of the same sex , must be regarded as an independent sentiment , but one which is here greatly exalted . Then there is the sentiment of admiration , respect , or reverence  --  in itself one of considerable power , and which in this relation becomes in a high degree active . There comes next the feeling called love of approbation . To be preferred above all the world , and that by one admired beyond all others , is to have the love of approbation gratified in a degree passing every previous experience : especially as there is added that indirect gratification of it which results from the preference being witnessed by unconcerned persons . Further , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ succeeded in gaining such attachment from , and sway over , another , is a proof of power which can not fail agreeably to excite the amour propre . Yet again the proprietary feeling has its share in the general activity : there is the pleasure of possession  --  the two belong to each other . Once more , the relation allows of an extended liberty of action . Toward other persons a restrained behavior is requisite . Round each there is a subtle boundary that may not be crossed  --  an individuality on which none may trespass . But in this case the barriers are thrown down ; and thus the love of unrestrained activity is gratified . Finally , there is an exaltation of the sympathies . Egoistic pleasures of all kinds are doubled by another 's sympathetic participation ; and the pleasures of another are added to the egoistic pleasures . Thus , round the physical feeling forming the nucleus of the whole , are gathered the feelings produced by personal beauty , that constituting simple attachment , those of reverence , of love of approbation , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of sympathy . These , all greatly exalted , and severally tending to reflect their excitements on one another , unite to form the mental state we call love . And as each of them is itself comprehensive of multitudinous states of consciousness , we may say that this passion fuses into one immense aggregate most of the elementary excitations of which we are capable ; and that hence results its irresistible power . " Ribot has copied this analysis of love in his Psychologie des Sentiments ( p. 249 ) , with the comment that it is the best known to him ( 1896 ) and that he sees nothing to add or to take away from it . Inasmuch as it forms merely an episodic illustration in course of a general argument , it certainly bears witness to the keenness of Spencer 's intellect . Yet I can not agree with Ribot that it is a complete analysis of love . It aided me in conceiving the plan for my first book , but I soon found that it covered only a small part of the ground . Of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  Sympathy , and the feelings associated with Personal Beauty . What he called love of approbation , self-esteem , and pleasure of possession I subsummed under the name of Pride of Conquest and Possession . Further reflection has convinced me that it would have been wiser if , instead of treating Romantic Love as a phase of affection ( which , of course , was in itself quite correct ) , I had followed Spencer 's example and made affection one of the ingredients of the amorous passion . In the present volume I have made the change and added also Adoration , which includes what Spencer calls " the sentiment of admiration , respect , or reverence , " while calling attention to the superlative phase of these sentiments which is so characteristic of the lover , who does not say , " I respect you , " but " I adore you . " I may therefore credit Spencer with having suggested three or four only of the fourteen essential ingredients which I find in love . ACTIVE IMPULSES MUST BE ADDED The most important distinction between Spencer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it merely as a composite feeling , or a group of emotions , whereas I treat it as a complex state of mind including not only diverse feelings or sentiments  --  sympathy , admiration of beauty , jealousy , affection  --  but the active , altruistic impulses of gallantry and self-sacrifice , which are really more essential to an understanding of the essence of love , and a better test of it , than the sentiments named by Spencer . He ignores also the absolutely essential traits of individual preference and monopolism , besides coyness , hyperbole , the mixed moods of hope and despair , and purity , with the diverse emotions accompanying them . An effort to trace the evolution of the ingredients of love was first made in my book , though in a fragmentary way , in which respect the present volume will be found a great improvement . Apart from the completion of the analysis of love , my most important contribution to the study of this subject lies in the recognition of the fact that , " love " being so vague and comprehensive a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to trace the evolution of each of its ingredients separately , as I do in the present volume in the long chapter entitled " What Is Romantic Love ? " In Romantic Love and Personal Beauty ( 180 ) I wrote that perhaps the main reason why no one had anticipated me in the theory that love is an exclusively modern sentiment was that no distinction had commonly been made between romantic love and conjugal affection , noble examples of the latter being recorded in countries where romantic love was not possible owing to the absence of opportunities for courtship . I still hold that conjugal love antedated the romantic variety , but further study has convinced me that ( as will be shown in the chapters on Conjugal Love and on India , and Greece ) much of what has been taken as evidence of wifely devotion is really only a proof of man 's tyrannic selfishness which compelled the woman always to subordinate herself to her cruel master . The idea on which I placed so much emphasis , that opportunity for prolonged courtship is essential to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forth by Dr. Drummond in his Ascent of Man where he comments eloquently on the fact that " affection needs time to grow . " SENSUALITY THE ANTIPODE OF LOVE The keynote of my first book lies of course in the distinction between sensual love and romantic love . This distinction seemed to me so self-evident that I did not dwell on it at length , but applied myself chiefly to the task of proving that savages and ancient nations knew only one kind , being strangers to romantic or pure love . When I wrote ( 76 ) " No one , of course , would deny that sensual passion prevailed in Athens ; but sensuality is the very antipode of love , " I never dreamed that anyone would object to this distinction in itself . Great , therefore , was my amazement when , on reading the London Saturday Review 's comments on my book , I came across the following : " and when we find Mr. Finck marking off Romantic Love not merely from Conjugal Love , but from what he is pleased to call ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not know what he is talking about . " This criticism , with several others similar to it , was of great use to me , as it led to a series of studies , which convinced me that even at the present day the nature of romantic love is not understood by the vast majority of Europeans and Americans , many of them very estimable and intelligent individuals . THE WORD ROMANTIC Another London paper , the Academy , took me to task for using the word " romantic " in the sense I applied to it . But in this case , too , further research has shown that I was justified in using that word to designate pure prematrimonial love . There is a passage in Steele 's Lover ( dated 1714 ) which proves that it must have been in common use in a similar sense two centuries ago . The passage refers to " the reign of the amorous Charles the Second , " and declares that " the licenses of that court did not only make the Love which the Vulgar call Romantick , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Decency and Modesty were almost abandoned as formal and unnatural . " Here there is an obvious antithesis between romantic and sensual . The same antithesis was used by Hegel in contrasting the sensual love of the ancient Greeks and Romans with what he calls modern " romantic " love . Waitz-Gerland , too , in the six volumes of their Anthropologie der Naturvoelker , repeatedly refer to ( alleged ) cases of " romantic love " among savages and barbarians , having in all probability adopted the term from Hegel . The peculiar appropriateness of the word romantic to designate imaginative love will be set forth later in the chapter entitled Sensuality , Sentimentality , and Sentiment . Here I will only add an important truth which I shall have occasion to repeat often  --  that a romantic love-story is not necessarily a story of romantic love ; for it is obvious , for instance , that an elopement prompted by the most frivolous sensual passion , without a trace of real love , may lead to the most romantic incidents . In the chapters on affection , gallantry , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Saturday Reviewer that the gross sensual infatuation which leads a man to shoot a girl who refuses him , or a tramp to assault a woman on a lonely road and afterward to cut her throat in order to hide his crime , is absolutely antipodal to the refined , ardent , affectionate Romantic Love which impels a man to sacrifice his own life rather than let any harm or dishonor come to the beloved . ANIMALS HIGHER THAN SAVAGES Dr. Albert Moll of Berlin , in his second treatise on sexual anomalies , 4 takes occasion to express his disbelief in my view that love before marriage is a sentiment peculiar to modern man . He declares that traits of such love occur even in the courtship of animals , particularly birds , and implies that this upsets my theory . On the same ground a reviewer in a New York evening paper accused me of being illogical . Such criticisms illustrate the vague ideas regarding evolution that are still current . It is assumed that all the faculties are developed step by step simultaneously as we proceed from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would be to assume that since birds have such beautiful and convenient things as wings , and dogs belong to a higher genus of animals , therefore dogs ought to have better wings than birds . Most animals are cleaner than savages ; why should not some of them be more romantic in their love-affairs ? I shall take occasion repeatedly to emphasize this point in the present volume , though I alluded to it already in my first book ( 55 ) in the following passage , which my critics evidently overlooked : " In passing from animals to human beings we find at first not only no advance in the sexual relations , but a decided retrogression . Among some species of birds , courtship and marriage are infinitely more refined and noble than among the lowest savages , and it is especially in their treatment of females , both before and after mating , that not only birds but all animals show an immense superiority over primitive man ; for male animals fight only among themselves and never maltreat the females . " LOVE THE LAST , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and important fact , there is a large number of sentimental writers who make the extraordinary claim that the lower races , however savage they may be in everything else , are like ourselves in their amorous relations ; that they love and admire personal beauty just as we do . The main object of the present volume is to demolish this doctrine ; to prove that sexual refinement and the sense of personal beauty are not the earliest but the latest products of civilization . I have shown elsewhere5 that Japanese civilization is in many important respects far superior to ours ; yet in their treatment of women and estimate of love , this race has not yet risen above the barbarous stage ; and it will be shown in this volume that if we were to judge the ancient Greeks and the Hindoos from this point of view , we should have to deny them the epithet of civilized . Morgan found that the most advanced of American Indians , the Iroquois , had no capacity for love . His testimony in detail will be found in its proper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observers regarding other tribes and races . Some of this evidence was known to the founders of the modern science of sociology . It led Spencer to write en passant ( Pr . Soc. , I. , Sec. 337 , Sec.339 ) that " absence of the tender emotion ... habitually characterizes men of low types ; " and that the " higher sentiments accompanying union of the sexes ... do not exist among primitive men . " It led Sir John Lubbock to write ( 50 ) regarding the lowest races that " love is almost unknown among them ; and marriage , in its lowest phases , is by no means a matter of affection and companionship . " PLAN OF THIS VOLUME These are casual adumbrations of a great truth that applies not only to the lowest races ( savages ) but to the more advanced barbarians as well as to ancient civilized nations , as the present volume will attempt to demonstrate . To make my argument more impressive and conclusive , I present it in a twofold form . First I take the fourteen ingredients of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it follows necessarily that love as a whole developed gradually . Then I take the Africans , Australians , American Indians , etc. , separately , describing their diverse amorous customs and pointing out everywhere the absence of the altruistic , supersensual traits which constitute the essence of romantic love as distinguished from sensual passion . All this will be preceded by a chapter on " How Sentiments Change and Grow , " which will weaken the bias against the notion that so elemental a feeling as sexual love should have undergone so great a change , by pointing out that other seemingly instinctive and unalterable feelings have changed and developed . GREEK SENTIMENTALITY The inclusion of the civilized Greeks in a treatise on Primitive Love will naturally cause surprise ; but I can not attribute a capacity for anything more than primitive sensual love to a nation which , in its prematrimonial customs , manifested none of the essential altruistic traits of Romantic Love  --  sympathy , gallantry , self-sacrifice , affection , adoration , and purity . As a matter of course , the sensualism of a Greek or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's , which does not even include kisses or other caresses . While Greek love is not a sentiment , it may be sentimental , that is , an affectation of sentiment , differing from real sentiment as adulation does from adoration , as gallantry or the risking of life to secure favors do from genuine gallantry of the heart and self-sacrifice for the benefit of another . This important point which I here superadd to my theory , was overlooked by Benecke when he attributed a capacity for real love to the later Greeks of the Alexandrian period . IMPORTANCE OF LOVE One of the most important theses advanced in Romantic Love and Personal Beauty ( 323 , 424 , etc. ) , was that love , far from being merely a passing episode in human life , is one of the most powerful agencies working for the improvement of the human race . During the reign of Natural Selection , before the birth of love , cripples , the insane , the incurably diseased , were cruelly neglected and allowed to perish . Christianity rose up against this cruelty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus enabled to survive , marry , and hand down their infirmities to future generations . As a mediator between these two agencies , love comes in ; for Cupid , as I have said , " does not kill those who do not come up to his standard of health and beauty , but simply ignores and condemns them to a life of single-blessedness ; " which in these days is not such a hardship as it used to be . This thought will be enlarged in the last chapter of the present volume , on the " Utility and Future of Love , " which will indicate how the amorous sense is becoming more and more fastidious and beneficial . In the same chapter attention will be called , for the first time , to the three great strata in the evolution of parental love and morality . In the first , represented by savages , parents think chiefly of their own comfort , and children get the minimum of attention consistent with their preservation . In the second , which includes most of the modern Europeans and Americans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantageous marriage  --  that is a marriage which shall secure them wealth or comfort ; but the frequency with which girls are married off to old , infirm , or unworthy men , shows how few parents as yet have a thought of their grandchildren . In the next stage of moral evolution , which we are now entering , the grandchildren 's welfare also will be considered . In consequence of the persistent failure to consider the grandchildren , the human race is now anything but a model of physical , intellectual , and moral perfection . Luckily love , even in its sensual stages , has counteracted this parental selfishness and myopia by inducing young folks to marry for health , youth , and beauty , and creating an aversion to old age , disease , and deformity . As love becomes more and more fastidious and more regardful of intellectual worth and moral beauty  --  that is becomes Romantic Love  --  its sway becomes greater and greater , and the time will come when questions relating to it will form the most important chapters in treatises on moral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SENTIMENTS CHANGE AND GROW In conversation with friends I have found that the current belief that love must have been always and everywhere the same , because it is such a strong and elemental passion , is most easily shaken in this a priori position by pointing out that there are other strong feelings in our minds which were lacking among earlier and lower races . The love of grand , wild scenery , for instance  --  what we call romantic scenery  --  is as modern as the romantic love of men and women . Ruskin tells us that in his youth he derived a pleasure from such scenery " comparable for intensity only to the joy of a lover in being near a noble and kind mistress . " NO LOVE OF ROMANTIC SCENERY Savages , on the other hand , are prevented from appreciating snow mountains , avalanches , roaring torrents , ocean storms , deep glens , jungles , and solitudes , not only by their lack of refinement , but by their fears of wild animals , human enemies , and evil spirits . " In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 203 ) , " demons whistle in the branches , and stooping with outstretched arms sneak among the trunks to seize the wayfarer ; " and Powers ( 88 ) writes in regard to California Indians that they listen to night noises with unspeakable horror : " It is difficult for us to conceive of the speechless terrors which these poor wretches suffer from the screeching of owls , the shrieking of night-hawks , the rustling of the trees ... all of which are only channels of poison wherewith the demons would smite them . " To the primitive mind , the world over , a high mountain is the horror of horrors , the abode of evil spirits , and an attempt to climb it certain death . So strong is this superstition that explorers have often experienced the greatest difficulty in getting natives to serve as porters of provisions in their ascents of peaks. 6 Even the Greeks and Romans cared for landscape only in so far as it was humanized ( parks and gardens ) and habitable . " Their souls , " says Rohde ( 511 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sublime thrills we feel in the presence of the dark surges of the sea , the gloom of a primeval forest , the solitude and silence of sunlit mountain summits . " And Humboldt , who first noted the absence in Greek and Roman writings of the admiration of romantic scenery , remarked ( 24 ) : " Of the eternal snow of the Alps , glowing in the rosy light of the morning or evening sun , of the loveliness of the blue glacier ice , of the stupendous grandeur of Swiss landscape , no description has come down to us from them ; yet there was a constant procession over these Alps , from Helvetia to Gallia , of statesmen and generals with literary men in their train . All these travellers tell us only of the steep and abominable roads ; the romantic aspect of scenery never engages their attention . It is even known that Julius Caesar , when he returned to his legions in Gaul , employed his time while crossing the Alps in writing his grammatical treatise ' De Analogia . ' " A sceptical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so subtle a sentiment , and so far from being universal even now , that it would be rash to argue from its absence among savages , Greeks , and Romans , that love , a sentiment so much stronger and more prevalent , could have been in the same predicament . Let us therefore take another sentiment , the religious , the vast power and wide prevalence of which no one will deny . NO LOVE IN EARLY RELIGION To a modern Christian , God is a deity who is all-wise , all-powerful , infinite , holy , the personification of all the highest virtues . To accuse this Deity of the slightest moral flaw would be blasphemy . Now , without going so far down as the lowest savages , let us see what conception such barbarians as the Polynesians have of their gods . The moral habits of some of them are indicated by their names  --  " The Rioter , " " The Adulterer , " " Ndauthina , " who steals women of rank or beauty by night or by torchlight , " The Human-brain Eater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gods are " proud , envious , covetous , revengeful , and the subject of every basest passion . They are demoralized heathen  --  monster expressions of moral corruption " ( Williams , 184 ) . These gods make war , and kill and eat each other just as mortals do . The Polynesians believed , too , that " the spirits of the dead are eaten by the gods or demons " ( Ellis , P.R. , I. , 275 ) . It might be said that since a Polynesian sees no crime in adultery , revenge , murder , or cannibalism , his attributing such qualities to his gods can not , from his point of view , be considered blasphemous . Quite true ; but my point is that men who have made so little progress in sympathy and moral perception as to see no harm in adultery , revenge , murder and cannibalism , and in attributing them to their gods , are altogether too coarse and callous to be able to experience the higher religious emotions . This inference is borne out by what a most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) says : " Instead of exercising those affections of gratitude , complacency , and love toward the objects of their worship which the living God supremely requires , they regarded their deities with horrific dread , and worshipped only with enslaving fear . " This " enslaving fear " is the principal ingredient of primitive religious emotion everywhere . To the savage and barbarian , religion is not a consolation and a blessing , but a terror . Du Chaillu says of the equatorial Africans ( 103 ) that " their whole lives are saddened by the fears of evil spirits , witchcraft , and other kindred superstitions under which they labor . " Benevolent deities , even if believed in , receive little or no attention , because , being good , they are supposed to do no harm anyway , whereas the malevolent gods must be propitiated by sacrifices . The African Dahomans , for instance , ignore their Mahu because his intentions are naturally friendly , whereas their Satan , the wicked Legba , has hundreds of statues before which offerings are made . " Early religions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " are selfish , not disinterested . The worshipper is not contemplative , so much as eager to gain something to his advantage . " If the gods fail to respond to the offerings made to them , the sacrificers naturally feel aggrieved , and show their displeasure in a way which to a person who knows refined religion seems shocking and sacrilegious . In Japan , China , and Corea , if the gods fail to do what is expected of them , their images are unceremoniously walloped . In India , if the rains fail , thousands of priests send up their prayers . If the drought still continues , they punish their idols by holding them under water . During a thunderstorm in Africa , Chapman ( I. , 45 ) witnessed the following extraordinary scene : " A great number of women , employed in reaping the extensive corn-fields through which we passed were raising their hoes and voices to heaven , and , yelling furiously , cursed ' Morimo ' ( God ) , as the terrific thunder-claps succeeded each vivid flash of lightning . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were indignant at the interruption of their labors , and that they therefore cursed and menaced the cause . Such blasphemy was awful , even among heathens , and I fully expected to see the wrath of God fall upon them . " If any pious reader of such details  --  which might he multiplied a thousand-fold  --  still believes that religious emotion ( like love ! ) is the same everywhere , let him compare his own devoted feelings during worship in a Christian church with the emotions which must sway those who participate in a religious ceremony like that described in the following passage taken from Rowney 's Wild Tribes of India ( 105 ) . It refers to the sacrifices made by the Khonds to the God of War , the victims of which , both male and female , are often bought young and brought up for this special purpose : " For a month prior to the sacrifice there was much feasting and intoxication , with dancing round the Meriah , or victim ... and on the day before the rite he was stupefied with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The assembled multitude then danced around the post to music , singing hymns of invocation to some such effect as follows : ' O God , we offer a sacrifice to you ! Give us good crops in return , good seasons , and health . ' On the next day the victim was again intoxicated , and anointed with oil , which was wiped from his body by those present , and put on their heads as a blessing . The victim was then carried , in procession round the village , preceded by music , and on returning to the post a hog was sacrificed to ... the village deity ... the blood from the carcass being allowed to flow into a pit prepared to receive it . The victim , made senseless by intoxication , was now thrown into the pit , and his face pressed down till he died from suffocation in the blood and mire , a deafening noise with instruments being kept up all the time . The priest then cut a piece of flesh from the body and buried it with ceremony near the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the same form after him . " Still more horrible details of these sacrifices are supplied by Dalton ( 288 ) : " Major Macpherson notes that the Meriah in some districts is put to death slowly by fire , the great object being to draw from the victim as many tears as possible , in the belief that the cruel Tari will proportionately increase the supply of rain . " " Colonel Campbell thus describes the modus operandi in Chinna Kimedy : ' The miserable Meriah is dragged along the fields , surrounded by a crowd of half-intoxicated Kandhs , who , shouting and screaming , rush upon him , and with their knives cut the flesh piece-meal from his bones , avoiding the head and bowels , till the living skeleton , dying from loss of blood , is relieved from torture , when its remains are burnt and the ashes mixed with the new grain to preserve it from insects . ' " In some respect , the civilized Hindoos are even worse than the wild tribes of India . Nothing is more sternly condemned and utterly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a well-informed and eminently trustworthy missionary , the Abbe Dubois , declares that sensuality and licentiousness are among the elements of Hindoo religious life : " Whatever their religion sets before them , tends to encourage these vices ; and , consequently , all their senses , passions , and interests are leagued in its favor " ( II. , 113 , etc . ) . Their religious festivals " are nothing but sports ; and on no occasion of life are modesty and decorum more carefully excluded than during the celebration of their religious mysteries . " More immoral even than their own religious practices are the doings of their deities . The Bhagavata is a book which deals with the adventures of the god Krishna , of whom Dubois says ( II. , 205 ) : " It was his chief pleasure to go every morning to the place where the women bathe , and , in concealment , to take advantage of their unguarded exposure . Then he rushed amongst them , took possession of their clothes , and gave a loose to the indecencies of language and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the title of queens , and sixteen thousand concubines .... In obscenity there is nothing that can be compared with the Bhagavata . It is , nevertheless , the delight of the Hindu , and the first book they put into the hands of their children , when learning to read . " Brahmin temples are little more than brothels , in each of which a dozen or more young Bayaderes are kept for the purpose of increasing the revenues of the gods and their priests . Religious prostitution and theological licentiousness prevailed also in Persia , Babylonia , Egypt , and other ancient civilized countries . Commenting on a series of obscene pictures found in an Egyptian tomb , Erman says ( 154 ) : " We are shocked at the morality of a nation which could supply the deceased with such literature for the eternal journey . " Professor Robertson Smith says that " in Arabia and elsewhere unrestricted prostitution was practised at the temples and defended on the analogy of the license allowed to herself by the unmarried mother goddess . " Nor were the early Greeks much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , some of their gods nearly as licentious as those of the Hindoos . Their supreme god , Zeus , is an Olympian Don Juan , and the legend of the birth of Aphrodite , their goddess of love , is in its original form unutterably obscene . Before religious emotion could make any approximation to the devout feelings of a modern Christian , it was necessary to eliminate all these licentious , cruel , and blasphemous features of worship  --  the eating or slaughtering of human victims , the obscene orgies , as well as the spiteful and revengeful acts toward disobedient gods . The progress  --  like the Evolution of Romantic Love  --  has been from the sensual and selfish to the supersensual and unselfish . In the highest religious ideal , love of God takes the place of fear , adoration that of terror , self-sacrifice that of self-seeking . But we are still very far from that lofty ideal . " The lazzarone of Naples prays to his patron saint to favor his choice of a lottery ticket ; if it turns out an unlucky number he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his pocket , revile it , spit on it , and trample it in the mud . " " The Swiss clergy opposed the system of insuring growing crops because it made their parishioners indifferent to prayers for their crops " ( Brinton , R.S. , 126 , 82 ) . These are extreme cases , but Italian lazzaroni and Swiss peasants are by no means the only church-goers whose worship is inspired not by love of God but by the expectation of securing a personal benefit . All those who pray for worldly prosperity , or do good deeds for the sake of securing a happy hereafter for their souls , take a selfish , utilitarian view of the deity , and even their gratitude for favors received is too apt to be " a lively sense of possible favors to come . " Still , there are now not a few devotees who love God for his own sake ; and who pray not for luxuries but that their souls may be fortified in virtue and their sympathies widened . But it is not necessary to dwell on this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I started out to demonstrate , that religious emotion is very complex and variable , that in its early stages it is made up of feelings which are not loving , reverential , or even respectful , but cruel , sacrilegious , criminal , and licentious ; that religion , in a word , has ( like love , as I am trying to prove ) passed through coarse , carnal , degrading , selfish , utilitarian stages before it reached the comparatively refined , spiritual , sympathetic , and devotional attitude of our time . Besides the growing complexity of the religious sentiment and its gradual ennoblement , there are two points I wish to emphasize . One is that there are among us to-day thousands of intelligent and refined agnostics who are utter strangers to all religious emotions , just as there are thousands of men and women who have never known and never will know the emotions of sentimental love . Why , then , should it seem so very unlikely that whole nations were strangers to such love ( as they were strangers to the higher religious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Greeks and Romans ? I offer this consideration not as a conclusive argument , but merely as a means of overcoming a preconceived bias against my theory . The other point I wish to make clear is that our emotions change with our ideas . Obviously it would be absurd to suppose that a man whose ideas in regard to the nature of his gods do not prevent him from flogging them angrily in case they refuse his requests are the same as those of a pious Christian , who , if his prayers are not answered , says to his revered Creator : " Thy will be done on earth as it is done in heaven , " and humbly prostrates himself . And if emotions in the religious sphere are thus metamorphosed with ideas , why is it so unlikely that the sexual passion , too , should " suffer a sea change into something rich and strange ? " The existence of the wide-spread prejudice against the notion that love is subject to the laws of development , is owing to the fact that the comparative psychology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Anthropology , the Klondike of the comparative psychologist , reveals things seemingly much more incredible than the absence of romantic love among barbarians and partly civilized nations who had not yet discovered the nobler super-sensual fascinations which women are capable of exerting . The nuggets of truth found in that science show that every virtue known to man grew up slowly into its present exalted form . I will illustrate this assertion with reference to one general feeling , the horror of murder , and then add a few pages regarding virtues relating to the sexual sphere and directly connected with the subject of this book . MURDER AS A VIRTUE The committing of wilful murder is looked on with unutterable horror in modern civilized communities , yet it took eons of time and the co-operation of many religious , social , and moral agencies before the idea of the sanctity of human life became what it is now when it might be taken for an instinct inherent in human nature itself . How far it is from being such an instinct we shall see by looking at the facts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barbarians , murder , far from being regarded as a crime , is honored as a virtue and a source of glory . An American Indian 's chief pride and claim to tribal honor lies in the number of scalps he has torn from the heads of men he has killed . Of the Fijian , Williams says ( 97 ) : " Shedding of blood is to him no crime , but a glory . Whoever may be the victim  --  whether noble or vulgar , old or young , man , woman , or child  --  whether slain in war or butchered by treachery , to be somehow an acknowledged murderer , is the object of a Fijian 's restless ambition . " The Australian feels the same irresistible impulse to kill every stranger he comes across as many of our comparatively civilized gentlemen feel toward every bird or wild animal they see . Lumholtz , while he lived among these savages , took good care to follow the advice " never have a black fellow behind you ; " and he relates a story of a squatter who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brush monkeys , when the boy touched him on the shoulder from behind and said , " Let me go ahead . " When the squatter asked why he wished to go before him , the native answered , " Because I feel such an inclination to kill you . " Dalton ( 266 ) says of the Oraons in India : " It is doubtful if they see any moral guilt in murder . " But the most astounding race of professional murderers are the Dyaks of Borneo . " Among them , " says Earl , " the more heads a man has cut off , the more he is respected . " " The white man reads , " said a Dyak to St. John : " we hunt heads instead . " " Our Dyaks , " says Charles Brooke , " were eternally requesting to be allowed to go for heads , and their urgent entreaties often bore resemblance to children crying after sugar-plums . " " An old Dyak , " writes Dalton , " loves to dwell upon his success on these hunting excursions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affords a fruitful theme of amusement at their meetings . " Dalton speaks of one expedition from which seven hundred heads were brought home . The young women were carried off , the old ones killed and all the men 's heads were cut off . Not that the women always escaped . Among the Dusun , as a rule , says Preyer , " the heads were obtained in the most cowardly way possible , a woman 's or child 's being just as good as a man 's ... so , as easier prey , the cowards seek them by lying in ambush near the plantations . " Families are sometimes surprised while asleep and their heads cut off . Brooke tells of a man who for awhile kept company with a countrywoman , and then slew her and ran off with her head . " It ought to be called head-stealing not head-hunting , " says Hatton ; and Earl remarks : " The possession of a human head can not be considered as a proof of the bravery of the owner for it is not necessary that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , his friends being permitted to assist him or even to perform the act themselves . " It is to be noted that the Dyaks7 are not in other respects a fierce and diabolical race , but are at home , as Doty attests , " mild , gentle , and given to hospitality . " I call special attention to this by way of indirectly answering an objection frequently urged against my theory : " How is it possible to suppose that a nation so highly civilized as the Greeks of Plato 's time should have known love for women only in its lower , carnal phases ? " Well , we have here a parallel case . The Dyaks are " mild , gentle , and hospitable , " yet their chief delight and glory is murder ! And as one of the main objects of this book is to dwell on the various obstacles which impeded the growth of romantic love , it will be interesting to glance for a moment at the causes which prevented the Dyaks from recognizing the sanctity of life . Superstition is one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be their slaves in the next world . Pride is another . " How many heads did your father get ? " a Dyak will ask ; and if the number given is less than his own , the other will say , " Well , then you have no occasion to be proud . " A man 's rank in this world as in the next depends on the number of his skulls ; hence the owner of a large number may be distinguished by his proud bearing . But the head hunter 's strangest and strongest motive is the desire to please women ! No Dyak maiden would condescend to marry a youth who has never killed a man , and in times when the chances for murder were few and far between , suitors have been compelled to wait a year or two before they could bag a skull and lead home their blushing bride . The weird details of this mode of courtship will be given in the chapter on Island Love on the Pacific . SLAUGHTER OF THE INNOCENTS . In all these cases we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the sanctity of human life . But our horror at this fiendish indifference to murder is doubled when we find that the victims are not strangers but members of the same family . I must defer to the chapter on Sympathy a brief reference to the savage custom of slaughtering sick relatives and aged parents ; here I will confine myself to a few words regarding the maternal sentiment . The love of a mother for her offspring is by many philosophers considered the earliest and strongest of all sympathetic feelings ; a feeling stronger than death . If we can find a wide-spread failure of this powerful instinct , we shall have one more reason for not assuming as a matter of course , that the sentiment of love must have been always present . In Australian families it has been the universal custom to bring up only a few children in each family  --  usually two boys and a girl  --  the others being destroyed by their own parents , with no more compunction than we show in drowning superfluous puppies or kittens . The Kurnai tribe did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The aboriginal mind does not seem to perceive the horrid idea of leaving an unfortunate baby to die miserably in a deserted camp " ( Fison and Howitt , 14 ) . The Indians of both North and South America were addicted to the practice of infanticide . Among the Arabs the custom was so inveterate that as late as our sixth century , Mohammed felt called upon , in various parts of the Koran , to discountenance it . In the words of Professor Robertson Smith ( 281 ) : " Mohammed , when he took Mecca and received the homage of the women in the most advanced centre of Arabian civilization , still deemed it necessary formally to demand from them a promise not to commit child-murder . " Among the wild tribes of India there are some who cling to their custom of infanticide with the tenacity of fanatics . Dalton ( 288-90 ) relates that with the Kandhs this custom was so wide-spread that in 1842 Major Macpherson reported that in many villages not a single female child could be found . The British Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ giving them an education . Some of these were afterward given in marriage to respectable Kandh bachelors , " and it was expected that they at least would not outrage their own feeling as mothers by consenting to the destruction of their offspring . Subsequently , however , Colonel Campbell ascertained that these ladies had no female children , and , on being closely questioned , they admitted that at their husbands ' bidding they had destroyed them . " In the South Sea Islands " not less than two-thirds of the children were murdered by their own parents . " Ellis ( P.R. , I. , 196-202 ) knew parents who had , by their own confession , killed four , six , eight , even ten of their children , and the only reason they gave was that it was the custom of the country . " No sense of irresolution or horror appeared to exist in the bosoms of those parents , who deliberately resolved on the deed before the child was born . " " The murderous parents often came to their ( the missionaries ' ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's blood , and spoke of the deed with worse than brutal insensibility , or with vaunting satisfaction at the triumph of their customs over the persuasions of their teachers . " They refused to spare babies even when the missionaries offered to take care of them ( II. , 23 ) . Neither Ellis , during a residence of eight years , nor Nott during thirty years ' residence on the South Sea Islands , had known a single mother who was not guilty of this crime of infanticide . Three native women who happened to be together in a room one day confessed that between them they had killed twenty-one infants  --  nine , seven , and five respectively . These facts have long been familiar to students of anthropology , but their true significance has been obscured by the additional information that many tribes addicted to infanticide , nevertheless displayed a good deal of " affection " toward those whom they spared . A closer examination of the testimony reveals , however , that there is no true affection in these cases , but merely a shallow fondness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the selfish gratification it affords the parents to watch their gambols and to give vent to inherited animal instincts . True affection is revealed only in self-sacrifice ; but the disposition to sacrifice themselves for their children is the one quality most lacking in these child-murderers . Sentimentalists , with their usual lack of insight and logical sense , have endeavored to excuse these assassins on the ground that necessity compelled them to destroy their infants . Their arguments have misled even so eminent a specialist as Professor E.B. Tylor into declaring ( Anthropology , 427 ) that " infanticide comes from hardness of life rather than from hardness of heart . " What he means , may be made clear by reference to the case of the Arabs who , living in a desert country , were in constant dread of suffering from scarcity of food ; wherefore , as Robertson Smith remarks ( 281 ) , " to bury a daughter was regarded not only as a virtuous but as a generous deed , which is intelligible if the reason was that there would be fewer mouths to fill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question but does not show them to be excusable ; it explains them as being due to the vicious selfishness and hard-heartedness of parents who would rather kill their infants than restrain their sexual appetite when they had all the children they could provide for . In most cases the assassins of their own children had not even as much semblance of an excuse as the Arabs . Turner relates ( 284 ) that in the New Hebrides the women had to do all the work , and as it was supposed that they could not attend to more than two or three , all the others were buried alive ; in other words the babes were murdered to save trouble and allow the men to live in indolence . In the instances from India referred to above , various trivial excuses for female infanticide were offered : that it would save the expenses connected with the marriage rites ; that it was cheaper to buy girls than to bring them up , or , better still , to steal them from other tribes ; that male births are increased by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better to destroy girls in their infancy than to allow them to grow up and become causes of strife afterward . Among the Fijians , says Williams ( 154 , 155 ) , there is in infanticide " no admixture of anything like religious feeling or fear , but merely whim , expediency , anger , or indolence . " Sometimes the general idea of woman 's inferiority to man underlies the act . They will say to the pleading missionary : " Why should she live ? Will she wield a club ? Will she poise a spear ? " But it was among the women of Hawaii that the motives of infanticide reached their climax of frivolity . There mothers killed their children because they were too lazy to bring them up and cook for them ; or because they wished to preserve their own beauty , or were unwilling to suffer an interruption in their licentious amours ; or because they liked to roam about unburdened by babes ; and sometimes for no other reason than because they could not make them stop crying . So they buried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old ( Ellis , P.R. , IV. , 240 ) . These revelations show that it is not " hardness of life " but " hardness of heart "  --  sensual , selfish indulgence  --  that smothers the parental instinct . To say that the conduct of such parents is brutal , would be a great injustice to brutes . No species of animals , however low in the scale of life , has ever been known to habitually kill its offspring . In their treatment of females and young ones , animals are indeed , as a rule , far superior to savages and barbarians . I emphasize this point because several of my critics have accused me of a lack of knowledge and thought and logic because I attributed some of the elements of romantic love to animals and denied them to primitive human beings . But there is no inconsistency in this . We shall see later on that there are other things in which animals are superior not only to savages but to some civilized peoples as high in the scale as Hindoos . HONORABLE POLYGAMY Turning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find further interesting instances showing How Sentiments Change and Grow . The monogamous sentiment  --  the feeling that a man and his wife belong to each other exclusively  --  is now so strong that a person who commits bigamy not only perpetrates a crime for which the courts may imprison him for five years , but becomes a social outcast with whom respectable people will have nothing more to do . The Mormons endeavored to make polygamy a feature of their religion , but in 1882 Congress passed a law suppressing it and punishing offenders . Did this monogamous sentiment exist " always and everywhere ? " Livingstone relates ( M.S.A. , I. , 306-312 ) that the King of the Beetjuans ( South Africa ) was surprised to hear that his visitor had only one wife : " When we explained to him that , by the laws of our country , people could not marry until they were of a mature age , and then could never have more than one wife , he said it was perfectly incomprehensible to him how a whole nation could submit voluntarily to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of these queens " remarked very judiciously that such laws as ours would not suit the Beetjuans because there were so great a number of women and the male population suffered such diminutions from the wars . " Sir Samuel Baker ( A.N. , 147 ) says of the wife of the Chief of Latooka : " She asked many questions , how many wives I had ? and was astonished to hear that I was contented with one . This amused her immensely , and she laughed heartily with her daughter at the idea . " In Equatorial Africa , " if a man marries and his wife thinks that he can afford another spouse , she pesters him to marry again , and calls him a stingy fellow if he declines to do so " ( Reade , 259 ) . Livingstone ( N.E.Z. , 284 ) says of the Makalolo women : " On hearing that a man in England could marry but one wife , several ladies exclaimed that they would not like to live in such a country ; that they could not imagine how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their way of thinking , every man of respectability should have a number of wives , as a proof of his wealth . Similar ideas prevail all down the Zambesi . " Some amusing instances are reported by Burton ( T.T.G.L. , I. , 36 , 78 , 79 ) . The lord of an African village appeared to be much ashamed because he had only two wives . His sole excuse was that he was only a boy  --  about twenty-two . Regarding the Mpongwe of the Gaboon , Burton says : " Polygamy is , of course , the order of the day ; it is a necessity to the men , and even the women disdain to marry a ' one-wifer . ' " In his book on the Kafirs of the Hindu-Kush , G.S . Robertson writes : " It is considered a reproach to have only one wife , a sign of poverty and insignificance . There was on one occasion a heated discussion at Kamdesh concerning the best plans to be adopted to prepare for an expected attack . A man sitting on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Later on the priest turned round fiercely and demanded to be told how a man with ' only one wife ' presumed to offer an opinion at all . " His religion allowed a Mohammedan to take four legitimate wives , while their prophet himself had a larger number . A Hindoo was permitted by the laws of Manu to marry four women if he belonged to the highest caste , but if he was of the lowest caste he was condemned to monogamy . King Solomon was held in honor though he had unnumbered wives , concubines , and virgins at his disposal . How far the sentiment of monogamy  --  one of the essential ingredients of Romantic Love  --  had penetrated the skulls of American Indians may be inferred from the amusing and typical details related by the historian Parkman ( O.T. , chap . xi. ) of the Dakota or Sioux Indians , among whom he sojourned . The man most likely to become the next chief was a fellow named Mahto-Tatonka , whose father had left a family of thirty , which number the young man was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than twenty-one years old , he had oftener struck the enemy , and stolen more horses and more squaws than any young man in the village . We of the civilized world are not apt to attach much credit to the latter species of exploits ; but horse-stealing is well-known as an avenue to distinction on the prairies , and the other kind of depredation is esteemed equally meritorious . Not that the act can confer fame from its own intrinsic merits . Any one can steal a squaw , and if he chooses afterward to make an adequate present to her rightful proprietor , the easy husband for the most part rests content ; his vengeance falls asleep , and all danger from that quarter is averted . Yet this is esteemed but a pitiful and mean-spirited transaction . The danger is averted , but the glory of the achievement also is lost . Mahto-Tatonka proceeded after a more gallant and dashing fashion . Out of several dozen squaws whom he had stolen , he could boast that he had never paid for one , but snapping his fingers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the extremity of his indignation , and no one had yet dared to lay the hand of violence upon him . He was following close in the footsteps of his father . The young men and the young squaws , each in their way , admired him . The one would always follow him to war , and he was esteemed to have an unrivalled charm in the eyes of the other . " Thus the admiration of the men , the love ( Indian style ) of the women , and the certainty of the chieftainship  --  the highest honor accessible to an Indian  --  were the rewards of actions which in a civilized community would soon bring such a " brave " to the gallows . Some of the agencies by which the belief that wife-stealing and polygamy are honorable was displaced by the modern sentiment in favor of monogamy , will be considered later on . Here I simply wish to enforce the additional moral that not only the ideas regarding bigamy and polygamy have changed , but the emotions aroused by such actions ; execration having taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is it likely that ideas concerning women and love could change so utterly as they have since the days of the ancient Greeks , without changing the emotions of love itself ? Sentiments consist of ideas and emotions . If both are altered , the sentiments must have changed as a matter of course . Let us take as a further example the sentiment of modesty . CURIOSITIES OF MODESTY There are many Christian women who , if offered the choice between death and walking naked down the street , would choose death as being preferable to eternal disgrace and social suicide . If they preferred the other alternative , they would be arrested and , if known to be respectable , sent to an insane asylum . The English legend relates that " peeping Tom " was struck blind because he did not stay in the house as commanded when the good Lady Godiva was obliged to ride naked through the market-place . So strong , indeed , is the sentiment of modesty in our community that the old-fashioned philosophers used to maintain it was an innate instinct , always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has to be gradually taught to avoid indecent exposure , ought to have enlightened these philosophers as to their error , which is further made plain to the orthodox by the Biblical story that in the beginning of human life the man and his wife were both naked and not ashamed . Naked and not ashamed is the condition of primitive man wherever climatic and other motives do not prescribe dress . Writing of the Arabs at Wat El Negur , Samuel Baker says ( N.T.A. , 265 ) : " Numbers of young girls and women were accustomed to bathe perfectly naked in the river just before our tent . I employed them to catch small fish for bait ; and for hours they would amuse themselves in this way , screaming with excitement and fun , and chasing the small fry with their long clothes in lieu of nets ; their figures were generally well-shaped .... The men were constantly bathing in the clear waters of the Athabara , and were perfectly naked , although close to the women ; we soon became accustomed to this daily scene , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " In his work on German Africa ( II. , 123 ) Zoeller says that in Togoland " the young girls did not hesitate in the least to remove their only article of clothing , a narrow strip of cloth , rub themselves with a native soap and then take a dip in the lagoon , before the eyes of white men as well as black . " A page would be required merely to enumerate the tribes in Africa , Australia , and South America which never wear any clothing . Max Buchner ( 352-4 ) gives a graphic description ( 1878 ) of the nude female surf swimmers in the Hawaiian Islands . Nor is this indifference to nudity manifested only by these primitive races . In Japan , to the present day , men and women bathe in the same room , separated merely by a partition , two or three feet high. 8 Zoeller relates of the Cholos of Ecuador ( P. and A. , 364 ) that " men and women bathe together in the rivers with a naivete surpassing that of the South Sea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , p. 294 ) reports that in Paraguay he saw the women washing their only dress , and while they waited for the sun to dry it , they stood by naked calmly smoking their cigars . But natural indifference to nudity is the least of the curiosities of modesty . Sometimes nakedness is actually prescribed by law or by strict etiquette . In Rohl all women who are not Arabic are forbidden to wear clothing of any sort . The King of Mandingo allowed no women , not even princesses , to approach him unless they were naked ( Hellwald , 77-8 ) . Dubois ( I. , 265 ) says that in some of the southern provinces of India the women of certain castes must uncover their body from the head to the girdle when speaking to a man : " It would be thought a want of politeness and good breeding to speak to men with that part of the body clothed . " In his travels among the Cameroon negroes Zoeller ( II. , 185 ) came across a strange bit of religious etiquette in regard to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cloth , except in case of a death , when , like ourselves , they appear all in black  --  with a startling difference , however . One day , writes Zoeller , " I was astounded to see a number of women and girls strolling about stark naked before the house of a man who had died of diphtheria . This , I was told , was their mourning dress .... The same custom prevails in other parts of West Africa . " Modesty is as fickle as fashion and assumes almost as many different forms as dress itself . In most Australian tribes the women ( as well as the men ) go naked , yet in a few they not only wear clothes but go out of sight to bathe . Stranger still , the Pele islanders were so innocent of all idea of clothing that when they first saw Europeans they believed that their clothes were their skins . Nevertheless , the men and women bathed in different places . Among South American Indians nudity is the rule , whereas some North American Indians used to place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them from spying eyes . According to Gill ( 230 ) , the Papuans of Southwestern New Guinea " glory in their nudeness and consider clothing fit only for women . " There are many places where the women alone were clothed , while in others the women alone were naked . Mtesa , the King of Uganda , who died in 1884 , inflicted the death penalty on any man who dared to approach him without having every inch of his legs carefully covered ; but the women who acted as his servants were stark naked ( Hellwald , 78 ) . While the etiquette of modesty is thus subject to an endless variety of details , every nation and tribe enforces its own ideal of propriety as the only correct thing . In Tahiti and Tonga it would be considered highly indecent to go about without being tattooed . Among Samoans and other Malayans the claims of propriety are satisfied if only the navel is covered . " The savage tribes of Sumatra and Celebes have a like feeling about the knee , which is always carefully covered " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered extremely indecent if a woman allows her bare feet to be seen , even by her husband , and a similar idea prevails among some Turkish women , who carefully wrap up their feet before they go to bed ( Ploss , I. , 344 ) . Hindoo women must not show their faces , but it is not improper to wear a dress so gauzy that the whole figure is revealed through it . " In Moruland , " says Emin Bey , " the women mostly go about absolutely naked , a few only attaching a leaf behind to their waistband . It is curious to note , on meeting a bevy of these uncovered beauties carrying water , that the first thing they do with their free hand is to cover the face . " These customs prevail in all Moslem countries . Mariti relates in his Viaggi ( II. , 288 ) : " Travelling in summer across the fields of Syria I repeatedly came across groups of women , entirely naked , washing themselves near a well . They did not move from the place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their whole modesty consisting in the desire not to be recognized . " Sentimental topsy-turviness reaches its climax in those cases where women who usually go naked are ashamed to be seen clothed . Such cases are cited by several writers , 9 and appear to be quite common . The most amusing instance I have come across is in a little-known volume on Venezuela by Lavayasse , who writes ( 190 ) : " It is known that those Indians of the warm climates of South America , among whom civilization has not made any progress , have no other dress than a small apron , or kind of bandage , to hide their nakedness . A lady of my acquaintance had contracted a kindness for a young Paria Indian woman , who was extremely handsome . We had given her the name of Grace . She was sixteen years old , and had lately been married to a young Indian of twenty-five , who was our sportsman . This lady took a pleasure in teaching her to sew and embroider . We said to her one day , ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and are always with us : you ought not therefore to live like the other native women , and we shall give you some clothes . Does not your husband wear trousers and a shirt ? ' Upon this she consented to be dressed . The lady lost no time in arranging her dress , a ceremony at which I had the honor of assisting . We put on a shift , petticoats , stockings , shoes , and a Madras handkerchief on her head . She looked quite enchanting , and saw herself in the looking-glass with great complacency . Suddenly her husband returned from shooting , with three or four Indians , when the whole party burst into a loud fit of laughter at her , and began to joke about her new habiliments . Grace was quite abashed , blushed , wept , and ran to hide herself in the bed-chamber of the lady , where she stript herself of the clothes , went out of the window , and returned naked into the room . A proof that when her husband saw her dressed for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that which a European woman might experience who was surprised without her usual drapery . " Another paradox remains to be noted . Anthropologists have now proved beyond all possibility of doubt that modesty , far from having led to the use of clothing , was itself merely a secondary consequence of the gradual adoption of apparel as a protection . They have also shown10 that the earliest forms of dress were extremely scanty , and were intended not to cover certain parts of the body , but actually and wantonly to call attention to them , while in other cases the only parts of the body habitually covered were such as we should consider it no special impropriety to leave uncovered . But enough has been said to demonstrate what we started out to prove : that the strong sentiment of modesty in our community  --  so strong that many insist it must be part and parcel of human nature ( like love ! )  --  has , like all the other sentiments here discussed , grown up slowly from microscopic beginnings . INDIFFERENCE TO CHASTITY Closely connected with modesty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and still stronger sentiment  --  the regard for chastity . Many an American officer whose brave wife accompanied him in a frontier war has been asked by her to promise that he would shoot her with his own revolver rather than let her fall into the clutches of licentious Indians . Though deliberate murder is punishable by death , no American jury has ever convicted a man for slaying the seducer of his wife , daughter , or sister . Modern law punishes rape with death , and its victim is held to have suffered a fate worse than death . The brightest of all jewels in a bride 's crown of virtues is chastity  --  a jewel without which all the others lose their value . Yet this jewel of jewels formerly had no more value than a pebble in a brook-bed . The sentiment in behalf of chastity had no existence for ages , and for a long time after it came into existence chastity was known not as a virtue but only as a necessity , inculcated by fear of punishment or loss of worldly advantages . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but as abundant evidence will be given in later chapters relating to the lower races in Africa , Australia , Polynesia , America , and Asia , only a few instances need be cited here . In his recent work on the Origin and Growth of the Moral Sense ( 1898 ) , Alexander Sutherland , an Australian author , writes ( I. , 180 ) : " In the House of Commons papers for 1844 will be found some 350 printed pages of reports , memoranda , and letters , gathered by the standing committee appointed in regard to the treatment of aboriginals in the Australian colonies . All these have the same unlovely tale to tell of an absolute incapacity to form even a rudimentary notion of chastity . One worthy missionary , who had been for some years settled among tribes of New South Wales , as yet brought in contact with no other white men , writes with horror of what he had observed . The conduct of the females , even young children , is most painful ; they are cradled in prostitution and fostered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quotes several authorities who record that in Western Australia the women in early youth were almost prostitutes . ' For about six months after their initiation into manhood the youths were allowed an unbounded licence , and there was no possible blame attached to the young unmarried girl who entertained them ' " ( 179 ) . In Lewis and Clark 's account of their expedition across the American Continent they came to the conclusion that there was an utter absence of regard for chastity " among all Indians , " and they relate the following as a sample ( 439 ) : " Among all the tribes , a man will lend his wife or daughter for a fish-hook or a strand of beads . To decline an offer of this sort is indeed to disparage the charms of the lady , and therefore gives such offence , that , although we had occasionally to treat the Indians with rigor , nothing seemed to irritate both sexes more than our refusal to accept the favors of the females . On one occasion we were amused by a Clatsop , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skill , brought his sister as a reward for our kindness . The young lady was quite anxious to join in this expression of her brother 's gratitude , and mortified we did not avail ourselves of it . " De Varigny , who lived forty years in the Hawaiian Islands , says ( 159 ) that " the chief difficulty of the missionaries in the Sandwich Islands was teaching the women chastity ; they knew neither the word nor the thing . Adultery , incest , fornication , were the common order of things , accepted by public opinion , and even consecrated by religion . " The same is true of other Polynesians , the Tahitians , for instance , of whom Captain Cook wrote that they are " people who have not even the idea of decency , and who gratify every appetite and passion before witnesses , with no more sense of impropriety than we feel when we satisfy our hunger at a social board with our friends . " Among the highest of all these island peoples , the Tongans , the only restriction to incontinence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . What Dalton says of the Chilikata Mishmis , one of the wild tribes of India , applies to many of the lower races in all parts of the world : " Marriage ceremony there is , I believe , none ; it is simply an affair of purchase , and the women thus obtained , if they can be called wives , are not much bound by the tie . The husbands do not expect them to be chaste ; they take no cognizance of their temporary liaisons so long as they are not deprived of their services . If a man is dispossessed of one of his wives , he has a private injury to avenge , and takes the earliest opportunity of retaliating , but he can not see that a woman is a bit the worse for a little incontinency . " In many cases not only was there complete indifference to chastity , but virginity in a bride was actually looked on with disfavor . The Finnish Votyaks considered it honorable in a girl to be a mother before she was a wife . The Central @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sixteenth century writer , quoted by Jagor , said that a man is unhappy to find his bride above suspicion , " because , not having been desired by anyone , she must have some bad quality which will prevent him from being happy with her . " The wide prevalence in all parts of the world of the custom of lending or exchanging wives , or offering wife or daughter to a guest , 11 also bears witness to the utter indifference to chastity , conjugal and maiden ; as does the custom known as the jus primae noctis . Dr. Karl Schmidt has tried very hard to prove that such a " right " to the bride never existed . But no one can read his treatises without noting that his argument rests on a mere quibble , the word jus . There may have been no codified law or " right " allowing kings , bishops , chiefs , landlords , medicine men , and priests to claim brides first , but that the privilege existed in various countries and was extensively made use of , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Letourneau ( 56-62 ) , Ploss ( I. , 400-405 ) , and others have collected abundant proofs . Here I have room for only a few instances , showing that those whom we would consider the victims of such a horrible custom , not only submitted to it with resignation , but actually looked on it as an honor and a highly coveted privilege . " The aboriginal inhabitants of Teneriffe are represented as having married no woman who had not previously spent a night with the chief , which was considered a great honor . " " Navarette tells us that , on the coast of Malabar , the bridegroom brought the bride to the King , who kept her eight days in the palace ; and the man took it ' as a great honor and favor that the King should make use of her . ' " " Egede informs us that the women of Greenland thought themselves fortunate if an Angekokk , or prophet , honored them with his caresses ; and some husbands even paid him , because they believed that the child of such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than others . " ( Westermarck , 77 , 80 . ) " In Cumana the priests , who were regarded as holy , slept only with unmarried women , ' porque tenian por honorosa costumbre que ellos las quitassen la virginidad . ' " ( Bastian , K.A.A. , II. , 228 . ) From this lowest depth of depravity it would be interesting , if space and the architectural plan of this volume permitted , to trace the growth of the sentiment which demands chastity ; noting , in the first place , how married women were compelled , by the jealous fury of their masters , to practise continence ; how , very much later , virginity began to be valued , not , indeed , at first , as a virtue having a value and charm of its own , but as a means of enhancing the market value of brides . Indifference to masculine chastity continued much longer still . The ancient civilized nations had advanced far enough to value purity in wives and maidens , but it hardly occurred to them that it was man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ austere and eminent a moral philosopher as Cicero declared that one would have to be very severe indeed to ask young men to refrain from illicit relations . The mediaeval church fathers endeavored for centuries to enforce the doctrine that men should be as pure as women , with what success , every one knows . A more powerful agency in effecting a reform was the loathsome disease which in the fifteenth century began to sweep away millions of licentious men , and led to the survival of the fittest from the moral point of view . The masculine standard is still low , but immense progress has been made during the last hundred years . The number of prostitutes in Europe is still estimated at seven hundred thousand , yet that makes only seven to every thousand females , and though there are many other unchaste women , it is safe to say that in England and America , at any rate , more than nine hundred out of every thousand females are chaste , whereas among savages , as a rule , nearly all females are prostitutes ( in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marry . In view of this astounding progress there is no reason to despair regarding man 's future . It would be a great triumph of civilization if the average man could be made as pure as the average woman . At the same time , since the consequences of sin are infinitely more serious in women , it is eminently proper that they should be in the van of moral progress . Chastity , modesty , polygamy , murder , religion , and nature have now furnished us an abundance of illustrations showing the changeableness and former non-existence of sentiments which in us are so strong that we are inclined to fancy they must have been the same always and everywhere . Before proceeding to prove that romantic love is another sentiment of which the same may be said , let us pause a moment to discuss a sentiment which presents one of the most difficult problems in the psychology of love , the Horror of Incest . HORROR OF INCEST A young man does not fall in love with his sister though she be the most attractive girl he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her , nor the mother with the son , or the son with the mother . Not only is there no sexual love between them , but the very idea of marriage fills their mind with unutterable horror , and in the occasional cases where such a marriage is made through ignorance of the relationship , both parties usually commit suicide , though they are guiltless of deliberate crime . Here we have the most striking and absolute proof that circumstances , habits , ideas , laws , customs , can and do utterly annihilate sexual love in millions of individuals . Why then should it be so unlikely that the laws and customs of the ancient Greeks , for instance , with their ideas about women and marriage , should have prevented the growth of sentimental love ? Note the modesty of my claim . While it is certain that both the sensual and the sentimental sides of sexual love are stifled by the horror of incest , all that I claim in regard to ancient and primitive races is that the sentimental side of love was smothered by unfavorable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be described later on in this volume . Surely this is not such a reckless theory as it seemed to some of my critics . Like the other sentiments discussed in this chapter , the horror of incest has been found to be absent among races in various stages of development . Incestuous unions occurred among Chippewas and other American Indians . Of the Peruvian Indians , Garcilasso de la Vega says that some cohabited with their sisters , daughters , or mothers ; similar facts are recorded of some Brazilians , Polynesians , Africans , and wild tribes of India . " Among the Annamese , according to a missionary who has lived among them for forty years , no girl who is twelve years old and has a brother is a virgin " ( Westermarck , 292 ) . Gypsies allow a brother to marry a sister , while among the Veddahs of Ceylon the marriage of a man with his younger sister is considered the proper marriage . In the Indian Archipelago and elsewhere there are tribes who permit marriage between parents and their children . The legends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unions , and a nation 's mythology reflects its own customs . According to Strabo the ancient Irish married their mothers and sisters . Among the love-stories of the ancient Greeks , as we shall see later on , there are a surprising number the subject of which is incest , indicating that that crime was of not infrequent occurrence . But it is especially by royal personages that incest has been practised . In ancient Persia , Parthia , Egypt , and other countries the kings married their own sisters , as did the Incas of Peru , for political reasons , other women being regarded as too low in rank to become queens ; and the same phenomenon occurs in Hawaii , Siam , Burma , Ceylon , Madagascar , etc . In some cases incestuous unions for kings and priests are even prescribed by religion . At the licentious festivals common among tribes in America , Africa , India , and elsewhere , incest was one of the many forms of bestiality indulged in ; this gives it a wide prevalence . Much ingenuity has been expended in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incest . The main reason why it has so far remained more or less of a mystery , is that each writer advanced a single cause , which he pressed into service to explain all the facts , the result being confusion and contradiction . In my opinion different agencies must be assumed in different cases . When we find among Australians , American Indians ( and even the Chinese ) , customs , enforced by the strongest feelings , forbidding a man to marry a woman belonging to the same clan or having the same surname , though not at all related , while allowing a marriage with a sister or other near blood relative , we are obviously not dealing with a question of incest at all , but with some of the foolish taboos prevalent among these races , the origin of which they themselves have forgotten . Mr. Andrew Lang probably hit the nail on the head when he said ( 258 ) in regard to the rule which compels savages to marry only outside of the tribe , that these prohibitions " must have arisen in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , included kinship with animals and plants , and were to us almost , if not quite , unintelligible . " To speak of instinct and natural selection teaching the Veddahs to abhor marriage with an elder sister while making union with a younger sister the proper marriage ( Westermarck , 292 ) is surely to assume that instinct and natural selection act in an asinine way , which they never do  --  except in asses . In a second class of cases , where lower races have ideas similar to ours , I believe that the origin of domestic chastity must be sought in utilitarian practices . In the earlier stages of marriage , girls are usually bought of their parents , who profit by the sale or barter . Now when a man marries a girl to be his wife and maid of all work , he does not want to take her to his home hampered by a bevy of young children . Fathers guilty of incestuous practices would therefore be unable to dispose of their daughters to advantage , and thus a prejudice in favor of domestic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some day raise to the rank of a religious or social taboo . As regards modern society , Darwin , Brinton , Hellwald , Bentham , and others have advocated or endorsed the view that the reason why such a horror of incestuous unions prevails , is that novelty is the chief stimulus to the sexual feelings , and that the familiarity of the same household breeds indifference . I do not understand how any thinker can have held such a view for one moment . When Bentham wrote ( Theory of Legislation , pt. iii. , chap . V. ) that " individuals accustomed to see each other from an age which is capable neither of conceiving desire nor of inspiring it , will see each other with the same eyes to the end of life , " he showed infinitely less knowledge of human nature than the author of Paul and Virginia , who makes a boy and a girl grow up almost like brother and sister , and at the proper time fall violently in love with one another . Who can not recall in his own experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ association from their childhood ? To say that such bringing up together creates " indifference " is obviously incorrect ; to say that it leads to " aversion " is altogether unwarranted ; and to trace to it such a feeling as our horror at the thought of marrying a sister , or mother , is simply preposterous . The real source of the horror of incest in civilized communities was indicated more than two thousand years ago by Plato . He believed that the reason why incestuous unions were avoided and abhorred , was to be found in the constant inculcation , at home and in literature , that " They are unholy , hated of God , and most infamous .... Everyone from his earliest childhood has heard men speaking in the same manner about them always and everywhere , whether in comedy or in the graver language of tragedy . When the poet introduces on the stage a Thyestes or an Oedipus , or a Macareus having secret intercourse with his sister , he represents him , when found out , ready to kill himself as the penalty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 838 . ) Long before Plato another great " medicine man , " Moses , saw the necessity of enforcing a " taboo " against incest by the enactment of special severe laws relating to intercourse between relatives ; and that there was no " instinct " against incest in his time is shown by the fact that he deemed it necessary to make such circumstantial laws for his own people , and by his specific testimony that " in all these things the nations are defiled which I cast out from before you , and the land is defiled . " Regarding his motives in making such laws , Milman has justly remarked ( H.J. , I. , 220 ) , " The leading principle of these enactments was to prohibit near marriage between those parties among whom , by the usage of their society , early and frequent intimacy was unavoidable and might lead to abuse . " If Moses lived now , he would still be called upon to enact his laws ; for to this day the horror of incest is a sentiment which it is necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , religion , and law . It is no more innate or instinctive than the sentiment of modesty , the regard for chastity , or the disapproval of bigamy . Children are not born with it any more than with the feeling that it is improper to be seen naked . Medical writers bear witness to the wide prevalence of unnatural practices among children , even in good families , while in the slums of the large cities , where the families are herded like swine , there is a horrible indulgence in every kind of incest by adults as well as children . Absolute proof that the horror of incest is not innate lies furthermore in the unquestionable fact that a man can escape the calamity of falling in love with his sister or daughter only if he knows the relationship . There are many instances on record  --  to which the daily press adds others  --  of incestuous unions brought about by ignorance of the consanguinity . Oedipus was not saved by an instinct from marrying his mother . It was only after the discovery of the relationship that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wife and mother committed suicide . This case , though legendary , is typical  --  a mirror of actuality  --  showing how potent ideas are to alter emotions . Yet I am assailed for asserting that the Greeks and the lower races , whose ideas regarding women , love , polygamy , chastity , and marriage were so different from ours , also differed from us in their feelings  --  the quality of their love . There were numerous obstacles to overcome before romantic love was able to emerge  --  obstacles so serious and diverse that it is a wonder they were ever conquered . But before considering those obstacles it will be advisable to explain definitely just what romantic love is and how it differs from the sensual " love " or lust which , of course , has always existed among men as among other animals . WHAT IS ROMANTIC LOVE ? How does it feel to be in love ? When a man loves a girl , he feels such an overwhelming individual preference for her that though she were a beggar-maid he would scorn the offer to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the goddess of beauty herself . To him she seems to have a monopoly of all the feminine charms , and she therefore monopolizes his thoughts and feelings to the exclusion of all other interests , and he longs not only for her reciprocal affection but for a monopoly of it . " Does she love me ? " he asks himself a hundred times a day . " Sometimes she seems to treat me with cold indifference  --  is that merely the instinctive assertion of feminine coyness , or does she prefer another man ? " The pangs , the agony of jealousy overcome him at this thought . He hopes one moment , despairs the next , till his moods become so mixed that he hardly knows whether he is happy or miserable . He , who is usually so bold and self-confident , is humbled ; feels utterly unworthy of her . In his fancy she soars so far above all other women that calling her an angel seems not a hyperbole , but a compliment to the angel . Toward such a superior being the only proper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and his feelings toward her are as pure , as free from coarse cravings , as if she were a goddess . How royally proud a man must feel at the thought of being preferred above all mortals by this divine being ! In personal beauty had she ever a peer ? Since Venus left this planet , has such grace been seen ? In face of her , the strongest of all impulses  --  selfishness  --  is annihilated . The lover is no longer " number one " to himself ; his own pleasures and comforts are ignored in the eager desire to please her , to show her gallant attentions . To save her from disaster or grief he is ready to sacrifice his life . His cordial sympathy makes him share all her joys and sorrows , and his affection for her , though he may have known her only a few days  --  nay , a few minutes  --  is as strong and devoted as that of a mother for the child that is her own flesh and blood . INGREDIENTS OF LOVE No one who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ description , however romantic it may seem in its apparent exaggeration , is a realistic reflection of his feelings and impulses . As this brief review shows , Individual Preference , Monopolism , Coyness , Jealousy , Mixed Moods of Hope and Despair , Hyperbole , Adoration , Purity , Pride , Admiration of Personal Beauty , Gallantry , Self-sacrifice , Sympathy , and Affection , are the essential ingredients in that very composite mental state , which we call romantic love . Coyness , of course , occurs only in feminine love , and there are other sexual differences which will be noted later on . Here I wish to point out that the fourteen ingredients named may be divided into two groups of seven each  --  the egoistic and the altruistic . The prevailing notion that love is a species of selfishness  --  a " double selfishness , " some wiseacre has called it  --  is deplorably untrue and shows how little the psychology of love has heretofore been understood . It has indeed an egoistic side , including the ingredients I have called Individual Preference , Monopolism , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pride ; and it is not a mere accident that these are also the seven features which may be found in sensual love too ; for sensuality and selfishness are twins . But the later and more essential characteristics of romantic love are the altruistic and supersensual traits  --  Sympathy , Affection , Gallantry , Self-sacrifice , Adoration , Purity , and Admiration of Personal Beauty . The two divisions overlap in some places , but in the main they are accurate . It is certain that the first group precedes the second , but the order in which the ingredients in each group first made their appearance can not be indicated , as we know too little of the early history of man . The arrangement here adopted is therefore more or less arbitrary . I shall try in this long chapter to answer the question " What is Romantic Love ? " by discussing each of its fourteen ingredients and tracing its evolution separately . I. INDIVIDUAL PREFERENCE If a man pretended to be in love with a girl while confessing that he liked other girls equally well and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laugh at him ; for however ignorant many persons may be as to the subtler traits of sentimental love , it is known universally that a decided and obstinate preference for one particular individual is an absolute condition of true love . ALL GIRLS EQUALLY ATTRACTIVE As I have just intimated , a modern romantic lover would not exchange a beloved beggar-maid for an heiress or princess ; nor would he give her for a dozen other girls , however charming , and with permission to marry them all . Now if romantic love had always existed , the lower races would have the same violent and exclusive preference for individuals . But what are the facts ? I assert , without fear of contradiction from any one familiar with anthropological literature , that a savage or barbarian , be he Australian , African , American , or Asiatic , would laugh at the idea of refusing to exchange one woman for a dozen others equally young and attractive . It is not necessary to descend to the lowest savages to find corroboration of this view . Dr. Zoeller , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his volumes on German Africa ( III. , 70-71 ) , that " on the whole no distinction whatever is made between woman and woman , between the good-looking and the ugly , the intelligent and the stupid ones . In all my African experiences I have never heard of a single young man or woman who conceived a violent passion for a particular individual of the opposite sex . " So in other parts of Africa . The natives of Borgou , we are told by R. and J. Lander , marry with perfect indifference . " A man takes no more thought about choosing a wife than he does in picking a head of wheat . " Among the Kaffirs , says Fritsch ( 112 ) it may occur that a man has an inclination toward a particular girl ; but he adds that " in such cases the suitor is obliged to pay several oxen more than is customary , and as he usually takes cattle more to heart than women , such cases are rare ; " and though , when he has several wives , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is shallow and transient , for she is at any moment liable to displacement by a new-comer . Among the Hottentots at Angra Pequena , when a man covets a girl he goes to her hut , prepares a cup of coffee and hands it to her without saying a word . If she drinks half of it , he knows the answer is Yes . " If she refuses to touch the coffee , the suitor is not specially grieved , but proceeds to another hut to try his luck again in the same way . " ( Ploss , I. , 454 . ) Of the Fijians Williams ( 148 ) says : " Too commonly there is no express feeling of connubial bliss , men speak of ' our women ' and women of ' our men ' without any distinctive preference being apparent . " Catlin , speaking ( 70-71 ) of the matrimonial arrangements of the Pawnee Indians , says that daughters are held as legitimate merchandise , and , as a rule , accept the situation " with the apathy of the race . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accused of individual preference or anything else indicating love . From a remark made by George Gibbs ( 197 ) we may infer that the Indians of Oregon and Washington used to advertise for wives , in their own fashion : " It is not unusual to find on the small prairies human figures rudely carved upon trees . These I have understood to have been cut by young men who were in want of wives , as a sort of practical intimation that they were in the market as purchasers . " It might be suggested that such a crude love-letter to the sex in general , as compared with one of our own love-letters to a particular girl , gives a fair idea of what Indian love is , compared with the love of civilized men and women . SHALLOW PREDILECTION Even where there is an appearance of predilection it is apt to be shallow and fragile . In the Jesuit Relations ( XVIII. , 129 ) we read how a Huron youth came to one of the missionaries and said he needed a wife to make his snow-shoes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young girl , " said he . " I beg you to call my relatives together and to consider whether she is suitable for me . If you decide that it is for my good , I will marry her ; if not , I will follow your advice . " Other young Indians used to come to the missionaries to ask them to find wives for them . I have been struck , in reading Indian love-stories , by the fact that their gist usually lies not in an exhibition of decided preference for one man but of violent aversion to another  --  some old and disagreeable suitor . It is well known , too , that among Indians , as among Australians , marriage was sometimes considered an affair of the tribe rather than of the individual ; and we have some curious illustrations of the way in which various tribes of Indians would try to crush the germs of individual preference . REPRESSION OF PREFERENCE Thus Hunter relates ( 243 ) of the Missouri and Arkansas tribes that " It is considered disgraceful for a young Indian publicly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself either in war or in the chase . " Should an Indian pay any girl , though he may have known her from childhood , special attention before he has won reputation as a warrior , " he would be sure to suffer the painful mortification of a rejection ; he would become the derision of the warriors and the contempt of the squaws . " In the Jesuit Relations ( III. , 73 ) we read of some of the Canadian Indians that " they have a very rude way of making love ; for the suitor , as soon as he shows a preference for a girl , does not dare look at her , nor speak to her , nor stay near her unless accidentally ; and then he must force himself not to look her in the face , nor to give any sign of his passion , otherwise he would be the laughing-stock of all , and his sweetheart would blush for him . " Not only must he show no preference , but the choice , too , is not left to him ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his age , skill as a hunter , reputation , and family make him a desirable match . In the face of such facts , can we agree with Rousseau that to a savage one woman is as good as another ? The question is very difficult to answer , because if a man is to marry at all , he must choose a particular girl , and this choice can be interpreted as preference , though it may be quite accidental . It is probable , as I have suggested , that with a people as low as the Australians it would be difficult to find a man having sufficient predilection for one young woman to refuse to exchange her for two others . Probably the same is true of the higher savages and even of the barbarians , as a rule . UTILITY VERSUS SENTIMENT We do , indeed , find , at a comparatively early stage , evidences of one girl or man being chosen in preference to others ; but when we examine these cases closely we see that the choice is not based on personal qualities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ description . Thus Zoeller , in the passage just referred to , says of the negro : " It is true that when he buys a woman he prefers a young one , but his motive for so doing is far from being mental admiration of beauty . He buys the younger ones because they are youthful , strong , and able to work for him . " Similarly Belden , who lived twelve years among the Plains Indians , states ( 302 ) that " the squaws are valued by the middle-aged men only for their strength and ability to work , and no account whatever is taken of their personal beauty . " The girls are no better than the men . Young Comanche girls , says Parker ( Schoolcraft , V. , 683 ) " are not averse to marry very old men , particularly if they are chiefs , as they are always sure of something to eat . " In describing Amazon Valley Indians , Wallace says ( 497-498 ) that there is " a trial of skill at shooting with the bow and arrow , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good marksman , the girl refuses him , on the ground that he will not be able to shoot fish and game enough for the family . " These cases are typical , and might be multiplied indefinitely ; they show how utterly individual preference on personal grounds is out of the question here . It is true that many of our own girls marry for such utilitarian reasons ; but no one would be so foolish as to speak of these marriages as love-matches , whereas in the cases of savages we are often invited by sentimentalists to witness the " manifestation of love " whenever a man shows a utilitarian or sensual interest in a particular girl . A modern civilized lover marries a girl for her own sake , because he is enamoured of her individuality , whereas the uncivilized suitor cares not a fig for the other 's individuality ; he takes her as an instrument of lust , a drudge , or as a means of raising a family , in order that the superstitious rites of ancestor-worship may be kept up and his selfish soul @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not for her personally , for if she proves barren he repudiates her and marries another . Trial marriages are therefore widely prevalent . The Dyaks of Borneo , as St. John tells us , often make as many as seven or eight such marriages ; with them marriage is " a business of partnership for the purpose of having children , dividing labor , and by means of their offspring providing for their old age . " A STORY OF AFRICAN LOVE An amusing incident related by Ernst von Weber ( II. , 215-6 ) indicates how easily utilitarian considerations override such skin-deep preference as may exist among Africans . He knew a girl named Yanniki who refused to marry a young Kaffir suitor though she confessed that she liked him . " I can not take him , " she said , " as he can offer only ten cows for me and my father wants fifteen . " Weber observed , that it was not kind of her father to let a few cows stand in the way of her happiness ; but the African damsel did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Business and vanity were to her much more important matters than individual preference for a particular lover , and she exclaimed , excitedly : " What ! You expect my father to give me away for ten cows ? That would be a fine sort of a bargain ! Am I not worth more than Cilli , for whom the Tambuki chief paid twelve cows last week ? I am pretty , I can cook , sew , crochet , speak English , and with all these accomplishments you want my father to dispose of me for ten miserable cows ? Oh , sir , how little you esteem me ! No , no , my father is quite right in refusing to yield in this matter ; indeed , in my opinion he might boldly ask thirty cows for me , for I am worth that much . " SIMILARITY OF INDIVIDUALS AND SEXES It is not difficult to explain why among the lower races individual preference either does not occur at all or is so weak and utilitarian that the difference of a few cows more or less may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same garden , the girls in a tribe differ so little from one another that there is no particular cause for discrimination . They are all brought up in exactly the same way , eat the same food , think the same thoughts , do the same work  --  carrying water and wood , dressing skins , moving tents and utensils , etc. ; they are alike uneducated , and marry at the same childish age before their minds can have unfolded what little is in them ; so that there is small reason why a man should covet one of them much more than another . A savage may be as eager to possess a woman as a miser is to own a gold piece : but he has little more reason to prefer one girl to another than a miser has to prefer one gold piece to another of the same size . Humboldt observed ( P.E. , 141 ) that " in barbarous nations there is a physiognomy peculiar to the tribe or horde rather than to any individual . " It has been noted by various observers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individuals thus resemble one another . Nay , this approximation goes so far as to make even the two sexes much less distinct than they are with us . Professor Pritsch , in his classical treatise on the natives of South Africa ( 407 ) , dwells especially on the imperfect sexual differentiation of the Bushmen . The faces , stature , limbs , and even the chest and hips of the women differ so little from those of the men that in looking at photographs ( as he says and illustrates by specimens ) , one finds it difficult to tell them apart , though the figures are almost nude . Both sexes are equally lean and equally ugly . The same may be said of the typical Australians , and in Professor and Mrs. Agassiz 's Journey in Brazil ( 530 ) we read that " the Indian woman has a very masculine air , extending indeed more or less to her whole bearing ; for even her features have rarely the feminine delicacy of higher womanhood . In the Negro , on the contrary , the narrowness of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marked in the man ; indeed , it may well be said , that , while the Indian female is remarkable for her masculine build , the negro male is equally so for his feminine aspect . " In the Jesuit Relations there are repeated references to the difficulty of distinguishing squaws from male Indians except by certain articles of dress . Burton writes of the Sioux ( C.O.S. , 59 ) that " the unaccustomed eye often hesitates between the sexes . " In Schoolcraft ( V. , 274 ) we are told concerning the Creek women that " being condemned to perform all the hard labor , they are universally masculine in appearance , without one soft blandishment to render them desirable or lovely . " Nor is there anything alluringly feminine in the disposition which , as all observers agree , makes Indian women more cruel in torture than the most pitiless men . Equally decisive is the testimony regarding the similarity of the sexes , physical and mental , in the islands of the Pacific . Hawkesworth ( II. , 446 ) found the women of New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to distinguish them from the men , except by their voices . Captain Cook ( II. , 246 ) observed in Fiji differences in form between men and females , but little difference in features ; and of the Hawaiians he wrote that with few exceptions they " have little claim to those peculiarities that distinguish the sex in other countries . There is , indeed , a more remarkable equality in the size , color , and figure of both sexes , than in most places I have visited . " PRIMARY AND SECONDARY SEXUAL CHARACTERS A most important inference may be deduced from these facts . A man does not , normally , fall in love with a man . He falls in love with a woman , because she is a woman . Now when , as in the cases cited , the men and women differ only in regard to the coarsest anatomical peculiarities known as the primary sexual qualities , it is obvious that their " love " also can consist only of such coarse feelings and longings as these primary qualities can inspire . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its sensual side . Love , to them , is not a sentiment but an appetite , or at best an instinct for the propagation of the species . Of the secondary sexual qualities  --  those not absolutely necessary for the maintenance of the species  --  the first to appear prominently in women is fat ; and as soon as it does appear , it is made a ground of individual preference . Brough Smyth tells us that in Australia a fat woman is never safe from being stolen , no matter how old and ugly she may be . In the chapter on Personal Beauty I shall marshal a number of facts showing that among the uncivilized and Oriental races in general , fat is the criterion of feminine attractiveness . It is so among coarse men ( i.e. , most men ) even in Europe and America to this day . Hindoo poets , from the oldest times to Kalidasa and from Kalidasa to the present day , laud their heroines above all things for their large thighs  --  thighs so heavy that in walking the feet make an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hoofs . " FASTIDIOUS SENSUALITY IS NOT LOVE It is hardly necessary to say that the " love " based on these secondary qualities is not sentimental or romantic . It may , however  --  and this is a very important point to remember  --  be extremely violent and stubborn . In other words , there may he a strong individual preference in love that is entirely sensual . Indeed , lust may he as fastidious as love . Tarquinius coveted Lucretia ; no other woman would have satisfied him . Yet he did not love her . Had he loved her he would have sacrificed his own life rather than offered violence to one who valued her honor more than her life . He loved only himself ; his one object was to please his beloved ego ; he never thought of her feelings and of the consequences of his act to her . The literature of ancient Rome , Greece , and Oriental countries is full of such cases of individualized " love " which , when closely examined , reduce themselves to cases of selfish lust  --  eagerness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom the " lover " has not a particle of affection , respect , or sympathy , not to speak of adoration or gallant , self-sacrificing devotion . Unless we have positive evidence of the presence of these traits of unselfish affection , we are not entitled to assume the existence of genuine love ; especially among races that are coarse , unsympathetic , and cruel . TWO STORIES OF INDIAN LOVE From this point of view we must judge two Indian love-stories related by Keating ( II. , 164-166 ) : I. A Chippewa named Ogemans , married to a woman called Demoya , fell in love with her sister . When she refused him he affected insanity . His ravings were terrible , and nothing could appease him but her presence ; the moment he touched her hand or came near her he was gentle as they could wish . One time , in the middle of a winter night , he sprang from his couch and escaped into the woods , howling and screaming in the wildest manner ; his wife and her sister followed him , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) laid her hand on him , when he became quiet and gentle . This kind of performance he kept up a long time till all the Indians , including the girl , became convinced he was possessed by a spirit which she alone could subdue . So she married him and never after was he troubled by a return of madness . II . A young Canadian had secured the favor of a half-breed girl who had been brought up among the Chippewas and spoke only their language . Her name was Nisette , and she was the daughter of a converted squaw who , being very pious , induced the young couple to go to an Algonquin village and get regularly married by a clergyman . Meanwhile the Canadian 's love cooled away , and by the time they reached the village he cared no more for the poor girl . Soon thereafter she became the subject of fits and was finally considered to be quite insane . The only lucid intervals she had were in the presence of her inconstant husband . Whenever he came near her , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same as before her illness . Flattered by what he deemed so strong an evidence of his influence over her , the Canadian felt a return of kindness toward her , and was finally induced to renew his attentions , which , being well received , they were soon united by a clergyman . Her reason appeared to be restored , and her improving health showed that her happiness was complete . FEMININE IDEALS SUPERIOR TO MASCULINE Keating 's guide was convinced that in both these cases the insanity was feigned for the selfish purpose of working upon the feelings of the unwilling party . Even apart from that , there is no trace of evidence in either story that the feelings of the lovers rose above sensual attachment , though the girl , being half white , might have been capable of an approximation to a higher feeling . Indeed it is among women that such approximations to a higher type of attachment must be sought ; for the uncivilized woman 's basis of individual preference , while apt to be utilitarian , is less sensual than the man 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , valor , aggressiveness , because those are of value to her , while he chooses her for her physical charms and has little or no appreciation of the higher feminine qualities . Schoolcraft ( V. , 612 ) cites the following as an Indian girl 's ideal : " My love is tall and graceful as the young pine waving on the hill  --  - and as swift in his course as the stately deer . His hair is flowing , and dark as the blackbird that floats through the air , and his eyes , like the eagle 's , both piercing and bright . His heart , it is fearless and great  --  and his arm it is strong in the fight . " Now it is true that Schoolcraft is a very unreliable witness in such matters , as we shall see in the chapter on Indians . He had a way of taking coarse Indian tales , dressing them up in a fine romantic garb and presenting them as the aboriginal article . An Indian girl would not be likely to compare a man 's hair to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dream of speaking of a " tall and graceful pine waving on the hill . " She might , however , compare his swiftness to a deer 's , and she might admire his sharp sight , his fearlessness , his strong arm in a fight ; and that is enough to illustrate what I have just said  --  that her preference , though utilitarian , is less sensual than the man 's . It includes mental elements , and as moreover her duties as mother teach her sympathy and devotion , it is not to be wondered at that the earliest approximations to a higher type of love are on the part of women . SEX IN BODY AND MIND As civilization progresses , the sexes become more and more differentiated , thus affording individual preference an infinitely greater scope . The stamp of sex is no longer confined to the pelvis and the chest , but is impressed on every part of the body . The women 's feet become smaller and more daintily shaped than the men 's , the limbs more rounded and tapering and less muscular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skin smoother , softer , and less hairy , the hands more comely , with more slender fingers , the skeleton more delicate , the stature lower , the steps shorter , the gait more graceful , the features more delicately cut , the eyes more beautiful , the hair more luxuriant and lustrous , the cheeks rounder and more susceptible to blushes , the lips more daintily curved , the smile sweeter . But the mind has sex as well as the body . It is still in process of evolution , and too many individuals still approximate the type of the virago or the effeminate man ; but the time will come for all , as it has already come for many , when a masculine trait in a woman 's character will make as disagreeable an impression as a blacksmith 's sinewy arm on the body of a society belle would make in a ball-room . To call a woman pretty and sweet is to compliment her ; to call a man pretty and sweet would be to mock or insult him . The ancient Greeks betrayed their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by their fondness for coy , effeminate boys , and their admiration of masculine goddesses like Diana and Minerva . Contrast this with the modern ideal of femininity , as summed up by Shakspere : Why are our bodies soft and weak and smooth , Unapt to toil and trouble in the world , But that our soft conditions and our hearts Should well agree with our external parts ? TRUE FEMININITY AND ITS FEMALE ENEMIES A woman 's voice differs from a man 's not only in pitch but in timbre ; its quality suggests the sex . There is great scope for variety , from the lowest contralto to the highest soprano , as there is in man 's from the lowest bass to the highest tenor ; a variety so great that voices differ as much as faces and can be instantly recognized ; but unless it has the proper sexual quality a voice affects us disagreeably . A coarse , harsh voice has marred many a girl 's best marriage chances , while , on the other hand , it may happen that " the ear loveth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the male and female voice holds true of the male and female mind in all its diverse aspects . We expect men to be not only bigger , stronger , taller , hardier , more robust , but more courageous and aggressive , more active , more creative , more sternly just , than women ; while coarseness , cruelty , selfishness , and pugnacity , though not virtues in either sex , affect us much less repulsively in men than in women , for the reason that the masculine struggle for existence and competition in business foster selfishness , and men have inherited pugnacious instincts from their fighting ancestors , while women , as mothers , learned the lessons of sympathy and self-sacrifice much sooner than men . The distinctively feminine virtues are on the whole of a much higher order than the masculine , which is the reason why they were not appreciated or fostered at so early an epoch . Gentleness , modesty , domesticity , girlishness , coyness , kindness , patience , tenderness , benevolence , sympathy , self-sacrifice , demureness , emotionality , sensitiveness , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ true , we expect also in gentlemen ; but their absence is not nearly so fatal to a man as it is to a woman . And as men gradually approach women in patience , tenderness , sympathy , self-sacrifice , and gentleness , it behooves women to keep their distance by becoming still more refined and feminine , instead of trying , as so many of them do , to approach the old masculine standard  --  one of the strangest aberrations recorded in all social history . Men and women fall in love with what is unlike , not with what is like them . The refined physical and mental traits which I have described in the preceding paragraphs constitute some of the secondary sexual characters by which romantic love is inspired , while sensual love is based on the primary sexual characters . Havelock Ellis ( 19 ) has well defined a secondary sexual character as " one which , by more highly differentiating the sexes , helps to make them more attractive to each other , " and so to promote marriages . And Professor Weissmann , famed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of thought when he declares ( II. , 91 ) that " all the numerous differences in form and function which characterize sex among the higher animals , all the so-called ' secondary sexual characters , ' affecting even the highest mental qualities of mankind , are nothing but adaptations to bring about the union of the hereditary tendencies of two individuals . " Nature has been at work on this problem of differentiating the sexes ever since it created the lowest animal organisms , and this fact , which stands firm as a rock , gives us the consoling assurance that the present abnormal attempts to make women masculine by giving them the same education , employments , sports , ideals , and political aspirations as men have , must end in ignominious failure . If the viragoes had their way , men and women would in course of time revert to the condition of the lowest savages , differing only in their organs of generation . How infinitely nobler , higher , more refined and , fascinating , is that ideal which wants women to differ from men by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them in the higher qualities of disposition , of character , of beauty , physical and spiritual , which alone make possible the existence of romantic love as distinguished from lust on one side and friendship on the other . MYSTERIES OF LOVE If these secondary sexual characters could be destroyed by the extraordinary  --  one might almost say criminal  --  efforts of unsexed termagants to make all women ape men and become like them , romantic love , which was so slow in coming , would disappear again , leaving only sensual appetite , which may be ( selfishly ) fastidious and intense , but has no depth , duration , or altruistic nobility , and which , when satiated , cares no more for the object for which it had temporarily hungered . It is these secondary sexual characters , with their subtle and endless variations , that have given individual preference such a wide field of choice that every lover can find a girl after his heart and taste . A savage is like a gardener who has only one kind of flowers to choose between  --  all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diverse secondary characters , our various intermixtures of nationalities , our endless shades of blonde and brunette , and differences in manners and education can have our choice among the lilies , roses , violets , pansies , daisies , and thousands of other flowers  --  or the girls named after them . Samuel Baker says there are no broken hearts in Africa . Why should there be when individuals are so similar that if a man loses his girl he can easily find another just like her in color , face , rotundity , and grossness ? A civilized lover would mourn the loss of his bride  --  though he were offered his choice of the beauties of Baltimore  --  because it would be absolutely impossible to duplicate her . In that last line lies the explanation of one of the mysteries of modern love  --  its stubborn fidelity to the beloved after the choice has been made . But there is another mystery of individual preference that calls for an explanation  --  its capriciousness , apparent or real , in making a choice  --  that quality which has made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " On this point much confusion of ideas prevails . Matters are simplified if we first dispose of those numerous cases in which the individual preference is only approximate . If a girl of eighteen has the choice between a man of sixty and a youth of twenty , she will , if she exercises a personal preference , take the youth , as a matter of course , though he may be far from her ideal . Such preference is generic rather than individual . Again , in most cases of first love , as I have remarked elsewhere ( R.L.P.B. , 139 ) " man falls in love with woman , woman with man , not with a particular man or woman . " Young men and women inherit , from a long series of ancestors , a disposition to love which at puberty reveals itself in vague longings and dreams . The " bump of amativeness , " as a phrenologist might say , is like a powder magazine , ready to explode at a touch , and it makes no great difference what kind of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a matter of more importance . Robert Burton threw light on the " capriciousness " and accidentally of this kind of ( apparent ) amorous preference when he wrote that " it is impossible , almost , for two young folks equal in years to live together and not be in love ; " and further he says , sagaciously : " Many a serving man , by reason of this opportunity and importunity , inveigles his master 's daughter , many a gallant loves a dowdy , many a gentleman runs after his wife 's maids ; many ladies dote upon their men , as the queen in Aristo did upon the dwarf , many matches are so made in haste and they are compelled , as it were by necessity , so to love , which had they been free , come in company with others , seen that variety which many places afford , or compared them to a third , would never have looked upon one another . " Such passions are merely pent-up emotions seeking to escape one way or another . They do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approach to it ; for they are not properly individualized , and , as Schopenhauer pointed out , the differences in the intensity of love-cases depend on their different degrees of individualization  --  an apercu which this whole chapter confirms . Yet these mere approximations to real preference embrace the vast majority of so-called love-affairs . Genuine preference of the highest type finds its explanation in special phases of sympathy and personal beauty which will be discussed later on . What is usually considered the greatest mystery of the amorous passion is the disposition of a lover to " see Helen 's beauty in a brow of Egypt . " " What can Jack have seen in Jill to become infatuated with her , or she in him ? " The trouble with those who so often ask this question is that they fix the attention on the beloved instead of on the lover , whose lack of taste explains everything . The error is of long standing , as the following story related by the Persian poet Saadi ( of the thirteenth century ) will show ( 346 ) : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Mujnun , maddened by love , had turned his face toward the desert and assumed the manners of a brute . The king ordered him to be brought in his presence and he wept and said : ' Many of my friends reproach me for my love of her , namely Laila ; alas ! that they could one day see her , that my excuse might be manifest for me . ' The king sent for her and beheld a person of tawny complexion , and feeble frame of body . She appeared to him in a contemptible light , inasmuch as the lowest menial in his harem , or seraglio , surpassed her in beauty and excelled her in elegance . Mujnun , in his sagacity , penetrated what was passing in the king 's mind and said : ' It would behove you , O King , to contemplate the charms of Laila through the wicket of a Mujnun 's eye , in order that the miracle of such a spectacle might be illustrated to you . ' " This story was referred to by several critics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modernity of true love . They seemed to think , with the Persian poet , that there must be something particularly wonderful and elevated in the feelings of a lover who is indifferent to the usual charms of femininity and prefers ugliness . This , indeed , is the prevalent sentiment on the subject , though the more I think of it , the more absurd and topsy turvy it seems to me . Do we commend an Eskimo for preferring the flavor of rancid fish oil to the delicate bouquet of the finest French wine ? Does it evince a particularly exalted artistic sense to prefer a hideous daub to a Titian or Raphael ? Does it betoken a laudable and elevated taste in music to prefer a vulgar tune to one that has the charms of a romantic or classical work of acknowledged beauty ? Why , then , should we specially extol Mujnun for admiring a woman who was devoid of all feminine charms ? The confusion probably arises from fancying that she must have had mental charms to offset her ugliness , but nothing whatever is said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have been utterly foreign to the Oriental , purely sensual , way of regarding women . Fix the attention on the man in the story instead of on the woman and the mystery vanishes . Mujnun becomes infatuated with an ugly woman simply because he has no taste , no sense of beauty . There are millions of such men the world over , just as there are millions who can not appreciate choice wines , good music , and fine pictures . Everywhere the majority of men prefer vulgar tunes , glaring chromos , and coarse women  --  luckily for the women , because most of them are coarse , too . " Birds of a feather flock together "  --  there you have the philosophy of preference so far as such love-affairs are concerned . How often do we see a bright , lovely girl , with sweet voice and refined manners , neglected by men who crowd around other women of their own rude and vulgar caste ! Most men still are savages so far as the ability to appreciate the higher secondary sexual qualities in women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Among savages there are no exceptions . Romantic love does not exist among them , both because the women have not the secondary sexual qualities , and because , even if they had them , the men would not appreciate them or be guided by them in their choice of mates . II . MONOPOLISM Whenever she speaks , my ravished ear No other voice but hers can hear , No other wit but hers approve : Tell me , my heart , if this be love ?  --  Lyttleton . Every lover of nature must have noticed how the sun monopolizes the attention of flowers and leaves . Twist and turn them whichever way you please , on returning afterward you will find them all facing the beloved sun again with their bright corollas and glossy surface . Romantic love exacts a similar monopoly of its devotees . Be their feelings as various , their thoughts as numerous , as the flowers in a garden , the leaves in a forest , they will always be turned toward the beloved one . JULIET AND NOTHING BUT JULIET A man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dote on a dozen or more children with equal affection ; but romantic love is a monopolist , absolutely exclusive of all participation and rivalry . A genuine Romeo wants Juliet , the whole of Juliet , and nothing but Juliet . She monopolizes his thoughts by day , his dreams at night ; her image blends with everything he sees , her voice with everything he hears . His imagination is a lens which gathers together all the light and heat of a giant world and focuses them on one brunette or blonde . He is a miser , who begrudges every smile , every look she bestows on others , and if he had his own way he would sail with her to-day to a desert island and change their names to Mr. and Mrs. Robinson Crusoe . This is not fanciful hyperbole , but a plain statement in prose of a psychological truth . The poets did not exaggerate when they penned such sentiments as these : She was his life , The ocean to the river of his thoughts , Which terminated all .  --  Byron . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , The very eyes of me , And hast command of every part , To live and die for thee .  --  Herrick . Give me but what that ribband bound , Take all the rest the world goes round .  --  Waller . But I am tied to very thee By every thought I have ; Thy face I only care to see Thy heart I only crave .  --  Sedley . I see her in the dewy flowers , Sae lovely sweet and fair : I hear her voice in ilka bird , Wi ' music charm the air : There 's not a bonnie flower that springs By fountain , shaw , or green ; There 's not a bonny bird that sings , But minds me o ' my Jean .  --  Burns . For nothing this wide universe I call Save thou , my rose : in it thou art my all .  --  Shakspere . Like Alexander I will reign , And I will reign alone , My thoughts shall evermore disdain A rival on my throne .  --  James Graham . Love , well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divided vows .  --  Prior . O that the desert were my dwelling-place , With one fair spirit for my minister , That I might all forget the human race And , hating no one , love but only her .  --  Byron . BUTTERFLY LOVE The imperative desire for an absolute monopoly of one chosen girl , body and soul  --  and one only  --  is an essential , invariable ingredient of romantic love . Sensual love , on the contrary , aims rather at a monopoly of all attractive women  --  or at least as many as possible . Sensual love is not an exclusive passion for one ; it is a fickle feeling which , like a giddy butterfly , flits from flower to flower , forgetting the fragrance of the lily it left a moment ago in the sweet honey of the clover it enjoys at this moment . The Persian poet Sadi , says ( Bustan , 12 ) , " Choose a fresh wife every spring or New Year 's Day ; for the almanack of last year is good for nothing . " Anacreon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Can'st count the leaves in a forest , the waves in the sea ? Then tell me how oft I have loved . Twenty girls in Athens , and fifteen more besides ; add to these whole bevies in Corinth , and from Lesbos to Ionia , from Caria and from Rhodos , two thousand sweethearts more .... Two thousand did I say ? That includes not those from Syros , from Kanobus , from Creta 's cities , where Eros rules alone , nor those from Gadeira , from Bactria , from India  --  girls for whom I burn . " Lucian vies with Anacreon when he makes Theomestus ( Dial . Amor. ) exclaim : " Sooner can'st thou number the waves of the sea and the snowflakes falling from the sky than my loves . One succeeds another , and the new one comes on before the old is off . " We call such a thing libertinism , not love . The Greeks had not the name of Don Juan , yet Don Juan was their ideal both for men and for the gods they made in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gods tell his own spouse ( who listens without offence ) of his diverse love-affairs ( Iliad , xiv. , 317-327 ) . Thirteen centuries after Homer the Greek poet Nonnus gives ( Greek : Dionusiaka , vii. ) a catalogue of twelve of Zeus 's amours ; and we know from other sources ( e.g. , Hygin , fab. , 155 ) that these accounts are far from exhaustive . A complete list would match that yard-long document made for Don Juan by Leporello in Mozart 's opera . A French writer has aptly called Jupiter the " Olympian Don Juan ; " yet Apollo and most of the other gods might lay claim to the same title , for they are represented as equally amorous , sensual , and fickle ; seeing no more wrong in deserting a woman they have made love to , than a bee sees in leaving a flower whose honey it has stolen . Temporarily , of course , both men and gods focus their interest on one woman  --  maybe quite ardently  --  and fiercely resent interference , as an angry bee is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accidentally chosen ; but that is a different thing from the monopolism of true love . ROMANTIC STORIES OF NON-ROMANTIC LOVE The romantic lover 's dream is to marry one particular woman and her alone ; the sensual lover 's dream embraces several women , or many . The unromantic ideal of the ancient Hindoo is romantically illustrated in a story told in the Hitopadesa of a Brahman named Wedasarman . One evening someone made him a present of a dish of barley-meal . He carried it to the market hall and lay down in a corner near where a potter had stored his wares . Before going to sleep , the Brahman indulged in these pleasant reveries : " If I sell this dish of meal I shall probably get ten farthings for it . For that I can buy some of these pots , which I can sell again at a profit ; thus my money will increase . Then I shall begin to trade in betel-nuts , dress-goods and other things , and thus I may bring my wealth up to a hundred thousand . With that I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the youngest and prettiest of them I shall give my tenderest love . How the others will be tortured by jealousy ! But just let them dare to quarrel . They shall know my wrath and feel my club ! " With these words he laid about him with his club , and of course broke his own dish besides many of the potter 's wares . The potter hearing the crash , ran to see what was the matter , and the Brahman was ignominiously thrown out of the hall . The polygamous imagination of the Hindoos runs riot in many of their stories . To give another instance : The Kathakoca , or Treasury of Stories ( translated by C.H. Tawney , 34 ) , includes an account of the adventures of King Kanchanapura , who had five hundred wives ; and of Sanatkumara who beheld eight daughters of Manavega and married them . Shortly afterward he married a beautiful lady and her sister . Then he conquered Vajravega and married one hundred maidens . Hindoo books assure us that women , unless restrained , are no better than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are like cows  --  always searching for new herbs in the meadows to graze on . In polyandrous communities the women make good use of their opportunities . Dalton , in his book on the wild tribes of Bengal , tells this quaint story ( 36 ) : " A very pretty Dophla girl once came into the station of Luckimpur , threw herself at my feet and in most poetical language asked me to give her protection . She was the daughter of a chief and was sought in marriage and promised to a peer of her father who had many other wives . She would not submit to be one of many , and besides she loved and she eloped with her beloved . This was interesting and romantic . She was at the time in a very coarse travelling dress , but assured of protection she took fresh apparel and ornament from her basket and proceeded to array herself , and very pretty she looked as she combed and plaited her long hair and completed her toilette . In the meantime I had sent for the ' beloved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alas ! how the romance was dispelled when a dual appeared ! She had eloped with two men ! " Every reader will laugh at this denouement , and that laugh is eloquent proof that in saying there can be no real love without absolute monopolism of one heart by another I simply formulated and emphasized a truth which we all feel instinctively . Dalton 's tale also brings out very clearly the world-wide difference between a romantic love-story and a story of romantic love . Turning from the Old World to the New we find stories illustrating the same amusing disregard of amorous monopolism . Rink , in his book of Eskimo tales and traditions , cites a song which voices the reveries of a Greenland bachelor : " I am going to leave the country  --  in a large ship  --  for that sweet little woman . I 'll try to get some beads  --  of those that look like boiled ones . Then when I 've gone abroad  --  I shall return again . My nasty little relatives  --  I 'll call them all to me  --  and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's end . Then I 'll go to marry  --  taking two at once . That darling little creature  --  shall only wear clothes of the spotted seal-skins , and the other little pet shall have clothes of the young hooded seals . " Powers ( 227 ) tells a tragic tale of the California Indians , which in some respects reminds one of the man who jumped into a bramble-bush and scratched out both his eyes . " There was once a man who loved two women and wished to marry them . Now these two women were magpies , but they loved him not , and laughed his wooing to scorn . Then he fell into a rage and cursed these two women , and went far away to the North . There he set the world on fire , then made for himself a tule boat , wherein he escaped to sea , and was never seen more . " Belden , who spent twelve years among the Sioux and other Indians , writes ( 302 ) : " I once knew a young man who had about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the enemy , and who fell desperately in love with a girl of nineteen . She loved him in return , but said she could not bear to leave her tribe , and go to a Santee village , unless her two sisters , aged respectively fifteen and seventeen , went with her . Determined to have his sweetheart , the next time the warrior visited the Yankton village he took several ponies with him , and bought all three of the girls from their parents , giving five ponies for them . " OBSTACLES TO MONOPOLISM Heriot , during his sojourn among Canadian Indians , became convinced from what he saw that love does not admit of divided affections , and can hardly coexist with polygamy ( 324 ) . Schoolcraft notes the " curious fact " concerning the Indian that after a war " one of the first things he thought of as a proper reward for his bravery was to take another wife . " In the chapter entitled " Honorable Polygamy " we saw how , in polygamous communities the world over , monogamy was despised as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practised , not from choice , but from necessity . Every man who was able to do so bought or stole several women , and joined the honorable guild of polygamists . Such a custom , enforced by a strong public opinion , created a sentiment which greatly retarded the development of monopolism in sexual love . A young Indian might dream of marrying a certain girl , not , however , with a view to giving her his whole heart , but only as a beginning . The woman , it is true , was expected to give herself to one husband , but he seldom hesitated to lend her to a friend as an act of hospitality , and in many cases , would hire her out to a stranger in return for gifts . In not a few communities of Asia , Melanesia , Polynesia , Australia , Africa , and America polyandry prevailed ; that is , the woman was expected to bestow her caresses in turn on two or more men , to the destruction of the desire for exclusive possession which is an imperative trait @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might call syndicate marriage which has prevailed among the Meeris of India : " All the girls have their prices , the largest price for the best-looking girl varying from twenty to thirty pigs , and , if one man can not give so many , he has no objection to take partners to make up the number . " According to Julius Caesar , it was customary among the ancient Britons for brothers , and sometimes for father and sons , to have their wives in common , and Tacitus found evidence of a similar custom among the ancient Germans ; while in some parts of Media it was the ambition of the women to have two or more husbands , and Strabo relates that those who succeeded looked down with pride on their less fortunate sisters . When the Spaniards first arrived at Lanzarote , in South America , they found the women married to several husbands , who lived with their common spouse in turn each a month . The Tibetans , according to Samuel Turner , look on marriage as a disagreeable duty which the members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Nair woman in India may have up to ten or twelve husbands , with each of whom she lives ten days at a time . Among some Himalayan tribes , when the oldest brother marries , he generally shares his wife with his younger brothers . WIVES AND GIRLS IN COMMON Of the Port Lincoln Tribe in Australia , Schuermann says ( 223 ) that the brothers practically have their wives in common . " A peculiar nomenclature has arisen from these singular connections ; a woman honors the brothers of the man to whom she is married by the indiscriminate name of husbands ; but the men make a distinction , calling their own individual spouses yungaras , and those to whom they have a secondary claim , by right of brotherhood , kartetis . " R.H. Codrington , a scientifically educated missionary who had twenty-four years ' experience on the islands of the Pacific , wrote a valuable book on the Melanesians in which occur the following luminous remarks : " All women who may become wives in marriage , and are not yet appropriated , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be their husbands as open to a more or less legitimate intercourse . In fact , appropriation of particular women to their own husbands , though established by every sanction of native custom , has by no means so strong a hold in native society , nor in all probability anything like so deep a foundation in the history of the native people , as the severance of either sex by divisions which most strictly limit the intercourse of men and women to those of the section or sections to which they themselves do not belong . Two proofs or exemplifications of this are conspicuous . ( 1 ) There is probably no place in which the common opinion of Melanesians approves the intercourse of the unmarried youths and girls as a thing good in itself , though it allows it as a thing to be expected and excused ; but intercourse within the limit which restrains from marriage , where two members of the same division are concerned , is a crime , is incest .... ( 2 ) The feeling , on the other hand , that the intercourse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ belonged to different divisions , was shown by that feature of native hospitality which provided a guest with a temporary wife . " Though now denied in some places , " there can be no doubt that it was common everywhere . " Nor can there be any doubt that what Codrington here says of the Melanesians applies also to Polynesians , Australians , and to uncivilized peoples in general . It shows that even where monogamy prevails  --  as it does quite extensively among the lower races12  --  we must not look for monopolism as a matter of course . The two are very far from being identical . Primitive marriage is not a matter of sentiment but of utility and sensual greed . Monogamy , in its lower phases , does not exclude promiscuous intercourse before marriage and ( with the husband 's permission ) after marriage . A man appropriates a particular woman , not because he is solicitous for a monopoly of her chaste affections , but because he needs a drudge to cook and toil for him . Primitive marriage , in short , has little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important fact the disregard of which has led to no end of confusion in anthropological and sociological literature. 13 TRIAL MARRIAGES At a somewhat higher stage , marriage becomes primarily an institution for raising soldiers for the state or sons to perform ancestor worship . This is still very far from the modern ideal which makes marriage a lasting union of two loving souls , children or no children . Particularly instructive , from our point of view , is the custom of trial marriage , which has prevailed among many peoples differing otherwise as widely as ancient Egyptians and modern Borneans. 14 A modern lover would loathe the idea of such a trial marriage , because he feels sure that his love will be eternal and unalterable . He may be mistaken , but that at any rate is his ideal : it includes lasting monopolism . If a modern sweetheart offered her lover a temporary marriage , he would either firmly and anxiously decline it , fearing that she might take advantage of the contract and leave him at the end of the year ; or , what is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would die a sudden death , because no respectable girl could make such an offer , and genuine love can not exist without respect for the beloved , whatever may be said to the contrary by those who know not the difference between sensual and sentimental love . TWO ROMAN LOVERS While I am convinced that all these things are as stated , I do not wish to deny that monopolism of a violent kind may and does occur in love which is merely sensual . In fact , I have expressly classed monopolism among those seven ingredients of love which occur in its sensual as well as its sentimental phases . For a correct diagnosis of love it is indeed of great importance to bear this in mind , as we might otherwise be led astray by specious passages , especially in Greek and Roman literature , in which sensual love sometimes reaches a degree of subtility , delicacy , and refinement , which approximate it to sentimental love , though a critical analysis always reveals the difference . The two best instances I know of occur in Tibullus and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( IV. , 13 ) , expresses the monopolistic wish that his favorite might seem beautiful to him only , displeasing all others , for then he would be safe from all rivalry ; then he might live happy in forest solitudes , and she alone would be to him a multitude : Atque utinam posses uni mihi bella videri ; Displiceas aliis : sic ego tutus ero . Sic ego secretis possum bene vivere silvis Qua nulla humano sit via trita pede . Tu mihi curarum requies , tu nocte vel atra Lumen , et in solis tu mihi turba locis . Unfortunately , the opening line of this poem : Nulla tuum nobis subducet femina lectum , and what is known otherwise of the dissolute character of the poet and of all the women to whom he addressed his verses , make it only too obvious that there is here no question of purity , of respect , of adoration , of any of the qualities which distinguish supersensual love from lust . More interesting still is a passage in the Eunuchus of Terence ( I. , 2 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as evidence of genuine romantic love , existing two thousand years ago : " What more do I wish ? " asks Phaedria of his girl Thais : " That while at the soldier 's side you are not his , that you love me day and night , desire me , dream of me , expect me , think of me , hope for me , take delight in me , finally , be my soul as I am yours . " Here , too , there is no trace of supersensual , self-sacrificing affection ( the only sure test of love ) ; but it might be argued that the monopolism , at any rate , is absolute . But when we read the whole play , even that is seen to be mere verbiage and affectation  --  sentimentality , 15 not sentiment . The girl in question is a common harlot " never satisfied with one lover , " as Parmeno tells her , and she answers : " Quite true , but do not bother me "  --  and her Phaedria , though he talks monopolism , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she easily persuades him to retire to the country for a few days , while she offers herself to a soldier . And again , at the end of the play , when he seems at last to have ousted his military rival , the latter 's parasite Gnatho persuades him , without the slightest difficulty , to continue sharing the girl with the soldier , because the latter is old and harmless , but has plenty of money , while Phaedria is poor . Thus a passage which at first sight seemed sentimental and romantic , resolves itself into flabby sensualism , with no more moral fibre than the " love " of the typical Turk , as revealed , for instance , in a love song , communicated by Eugene Schuyler ( I. , 135 ) : " Nightingale ! I am sad ! As passionately as thou lovest the rose , so loudly sing that my loved one awake . Let me die in the embrace of my dear one , for I envy no one . I know that thou hast many lovers ; but what affair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characteristic literary curiosities relating to monopolism that I have found occurs in the Hindoo drama , Malavika and Agnimitra ( Act V. ) . While intended very seriously , to us it reads for all the world like a polygamous parody by Artemus Ward of Byron 's lines just cited ( " She was his life , The ocean to the river of his thoughts , Which terminated all " ) . An Indian queen having generously bestowed on her husband a rival to be his second wife , Kausiki , a Buddhist nun , commends her action in these words : " I am not surprised at your magnanimity . If wives are kind and devoted to their husbands they even serve them by bringing them new wives , like the streams which become channels for conveying the water of the rivers to the ocean . " Monopolism has a watch-dog , a savage Cerberus , whose duty it is to ward off intruders . He goes by the name of Jealousy , and claims our attention next . III . JEALOUSY For love , thou know'st , is full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from sexual love , but there can be no such love without jealousy , potential at any rate , for in the absence of provocation it need never manifest itself . Of all the ingredients of love it is the most savage and selfish , as commonly witnessed , and we should therefore expect it to be present at all stages of this passion , including the lowest . Is this the case ? The answer depends entirely upon what we mean by jealousy . Giraud-Teulon and Le Bon have held  --  as did Rousseau long before them  --  that this passion is unknown among almost all uncivilized peoples , whereas the latest writer on the subject , Westermarck , tries to prove ( 117 ) that " jealousy is universally prevalent in the human race at the present day " and that " it is impossible to believe that there ever was a time when man was devoid of that powerful feeling . " It seems strange that doctors should disagree so radically on what seems so simple a question ; but we shall see that the question is far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that old source of confusion , the use of one word for several entirely different things . RAGE AT RIVALS It is among fishes , in the scale of animal life , that jealousy first makes its appearance , according to Romanes . But in animals " jealousy , " be it that of a fish or a stag , is little more than a transient rage at a rival who comes in presence of the female he himself covets or has appropriated . This murderous wrath at a rival is a feeling which , as a matter of course a human savage may share with a wolf or an alligator ; and in its ferocious indulgence primitive man places himself on a level with brutes  --  nay , below them , for in the struggle he often kills the female , which an animal never does . This wrath is not jealousy as we know it ; it lacks a number of essential moral , intellectual , imaginative elements as we shall presently see ; some of these are found in the amorous relations of birds , but not of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is true that , as some authorities believe , there was a time when human beings had , like animals , regular and limited annual mating periods , this rage at rivals must have often assumed the most ferocious aspect , to be followed , as with animals , by long periods of indifference. 16 WOMEN AS PRIVATE PROPERTY It is obvious , however , that since the human infant needs parental care much longer than young animals need it , natural selection must have favored the survival of the offspring of couples who did not separate after a mating period but remained together some years . This tendency would be further favored by the warrior 's desire to have a private drudge or conjugal slave . Having stolen or bought such a " wife " and protected her against wild beasts and men , he would come to feel a sense of ownership in her  --  as in his private weapons . Should anyone steal his weapons , or , at a higher stage , his cattle or other property , he would be animated by a fierce desire for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any man stole his wife  --  or her favors . This savage desire for revenge is the second phase of " jealousy , " when women are guarded like other property , encroachment on which impels the owner to angry retaliation either on the thief or on the wife who has become his accomplice . Even among the lowest races , such as the Fuegians and Australians , great precautions are taken to guard women from " robbers . " From the nature of the case , women are more difficult to guard than any other kind of " movable " property , as they are apt to move of their own accord . Being often married against their will , to men several times their age , they are only too apt to make common cause with the gallant . Powers relates that among the California Indians , a woman was severely punished or even killed by her husband if seen in company with another man in the woods ; and an Australian takes it for granted , says Curr , " that his wife has been unfaithful to him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The poacher may be simply flogged or fined , but he is apt to be mutilated or killed . The " injured husband " reserves the right to intrigue with as many women as he pleases , but his wife , being his absolute property , has no rights of her own , and if she follows his bad example he mutilates or kills her too . HORRIBLE PUNISHMENTS Strangling , stoning , burning , impaling , flaying alive , tearing limb from limb , throwing from a tower , burying alive , disemboweling , enslaving , drowning , mutilating , are some of the punishments inflicted by savages and barbarians in all parts of the world on adulterous men or women . Specifications would be superfluous . Let one case stand for a hundred . Maximilian Prinz zu Wied relates ( I. , 531 , 572 ) , that the Indians ( Blackfeet ) , " severely punished infidelity on the part of their wives by cutting off their noses . At Fort Mackenzie we saw a number of women defaced in this hideous manner . In about a dozen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disfigured . " Must we not look upon the state of mind which leads to such terrible actions as genuine jealousy ? Is there any difference between it and the feeling we ourselves know under that name ? There is  --  a world-wide difference . Take Othello , who though a Moor , acts and feels more like an Englishman . The desire for revenge animates him too : " I 'll tear her to pieces , " he exclaimed when Iago slanders Desdemona  --  " will chop her into messes , " and as for Cassio , Oh , that the slave had forty thousand lives ! One is too poor , too weak for my revenge . * * * * * Arise , black vengeance from the hollow hell . ESSENCE OF TRUE JEALOUSY But this eagerness for revenge is only one phase of his passion . Though it leads him , in a frenzy of despair , to smother his wife , it is yet , even in his violent soul , subordinate to those feelings of wounded honor and outraged affection which constitute the essence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wife and his friend he clutches , as Ulrici remarks ( I. , 404 ) , with the blind despair of a shipwrecked man to his sole remaining property  --  honor : " His honor , as he thinks , demands the sacrifice of the lives of Desdemona and Cassio . The idea of honor in those days , especially in Italy , inevitably required the death of the faithless wife as well as that of the adulterer . Othello therefore regards it as his duty to comply with this requirement , and , accordingly it is no lie when he calls himself ' an honorable murderer , ' doing ' naught in hate , but all in honor , ' .... Common thirst for revenge would have thought only of increasing the sufferings of its victim , of adding to its own satisfaction . But how touching , on the other hand , is Othello 's appeal to Desdemona to pray and to confess her sins to Heaven , that he may not kill her soul with her body ! Here , at the moment of the most intense excitement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ love still breaks forth , and we again see the indestructible nobility of his soul . " Schlegel erred , therefore , when he maintained that Othello 's jealousy was of the sensual , Oriental sort . So far as it led to the murder , it was ; but Shakspere gave it touches which allied it to the true jealousy of the heart of which Schlegel himself has aptly said that it is " compatible with the tenderest feeling and adoration of the beloved object . " Of such tender feeling and adoration there is not a trace in the passion of the Indian who bites off his wife 's nose or lower lip to disfigure her , or who ruthlessly slays her for doing once what he does at will . Such expressions as " outraged affection , " or " alienated affection , " do not apply to him , as there is no affection in the case at all ; no more than in that of the old Persian or Turk who sews up one of his hundred wives in a sack and throws her into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fruits of the tree of knowledge . This Oriental jealousy is often a " dog-in-the-manger " feeling . The Iroquois were the most intelligent of North American Indians , yet in cases of adultery they punished the woman solely , " who was supposed to be the only offender " ( Morgan , 331 ) . Affection is out of the question in such cases , anger at a slave 's disobedience , and vengeance , being the predominant feelings . In countries where woman is degraded and enslaved , as Verplanck remarks ( III. , 61 ) , " the jealous revenge of the master husband , for real or imagined evil , is but the angry chastisement of an offending slave , not the terrible sacrifice of his own happiness involved in the victim 's punishment . When woman is a slave , a property , a thing , all that jealousy may prompt is done , to use Othello 's own distinction , ' in hate ' and ' not in love . ' " Another equally vital distinction between the jealousy of savagery and civilization is indicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a toad , And live upon the vapor of a dungeon , Than keep a corner in the thing I love For other 's uses . And again : I had been happy , if the general camp , Pioners and all , had tasted her sweet body , So I had nothing known . ABSENCE OF MASCULINE JEALOUSY It is the knowledge , or suspicion , that he has not a monopoly of his wife that tortures Shakspere 's Othello , and constitutes the essence of his jealousy , whereas a savage is his exact antipode in that respect ; he cares not a straw if the whole camp shares the embraces of his wife  --  provided he knows it and is rewarded for it . Wounded pride , violated chastity , and broken conjugal vows  --  pangs which goad us into jealousy  --  are considerations unknown to him . In other words , his " jealousy " is not a solicitude for marital honor , for wifely purity and affection , but simply a question of lending his property and being paid for it . Thus , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the author declares that while they mutilated erring wives by cutting off their noses ( the Comanches and other tribes , down to the Brazilian Botocudos , did the same thing ) , they eagerly offered their wives and daughters in exchange for a bottle of whiskey . In this respect , too , this case is typical . Sutherland found ( I. , 184 ) that in regard to twenty-one tribes of Indians out of thirty-eight there was express record of unlimited intercourse before marriage and the loaning or exchanging of wives . In seventeen he could not get express information , and in only four was it stated that a chaste girl was more esteemed than an unchaste one . In the chapter on Indifference to Chastity I cited testimony showing that in Australia , the Pacific Islands , and among aborigines in general , chastity is not valued as a virtue . There are plenty of tribes that attempt to enforce it , but for commercial , sensual , or at best , genealogical reasons , not from a regard for personal purity ; so that among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ word is out of the question . Care must be taken not to be imposed on by deceptive facts and inaccurate testimony . Thus Westermarck says ( 119 ) that " in the Pelew Islands it is forbidden even to speak about another man 's wife or mention her name . In short , the South Sea Islanders are , as Mr. Macdonald remarks , generally jealous of the chastity of their wives . " Nothing could be more misleading than these two sentences . The men are not jealous of the women 's chastity , for they unhesitatingly lend them to other men ; they are " jealous " of them simply as they are of their other movable property . As for the Pelew Islanders in particular , what Westermarck cites from Ymer is quite true ; it is also true that if a man beats or insults a woman he must pay a fine or suffer the death penalty ; and that if he approaches a place where women are bathing he must put them on their guard by shouting . But all these things are mere whimsicalities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unchaste even for Polynesians . They have no real family life ; they have club-houses in which men consort promiscuously with women ; and no moral restraint of any sort is put upon boys and girls , nor have they any idea of modesty or decency. 17 ( Ploss , II. , 416 ; Kotzebue , III. , 215 . ) A century ago Alexander Mackenzie wrote ( 66 ) regarding the Knistenaux or Cree Indians of the Northwest : " It does not appear ... that chastity is considered by them as a virtue ; or that fidelity is believed to be essential to the happiness of wedded life ; though it sometimes happens that the infidelity of a wife is punished by the husband with the loss of her hair , nose , and perhaps life ; such severity proceeds from its having been practised without his permission ; for a temporary exchange of wives is not uncommon ; and the offer of their persons is considered as a necessary part of the hospitality due to strangers . " Of the Natchez Indians Charlevoix wrote ( 267 ) : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marriages ; on the contrary the Natchez , without any ceremony , lend one another their wives . " Concerning the Eskimos we read in Bancroft : " They have no idea of morality , and the marriage relation sits so loosely as to hardly excite jealousy in its abuse . Female chastity is held a thing of value only as men hold property in it . " " A stranger is always provided with a female companion for the night , and during the husband 's absence he gets another man to take his place " ( I. , 81 , 80 ) . The evidence collected by him also shows that the Thlinkeets and Aleuts freely exchanged or lent their wives . Of the coast Indians of Southern Alaska and British Columbia , A.P . Niblack says ( Smithson . Rep. , 1888 , 347 ) : " Jealousy being unknown amongst the Indians , and sanctioned prostitution a common evil , the woman who can earn the greatest number of blankets or the largest sum of money wins the admiration of others for herself and a high position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same government reports ( 1886 , Pt . I. ) C. Willoughby writes of the Quinault Agency Washington Indians : " In their domestic relations chastity seems to be almost unknown . " Of the Chippewayans Hearne relates ( 129 ) that it is a very common custom among the men to exchange a night 's lodging with each other 's wives . But this is so far from being considered as an act which is criminal , that it is esteemed by them as one of the strongest ties of friendship between two families. 18 The Hurons and many other tribes from north to south had licentious festivals at which promiscuous intercourse prevailed betraying the absence of jealousy . Of the Tupis of Brazil Southey says ( I. , 241 ) : " The wives who found themselves neglected , consoled themselves by initiating the boys in debauchery . The husbands seem to have known nothing of jealousy . " The ancient inhabitants of Venezuela lived in houses big enough to hold one hundred and sixty persons , and Herrera says of them : " They observed no law or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they would , and they as many husbands , quitting one another at pleasure , without reckoning any harm done on either part . There was no such thing as jealousy among them , all living as best pleased them , without taking offence at one another . " The most painstaking research has failed to reveal to me a single Indian tribe in North or South America that showed a capacity for real jealousy , that is , anguish based on a sense of violated wifely chastity and alienated affection . The actions represented as due to jealousy are always inspired by the desire for revenge , never by the anguish of disappointed affection ; they are done in hate , not in love . A chief who kills or mutilates one of his ten wives for consorting with another man without his consent , acts no more from jealousy , properly so called , than does a father who shoots the seducer of his daughter , or a Western mob that lynches a horse-thief . Among the Australian aborigines killing an intriguing wife is an every-day occurrence , though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tribes of which there are records , " as one of the best informed authorities , J.D. Wood , tells us ( 403 ) . Detailed evidence that the same is true of the aborigines of all the continents will be given in later chapters . The natives usually share their females both before and after marriage ; monopoly of body and soul  --  of which true jealousy is the guardian  --  is a conception beyond their moral horizon . A few more illustrations may be added . Burton ( T.T.G.L. , II. , 27 ) cites a writer who says that the natives of Sao Paulo had a habit of changing wives for a time , " alleging , in case of reproof , that they are not able to eat always of the same dish . " Holub testifies ( II. , 83 ) that in South Africa jealousy " rarely shows itself very prominently ; " and he uses the word in the widest sense . The fierce Masai lend their wives to guests . The Mpongwe of the Gaboon River send out their wives  --  with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shame ( Campiegne , 192 ) . In Madagascar Ellis ( 137 ) found sensuality gross and universal , though concealed . Unchastity in either sex was not regarded as a vice , and on the birth of the king 's daughter " the whole capital was given up to promiscuous debauchery . " According to Mrs. French Sheldon ( Anth . Inst . , XXL , 360 ) , all along the east coast of Africa no shame attaches to unchastity before marriage . It is needless to add that in all such cases punishment of a wife can not be prompted by real jealousy for her " chastity . " It is always a question of proprietorship . Cameron relates ( Across Africa , II. , Chap . IV. ) that in Urua the chief boasted that he exercised a right to any woman who might please his fancy , when on his journeys about the country . " Morals are very lax throughout the country , and wives are not thought badly of for being unfaithful ; the worst they may expect being severe chastisement from the injured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of injuring a valuable piece of household furniture . " When Du Chaillu travelled through Ashango Land King Quenqueza rose to receive him . " With the figurative politeness of a negro chief , he assured me that his town , his forests , his slaves , his wives , were mine ( he was quite sincere with regard to the last " ) ( 19 ) . Asia affords many instances of the absence of jealousy . Marco Polo already noted that in Thibet , when travellers arrived at a place , it was customary to distribute them in the houses , making them temporary masters of all they contained , including the women , while their husbands meanwhile lodged elsewhere . In Kamtschatka it was considered a great insult if a guest refused a woman thus offered him . Most astounding of all is what G.E . Robertson relates of the Kaffirs of Hindu-Kush ( 553 ) : " When a woman is discovered in an intrigue , a great outcry is made , and the neighbors rush to the scene with much laughter . A goat is sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gallant and the husband . Of course the neighbors also partake of the feast ; the husband and wife both look very happy , and so does every one else except the lover , who has to pay for the goat , and in addition will have to pay six cows later on . " Here we see a great value attached apparently to conjugal fidelity , but in reality an utter and ludicrous indifference to it . Asia is also the chief home of polyandry , though , as we saw in the preceding chapter , this custom has prevailed on other continents too . The cases there cited to show the absence of monopoly also prove the absence of jealousy . The effect of polyandry is thus referred to by Colonel King ( 23 ) : " A Toda woman often has three or four husbands , who are all brothers , and with each of whom she cohabits a month at a time . What is more singular , such men as , by the paucity of women among the tribe , are prevented from obtaining a share @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the fraternal husbands , to become temporary partners with them . Notwithstanding these singular family arrangements , the greatest harmony appears to prevail among all parties  --  husbands , wives , and lovers . " Whatever may have been the causes leading to the strange custom of marrying one woman to several men  --  poverty , the desire to reduce the population in mountainous regions , scarcity of women due to female infanticide , the need of protection of a woman during the absence of one husband  --  the fact stares us in the face that a race of men who calmly submit to such a disgusting practice can not know jealousy . So , too , in the cases of jus primae noctis ( referred to in the chapter on Indifference to Chastity ) , where the men not only submitted to an outrage so damnable to our sense of honor , affection , and monopoly , but actually coveted it as a privilege or a religious blessing and paid for it accordingly . Note once more how the sentiments associated with women and love change and grow . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , marriages are valid only three or four days , the wives being free the rest of the time to make other alliances . The married men , far from feeling this a grievance , " felt themselves highly flattered by any attentions paid to their better halves during their free-and-easy days . They seem to take such attentions as evidence that their wives are attractive . " A readiness to forgive trespasses for a consideration is widely prevalent . Powers says that with the California Indians " no adultery is so flagrant but the husband can be placated with money , at about the same rate that would be paid for murder . " The Tasmanians illustrate the fact that the same tribes that are the most ferocious in the punishment of secret amours  --  that is , infringements on their property rights  --  are often the most liberal in lending their wives . As Bonwick tells us ( 72 ) , they felt honored if white men paid attention to them . A circumstance which seems to have puzzled some naive writers : that Australians and Africans have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their own countrymen , finds an easy explanation in the greater ability of the white man to pay for the husband 's complaisance . In some cases , in the absence of a fine , the husband takes his revenge in other ways , subjecting the culprit 's wife to the same outrage ( as among natives of Guiana and New Caledonia ) or delivering his own guilty ( or rather disobedient ) wife to young men ( as among the Omahas ) and then abandoning her . The custom of accepting compensation for adultery prevailed also among Dyaks , Mandingoes , Kaffirs , Mongolians , Pahari and other tribes of India , etc . Falkner says ( 126 ) that among the Patagonians in cases of adultery the wife is not blamed , but the gallant is punished " unless he atones for the injury by some valuable present . They have so little decency in this respect , that oftentimes , at the command of the wizards , they superstitiously send their wives to the woods to prostitute themselves to the first person they meet . " PERSIAN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incorrectness of Westermarck 's assertion ( 515 ) that the lack of jealousy is " a rare exception in the human race . " Real jealousy , as a matter of fact , is unknown to the lower races , and even the feeling of revenge that passes by that name is commonly so feeble as to be obliterated by compensations of a more or less trifling kind . When we come to a stage of civilization like that represented by Persians and other Orientals , or by the ancient Greeks , we find that men are indeed no longer willing to lend their wives . They seem to have a regard for chastity and a desire for conjugal monopoly . Other important traits of modern jealousy are , however , still lacking , notably affection . The punishments are hideously cruel ; they are still inflicted " in hate , not in love . " In other words , the jealousy is not yet of the kind which may form an ingredient of love . Its essence is still " bloody thoughts and revenge . " Reich cites ( 256 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wife , from a book by J.J. Strauss , who relates that on June 9 , 1671 , a Persian avenged himself on his wife for a trespass by flaying her alive , and then , as a warning to other women , hanging up her skin in the house . Strauss saw with his own eyes how the flayed body was thrown into the street and dragged out into a field . Drowning in sacks , throwing from towers , and other fiendish modes of vengeance have prevailed in Persia as far back as historic records go ; and the women , when they got a chance , were no better than the men . Herodotus relates how the wife of Xerxes , having found her husband 's cloak in the house of Masista , cut off his wife 's breasts and gave them to the dogs , besides mutilating her otherwise , as well as her daughter . The monogamous Greeks were not often guilty of such atrocities , but their custom ( nearly universal and not confined to Athens , as is often erroneously stated ) of locking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shutting them off from almost everything that makes life interesting , betrays a kind of jealousy hardly less selfish than that of the savages who disposed of their wives as they pleased . It practically made slaves and prisoners of them , quite in the Oriental style . Such a custom indicates an utter lack of sympathy and tenderness , not to speak of the more romantic ingredients of love , such as adoration and gallantry ; and it implies a supreme contempt for and distrust of , character in wives , all the more reprehensible because the Greeks did not value purity per se but only for genealogical reason , as is proved by the honors they paid to the disreputable hetairai . There are surprisingly few references to masculine jealousy in Greek erotic literature . The typical Greek lover seems to have taken rivalry as blandly as the hero of Terence 's play spoken of in the last chapter , who , after various outbursts of sentimentality , is persuaded , in a speech of a dozen lines , to share his mistress with a rich officer . Nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Meleager utters in two of his poems ( Anthology , 88 , 93 ) in which he expresses jealousy of sleep , for its privilege of closing his mistress 's eyes ; and again of the flies which suck her blood and interrupt her slumber . The girl referred to is Zenophila , a common wanton ( see No. 90 ) . This is the sensual side of the Greek jealousy , chastity being out of the question . The purely genealogical side of Greek masculine jealousy is strikingly revealed in the Medea of Euripides . Medea had , after slaying her own brother , left her country to go with Jason to Corinth . Here Jason , though he had two children by her , married the daughter of the King Creon . With brutal frankness , but quite in accordance with the selfish Greek ideas , he tries to explain to Medea the motives for his second marriage : that they might all dwell in comfort instead of suffering want , " and that I might rear my sons as doth befit my house ; further , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thou hast borne , and raise these to the same high rank , uniting the family in one  --  to my lasting bliss . Thou , indeed , hast no need of more children , but me it profits to help my present family by that which is to be . Have I miscarried here ? Not even thou wouldst say so unless a rival 's charms rankled in thy bosom . No , but you women have such strange ideas , that you think all is well so long as your married life runs smooth ; but if some mischance occur to ruffle your love , all that was good and lovely erst you reckon as your foes . Yea , men should have begotten children from some other source , no female race existing ; thus would no evil ever have fallen on mankind . " Jason , Greek-fashion , looked upon a woman 's jealousy as mere unbridled lust , which must not be allowed to stand in the way of the men 's selfish desire to secure filial worship of their precious shades after death . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to wish to keep her husband to herself was a sign that she was at once unreasonable and lascivious . " The women themselves were trained and persuaded to take this view . The chorus of Corinthian women admonishes Medea : " And if thy lord prefers a fresh love , be not angered with him for that ; Zeus will judge ' twixt thee and him herein . " Medea herself says to Jason : " Hadst thou been childless still , I could have pardoned thy desire for this new union . " And again : " Hadst thou not had a villain 's heart , thou shouldst have gained my consent , then made this match , instead of hiding it from those who loved thee "  --  a sentiment which would seem to us astounding and inexplicable had we not became familiar with it in the preceding pages relating to savages and barbarians , by whom what we call infidelity was considered unobjectionable , provided it was not done secretly . By her subsequent actions Medea shows in other ways that her jealousy is entirely of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chorus she asks but one favor : " Silence , if haply I can some way or means devise to avenge me on my husband for this cruel treatment ; " and the chorus agrees : " Thou wilt be taking a just vengeance on thy husband , Medea . " Creon , having heard that she had threatened with mischief not only Jason but his bride and her father , wants her to leave the city . She replies , hypocritically : " Fear me not , Creon , my position scarce is such that I should seek to quarrel with princes . Why should I , for how hast thou injured me ? Thou hast betrothed thy daughter where thy fancy prompted thee . No , ' t is my husband I hate . " But as soon as the king has left her , she sends to the innocent bride a present of a beautifully embroidered robe , poisoned by witchcraft . As soon as the bride has put it on she turns pale , foam issues from her mouth , her eyeballs roll in their sockets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . With an awful shriek she sinks to the earth , past all recognition save to the eye of her father , who folds her in his arms , crying , " Who is robbing me of thee , old as I am and ripe for death ? Oh , my child ! would I could die with thee ! " And his wish is granted , for he " found himself held fast by the fine-spun robe ... and then ensued a fearful struggle . He strove to rise but she still held him back ; and if ever he pulled with all his might , from off his bones his aged flesh he tore . At last he gave it up , and breathed forth his soul in awful suffering ; for he could no longer master the pain . " Not content with this , Medea cruelly slays Jason 's children  --  her own flesh and blood  --  not in a frenzied impulse , for she has meditated that from the beginning , but to further glut her revengeful spirit . " I did it , " she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " And when she hears of the effect of the garment she had sent to his bride , she implores the messenger , " Be not so hasty , friend , but tell the manner of her death , for thou wouldst give me double joy , if so they perished miserably . " PRIMITIVE FEMININE JEALOUSY A passion of which such horrors are a possible outcome may well have led Euripides to write : " Ah me ! ah me ! to mortal man how dread a scourge is love ! " But this passion is not love , or part of love . The horrors of such " jealousy " are often witnessed in modern life , but not where true love  --  affection  --  ever had its abode . It is the jealousy of the savage , which still survives , as other low phases of sexual passion do . The records of missionaries and others who have dwelt among savages contain examples of deeds as foul , as irrational , as vindictive as Medea 's ; deeds in which , as in the play of Euripides , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real culprit escapes with his life and sometimes even derives amusement from the situation . In Oneota ( 187-90 ) , Schoolcraft relates the story of an Indian 's wife who entered the lodge when his new bride was sitting by his side and plunged a dagger in her heart . Among the Fuegians Bove found ( 131 ) that in polygamous households many a young favorite lost her life through the fury of the other wives . More frequently this kind of jealousy vents itself in mutilations . Williams , in his book on the Fijians ( 152 ) , relates that one day a native woman was asked , " How is it that so many of you women are without a nose ? " The answer was : " It grows out of a plurality of wives . Jealousy causes hatred , and then the stronger tries to cut or bite off the nose of the one she hates , " He also relates a case where a wife , jealous of a younger favorite , " pounced on her , and tore her sadly with nails and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it open , " A woman who had for two years been a member of a polygamous family told Williams that contentions among the women were endless , that they knew no comfort , that the bitterest hatred prevailed , while mutual cursings and recriminations were of daily occurrence . When one of the wives is so unfortunate as to fall under the husband 's displeasure too , the others " fall upon her , cuffing , kicking , scratching , and even trampling on the poor creature , so unmercifully as to leave her half dead . " Bourne writes ( 89 ) , that Patagonian women sometimes " fight like tigers . Jealousy is a frequent occasion . If a squaw suspects her liege lord of undue familiarity with a rival , she darts upon the fair enchantress with the fury of a wild beast ; then ensues such a pounding , scratching , hair-pulling , as beggars description . " Meanwhile the gay deceiver stands at a safe distance , chuckling at the fun . The licentiousness of these Indians , he says , is equal to their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a domestic scene common among the Wintun Indians of California . A chief , he says , may have two or more wives , but the attempt to introduce a second frequently leads to a fight . " The two women dispute for the supremacy , often in a desperate pitched battle with sharp stones , seconded by their respective friends . They maul each other 's faces with savage violence , and if one is knocked down her friends assist her to regain her feet , and the brutal combat is renewed until one or the other is driven from the wigwam . The husband stands by and looks placidly on , and when all is over he accepts the situation , retaining in his lodge the woman who has conquered the territory . " ABSENCE OF FEMININE JEALOUSY As a rule , however , there is more bark than bite in the conduct of the wives of a polygamous household , as is proved by the ease with which the husband , if he cares to , can with words or presents overcome the objections of his first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case of such advanced barbarians as the Omaha Indians , who are said to have actually allowed a wife to punish a faithless husband  --  an exception so rare as to be almost incredible . Dorsey says of the Omahas ( 26 ) : " When a man wishes to take a second wife he always consults his first wife , reasoning thus with her : ' I wish you to have less work to do , so I think of taking your sister , your aunt , or your brother 's daughter for my wife . You can then have her to aid you with your work . ' Should the first wife refuse , the man can not marry the other woman . Generally no objection is offered , if the second woman be one of the kindred of the first wife . Sometimes the wife will make the proposition to her husband : ' I wish you to marry my brother 's daughter , as she and I are one flesh . ' " Concerning the inhabitants of the Philippine island of Mindanao , a German writer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) : " The wives are in no way jealous of one another ; on the contrary , they are glad to get a new companion , as that enables them to share their work with another . " Schwaner says of the Borneans that if a man takes a second wife he pays to the first the batu saki , amounting to from sixty to one hundred guilders , and moreover he gives her presents , consisting of clothes , " in order to appease her completely , " In reference to the tribes of Western Washington and Northwestern Oregon , Gibbs says ( 198 ) : " The accession of a new wife in the lodge very naturally produces jealousy and discord , and the first often returns for a time in dudgeon to her friends , to be reclaimed by her husband when he chooses , perhaps after propitiating her by some presents . " Such instances might be multiplied ad libitum . In a still larger number of cases primitive woman 's objection to rivals is easily overcome by the desire for the social position , wealth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cited , in the chapter on Honorable Polygamy , a number of typical incidents showing how vanity , the desire to belong to a man who can afford several wives , or the wish to share the hard domestic or field work with others , often smothers the feeling of jealousy so completely that wives laugh at the idea of having their husbands all to themselves , beg them to choose other companions , or even use their own hard-earned money to buy them for their husbands . As this point is of exceptional importance , as evidencing radical changes in the ideas relating to sexual relations  --  and the resulting feelings themselves  --  further evidence is admissible . Of the Plains Indians in general Colonel Dodge remarks ( 20 ) : " Jealousy would seem to have no place in the composition of an Indian woman , and many prefer to be , even for a time , the favorite of a man who already has a wife or wives , and who is known to be a good husband and provider , rather than tempt the precarious chances of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have known several Indians of middle age , with already numerous wives and children , who were such favorites with the sex that they might have increased their number of wives to an unlimited extent had they been so disposed , and this , too , from among the very nicest girls of the tribe . " E.R. Smith , in his book on the Araucanians ( 213-14 ) tells of a Mapuche wife who , when he saw her , " was frequently accompanied by a younger and handsomer woman than herself , whom she pointed out , with evident satisfaction , as her ' other self '  --  that is , her husband 's wife number two , a recent addition to the family . Far from being dissatisfied , or entertaining any jealousy toward the newcomer , she said that she wished her husband would marry again ; for she considered it a great relief to have someone to assist her in her household duties and in the maintenance of her husband . " McLean , who spent twenty-five years among the Tacullies and other Indians of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ polygamy prevails " the most perfect harmony seems to subsist among them . " Hunter , who knew the Missouri and Arkansas Indians well , says ( 255 ) that " jealousy is a passion but little known , and much less indulged , among the Indians . " In cases of polygamy the wives have their own lodges , separated by a short distance . They " occasionally visit each other , and generally live on the most friendly terms . " But even this separation is not necessary , as we see from Catlin , who relates ( I. , 119 ) that among the Mandans it is common to see six or eight wives of a chief or medicine man " living under one roof , and all apparently quiet and contented . " In an article on the Zulus ( Humanitarian , March , 1897 ) , Miss Colenso refers to the fact that while polygamy is the custom , each wife has her own hut , wherefore " you have none of the petty jealousies and quarrelling which distinguish the harems of the East , among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are most friendly to each other , and the many wives of a great chief will live in a little colony of huts , each mistress in her own house and family , and interchanging friendly visits with the other ladies similarly situated . " But in Africa , too , separation is not essential to secure a peaceful result . Paulitschke ( B.E.A.S. , 30 ) reports that among the Somali polygamy is customary , two wives being frequent , and he adds that " the wives live together in harmony and have their household in common . " Among the Abyssinian Arabs , Sir Samuel Baker found ( 127 ) that " concubinage is not considered a breach of morality ; neither is it regarded by the legitimate wives with jealousy . " Chillie ( Centr . Afr. , 158 ) , says of the Landamas and Nalous : " It is very remarkable that good order and perfect harmony prevail among all these women who are called to share the same conjugal couch . " The same writer says of the polygamous Foulahs ( 224 ) : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no means jealous of each other , except when the husbands make a present to one without giving anything to the rest . " Note the last sentence ; it casts a strong light on our problem . It suggests that even where a semblance of jealousy is manifested by such women it may often be an entirely different thing from the jealousy we associate with love ; envy , greed , or rivalry being more accurate terms for it . Here is another instance in point . Drake , in his work on the Indians of the United States has the following ( I. , 178 ) : " Where there is a plurality of wives , if one gets finer goods than the others , there is sure to be some quarrelling among the women ; and if one or two of them are not driven off , it is because the others have not strength enough to do so . The man sits and looks on , and lets the women fight it out . If the one he loves most is driven off , he will go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shift for themselves awhile , until they can behave better , as he says . " The Rev. Peter Jones gives this description ( 81 ) of a fight he witnessed between the two wives of an Ojibway chief : " The quarrel arose from the unequal distribution of a loaf of bread between the children . The husband being absent , the wife who had brought the bread to the wigwam gave a piece of it to each child , but the best and largest portion to her own . Such partiality immediately led to a quarrel . The woman who brought the bread threw the remainder in anger to the other ; she as quickly cast it back again ; in this foolish way they kept on for some time , till their fury rose to such a height that they at length sprang at one another , catching hold of the hair of the head ; and when each had uprooted a handful their ire seemed satisfied . " To make clear the difference between such ebullitions of temper and the passion properly called jealousy , let us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its first stage it is a mere masculine rage in presence of a rival . An Australian female in such a case calmly goes off with the victor . A savage looks upon his wife , not as a person having rights and feelings of her own , but as a piece of property which he has stolen or bought , and may therefore do with whatever he pleases . In the second stage , accordingly , women are guarded like other movable property , infringement on which is fiercely resented and avenged , though not from any jealous regard for chastity , for the same husband who savagely punishes his wife for secret adultery , willingly lends her to guests as a matter of hospitality , or to others for a compensation . In some cases the husband 's " wounded feelings " may be cured by the payment of a fine , or subjecting the culprit 's wife to indignities . At a higher stage , where some regard is paid to chastity  --  at least in the women reserved for genealogical purposes  --  masculine jealousy is still of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of women in order to enforce a fidelity which in the absence of true love could not be secured otherwise . As for the wives in primitive households , they often indulge in " jealous " squabbles , but their passion , though it may lead to manifestations of rage and to fierce and cruel fights , is after all only skin deep , for it is easily overcome with soft words , presents , or the desire for the social position and comfort which can be secured in the house of a man who is wealthy enough to marry several women  --  especially if the husband is rich and wise enough to keep the women in separate lodges ; though even that is often unnecessary . There is no difficulty in understanding why primitive feminine " jealousy , " despite seeming exceptions , should have been so shallow and transient a feeling . Everything conspired to make it so . From the earliest times the men made systematic efforts to prevent the growth of that passion in women because it interfered with their own selfish desires . Hearne says of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kept so much in awe of their husbands , that the liberty of thinking is the greatest privilege they enjoy " ( 310 ) ; and A.H . Keane ( Journ. of Anthrop . Inst. , 1883 ) remarks that while the Botocudos often indulge in fierce outbreaks of jealousy , " the women have not yet acquired the right to be jealous , a sentiment implying a certain degree of equality between the sexes . " Everywhere the women were taught to subordinate themselves to the men , and among the Hindoos as among the Greeks , by the ancient Hebrews as well as by the mediaeval Arabs freedom from jealousy was inculcated as a supreme virtue . Rachel actually fancied she was doing a noble thing in giving her handmaids to Jacob as concubines . Lane ( 246 ) quotes the Arab historian El-Jabartee , who said of his first wife : " Among her acts of conjugal piety and submission was this that she used to buy for her husband beautiful slave girls , with her own wealth , and deck them with ornaments and apparel , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and recompense which she should receive in Paradise for such conduct . " " In case of failure of an heir , " says Griffis , in his famous work on Japan ( 557 ) , " the husband is fully justified , often strongly advised even by his wife , to take a handmaid to raise up seed to preserve their ancestral line . " A Persian instance is given by Ida Pfeiffer ( 261 ) , who was introduced at Tabreez to the wives of Behmen-Mirza , concerning whom she writes : " They presented to me the latest addition to the harem  --  a plump brown little beauty of sixteen ; and they seemed to treat their new rival with great good nature and told me how much trouble they had been taking to teach her Persian . " JEALOUSY PURGED OF HATE Casting back a glance over the ground traversed , we see that women as well as men  --  primitive , ancient , oriental  --  were either strangers to jealousy of any kind , or else knew it only as a species of anger , hatred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ingredient of love . Australian women , Lumholtz tells us ( 203 ) , " often have bitter quarrels about men whom they love19 and are anxious to marry . If the husband is unfaithful , the wife frequently becomes greatly enraged . " As chastity is not by Australians regarded as a duty or a virtue , such conduct can only be explained by referring to what Roth , for instance , says ( 141 ) in regard to the Kalkadoon . Among these , where a man may have as many as four or five wives , " the discarded ones will often , through jealousy , fight with her whom they consider more favored ; on such occasions they may often resort to stone-throwing , or even use fire-sticks and stone-knives with which to mutilate the genitals . " Similarly , various cruel disfigurements of wives by husbands or other wives , previously referred to as customary among savages , have their motive in the desire to mar the charms of a rival or a disobedient conjugal slave . The Indian chief who bites off an intriguing wife @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cruel delight at sight of the pain he inflicts  --  a delight of which he would be incapable were he capable of love . To such an Indian , Shakspere 's lines But O , what damned minutes tells he o'er Who dotes yet doubts , suspects , yet strongly loves , would be as incomprehensible as a Beethoven symphony . With his usual genius for condensation , Shakspere has in those two lines given the essentials of true jealousy  --  suspicion causing agony rather than anger , and proceeding from love , not from hate . The fear , distress , humiliation , anguish of modern jealousy are in the mind of the injured husband . He suffers torments , but has no wish to torment either of the guilty ones . There are , indeed , even in civilized countries , husbands who slay erring wives ; but they are not civilized husbands : like Othello , they still have the taint of the savage in them . Civilized husbands resort to separation , not to mutilation or murder ; and in dismissing the guilty wife , they punish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her actions that she does not love him and therefore can not feel the deepest pang of the separation . There is no anger , no desire for revenge . How comes this gentle concord in the world , That hatred is so far from jealousy ? It comes in the world through love  --  through the fact that a man  --  or a woman  --  who truly loves , can not tolerate even the thought of punishing one who has held first place in his or her affections . Modern law emphasizes the essential point when it punishes adultery because of " alienation of the affections . " A VIRTUOUS SIN Thus , whereas the " jealousy " of the savage who is transported by his sense of proprietorship to bloody deeds and to revenge is a most ignoble passion , incompatible with love , the jealousy of modern civilization has become a noble passion , justified by moral ideals and affection  --  " a kind of godly jealousy which I beseech you call a virtuous sin . " Where Love reigns , disturbing Jealousy Doth call himself Affection 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself of bloody violence , hatred , and revenge , and becoming the sentinel of affection , jealousy has lost any of its intensity . On the contrary , its depth is quintupled . The bluster and fury of savage violence is only a momentary ebullition of sensual passion , whereas the anguish of jealousy as we feel it is Agony unmix 'd , incessant gall , Corroding every thought , and blasting all Love 's paradise . Anguish of mind is infinitely more intense than mere physical pain , and the more cultivated the mind , the deeper is its capacity for such " agony unmix 'd . " Mental anguish doth , like a poisonous mineral , gnaw the inwards , and create a condition in which " not poppy , nor mandragora , nor all the drowsy syrups of the world shall ever medicine " the victim to that sleep which he enjoyed before . His heart is turned to stone ; he strikes it and it hurts his hand . Trifles light as air are proofs to him that his suspicions are realities , and life is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tranquil mind ! farewell content ! Farewell the plumed troop , and the big wars That make ambition virtue ! ABNORMAL STATES The assertion that modern jealousy is a noble passion is of course to be taken with reservations . Where it leads to murder or revenge it is a reversion to the barbarous type , and apart from that it is , like all affections of the mind , liable to abnormal and morbid states . Harry Campbell writes in the Lancet ( 1898 ) that " the inordinate development of this emotion always betokens a neurotic diathesis , and not infrequently indicates the oncoming of insanity . It is responsible for much useless suffering and not a little actual disease . " Dr. O'Neill gives a curious example of the latter , in the same periodical . He was summoned to a young woman who informed him that she wished to be cured of jealousy : " I am jealous of my husband , and if you do not give me something I shall go out of my mind . " The husband protested his innocence and declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The wife persisted in reiterating them and so the wrangle went on till suddenly she fell from her chair on the floor in a fit , the spasmodic movements of which were so strange and varied that it would be almost impossible to describe them . At one moment the patient was extended at full length with her body arched forward in a state of opisthotonos . The next minute she was in a sitting position with the legs drawn up , making , while her hands clutched her throat , a guttural noise . Then she would throw herself on her back and thrust her arms and legs about to the no small danger of those around her . Then becoming comparatively quiet and supine she would quiver all over while her eyelids trembled with great rapidity . This state perhaps would be followed by general convulsive movements in which she would put herself into the most grotesque postures and make the most unlovely grimaces . At last the fit ended , and exhausted and in tears she was put to bed . The patient was a lithe , muscular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the assistance at hand was a matter of impossibility , so all that could be done was to prevent her injuring herself and to sprinkle her freely with cold water . The after-treatment was more geographical than medical . The husband ceased doing business in a certain town where the object of his wife 's suspicions lived . " I have been told by a perfectly healthy married woman that when jealous of her husband she felt a sensation as of some liquid welling up in her throat and suffocating her . Pride came into play in part ; she did not want others to think that her husband preferred an ignorant girl to her  --  a woman of great physical and mental charm . Such jealousy , if unfounded , may be of the " self-harming " kind of which one of Shakspere 's characters exclaims " Fie ! beat it hence ! " Too often , however , women have cause for jealousy , as modern civilized man has not overcome the polygamous instincts he has inherited from his ancestors since time immemorial . But whereas cause for feminine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a modern acquisition . Moreover , while Apache wives were chaste from fear and Greek women from necessity , modern civilized women are faithful from the sense of honor , duty , affection , and in return for their devotion they expect men to be faithful for the same reasons . Their jealousy has not yet become retrospective , like that of the men ; but they justly demand that after marriage men shall not fall below the standard of purity they have set up for the women , and they insist on a conjugal monopoly of the affections as strenuously as the men do . In due course of time , as Dr. Campbell suggests , " we may expect the monogamous instinct in man to be as powerful as in some of the lower animals ; and feminine jealousy will help to bring about this result ; for if women were indifferent on this point men would never improve . " JEALOUSY IN ROMANTIC LOVE The jealousy of romantic love , preceding marriage , differs from the jealousy of conjugal love in so far as there can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existence of any reciprocated affection still remains in doubt . Before the engagement the uncertain lover in presence of a rival is tortured by doubt , anxiety , fear , despair , and he may violently hate the other man , though ( as I know from personal experience ) not necessarily , feeling that the rival has as much claim to the girl 's attention as he has . Duels between rival lovers are not only silly , but are an insult to the girl , to whom the choice ought to be submitted and the verdict accepted manfully . A man who shoots the girl herself , because she loves another and refuses him , puts himself on a level below the lowest brute , and can not plead either true love or true jealousy as his excuse . After the engagement the sense of monopoly and the consciousness of plighted troth enter into the lover 's feelings , and intruders are properly warded off with indignation . In romantic jealousy the leading role is played by the imagination ; it loves to torture its victim by conjuring visions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his arm , returning his kisses . Everything feeds his suspicions ; he is " dwelling in a continual ' larum of jealousy . " Oft his jealousy " shapes faults that are not " and he taints his heart and brain with needless doubt . " Ten thousand fears invented wild , ten thousand frantic views of horrid rivals , hanging on the charms for which he melts in fondness , eat him up . " Such passion inflames love but corrodes the soul . In perfect love , as I said at the beginning of this chapter , jealousy is potential only , not actual . IV . COYNESS When a man is in love he wears his heart on his sleeve and feels eager to have the beloved see how passionately it throbs for her . When a girl is in love she tries to conceal her heart in the innermost recesses of her bosom , lest the lover discover her feelings prematurely . In other words , coyness is a trait of feminine love  --  the only ingredient of that passion which is not , to some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nymph well knows to feign , ... coy looks and cold disdain , " sang Gay ; and " what value were there in the love of the maiden , were it yielded without coy delay ? " asks Scott . ' T is ours to be forward and pushing ; ' T is yours to affect a disdain , Lady Montagu makes a man say , and Richard Savage sings : You love ; yet from your lover 's wish retire ; Doubt , yet discern ; deny , and yet desire . Such , Polly , are your sex  --  part truth , part fiction , Some thought , much whim , and all a contradiction . " Part truth , part fiction ; " the girl romances regarding her feelings ; her romantic love is tinged with coyness . " She will rather die than give any sign of affection , " says Benedick of Beatrice ; and in that line Shakspere reveals one of the two essential traits of genuine modern coyness  --  dissemblance of feminine affection . Was coyness at all times an attribute of femininity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions and culture ? Is coyness ever manifested apart from love , or does its presence prove the presence of love ? These two important questions are to be answered in the present section . WOMEN WHO WOO The opinion prevails that everywhere and always the first advances were made by the men , the women being passive , and coyly reserved . This opinion  --  like many other notions regarding the relations of the sexes  --  rests on ignorance , pure ignorance . In collecting the scattered facts bearing on this subject I have been more and more surprised at the number of exceptions to the rule , if , indeed , rule it be . Not only are there tribes among whom women must propose  --  as in the Torres Straits Islands , north of Australia , and with the Garos of India , concerning whom interesting details will be given in later chapters ; but among many other savages and barbarians the women , instead of repelling advances , make them . " In all Polynesia , " says Gerland ( VI. , 127 ) , " it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " " A proposal of marriage , " writes Gill ( Savage Life in Polynesia , II. ) , " may emanate with propriety from a woman of rank to an equal or an inferior . " In an article on Fijian poetry ( 731-53 ) , Sir Arthur Gordon cites the following native poem : The girls of Vunivanua all had lovers , But I , poor I , had not even one . Yet I fell desperately in love one day , My eye was filled with the beauty of Vasunilawedua . She ran along the beach , she called the canoe-men . She is conveyed to the town where her beloved dwells . Na Ulumatua sits in his canoe unfastening its gear . He asks her , " Why have you come here , Sovanalasikula ? " " They have been falling in love at Vunivanua , " she answers ; " I , too , have fallen in love . I love your lovely son , Vasunilawedua . " Na Ulumatua rose to his feet . He loosened a tambua whale 's tooth from the canoe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to her , " is my offering to you for your return . My son can not wed you , lady . " Tears stream from her eyes , they stream down on her breast . " Let me only live outside his house , " she says ; " I will sleep upon the wood-pile . If I may only light his seluka cigarrette for him , I shall rejoice . If I may only hear his voice from a distance , it will suffice . Life will be pleasant to me . " Na Ulumatua replied , " Be magnanimous , lady , and return . We have many girls of our own . Return to your own land . Vasunilawedua can not wed a stranger . " Sovanalasikula went away crying . She returned to her own town , forlorn . Her life was sadness . Ia nam bosulu . Tregear ( 102 ) describes the " wooing house " in which New Zealand girls used to stand up in the dark and say : " I love so-and-so , I want him for a husband ; " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yes , or cough to signify his assent . Among the Pueblo Indians " the usual order of courtship is reversed ; when a girl is disposed to marry , she does not wait for a young man to propose to her , but selects one to her own liking and consults her father , who visits the parents of the youth and acquaints them with his daughter 's wishes . It seldom happens that any objections to the match are made " ( Bancroft , I. , 547 ) ; and concerning the Spokane Indians the same writer says ( 276 ) that a girl " may herself propose if she wishes . " Among the Moquis , " instead of the swain asking the hand of the fair one , she selects the young man who is to her fancy , and then her father proposes the match to the sire of the lucky youth " ( Schoolcraft , IV. , 86 ) . Among the Dariens , says Heriot ( 325 ) , " it is considered no mark of forwardness " in a woman " openly to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , women were allowed to propose ( Moore , 261 ) . Indian girls of the Hudson River region " were not debarred signifying their desire to enter matrimonial life . When one of them wished to be married , she covered her face with a veil and sat covered as an indication of her desire . If she attracted a suitor , negotiations were opened with parents or friends , presents given , and the bride taken " ( Ruttenber ) . A comic mode of catching a husband is described in an episode from the tale " Owasso and Wayoond " ( Schoolcraft , A.R. II. , 210-11 ) : " Manjikuawis was forward in her advances toward him . He , however , paid no attention to it , and shunned her . She continued to be very assiduous in attending to his wants , such as cooking and mending his mocassins . She felt hurt and displeased at his indifference , and resolved to play him a trick . Opportunity soon offered . The lodge was spacious , and she dug a hole in the ground , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carefully . When the brothers returned from the chase the young man threw himself down carelessly at the usual place , and fell into the cavity , his head and feet remaining out , so that he was unable to extricate himself . ' Ha ! ha ! ' cried Manjikuawis , as she helped him out , ' you are mine , I have caught you at last , and I did it on purpose . ' A smile came over the young man 's face , and he said , ' So be it , I will be yours ; ' and from that moment they lived happily as man and wife . " It was a common thing among various Indian tribes for the women to court distinguished warriors ; and though they might have no choice in the matter , they could at any rate place themselves temptingly in the way of these braves , who , on their part , had no occasion to be coy , since they could marry all the squaws they pleased . The squaws , too , did not hesitate to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than one lover . Commenting on the Mandans , for instance , Maximilian Prinz zu Wied declares ( II. , 127 ) that " coyness is not a virtue of the Indian women ; they often have two or three lovers at a time . " Among the Pennsylvania Indians it was a common thing for a girl to make suit to a young man . " Though the first address may be by the man , yet the other is the most common . The squaws are generally very immodest in their words and actions , and will often put the young men to the blush . The men commonly appear to be possessed of much more modesty than the women . " ( Bancroft , II. , 140 . ) Even a coating of culture does not seem to curb the young squaw 's propensity to make the first advances . Captain R.H. Pratt ( U.S. Geol. and G.S. , IX. , 260 ) , of the Carlisle School , relates an amusing story of a Kiowa young man who , under a variety of circumstances , " never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ love me , then I began to care for girl . ' " In his First Footsteps ( 85 , 86 ) Burton gives a glimpse of the " coyness " of Bedouin women : " We met a party of Esa girls , who derided my color and doubted the fact of my being a Moslem . The Arabs declared me to be a shaykh of shaykhs , and translated to the prettiest of the party an impromptu proposal of marriage . She showed but little coyness and stated her price to be an Andulli or necklace , a couple of Tobes  --  she asked one too many  --  a few handfuls of beads , and a small present for her papa . She promised , naively enough , to call next day and inspect the goods . The publicity of the town did not deter her , but the shamefacedness of my two companions prevented our meeting again . " In his book on Southern Abyssinia Johnston relates how , while staying at Murroo , he was strongly recommended to follow the example of his companions and take a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ helpmates  --  they offered themselves of their own accord . One of the girls who presented herself as a candidate was stated by her friends to be a very strong woman , who had already had four or five husbands . " I thought this a rather strange recommendation , " he adds , " but it was evidently mentioned that she might find favor in my eyes . " He found that the best way out of such a dilemma was to engage the first old hag that came along and leave it to her to ward off the others . Masculine coyness under such conditions has its risks . Johnston mentions the case of an Arab who , in the region of the Muzeguahs , scorned a girl who wanted to be his temporary wife ; whereupon " the whole tribe asserted he had treated them with contempt by his haughty conduct toward the girl , and demanded to know if she was not good enough for him . " He had to give them some brass wire and blue sood before he could allay the national indignation aroused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights which must be respected , even in Africa ! In Dutch Borneo there is a special kind of " marriage by stratagem " called matep . If a girl desires a particular man he is inveigled into her house , the door is shut , the walls are hung with cloth of different colors and other ornaments , dinner is served up and he is informed of the girl 's wish to marry him . If he declines , he is obliged to pay the value of the hangings and the ornaments . ( Roth , II. , CLXXXI . ) " Uncertain , coy , and hard to please " obviously can not be sung of such women . In one of the few native Australian stories on record the two wives of a man are represented as going to his brother 's hut when he was asleep , and imitating the voice of an emu . The noise woke him , and he took his spear to kill them ; but as soon as he ran out the two women spoke and requested him to be their husband @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The fact that Australian women have absolutely no choice in the assignment of husbands , must make them inclined to offer themselves to men they like , just as Indian girls offer themselves to noted warriors in the hope of thus calling attention to their personal attractions . As we shall see later , one of the ways in which an Australian wins a wife is by means of magic . In this game , as Spencer and Gillen tell us ( 556 ) , the women sometimes take the initiative , thus inducing a man to elope with them . WERE HEBREW AND GREEK WOMEN COY ? The English language is a queer instrument of thought . While coyness has the various meanings of shyness , modest reserve , bashfulness , shrinking from advances or familiarity , disdainfulness , the verb " to coy " may mean the exact opposite  --  to coax , allure , entice , woo , decoy . It is in this sense that " coyness " is obviously a trait of primitive maidens . What is more surprising is to find in brushing aside prejudice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is in this second sense rather than in the first that women are " coy . " The Hebrew records begin with the story of Adam and Eve , in which Eve is stigmatized as the temptress . Rebekah had never seen the man chosen for her by her male relatives , yet when she was asked if she would go with his servant , she answered , promptly , " I will go . " Rachel at the well suffers her cousin to kiss her at first sight . Ruth does all the courting which ends in making her the wife of Boaz . There is no shrinking from advances , real or feigned , in any of these cases ; no suggestion of disguised feminine affection ; and in two of them the women make the advances . Potiphar 's wife is another biblical case . The word coy does not occur once in the Bible . The idea that women are the aggressors , particularly in criminal amours , is curiously ingrained in the literature of ancient Greece . In the Odyssey we read about the fair-haired goddess @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voice , giving them drugs and potions , making them the victims of swinish indulgence of their appetites . When Odysseus comes to their rescue she tries to allure him too , saying , " Nay , then , pat up your blade within its sheath , and let us now approach our bed that there we too may join in love and learn to trust each other . " Later on Odysseus has his adventure with the Sirens , who are always " casting a spell of penetrating song , sitting within a meadow , " in order to decoy passing sailors . Charybdis is another divine Homeric female who lures men to ruin . The island nymph Calypso rescues Odysseus and keeps him a prisoner to her charms , until after seven years he begins to shed tears and long for home " because the nymph pleased him no more . " Nor does the human Nausicaea manifest the least coyness when she meets Odysseus at the river . Though he has been cast on the shore naked , she remains , after her maids have run away alarmed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , after seeing him bathed this be called my husband , having his home here and content to stay ; " while to him later on she gives this broad hint : " Stranger , farewell ! when you are once again in your own land , remember me , and how before all others it is to me you owe the saving of your life . " Nausicaea is , however , a prude compared with the enamoured woman as the Greek poets habitually paint her . Pausanias ( II. , Chap . 31 ) , speaking of a temple of Peeping Venus says : " From this very spot the enamoured Phaedra used to watch Hippolytus at his manly exercises . Here still grows the myrtle with pierced leaves , as I am told . For being at her wit 's ends and finding no ease from the pangs of love , she used to wreak her fury on the leaves of this myrtle . " Professor Rohde , the most erudite authority on Greek erotic literature , writes ( 34 ) : " It is characteristic of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be called his tragedies of adultery , that they always make the woman the vehicle of the pernicious passion ; it seems as if Greek feeling could not conceive of a man being seized by an unmanly soft desire and urged on by it to passionate disregard of all human conventions and laws . " MASCULINE COYNESS Greek poets from Stesichorus to the Alexandrians are fond of representing coy men . The story told by Athenaeus ( XIV. , ch. 11 ) of Harpalyke , who committed suicide because the youth Iphiclus coyly spurned her , is typical of a large class . No less significant is the circumstance that when the coy backwardness happens to be on the side of a female , she is usually a woman of masculine habits , devoted to Diana and the chase . Several centuries after Christ we still find in the romances an echo of this thoroughly Greek sentiment in the coy attitude , at the beginning , of their youthful heroes. 20 The well-known legend of Sappho  --  who flourished about a thousand years before the romances just referred to were written @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus related by Strabo : " There is a white rock which stretches out from Leucas to the sea and toward Cephalonia , that takes its name from its whiteness . The rock of Leucas has upon it a temple of Apollo , and the leap from it was supposed to stop love . From this it is said that Sappho first , as Menander says somewhere , in pursuit of the haughty Phaon , urged on by maddening desire , threw herself from its far-seen rocks , imploring thee Apollo , lord and king . " Four centuries after Sappho we find Theocritus harping on the same theme . His Enchantress is a monologue in which a woman relates how she made advances to a youth and won him . She saw him walking along the road and was so smitten that she was prostrated and confined to her bed for ten days . Then she sent her slave to waylay the youth , with these instructions : " If you see him alone , say to him : ' Simaitha desires you , ' and bring him here . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the least ; but the sequel of the story is too bucolic to be told here . SHY BUT NOT COY It is well-known that the respectable women of Greece , especially the virgins , were practically kept under lock and key in the part of the house known as the gynaikonitis . This resulted in making them shy and bashful  --  but not coy , if we may judge from the mirror of life known as literature . Ramdohr observes , pertinently ( III. , 270 ) : " Remarkable is the easy triumph of lovers over the innocence of free-born girls , daughters of citizens , examples of which may be found in the Eunuchus and Adelphi of Terence . They call attention to the low opinion the ancients had of a woman 's power to guard her sensual impulses , and of her own accord resist attacks on her honor . " The Abbe Dubois says the same thing about Hindoo girls , and the reason why they are so carefully guarded . It is hardly necessary to add that since no one would be so foolish as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because he has no opportunity , it is equally absurd to call a woman honest or coy who refrains from vice only because she is locked up all the time . The fact ( which seems to give Westermarck ( 64-65 ) much satisfaction ) , that some Australians , American Indian and other tribes watch young girls so carefully , does not argue the prevalence of chaste coyness , but the contrary . If the girls had an instinctive inclination to repel improper advances it would not be necessary to cage and watch them . This inclination is not inborn , does not characterize primitive women , but is a result of education and culture . MILITARISM AND MEDIAEVAL WOMEN Greatly as Greeks and Indians differ in some respects , they have two things in common  --  a warlike spirit and contempt for women . " When Greek meets Greek then comes a tug of war , " and the Indian 's chief delight is scalp hunting . The Greeks , as Rohde notes ( 42 ) , " depict their greatest heroes as incited to great deeds only by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of women barely engages their attention transiently in hours of idleness . " Militarism is ever hostile to love except in its grossest forms . It brutalizes the men and prevents the growth of feminine qualities , coyness among others . Hence , wherever militarism prevails , we seek in vain for feminine reserve . An interesting illustration of this may be found in a brochure by Theodor Krabbes , Die Frau im Altfranzoesischen Karls-Epos ( 9-38 ) . The author , basing his inferences on an exhaustive study and comparison of the Chansons de Geste of the eleventh and twelfth centuries , draws the following general conclusions : " Girlish shyness is not a trait of the daughters , least of all those of heathen origin . Masculine tendencies characterize them from childhood . Fighting pleases them and they like to look on when there is a battle .... Love plays an important role in nearly all the Chansons de Geste .... The woman wooes , the man grants : nearly always in these epics we read of a woman who loves , rarely of one who is loved .... @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is apt to yield herself entirely to the chosen knight , and she persists in her passion for him even if she is entirely repulsed . There is no more rest for her . Either she wooes him in person , or chooses a messenger who invites the coveted man to a rendezvous . The heathen woman who has to guard captured Franks and who has given her heart to one of them , hies herself to the dungeon and offers him her love . She begs for his love in return and seeks in every way to win it . If he resists , she curses him , makes his lot less endurable , withholds his food or threatens him with death until he is willing to accede to her wishes . If this has come to pass she overwhelms him with caresses at the first meeting . She is eager to have them reciprocated ; often the lover is not tender enough to please her , then she repeatedly begs for kisses . She embraces him delightedly even though he be in full armor and in presence of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign to her nature .... She never has any moral scruples .... If he is unwilling to give up his campaign , she is satisfied to let him go the next morning if he will only marry her . " The man is generally described as cold in love . References to a knight 's desire for a woman 's love are very scant , and only once do we come across a hero who is quite in love . The young knight prefers more serious matters ; his first desire is to win fame in battle , make rich booty. 21 He looks on love as superfluous , indeed he is convinced that it incapacitates him from what he regards as his proper life-task . He also fears the woman 's infidelity . If he allows her to persuade him to love , he seeks material gain from it ; delivery from captivity , property , vassals .... The lover is often tardy , careless , too deficient in tenderness , so that the woman has to chide him and invite his caresses . A rendezvous is always brought about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it is disturbed too soon . Even when the man desires a woman , he hardly appears as a wooer . He knows he is sure of the women 's favor ; they make it easy for him ; he can have any number of them if he belongs to a noble family .... Even when the knight is in love  --  which is very rare  --  the first advances are nearly always made by the woman ; it is she who proposes marriage . " Marriage as treated in the epics is seldom based on love . The woman desires wedlock , because she hopes thereby to secure her rights and better her chances of protection . It is for this reason that we see her so often eagerly endeavoring to secure a promise of marriage . " WHAT MADE WOMEN COY ? Sufficient evidence has now been adduced to make it clear that the first of the two questions posed at the outset of this chapter must be answered in the negative . Coyness is not an innate or universal trait of femininity , but is often absent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's need of protection prevent its growth and induce the females to do the courting . This being the case and war being the normal state of the lower races , our next task is to ascertain what were the influences that induced woman to adopt the habit of repelling advances instead of making them . It is one of the most interesting questions in sexual psychology , which has never been answered satisfactorily ; it and gains additional interest from the fact that we find among the most ancient and primitive races phenomena which resemble coyness and have been habitually designated as such . As we shall see in a moment , this is an abuse of language , confounding genuine resistance or aversion with coyness . Chinese maidens often feel so great an aversion to marriage as practised in their country that they prefer suicide to it . Douglas says ( 196 ) that Chinese women often ask English ladies , " Does your husband beat you ? " and are surprised if answered " No . " The gallant Chinaman calls his wife his " dull thorn , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teachings why " for some days before the date fixed , the bride assumes all the panoply of woe , and weeps and wails without ceasing . " She is about to face the terrible ordeal of being confronted for the first time with the man who has been chosen for her , and who may be the ugliest , vilest wretch in the world  --  possibly even a leper , such cases being on record . Douglas ( 124 ) reports the case of six girls who committed suicide together to avoid marriage . There exist in China anti-matrimonial societies of girls and young widows , the latter doubtless , supplying the experience that serves as the motive for establishing such associations . Descending to the lowest stratum of human life as witnessed in Australia , we find that , as Meyer asserts ( 11 ) , the bride appears " generally to go very unwillingly " to the man she has been assigned to . Lumholtz relates that the man seizes the woman by the wrists and carries her off " despite her screams , which can be heard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women , " he says , " always make resistance ; for they do not like to leave their tribe , and in many instances they have the best of reasons for kicking their lovers . " What are these reasons ? As all observers testify , they are not allowed any voice in the choice of their husbands . They are usually bartered by their father or brothers for other women , and in many if not most cases the husbands assigned to them are several times their age . Before they are assigned to a particular man the girls indulge in promiscuous intercourse , whereas after marriage they are fiercely guarded . They may indeed attempt to elope with another man more suited to their age , but they do so at the risk of cruel injury and probable death . The wives have to do all the drudgery ; they get only such food as the husbands do not want , and on the slightest suspicion of intrigue they are maltreated horribly . Causes enough surely for their resistance to obligatory marriage . This resistance is a frank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing in common with real coyness , which signifies the mere semblance of unwillingness on the part of a woman who is at least half-willing . Such expressions as Goldsmith 's " the coy maid , half willing to be pressed , " and Dryden 's When the kind nymph would coyness feign , And hides but to be found again , indicate the nature of true coyness better than any definitions . There are no " coy looks , " no " feigning " in the actions of an Australian girl about to be married to a man who is old enough to be her grandfather . The " cold disdain " is real , not assumed , and there is no " dissemblance of feminine affection . " CAPTURING WOMEN The same reasoning applies to the customs attending wife-capturing in general , which has prevailed in all parts of the world and still prevails in some regions . To take one or two instances of a hundred that might be cited from books of travel in all parts of the world : Columbus relates that the Caribs made the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The California Indians worked up their warlike spirit by chanting a song the substance of which was , " let us go and carry off girls " ( Waitz , IV. , 242 ) . Savages everywhere have looked upon women as legitimate spoils of war , desirable as concubines and drudges . Now even primitive women are attached to their homes and relatives , and it is needless to say their resistance to the enemy who has just slain their father and brothers and is about to carry them off to slavery , is genuine , and has no more trace of coyness in it than the actions of an American girl who resists the efforts of unknown kidnappers to drag her from her home . But besides real capture of women there has existed , and still exists in many countries , what is known as sham-capture  --  a custom which has puzzled anthropologists sorely . Herbert Spencer illustrates it ( P.S. , I. , Sec. 288 ) by citing Crantz , who says , concerning the Eskimos , that when a damsel is asked in marriage , she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ runs out of doors tearing her hair ; for single women always affect the utmost bashfulness and aversion to any proposal of marriage , lest they should lose their reputation for modesty . " Spencer also quotes Burckhardt , who describes how the bride among Sinai Arabs defends herself with stones , even though she does not dislike the lover ; " for according to custom , the more she struggles , bites , kicks , cries , and strikes , the more she is applauded ever after by her own companions . " During the procession to the husband 's camp " decency obliges her to cry and sob most bitterly . " Among the Araucanians of Chili , according to Smith ( 215 ) " it is a point of honor with the bride to resist and struggle , however willing she may be . " While conceding that " the manners of the inferior races do not imply much coyness , " Spencer , nevertheless , thinks " we can not suppose coyness to be wholly absent . " He holds that in the cases just cited coyness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he goes so far as to make this coyness " an important factor , " in accounting for the custom of marriage by capture which has prevailed among so many peoples in all parts of the world . Westermarck declares ( 388 ) that this suggestion can scarcely be disproved , and Grosse ( 105 ) echoes his judgment . To me , on the contrary , it seems that these distinguished sociologists are putting the cart before the horse . They make the capture a sequence of " coyness , " whereas in truth the coyness ( if it may be so called ) is a result of capture . The custom of wife capture can be easily explained without calling in the aid of what we have seen to be so questionable a thing as primitive female coyness . Savages capture wives as the most coveted spoils of war . They capture them , in other instances , because polygamy and female infanticide have disturbed the equilibrium of the sexes , thus compelling the young men to seek wives elsewhere than in their own tribes ; and the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , by the old men 's habit of appropriating all the young women by a system of exchange , leaving none for the young men , who , therefore , either have to persuade the married women to elope  --  at the risk of their lives  --  or else are compelled to steal wives elsewhere . In another very large number of cases the men stole brides  --  willing or unwilling  --  to avoid paying their parents for them . THE COMEDY OF MOCK CAPTURE Thus the custom of real capture is easily accounted for . What calls for an explanation is the sham capture and resistance in cases where both the parents and the bride are perfectly willing . Why should primitive maidens who , as we have seen , are rather apt than not to make amorous advances , repel their suitors so violently in these instances of mock capture ? Are they , after all , coy  --  more coy than civilized maidens ? To answer this question let us look at one of Spencer 's witnesses more carefully . The reason Crantz gives for the Eskimo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do it , " lest they lose their reputation for modesty . " Now modesty of any kind is a quality unknown to Eskimos . Nansen , Kane , Hayes , and other explorers have testified that the Eskimos of both sexes take off all their clothes in their warm subterranean homes . Captain Beechey has described their obscene dances , and it is well-known that they consider it a duty to lend their wives and daughters to guests . Some of the native tales collected by Rink ( 236-37 ; 405 ) indicate most unceremonious modes of courtship and nocturnal frolics , which do not stop even at incest . To suppose that women so utterly devoid of moral sensibility could , of their own accord and actuated by modesty and bashfulness manifest such a coy aversion to marriage that force has to be resorted to , is manifestly absurd . In attributing their antics to modesty , Crantz made an error into which so many explorers have fallen  --  that of interpreting the actions of savages from the point of view of civilization  --  an error more pardonable in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modern sociologist . If we must therefore reject Herbert Spencer 's inference as to the existence of primitive coyness and its consequences , how are we to account for the comedy of mock capture ? Several writers have tried to crack the nut . Sutherland ( I. , 200 ) holds that sham capture is not a survival of real capture , but " the festive symbolism of the contrast in the character of the sexes  --  courage in the man and shyness in the woman "  --  a fantastic suggestion which does not call for discussion , since , as we know , the normal primitive woman is anything but shy . Abercromby ( I. , 454 ) is another writer who believes that sham capture is not a survival of real capture , but merely a result of the innate general desire on the part of the men to display courage  --  a view which dodges the one thing that calls for an explanation  --  the resistance of the women . Grosse indulges in some curious antics ( 105-108 ) . First he asks : " Since real capture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , why should the semblance of capture have ever become a general and approved custom ? " Then he asks , with a sneer , why sociology should be called upon to answer such questions anyhow ; and a moment later he , nevertheless , attempts an answer , on Spencerian lines . Among inferior races , he remarks , women are usually coveted as spoils of war . The captured women become the wives or concubines of the warriors and thus represent , as it were , trophies of their valor . Is it not , therefore , inevitable that the acquisition of a wife by force should be looked on , among warlike races , as the most honorable way of getting her , nay , in course of time , as the only one worthy of a warrior ? But since , he continues , not all the men can get wives in that way , even among the rudest tribes , these other men consoled themselves with investing the peaceful home-taking of a bride also with the show of an honorable capture . In other words , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ derive approved sham capture from real capture because real capture is everywhere exceptional only and is always considered punishable ; yet two pages later he argues that sham capture is derived from real capture because the latter is so honorable ! As a matter of fact , among the lowest races known , wife-stealing is not considered honorable . Regarding the Australians , Curr states distinctly ( I. , 108 ) that it was not encouraged because it was apt to involve a whole tribe in war for one man 's sake . Among the North American Indians , on the other hand , where , as we saw in the chapter on Honorable Polygamy , a wife-stealer is admired by both men and women , sham capture does not prevail . Grosse 's argument , therefore , falls to the ground . WHY THE WOMEN RESIST Prior to all these writers Sir John Lubbock advanced ( 98 ) still another theory of capture , real and sham . Believing that men once had all their wives in common , he declares that " capture , and capture alone , could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the exclusion of his fellow-clansmen ; and that hence , even after all necessity for actual capture had long ceased , the symbol remained ; capture having , by long habit , come to be received as a necessary preliminary to marriage . " This theory has the same shortcoming as the others . While accounting for the capture , it does not explain the resistance of the women . In real capture they had real reasons for kicking , biting , and howling , but why should they continue these antics in cases of sham capture ? Obviously another factor came into play here , which has been strangely overlooked  --  parental persuasion or command . Among savages a father owns his daughter as absolutely as his dog ; he can sell or exchange her at pleasure ; in Australia , " swapping " daughters or sisters is the commonest mode of marriage . Now , stealing brides , or eloping to avoid having to pay for them , is of frequent occurrence everywhere among uncivilized races . To protect themselves against such loss of personal property it must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be wise to teach their daughters to resist all suitors until it has become certain that their intentions are honorable  --  that is , that they intend to pay . In course of time such teaching ( strengthened by the girls ' pride at being purchased for a large sum ) would assume the form of an inviolable command , having the force of a taboo and , with the stubbornness peculiar to many social customs , persisting long after the original reasons have ceased to exist . In other words , I believe that the peculiar antics of the brides in cases of sham capture are neither due to innate feminine coyness nor are they a direct survival of the genuine resistance made in real capture ; but that they are simply a result of parental dictation which assigns to the bride the role she must play in the comedy of " courtship . " I find numerous facts supporting this view , especially in Reinsberg-Dueringsfeld 's Hochzeitsbuch and Schroeder 's Hochzeitsgebraeuche der Esten . Describing the marriage customs of the Mordvins , Mainow says that the bridegroom sneaks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and carries her off to where his companions are waiting with their wagons . " Etiquette , " he adds , " demands she should resist violently and cry loudly , even if she is entirely in favor of the elopement . " Among the Votyaks girl-stealing ( kukem ) occurs to this day . If the father is unwilling or asks too much , while the young folks are willing , the girl goes to work in the field and the lover carries her off . On the way to his house she is cheerful , but when they reach the lover 's house she begins to cry and wail , whereupon she is locked up in a cabin that has no window . The father , having found out where she is , comes and demands payment . If the lover offers too little , the parent plies his whip on him . Among the Ostyaks such elopements , to avoid payment , are frequent . Regarding the Esthonians , Schroeder says ( 40 ) : " When the intermediary comes , the girl must conceal herself in some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's consent , or appears of her own accord . " In the old epic " Kalewipoeg , " Salme hides in the garret and Linda in the bath-room , and refuse to come out till after much coaxing and urging . QUAINT CUSTOMS The words I have italicized indicate the passive role played by the girls , who simply carry out the instructions given to them . The parents are the stage-managers , and they know very well what they want  --  money or brandy . Among the Mordvins , as soon as the suitor and his friends are seen approaching the bride 's house , it is barricaded , and the defenders ask , " Who are you ? " The answer is , " Merchants . " " What do you wish ? " " Living goods . " " We do not trade ! " " We shall take her by force . " A show of force is made , but finally the suitors are admitted , after paying twenty kopeks . In Little Russia it is customary to barricade the door of the bride 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of brandy as a " pass " the suitor 's party is allowed to enter . Among the Esthonians custom demands ( Schroeder , 36 ) , that a comedy like the following be enacted . The intermediary comes to the bride 's house and pretends that he has lost a cow or a lamb , and asks permission to hunt for it . The girl 's relatives at first stubbornly deny having any knowledge of its whereabouts , but finally they allow the suitors to search , and the bride is usually found without much delay . In Western Prussia ( Berent district ) , after the bridegroom has made his terms with the bride and her parents , he comes to their house and says : " We were out hunting and saw a wounded deer run into this house . May we follow its tracks ? " Permission is granted , whereupon the men start in pursuit of the bride , who has hidden away with the other village maidens . At last the " hound "  --  one of the bridegroom 's companions  --  finds her and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in parts of Russia , Roumania , Servia , Sardinia , Hungary , and elsewhere . In Old Finland the comedy continues even after the nuptial knot has been tied . The bridal couple return each to their home . Soon the groom appears at the bride 's house and demands to be admitted . Her father refuses to let him in . A " pass " is thereupon produced and read , and this , combined with a few presents , finally secures admission . In some districts the bride remains invisible even during the wedding-dinner , and it is " good form " for her to let the guests wait as long as possible , and not to appear until after considerable coaxing by her mother . When a Votyak bridegroom comes after the bride on the wedding-day she is denied to him three times . After that she is searched for , dragged from her hiding-place , and her face covered with a cloth , while she screams and struggles . Then she is carried to the yard , placed on a blanket with her face down , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pillow which has been tied on her back . After that she becomes obedient and amiable . A Mordvin bride must try to escape from the wagon on the way to the church . In Old Finland the bride was barricaded in her house even after the wedding , and the Island Swedes have the same custom . This burlesque of bridal resistance after marriage occurs also among the wild tribes of India . " After remaining with her husband for ten days only , " writes Dalton ( 192 ) , " it is the correct thing for the wife to run away from him , and tell all her friends that she loves him not and will see him no more . " The husband 's duty is to seek her eagerly . " I have seen a young wife thus found and claimed , and borne away , screeching and struggling in the arms of her husband , from the midst of a crowded bazaar . No one interferes on these occasions . " More than enough has now been said to prove that in cases of sham @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Left to themselves they might act very differently , but as it is , all the girls in each district must do the same thing , however silly . About the real feelings of the girls these comedies tell us nothing whatever . With coyness  --  that is , a woman 's concealment of her feelings toward a man she likes  --  these actions have no more to do than the man in the moon has with anthropology . Least of all do they tell us anything about love , for the girls must all act alike , whether they favor a man or not . Regarding the absence of love we have , moreover , the direct testimony of Dr. F. Kreutzwald ( Schroeder , 233 ) . That marriages are made in heaven is , he declares , true in a certain sense , so far as the Esthonians are concerned ; for " the parties concerned usually play a passive role .... Love is not one of the requisites , it is an unknown phenomenon . " Utilitarianism , he adds , is the basis of their marriages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wants is a good worker ; to find this out he may even watch her secretly while she is spinning , thrashing , or combing flax . " Most of the men proceed at random , and it is not unusual for a suitor who has been refused in one place and another to proceed at once to a third or fourth .... Many a bridegroom sees his bride for the first time at the ceremony of the priestly betrothal , and he can not therefore be blamed for asking : ' Which of these girls is my bride ? ' " GREEK AND ROMAN MERCENARY COYNESS So far our search for that coyness which is an ingredient of modern love has been in vain . At the same time it is obvious that since coyness is widely prevalent at the present day it must have been in the past of use to women , else it would not have survived and increased . The question is : how far down in the scale of civilization do we find traces of it ? The literature of the ancient Greeks indicates that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was known to them . True , the respectable women , being always locked up and having no choice in the selecting of their partners , had no occasion for the exercise of any sort of coyness . But the hetairai appear to have understood the advantages of assumed disdain or indifference in making a coveted man more eager in his wooing . In the fifteenth of Lucian 's Greek : Etairikoi dialogoi we read about a wanton who locked her door to her lover because he had refused to pay her two talents for the privilege of exclusive possession . In other cases , the poets still feel called upon to teach these women how to make men submissive by withholding caresses from them . Thus in Lucian , Pythias exclaims : " To tell the truth , dear Joessa , you yourself spoiled him with your excessive love , which you even allowed him to notice . You should not have made so much of him : men , when they discover that , easily become overweening . Do not weep , poor girl ! Follow my advice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tries to see you again . You will find that that will make him flame up again and become frantic with love and jealousy . " In the third book of his treatise on the Art of Love , Ovid advises women ( of the same class ) how to win men . He says , in substance : " Do not answer his letters too soon ; all delay inflames the lover , provided it does not last too long .... What is too readily granted does not long retain love . Mix with the pleasure you give mortifying refusals , make him wait in your doorway ; let him bewail the ' cruel door ; ' let him beg humbly , or else get angry and threaten . Sweet things cloy , tonics are bitter . " MODESTY AND COYNESS Feigned unwillingness or indifference in obedience to such advice may perhaps be called coyness , but it is only a coarse primitive phase of that attitude , based on sordid , mercenary motives , whereas true modern coyness consists in an impulse , grounded in modesty , to conceal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lucre may be found as low down as among the Papuan women who , as Bastian notes ( Ploss , I. , 460 ) exact payment in shell-money for their caresses . Of the Tongans , highest of all Polynesians , Mariner says ( Martin , II. , 174 ) : " It must not be supposed that these women are always easily won ; the greatest attentions and fervent solicitations are sometimes requisite , even though there be no other lover in the way . This happens sometimes from a spirit of coquetry , at other times from a dislike to the party , etc . " Now coquetry is a cousin of coyness , but in whatever way this Tongan coquetry may manifest itself ( no details are given ) it certainly lacks the regard for modesty and chastity which is essential to modern coyness ; for , as the writer just referred to attests , Tongan girls are permitted to indulge in free intercourse before marriage , the only thing liable to censure being a too frequent change of lovers . That the anxious regard for chastity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the coquetry of these Tongan women , is one of the essential ingredients of modern coyness has long been felt by the poets . After Juliet has made her confession of love which Romeo overhears in the dark , she apologizes to him because she fears that he might attribute her easy yielding to light love . Lest he think her too quickly won she " would have frowned and been perverse , and said him nay . " Then she begs him trust she 'll " prove more true than those that have more cunning to be strange . " Wither 's " That coy one in the winning , proves a true one being won , " expresses the same sentiment . UTILITY OF COYNESS Man 's esteem for virtues which he does not always practise himself , is thus responsible , in part at least , for the existence of modern coyness . Other factors , however , aided its growth , among them man 's fickleness . If a girl did not say nay ( when she would rather say yes ) , and hold back , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases suck the honey from her lips and flit away to another flower . Cumulative experience of man 's sensual selfishness has taught her to be slow in yielding to his advances . Experience has also taught women that men are apt to value favors in proportion to the difficulty of winning them , and the wisest of them have profited by the lesson . Callimachus wrote , two hundred and fifty years before Christ , that his love was " versed in pursuing what flies ( from it ) , but flits past what lies in its mid path "  --  a conceit which the poets have since echoed a thousand times . Another very important thing that experience taught women was that by deferring or withholding their caresses and smiles they could make the tyrant man humble , generous , and gallant . Girls who do not throw themselves away on the first man who happens along , also have an advantage over others who are less fastidious and coy , and by transmitting their disposition to their daughters they give it greater vogue . Female coyness prevents too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ live to repent their shortcomings at leisure . Coyness prolongs the period of courtship and , by keeping the suitor in suspense and doubt , it develops the imaginative , sentimental side of love . HOW WOMEN PROPOSE Sufficient reasons , these , why coyness should have gradually become a general attribute of femininity . Nevertheless , it is an artificial product of imperfect social conditions , and in an ideal world women would not be called upon to romance about their feelings . As a mark of modesty , coyness will always have a charm for men , and a woman devoid of it will never inspire genuine love . But what I have elsewhere called " spring-chicken coyness "  --  the disposition of European girls to hide shyly behind their mammas  --  as chickens do under a hen at the sight of a hawk  --  is losing its charm in face of the frank confidingness of American girls in the presence of gentlemen ; and as for that phase of coyness which consists in concealing affection for a man , girls usually manage to circumvent it in a more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or have little control of their feelings , propose bluntly to the men they want . I myself have known several such cases , but the man always refused . Others have a thousand subtle ways of betraying themselves without actually " giving themselves away . " A very amusing story of how an ingenious maiden tries to bring a young man to bay has been told by Anthony Hope . Dowden calls attention to the fact that it is Juliet " who proposes and urges on the sudden marriage . " Romeo has only spoken of love ; it is she who asks him , if his purpose be marriage , to send her word next day . In Troilus and Cressida ( III. , 2 ) , the heroine exclaims : But , though I loved you well , I woo 'd you not ; And yet , good faith , I wished myself a man , Or that we women had men 's privilege Of speaking first . In his Old Virginia ( II. , 127 ) John Fiske tells a funny story of how Parson Camm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been courting Miss Betsy Hansford of his parish , asked him to assist him with his eloquence . The parson did so by citing to the girl texts from the Bible enjoining matrimony as a duty . But she beat him at his own game , telling him to take his Bible when he got home and look at 2 Sam . xii . 7 , which would explain her obduracy . He did so , and found this : " And Nathan said to David , thou art the man . " The parson took the hint  --  and the girl . V. HOPE AND DESPAIR  --  MIXED MOODS She never told her love ; But let concealment , like a worm i ' the bud , Feed on her damask cheek : she pined in thought ; And , with a green and yellow melancholy , She sat , like Patience on a monument , Smiling at grief . Was not this love indeed ? asks Viola in As You Like It . It was love indeed ; but only two phases of it are indicated in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ love " ) and the mixture of emotions ( " smiling at grief " ) , which is another characteristic of love . Romantic love is a pendulum swinging perpetually between hope and despair . A single unkind word or sign of indifference may make a lover feel the agony of death , while a smile may raise him from the abyss of despair to heavenly heights of bliss . As Goethe puts it : Himmelhoch jauchzend Zum Tode betruebt , Gluecklich allein Ist die Seele die liebt . AMOROUS ANTITHESES When a Marguerite plucks the petals of a marguerite , muttering " he loves me  --  he loves me not , " her heart flutters in momentary anguish with every " not , " till the next petal soothes it again . I can not bound a pitch above dull woe ; Under love 's heavy burden do I sink , wails Romeo ; and again : Why then , O brawling love ! O loving hate ! O anything , of nothing first create ! O heavy lightness ! serious vanity ! Misshapen chaos of well-seeming forms ! Feather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ health ! * * * * * Love is a smoke raised with the fume of sighs ; Being purged , a fire sparkling in lovers ' eyes ; Being vex 'd , a sea nourish 'd with lovers ' tears ; What is it else ? a madness most discreet , A choking gall and a preserving sweet . In commenting on Romeo , who in his love for Rosaline indulges in emotion for emotion 's sake , and " stimulates his fancy with the sought-out phrases , the curious antitheses of the amorous dialect of the period , " Dowden writes : " Mrs. Jameson has noticed that in All 's Well that Ends Well ( I. , 180-89 ) , Helena mockingly reproduces this style of amorous antithesis . Helena , who lives so effectively in the world of fact , is contemptuous toward all unreality and affectation . " Now , it is quite true that expressions like " cold fire " and " sick health " sound unreal and affected to sober minds , and it is also true that many poets have exercised their emulous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the thing and because it has been the fashion to do so . Nevertheless , with all their artificiality , they were hinting at an emotional phenomenon which actually exists . Romantic love is in reality a state of mind in which cold and heat may and do alternate so rapidly that " cold fire " seems the only proper expression to apply to such a mixed feeling . It is literally true that , as Bailey sang , " the sweetest joy , the wildest woe is love ; " literally true that " the sweets of love are washed with tears , " as Carew wrote , or , as H.K. White expressed it , " ' T is painful , though ' t is sweet to love . " A man who has actually experienced the feeling of uncertain love sees nothing unreal or affected in Tennyson 's The cruel madness of love The honey of poisoned flowers , or in Drayton 's ' T is nothing to be plagued in hell But thus in heaven tormented , or in Dryden 's I feed a flame within , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and yet enchants me : ' T is such a pleasing smart , and I so love it , That I had rather die than once remove it , or in Juliet 's Good-night ! good-night ! parting is such sweet sorrow , That I shall say good-night till it be morrow . This mysterious mixture of moods , constantly maintained through the alternations of hope and doubt , elation and despair , And hopes , and fears that kindle hope , An undistinguishable throng as Coleridge puts it ; or Where hot and cold , where sharp and sweet , In all their equipages meet ; Where pleasures mixed with pains appear , Sorrow with joy , and hope with fear as Swift rhymes it , is thus seen to be one of the essential and most characteristic ingredients of modern romantic love . COURTSHIP AND IMAGINATION Here , again , the question confronts us , How far down among the strata of human life can we find traces of this ingredient of love ? Do we find it among the Eskimos , for instance ? Nansen relates ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greenland days marriage was a simple and speedy affair . If a man took a fancy to a girl , he merely went to her home or tent , caught her by the hair or anything else which offered a hold , and dragged her off to his dwelling without further ado . " Nay , in some cases , even this unceremonious " courtship " was perpetrated by proxy ! The details regarding the marriage customs of lower races already cited in this volume , with the hundreds more to be given in the following pages , can not fail to convince the reader that primitive courtship  --  where there is any at all  --  is habitually a " simple and speedy affair "  --  not always as simple and speedy as with Nansen 's Greenlanders , but too much so to allow of the growth and play of those mixed emotions which agitate modern swains . Fancy the difference between the African of Yariba who , as Lander tells us ( I. , 161 ) , " thinks as little of taking a wife as of cutting an ear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tortures of the inferno because a certain girl frowns on him , while her smiles may make him so happy that he would not change places with a king , unless his beloved were to be queen . Savages can not experience such extremes of anguish and rapture , because they have no imagination . It is only when the imagination comes into play that we can look for the joys and sorrows , the hopes and fears , that help to make up the sum and substance of romantic love . EFFECTS OF SENSUAL LOVE At the same time it would be a great mistake to assume that the manifestation of mixed moods proves the presence of romantic love . After all , the alternation of hope and despair which produces those bitter-sweet paradoxes of the varying and mixed emotions , is one of the selfish aspects of passion : the lover fears or hopes for himself , not for the other . There is , therefore , no reason why we should not read of troubled or ecstatic lovers in the poems of the ancient writers , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had sufficient imagination to suffer the agonies of thwarted purpose and the delights of realized hopes . As a boat-load of shipwrecked sailors , hungry and thirsty , may be switched from deadly despair to frantic joy by the approach of a rescuing vessel , so may a man change his moods who is swayed by what is , next to hunger and thirst , the most powerful and imperious of all appetites . We must not , therefore , make the reckless assumption that the Greek and Sanscrit writers must have known romantic love , because they describe men and women as being prostrated or elated by strong passion . When Euripides speaks of love as being both delectable and painful ; when Sappho and Theocritus note the pallor , the loss of sleep , the fears and tears of lovers ; when Achilles Tatius makes his lover exclaim , at sight of Leucippe : " I was overwhelmed by conflicting feelings : admiration , astonishment , agitation , shame , assurance ; " when King Pururavas , in the Hindoo drama , Urvasi is tormented by doubts as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apsara ) ; when , in Malati , a love-glance is said to be " anointed with nectar and poison ; " when the arrows of the Hindoo gods of love are called hard , though made of flowers ; burning , though not in contact with the skin ; voluptuous , though piercing  --  when we come across such symptoms and fancies we have no right as yet to infer the existence of romantic love ; for all these things also characterize sensual passion , which is love only in the sense of self-love , whereas , romantic love is affection for another  --  a distinction which will be made more and more manifest as we proceed in our discussion of the ingredients of love , especially the last seven , which are altruistic . It is only when we find these altruistic ingredients associated with the hopes and fears and mixed moods that we can speak of romantic love . The symptoms referred to in this paragraph tell us about selfish longings , selfish pleasures and selfish pains , but nothing whatever about affection for the person who is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ love was supposed to be an uncompounded emotion and no distinction was made between appetite and sentiment  --  that is between the selfish desire of eroticism and the self-sacrificing ardor of altruistic affection  --  it was natural enough that the opinion should have prevailed that love has been always and everywhere the same , inasmuch as several of the traits which characterize the modern passion  --  stubborn preference for an individual , a desire for exclusive possession , jealousy toward rivals , coy resistance and the resulting mixed moods of doubt and hope  --  were apparently in existence in earlier and lower stages of human development . We have now seen , however , that these indications are deceptive , for the reason that lust as well as love can be fastidious in choice , insistent on a monopoly , and jealous of rivals ; that coyness may spring from purely mercenary motives , and that the mixed moods of hope and despair may disquiet or delight men and women who know love only as a carnal appetite . We now take up our sixth ingredient  --  Hyperbole  --  which has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scholars as regards the antiquity of romantic love , for the reason that it presents the passion of the ancients in its most poetic and romantic aspects . GIRLS AND FLOWERS Amorous hyperbole may be defined as obvious exaggeration in praising the charms of a beloved girl or youth ; Shakspere speaks of " exclamations hyperbolical ... praises sauced with lies . " Such " praises sauced with lies " abound in the verse and prose of Greek and Roman as well as Sanscrit and other Oriental writers , and they assume as diverse forms as in modern erotic literature . The commonest is that in which a girl 's complexion is compared to lilies and roses . The Cyclops in Theocritus tells Galatea she is " whiter than milk ... brighter than a bunch of hard grapes . " The mistress of Propertius has a complexion white as lilies ; her cheeks remind him of " rose leaves swimming on milk . " Lilia non domina sunt magis alba mea ; Ut Moeotica nix minio si certet Eboro , Utque rosae puro lacte natant folia . ( II. , 2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's countenance " might vie with the flowers of the meadow ; the narcissus was resplendent in her general complexion , the rose blushed upon her cheek , the dark hue of the violet sparkled in her eyes , her ringlets curled more closely than do the clusters of the ivy  --  her face , therefore , was a reflex of the meadows . " The Persian Hafiz declares that " the rose lost its color at sight of her cheeks and the jasmines silver bud turned pale . " A beauty in the Arabian Nights , however , turns the tables on the flowers . " Who dares to liken me to a rose ? " she exclaims . " Who is not ashamed to declare that my bosom is as lovely as the fruit of the pomegranate-tree ? By my beauty and grace ! by my eyes and black hair , I swear that any man who repeats such comparison shall be banished from my presence and killed by the separation ; for if he finds my figure in the ban-tree and my cheeks in the rose , what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoke more profoundly than she knew . Flowers are beautiful things , but a spot red as a rose on a cheek would suggest the hectic flush of fever , and if a girl 's complexion were as white as a lily she would be shunned as a leper . In hyperbole the step between the sublime and the ridiculous is often a very short one ; yet the rose and lily simile is perpetrated by erotic poets to this day . EYES AND STARS The eyes are subjected to similar treatment , as in Lodge 's lines Her eyes are sapphires set in snow Resembling heaven by every wink . Thomas Hood 's Ruth had eyes whose " long lashes veiled a light that had else been all too bright . " Heine saw in the blue eyes of his beloved the gates of heaven . Shakspere and Fletcher have : And those eyes , the break of day , Lights that do mislead the morn ! When Romeo exclaims : Two of the fairest stars in all the heaven , Having some business , do entreat her eyes To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eyes in heaven Would through the airy region stream so bright That birds would sing and think it were not night , he excels , both in fancy and in exaggeration , all the ancient poets ; but it was they who began the practice of likening eyes to bright lights . Ovid declares ( Met . , I. , 499 ) that Daphne 's eyes shone with a fire like that of the stars , and this has been a favorite comparison at all times . Tibullus assures us ( IV. , 2 ) that " when Cupid wishes to inflame the gods , he lights his torches at Sulpicia 's eyes . " In the Hindoo drama Malati and Madhava , the writer commits the extravagance of making Madhava declare that the white of his mistresses eyes suffuses him as with a bath of milk ! Theocritus , Tibullus ( " candor erat , qualem praefert Latonia Luna " ) , Hafiz , and other Greek , Roman , and Oriental poets are fond of comparing a girl 's face or skin to the splendors of the moon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her complexion . In the Arabian Nights we read : " If I look upon the heaven methinks I see the sun fallen down to shine below , and thee whom I desire to shine in his place . " A girl may , indeed , be superior to sun and moon , as we see in the same book : " The moon has only a few of her charms ; the sun tried to vie with her but failed . Where has the sun hips like those of the queen of my heart ? " An unanswerable argument , surely ! LOCKS AND FRAGRANCE When William Allingham wrote : " Her hair 's the brag of Ireland , so weighty and so fine , " he followed in the wake of a hundred poets , who had made a girl 's tresses the object of amorous hyperbole . Dianeme 's " rich hair which wantons with the love-sick air " is a pretty conceit . The fanciful notion that a beautiful woman imparts her sweetness to the air , especially with the fragrance of her hair , occurs frequently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of these the poet chides the zephyr for having stolen its sweetness while playing with the beloved 's loose tresses . In another , a youth declares that if he should die and the fragrance of his beloved 's locks were wafted over his grave , it would bring him back to life . Ben Jonson 's famous lines to Celia : I sent thee late a rosy wreath , Not so much honoring thee As giving it a hope that there It could not withered be ; But thou thereon did'st only breathe And sent'st it back to me ; Since when it grows , and smells , I swear , Not of itself but thee ! are a free imitation of passages in the Love Letters ( Nos. 30 and 31 ) of the Greek Philostratus : " Send me back some of the roses on which you slept . Their natural fragrance will have been increased by that which you imparted to them . " This is a great improvement on the Persian poets who go into raptures over the fragrant locks of fair women , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artificial perfumes used by them , including the disgusting musk ! " Is a caravan laden with musk returning from Khoten ? " sings one of these bards in describing the approach of his mistress . POETIC DESIRE FOR CONTACT Besides such direct comparisons of feminine charms to flowers , to sun and moon and other beautiful objects of nature , amorous hyperbole has several other ways of expressing itself . The lover longs to be some article of dress that he might touch the beloved , or a bird that he might fly to her , or he fancies that all nature is love-sick in sympathy with him . Romeo 's See , how she leans her cheek upon her hand ! O , that I were a glove upon that hand , That I might touch that cheek ! is varied in Heine 's poem , where the lover wishes he were a stool for her feet to rest on , a cushion for her to stick pins in , or a curl-paper that he might whisper his secrets into her ears ; and in Tennyson 's dainty lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is grown so dear , so dear , That I would be the jewel That trembles at her ear ; For hid in ringlets day and night I 'd touch her neck so warm and white . And I would be the girdle About her dainty , dainty waist , And her heart would beat against me In sorrow and in rest ; And I should know if it beat right , I 'd clasp it round so close and tight . And I would be the necklace , And all day long to fall and rise Upon her balmy bosom With her laughter or her sighs , And I would be so light , so light , I scarce should be unclasped at night . Herein , too , our modern poets were anticipated by the ancients . Anacreon wishes he were a mirror that he might reflect the image of his beloved ; or the gown she wears every day ; or the water that laves her limbs ; or the balm that anoints her body ; or the pearl that adorns her neck ; or the cloth that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by her feet . The author of an anonymous poem in the Greek Anthology wishes he were a breath of air that he might be received in the bosom of his beloved ; or a rose to be picked by her hand and fastened on her bosom . Others wish they were the water in the fountain from which a girl drinks , or a dolphin to carry her on its back , or the ring she wears . After the Hindoo Sakuntala has lost her ring in the river the poet expresses surprise that the ring should have been able to separate itself from that hand . The Cyclops of Theocritus wishes he had been born with the gills of a fish so that he might dive into the sea to visit the nymph Galatea and kiss her hands should her mouth be refused . One of the goatherds of the same bucolic poet wishes he were a bee that he might fly to the grotto of Amaryllis . From such fancies it is but a short step to the " were I a swallow , to her I would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'S SYMPATHY WITH LOVERS In the ecstasy of his feeling Rosalind 's lover wants to have her name carved on every tree in the forest ; but usually the lover assumes that all things in the forests , plants or animals , sympathize with him even without having his beloved 's name thrust upon them . For summer and his pleasures wait on thee , And , thou away , the very birds are mute ; Or if they sing , ' t is with so dull a cheer , That leaves look pale , dreading the winter 's near . " Why are the roses so pale ? " asks Heine . " Why are the violets so dumb in the green grass ? Why does the lark 's song seem so sad , and why have the flowers lost their fragrance ? Why does the sun look down upon the meadows so cold and morose , and why is the earth so gray and desolate ? Why am I ill and melancholy , and why , my love , did you leave me ? " In another poem Heine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heart is wounded , they would weep with me . If the nightingales knew how sad I am , they would cheer me with their refreshing song . If the golden stars knew my grief , they would come down from their heights to whisper consolation to me . " This phase of amorous hyperbole also was known to the ancient poets . Theocritus ( VII. , 74 ) relates that Daphnis was bewailed by the oaks that stood on the banks of the river , and Ovid ( 151 ) tells us , in Sappho 's epistle to Phaon , that the leafless branches sighed over her hopeless love and the birds stopped their sweet song . Musaeus felt that the waters of the Hellespont were still lamenting the fate which overtook Leander as he swam toward the tower of Hero . ROMANTIC BUT NOT LOVING If a romantic love-poem were necessarily a poem of romantic love , the specimens of amorous hyperbole cited in the preceding pages would indicate that the ancients knew love as we know it . In reality , however , there is not , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ love . A passion which is merely sensual may inspire a gifted poet to the most extravagantly fanciful expressions of covetous admiration , and in all the cases cited there is nothing beyond such sensual admiration . An African Harari compares the girl he likes to " sweet milk fresh from the cow , " and considers that coarse remark a compliment because he knows love only as an appetite . A gypsy poet compares the shoulders of his beloved to " wheat bread , " and a Turkish poem eulogizes a girl for being like " bread fried in butter . " ( Ploss , L , 85 , 89 . ) The ancient poets had too much taste to reveal their amorous desires quite so bluntly as an appetite , yet they , too , never went beyond the confines of self-indulgence . When Propertius says a girl 's cheeks are like roses floating on milk ; when Tibullus declares another girl 's eyes are bright enough to light a torch by ; when Achilles Tatius makes his lover exclaim : " Surely you must carry about a bee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your kisses wound "  --  what is all this except a revelation that the poet thinks the girl pretty , that her beauty gives him pleasure , and that he tries to express that pleasure by comparing her to some other object  --  sun , moon , honey , flowers  --  that pleases his senses ? Nowhere is there the slightest indication that he is eager to give her pleasure , much less that he would be willing to sacrifice his own pleasures for her , as a mother , for instance , would for a child . His hyperboles , in a word , tell us not of love for another but of a self-love in which the other figures only as a means to an end , that end being his own gratification . When Anacreon wishes he were the gown worn by a girl , or the water that laves her limbs , or the string of pearls around her neck , he does not indicate the least desire to make her happy , but an eagerness to please himself by coming in contact with her . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even the most fanciful of all forms of amorous hyperbole  --  that in which the lover imagines that all nature smiles or weeps with him  --  what is it but the most colossal egotism conceivable ? The amorous hyperbole of the ancients is romantic in the sense of fanciful , fictitious , extravagant , but not in the sense in which I oppose romantic love to selfish sensual infatuation . There is no intimation in it of those things that differentiate love from lust  --  the mental and moral charms of the women , or the adoration , sympathy , and affection , of the men . When one of Goethe 's characters says : " My life began at the moment I fell in love with you ; " or when one of Lessing 's characters exclaims : " To live apart from her is inconceivable to me , would be my death "  --  we still hear the note of selfishness , but with harmonic overtones that change its quality , the result of a change in the way of regarding women . Where women are looked down on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not be sincere ; it is either nothing but " spruce affectation " or else an illustration of the power of sensual love . No ancient author could have written what Emerson wrote in his essay on Love , of the visitations of a power which " made the face of nature radiant with purple light , the morning and the night varied enchantments ; when a single tone of one voice could make the heart bound , and the most trivial circumstance associated with one form is put in the amber of memory ; when he became all eye when one was present , and all memory when one was gone ; when the youth becomes a watcher of windows and studious of a glove , a veil , a ribbon , or the wheels of a carriage .... When the head boiled all night on the pillow with the generous deed it resolved on .... When all business seemed an impertinence , and all men and women running to and fro in the streets , mere pictures . " THE POWER OF LOVE In the essay " On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ referred in another place , Lichtenberg bluntly declared he did not believe that sentimental love could make a sensible adult person so extravagantly happy or unhappy as the poets would have us think , whereas he was ready to concede that the sexual appetite may become irresistible . Schopenhauer , on the contrary , held that sentimental love is the more powerful of the two passions . However this may be , either is strong enough to account for the prevalence of amorous hyperbole in literature to such an extent that , as Bacon remarked , " speaking in a perpetual hyperbole is comely in nothing but in love . " " The major part of lovers , " writes Robert Burton , " are carried headlong like so many brute beasts , reason counsels one way , thy friends , fortunes , shame , disgrace , danger , and an ocean of cares that will certainly follow ; yet this furious lust precipitates , counterpoiseth , weighs down on the other . " Professor Bain , discussing all the human emotions in a volume of 600 pages , declares , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at its highest pitch , in the torrent of youthful sensations and ungratified desires is probably the most furious and elated experience of human nature . " In whatever sense we take this , as referring to sensual or sentimental love , or a combination of the two , it explains why erotic writers of all times make such lavish use of superlatives and exaggerations . Their strong feelings can only be expressed in strong language . " Beauty inflicts a wound sharper than any arrow , " quoth Achilles Tatius . Meleager declares : " Even the winged Eros in the air became your prisoner , sweet Timarion , because your eye drew him down ; " and in another place : " the cup is filled with joy because it is allowed to touch the beautiful lips of Zenophila . Would that she drank my soul in one draught , pressing firmly her lips on mine " ( a passage which Tennyson imitated in " he once drew with one long kiss my whole soul through my lips " ) . " Not stone only , but steel would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Burton tells of a cold bath that suddenly smoked and was very hot when Coelia came into it ; and an anonymous modern poet cries : Look yonder , where She washes in the lake ! See while she swims , The water from her purer limbs New clearness take ! The Persian poet , Saadi , tells the story of a young enamoured Dervish who knew the whole Koran by heart , but forgot his very alphabet in presence of the princess . She tried to encourage him , but he only found tongue to say , " It is strange that with thee present I should have speech left me ; " and having said that he uttered a loud groan and surrendered his soul up to God . To lovers nothing seems impossible . They " vow to weep seas , live in fire , eat rocks , tame tigers , " as Troilus knew . Mephistopheles exclaims : So ein verliebter Thor verpufft Euch Sonne , Mond und alle Sterne Zum Zeitvertreib dem Liebchen in die Luft . ( Your foolish lover squanders sun and moon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hour . ) Romantic hyperbole is the realism of love . The lover is blind as to the beloved 's faults , and color-blind as to her merits , seeing them differently from normal persons and all in a rosy hue . She really seems to him superior to every one in the world , and he would be ready any moment to join the ranks of the mediaeval knights who translated amorous hyperbole into action , challenging every knight to battle unless he acknowledged the superior beauty of his lady . A great romancer is the lover ; he retouches the negative of his beloved , in his imagination , removes freckles , moulds the nose , rounds the cheeks , refines the lips , and adds lustre to the eyes until his ideal is realized and he sees Helen 's beauty in a brow of Egypt . ... For to be wise and love Exceeds man 's might ; that dwells with gods above . VII . PRIDE I dare not ask a kiss , I dare not beg a smile , Lest having that or this I might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great Cupid 's yoke disdain , Loving their own wild freedom better , Whilst proud of my triumphant chain I sit , and court my beauteous fetter.  --  Beaumont . COMIC SIDE OF LOVE " There was never proud man thought so absurdly well of himself as the lover doth of the person beloved , " said Bacon ; " and therefore it is well said that it is impossible to love and be wise . " Like everything else in this world , love has its comic side . Nothing could be more amusing , surely , than the pride some men and women exhibit at having secured for life a mate whom most persons would not care to own a day . The idealizing process just described is responsible for this comedy ; and a very useful thing it is , too ; for did not the lover 's fancy magnify the merits and minify the faults of the beloved , the number of marriages would not be so large as it is . Pride is a great match-maker . " It was a proud night with me , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a pretty young woman could think it worth her while to sit and talk with me hour after hour in a corner of the ball-room , while all the world were capering in our view . " Such an experience was enough to attune the heart-strings to love . The youth felt flattered , and flattery is the food of love . A MYSTERY EXPLAINED Pride explains some of the greatest mysteries of love . " How could that woman have married such a manikin ? " is a question one often hears . Money , rank , opportunity , lack of taste , account for much , but in many instances it was pride that first opened the heart to love ; that is , pride was the first of the ingredients of love to capitulate , and the others followed suit . Probably that manikin was the first masculine being who ever showed her any attentions . " He appreciates me ! " she mused . " I admire his taste  --  he is not like other men  --  I like him  --  I love him . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and may prove the entering-wedge of love ; hence the proverbial folly of accepting a girl 's first refusal as final . And if she accepts , the thought that she , the most perfect being in the world , prefers him above all men , inflates his pride to the point of exultation ; thenceforth he can talk and think only in " three pil 'd hyperboles . " He wants all the world to know how he has been distinguished . In a Japanese poem translated by Lafcadio Hearn ( G.B.F. , 38 ) a lover exclaims : I can not hide in my heart the happy knowledge that fills it ; Asking each not to tell , I spread the news all round . IMPORTANCE OF PRIDE To realize fully how important an ingredient in love pride is , we need only consider the effect of a refusal . Of all the pangs that make up its agony none is keener than that of wounded pride or vanity . Hence the same lover who , if successful , wants all the world to know how he has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refusal , to keep it a secret . Schopenhauer went so far as to assert that both in the pain of unrequited love and the joy of success , vanity is a more important factor than the thwarting of sensual desires , because only a psychic disturbance can stir us so deeply . Shakspere knew that while there are many kinds of pride , the best and deepest is that which a man feels in his love . Some , he says , glory in their birth , some in their skill , some in their wealth , some in their body 's force , or their garments , or horses ; but All these I better in one general best , Thy love is better than high birth to me , Richer than wealth , prouder than garments ' cost , Of more delight than hawks and horses be And having thee , of all men 's pride I boast .  --  Sonnet XCI . VARIETIES AND GERMS While amorous pride has also an altruistic aspect in so far as the lover is proud not only of being chosen but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the main , in the egoistic group , and there is therefore no reason why we should not look for it in the lower stages of erotic evolution . Pride and vanity are feelings which characterize all grades of human beings from the highest to the lowest . As regards amorous pride , however , it is obvious that the conditions for its existence are not favorable among such aboriginals , e.g. , as the Australians . What occasion is there for pride on the part of a man who exchanges his sister or daughter for another man 's sister or daughter , or on the part of the female who is thus exchanged ? An American Indian 's pride consists not in having won the favor of one particular girl , but in having been able to buy or steal as many women as possible , married or unmarried ; and the bride 's pride is proportionate to her lover 's prowess in this direction . I need not add that the pride at being a successful squaw-stealer differs not only in degree but in kind from the exultation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most beautiful and perfect girl in the world has chosen him above all men as her sole and exclusive sweetheart . Gibbs says ( I. , 197-200 ) of the Indians of Western Washington and Northwestern Oregon that they usually seek their wives among other tribes than their own . " It seems to be a matter of pride , in fact , to unite the blood of several different ones in their own persons . The expression , I am half Snokwalmu , half Klikatat , or some similar one , is of every-day occurrence . With the chiefs , this is almost always the case . " This feeling , however , is of a tribal kind , lacking the individuality of amorous pride . It would approach the latter if a chief won another chiefs daughter in the face of rivalry and felt elated at this feat . Such cases doubtless occur among the Indians . Shooter gives an amusing account of how the African Kaffirs , when a girl is averse to a marriage , attempt to influence her feelings before resorting to compulsion . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her presence ; the Kraal conspire to praise him  --  her mother praises him  --  all the admirers of his cattle praise him  --  he was never so praised before . " If these praises make her feel proud at the thought of marrying such a man , all is well ; if not , she has to suffer the consequences . It is not likely that this praising practice would prevail were it not sometimes successful . If it ever is , we would have here a germ of amorous pride . Others may be found in Hindoo literature , as in Malati and Madhava , where the intermediary speaks of having dwelt on the lover 's merits and rank in the presence of the heroine , in the hope of influencing her . " Extolling the lover 's merits " is mentioned as one of the ten stages of love in the Hindoo ars amandi . In Oriental countries in general , where it is difficult or impossible for young men and women to see one another before the wedding-day , the praising of candidates by and to intermediaries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 9-14 ) relates that before a Turk reaches the age of twenty-two his parents look about for a bride for him . They send out female friends and intermediaries who " praise and exaggerate the accomplishments of the young man " in houses where they suspect the presence of eligible girls . These female intermediaries are called kyz-goeruedschue or " girl-seers . " Having found a maiden that appears suitable , they exclaim , " What a lovely girl ! She resembles an angel ! What beautiful eyes ! True gazelle-eyes ! And her hair ! Her teeth are like pearls . " When the young man hears the reports of this beauty , he forthwith falls in love with her , and , although he has never seen her , declares he " will marry her and no other . " A sense of humor is not given to every man : Dr. Loebel remarks seriously that this disproves the slanderous assertion so often made that the Turks are incapable of true love ! In their treatment and estimate of women the ancient Greeks resembled the modern Turks . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " as Becker sums them up ( Ill. , 315 ) , " assigned to woman a position far beneath man . " As there is little occasion for pride in having won the favor of so inferior a being , the erotic literature of the Greeks is naturally not eloquent on this subject . Such evidence of amorous pride as we find in it , and in Roman poetry , is usually in connection with mercenary women . The poets , being poor , had only one way of winning the favor of these wantons : they could celebrate their charms in verse . This aroused the pride of the hetairai , and their grateful caresses made the poets proud at having a means of winning favor more powerful even than money . But with genuine love these feelings have nothing to do . NATURAL AND ARTIFICIAL SYMPTOMS OF LOVE In common with ambition and other strong passions , love has the power of changing a man 's character for the time being . One of the speakers in Plutarch 's dialogue on love ( Greek : Erotikos , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , though he may have been niggardly before ; but , characteristically enough , it is the love for boys , not for women , that is referred to . A modern lover is affected that way by love for women . He feels proud of being distinguished by the preference of such a girl , and on the principle of noblesse oblige , he tries to become worthy of her . This love makes the cowardly brave , the weak strong , the dull witty , the prosy poetic , the slouches tidy . Burton glows eloquent on this subject ( Ill. , 2 ) , confounding , as usual , love with lust . Ovid notes that when Polyphemus courted Galatea the desire to please made him arrange his hair and beard , using the water as a mirror ; wherein the Roman poet shows a keener sense of the effect of infatuation than his Greek predecessor , Theocritus , who ( Id. , XIV. ) describes the enamoured Aischines as going about with beard neglected and hair dishevelled ; or than Callimachus , concerning whose love-story of Acontius @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 239 ) : " The pangs of the lover are described just as they are described in the case of his Shakspere 's Orlando  --  dishevelled hair , blackness under the eyes , disordered dress , a desire for solitude , and the habit of writing the girl 's name on every tree  --  symptoms which are perhaps now regarded as natural , and which many romantic personages have no doubt imitated because they found them in literature , and thought them the spontaneous expression of the grief of love , while they were really the artificial invention of Callimachus and his school , who thus fathered them upon human nature . " Professor Mahaffy overlooks , however , an important distinction which Shakspere makes . The witty Rosalind declares to Orlando , in her bantering way , that " there is a man haunts the forest , that abuses our young plants with carving ' Rosalind ' on their barks ; hangs odes upon hawthorns and elegies on brambles , all , forsooth , deifying the name of Rosalind ... he seems to have the quotidian of love upon him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man , she replies , " There is none of my uncle 's marks upon you ; he taught me to know a man in love . " Orlando : " What were his marks ? " Rosalind : " A lean cheek , which you have not , a blue eye and sunken , which you have not ... a beard neglected , which you have not ... Then your hose should be ungartered , your bonnet unbanded , your sleeve unbuttoned , your shoe untied , and everything about you demonstrating a careless desolation . " Shakspere knew that love makes a man tidy , not untidy , hence Rosalind fails to find the artificial Greek symptoms of love in Orlando , while she admits that he carves her name on trees and hangs poems on them ; acts of which lovers are quite capable . In Japan it is a national custom to hang love-poems on trees . VIII . SYMPATHY " Egotism , " wrote Schopenhauer " is a colossal thing ; it overtops the world . For , if every individual had the choice between his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world , I need not say what the decision would be in the vast majority of cases . " " Many a man , " he declares on another page , 22 " would be capable of killing another merely to get some fat to smear on his boots . " The grim old pessimist confesses that at first he advanced this opinion as a hyperbole ; but on second thought he doubts if it is an exaggeration after all . Had he been more familiar with the habits of savages , he would have been fully justified in this doubt . An Australian has been known to bait his fish-hook with his own child when no other meat was at hand ; and murders committed for equally trivial and selfish reasons are every-day affairs among wild tribes . EGOTISM , NAKED OK MASKED Egoism manifests itself in a thousand different ways , often in subtle disguise . Its greatest triumph lies in its having succeeded up to the present day in masquerading as love . Not only many modern egotists , but ancient Egyptians , Persians , and Hindoos , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been credited with love when in reality they manifested nothing but sexual self-love , the woman in the case being valued only as an object without which the beloved Ego could not have its selfish indulgence . By way of example let us take what Pallas says in his work on Russia ( III. , 70 ) of the Samoyedes : " The wretched women of this nomadic people are obliged not only to do all the house-work , but to take down and erect the huts , pack and unpack the sleigh , and at the same time perform slavish duties for their husbands , who , except on a few amorous evenings , hardly bestow on them a look or a pleasant word , while expecting them to anticipate all their desires . " The typical shallow observer , whose testimony has done so much to prevent anthropology from being a science , would conclude , if he happened to see a Samoyede on one of these " amorous evenings , " that he " loved " his wife , whereas it ought to be clear to the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wife merely as a means of gratifying his selfish appetites . In the preceding pages I endeavored to show that such a man may exhibit , in his relations to a woman , individual preference , monopolism , jealousy , hope and despair and hyperbolic expression of feeling , yet without giving the slightest indication of love  --  that is , of affection  --  for her . It is all egoism , and egoism is the antipode of love , which is a phase of altruism . Not that these selfish ingredients are absent in genuine love . Romantic love embraces both selfish and altruistic elements , but the former are subdued and overpowered by the latter , and sexual passion is not love unless the altruistic ingredients are present . It is these altruistic ingredients that we must now consider , beginning with sympathy , which is the entering wedge of altruism . DELIGHT IN THE TORTURE OF OTHERS Sympathy means sharing the pains and pleasures of another  --  feeling the other 's joys and sorrows as if they were our own , and therefore an eagerness to diminish the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man exhibit this feeling ? On the contrary , he gloats over another 's anguish , while the other 's joys arouse his envy . Pity for suffering men and animals does not exist in the lower strata of humanity . Monteiro says ( A. and C. , 134 ) that the negro " has not the slightest idea of mercy , pity , or compassion for suffering . A fellow-creature , or animal , writhing in pain or torture , is to him a sight highly provocative of merriment and enjoyment . I have seen a number of blacks at Loanda , men , women , and children , stand round , roaring with laughter , at seeing a poor mongrel dog that had been run over by a cart , twist and roll about in agony on the ground till a white man put it out of its misery . " Cozzens relates ( 129-30 ) an instance of Indian cruelty which he witnessed among the Apaches . A mule , with his feet tied , was thrown on the ground . Thereupon two of these savages advanced and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and fleshy parts of the animal in large chunks , while the poor creature uttered the most terrible cries . Not till the meat had been cut clean to the bone did they kill the beast . And this hideous cruelty was inflicted for no other reason than because meat cut from a live animal " was considered more tender , " Custer , who knew the Indian well , describes him as " a savage in every sense of the word ; one whose cruel and ferocious nature far exceeds that of any wild beast of the desert . " In the Jesuit Relations ( Vol . XIII. , 61 ) it takes ten pages to describe the tortures inflicted by the Hurons on a captive . Theodore Roosevelt writes in his Winning of the West ( I. , 95 ) : " The nature of the wild Indians has not changed . Not one man in a hundred , and not a single woman , escapes torments which a civilized man can not so much as look another in the face and speak of . Impalement on charred stakes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eyes burned out  --  these tortures can be mentioned , but there are others , equally normal and customary , which can not even be hinted at , especially when women are the victims . " In his famous book , The Jesuits in North America , the historian Parkman gives many harrowing details of Indian cruelty toward prisoners ; harmless women and children being subjected to the same fiendish tortures as the men . On one occasion he relates of the Iroquois ( 285 ) that " they planted stakes in the bark houses of St. Ignace , and bound to them those of their prisoners whom they meant to sacrifice , male and female , from old age to infancy , husbands , mothers , and children , side by side . Then , as they retreated , they set the town on fire , and laughed with savage glee at the shrieks of anguish that rose from the blazing dwellings . " On page 248 he relates another typical instance of Iroquois cruelty . Among their prisoners " were three women , of whom the narrator was one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or months old . At the first halt , their captors took the infants from them , tied them to wooden spits , placed them to die slowly before a fire , and feasted on them before the eyes of the agonized mothers , whose shrieks , supplications , and frantic efforts to break the cords that bound them were met with mockery and laughter . " Later on all the prisoners were subjected to further tortures " designed to cause all possible suffering without touching life . It consisted in blows with sticks and cudgels , gashing their limbs with knives , cutting off their fingers with clamshells , scorching them with firebrands , and other indescribable tortures . " They cut off the breasts of one of the women and compelled her to eat them . Then all the women were stripped naked , and forced to dance to the singing of the male prisoners , amid the applause and laughter of the crowd . If anyone in this hostile crowd had shown the slightest sympathy with the victims of this satanic cruelty , he would have been laughed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a virtue , while " pity was a cowardly weakness at which their pride revolted . " They were deliberately trained to cruelty from infancy , children being taught to break the legs of animals and otherwise to torture them . Nor were the women less ferocious than the men ; indeed , when it came to torturing prisoners , the squaws often led the men . In the face of such facts , it seems almost like mockery to ask if these Indians were capable of falling in love . Could a Huron to whom cruelty was a virtue , a duty , and whose chief delight was the torture of men and women or animals , have harbored in his mind such a delicate , altruistic sentiment as romantic love , based on sympathy with another 's joys and sorrows ? You might as well expect a tiger to make romantic love to the Bengal maiden he has carried into the jungle for his supper . Cruelty is not incompatible with appetite , but it is a fatal obstacle to love based on affection . Facts prove this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indulged in free lust before marriage , and for whom the men felt such passion as is possible under the circumstances . The absurdity of the claim that these cruel Indians felt love is made more glaringly obvious if we take a case nearer home ; imagining a neighbor guilty of torturing harmless captive women with the obscene cruelty of the Indians , and yet attributing to him a capacity for refined love ! The Indians would honor such a man as a colleague and hero ; we should send him to the penitentiary , the gallows , or the madhouse . INDIFFERENCE TO SUFFERING It would be foolish to retort that the savage 's delight in the torture of others is manifested only in the case of his enemies , for that is not true ; and where he does not directly exult over the sufferings of others , he still shows his lack of sympathy by his indifference to those sufferings , often even in the case of his nearest relatives . The African explorer Andersson ( O.R. , 156 ) describes the " heart-rendering sorrow  --  at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been killed by a rhinoceros , and who wailed in a most melancholy way : " I heartily sympathized with her , and I am sure I was the only person present of all the members assembled ... who at all felt for her lonely condition . Many a laugh was heard , but no one looked sad . No one asked or cared about the man , but each and all made anxious inquiries after the rhinoceros  --  such is the life of barbarians . Oh , ye sentimentalists of the Rousseau school  --  for some such still remain  --  witness what I have witnessed , and do witness daily , and you will soon cease to envy and praise the life of the savages . " " A sick person , " writes Galton ( 190 ) , " meets with no compassion ; he is pushed out of his hut by his relations away from the fire into the cold ; they do all they can to expedite his death , and when he appears to be dying , they heap oxhides over him till he is suffocated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In his book on the Indian Tribes of Guiana ( 151 , 225 ) the Rev. W.H. Brett gives two typical instances of the lack of sympathy in the New World . The first is that of a poor young girl who was dreadfully burnt by lying in a hammock when it caught fire : " She seemed a very meek and patient child , and her look of gratitude for our sympathy was most affecting . Her friends , however , took no trouble about her , and she probably died soon after . " The second case is that of an Arawak boy who , during a canoe voyage , was seized with cholera . The Indians simply cast him on the edge of the shore , to be drowned by the rising tide . Going to the other end of the continent we find Le Jeune writing of the Canadian Indians ( in the Jesuit Relations , VI. , 245 ) : " These people are very little moved by compassion . They give the sick food and drink , but otherwise show no regard for them . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) the missionary writer tells of a sick girl of nine , reduced to skin and bone . He asked the permission of the parents to baptize her , and they answered that he might take her and keep her , " for to them she was no better than a dead dog . " And again ( 93 ) we read that in case of illness " they soon abandon those whose recovery is deemed hopeless . " Crossing the Continent to California we find in Powers ( 118 ) a pathetic account of the lack of filial piety , or sympathy with old age , which , he says , is peculiar to Indians in general . After a man has ceased to be useful as a warrior , though he may have been a hero of a hundred battles , he is compelled to go with his sons into the forest and bear home on his poor old shoulders the game they have killed . He totters along behind them " almost crushed to earth beneath a burden which their unencumbered strength is greatly more able to support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of their fingers . " EXPOSING THE SICK AND AGED " The Gallinomeros kill their aged parents in a most coldblooded manner , " says Bancroft ( I. , 390 ) , and this custom , too , prevails on both sides of the Continent . The Canadians , according to Lalemant ( Jesuit Relations , IV. , 199 ) , " kill their fathers and mothers when they are so old that they can walk no longer , thinking that they are thus doing them a good service ; for otherwise they would be compelled to die of hunger , as they have become unable to follow others when they change their location . " Henry Norman , in his book on the Far East , explains ( 553 ) why so few deaf , blind , and idiots are found among savages : they are destroyed or left to perish . Sutherland , in studying the custom of killing the aged and diseased , or leaving them to die of exposure , found express testimony to the prevalence of this loveless habit in twenty-eight different races of savages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Clarke give a list of Indian tribes by whom the aged were abandoned to starvation ( II. , Chap . 7 ) , adding : " Yet in their villages we saw no want of kindness to the aged : on the contrary , probably because in villages the means of more abundant subsistence renders such cruelty unnecessary , old people appeared to be treated with attention . " But it is obvious that kindness which does not go beyond the point where it interferes with our own comfort , is not true altruism . If one of two men who are perishing of thirst in the desert finds a cupful of water and shares it with the other , he shows sympathy ; but if he finds a whole spring and shares it with the companion , his action does not deserve that name . It would be superfluous to make this remark were it not that the sentimentalists are constantly pointing to such sharing of abundance as evidence of sympathetic kindness . There is a whole volume of philosophy in Bates 's remark ( 293 ) concerning Brazilian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arise , not from warm sympathy , but simply from the absence of eager selfishness in small matters . " The Jesuit missionary Le Jeune devotes a whole chapter ( V. , 229-31 ) to such good qualities as he could find among the Canadian Indians . He is just to the point of generosity , but he is compelled to end with these words : " And yet I would not dare to assert that I have seen one act of real moral virtue in a savage . They have nothing but their own pleasure and satisfaction in view . " BIRTH OF SYMPATHY Schoolcraft relates a story of an Indian girl who saved her aged father 's life by carrying him on her back to the new camping-place ( Oneota , 88 ) . Now Schoolcraft is not a witness on whom one can rely safely , and his case could be accepted as an illustration of an aboriginal trait only if it had been shown that the girl in question had never been subject to missionary influences . Nevertheless , such an act of filial devotion may well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was in a woman 's heart that human sympathy was first born  --  together with her child . The helpless infant could not have survived without her sympathetic care , hence there was an important use for womanly sympathy which caused it to survive and grow , while man , immersed in wars and selfish struggles , remained hard of heart and knew not tenderness . Yet in woman , too , the growth of sympathy was painfully slow . The practice of infanticide , for selfish reasons , was , as we shall see in later chapters , horribly prevalent among many of the lower races , and even where the young were tenderly reared , the feeling toward them was hardly what we call affection  --  a conscious , enduring devotion  --  but a sort of animal instinct which is shared by tigers and other fierce and cruel animals , and which endures but a short time . In Agassiz 's book on Brazil we read ( 373 ) , that the Indians " are cold in their family affections ; and though the mothers are very fond of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they grow up . " As an illustration of this trait Agassiz mentions a sight he witnessed one day . A child who was to be taken far away to Rio stood on the deck crying , " while the whole family put off in a canoe , talking and laughing gaily , without showing him the least sympathy . " WOMEN CRUELER THAN MEN Apart from instinctive maternal love , sympathy appears to be as far to seek in the savage women as in the men . Authorities agree that in respect of cruelty the squaws even surpass the warriors . Thus Le Jeune attests ( Jes . Rel . , VI. , 245 ) , that among the Canadians the women were crueler toward captives than the men . In another place ( V. , 29 ) , he writes that when prisoners were tortured the women and girls " blew and drove the flames over in their direction to burn them . " In every Huron town , says Parkman ( Jes. in N.A. , XXXIV. ) , there were old squaws who " in vindictiveness , ferocity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The same is asserted of the Comanche women , who " delight in torturing the male prisoners . " Concerning Chippewa war captives , Keating says ( I. , 173 ) : " The marriageable women are reduced to servitude and are treated with great cruelty by the squaws . " Among the Creeks the women even used to pay a premium of tobacco for the privilege of whipping prisoners of war ( Schoolcraft , V. , 280 ) . These are typical instances . In Patagonia , writes Falkner ( 97 ) , the Indian women follow their husbands , armed with clubs , sometimes and swords , and ravage and plunder the houses of everything they can find . Powers relates that when California Indians get too old to fight they have to assist the women in their drudgery . Thereupon the women , instead of setting them a good example by showing sympathy for their weakness , take their revenge and make them feel their humiliation keenly . Obviously among these savages , cruelty and ferocity have no sex , wherefore it would be as useless in one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is an ingredient and a condition of romantic love . PLATO DENOUNCES SYMPATHY From a Canadian Indian to a Greek philosopher it seems a far cry ; yet the transition is easy and natural . To the Indian , as Parkman points out , " pity was a cowardly weakness , " to be sternly repressed as unworthy of a man . Plato , for his part , wanted to banish poetry from his ideal republic because it overwhelms our feelings and makes us give way to sympathies which in real life our pride causes us to repress and which are " deemed the part of a woman " ( Repub . , X. , 665 ) . As for the special form of sympathy which enters into the nobler phases of the love between men and women  --  fusing their hearts and blending their souls  --  Plato 's inability to appreciate such a thing may be inferred from the fact that in this same ideal republic he wanted to abolish the marriage even of individual bodies . Of the marriage of souls he , like the other Greeks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in general , love between man and woman was mere animal passion , far inferior in nobility and importance to love for boys , or friendship , or to filial , parental , or brotherly love . From the point of view of sympathy , the difference between ancient passion and modern love is admirably revealed in Wagner 's Tannhaeuser . As I have summed it up elsewhere23 : " Venus shares only the joys of Tannhaeuser , while Elizabeth is ready to suffer with him . Venus is carnal and selfish , Elizabeth affectionate and self-sacrificing . Venus degrades , Elizabeth ennobles ; the depth of her love atones for the shallow , sinful infatuation of Tannhaeuser . The abandoned Venus threatens revenge , the forsaken Elizabeth dies of grief . " There are stories of wifely devotion in Greek literature , but , like Oriental stories of the same kind ( especially in India ) they have a suspicious appearance of having been invented as object-lessons for wives , to render them more subservient to the selfish wishes of the husbands . Plutarch counsels a wife to share her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , weep when he weeps ; but he fails to suggest the virtue of reciprocal sympathy on the husband 's part ; yet Plutarch had much higher notions regarding conjugal life than most of the Greeks . An approximation to the modern ideal is found only when we consider the curious Greek adoration of boys . Callicratides , in Lucian 's Greek : Erotes , after expressing his contempt for women and their ways , contrasts with them the manners of a well-bred youth who spends his time associating with poets and philosophers , or taking gymnastic and military exercises . " Who would not like , " he continues , " to sit opposite such a boy , hear him talk , share his labors , walk with him , nurse him in illness , go to sea with him , share darkness and chains with him if necessary ? Those who hated him should be my enemies , those who loved him my friends . When he dies , I too should wish to die , and one grave should cover us . " Yet even here there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Callicratides does not say he will die for the other , or that the other 's pleasures are to him more important than his own. 24 SHAM ALTRUISM IN INDIA India is generally credited with having known and practised altruism long before Christ came to preach it . Kalidasa anticipates a modern idea when he remarks , in Sakuntala , that " Among persons who are very fond of each other , grief shared is grief halved . " India , too , is famed for its monks or penitents , who were bidden to be compassionate to all living things , to treat strangers hospitably , to bless those that cursed them ( Mann , VI. , 48 ) . But in reality the penitents were actuated by the most selfish of motives ; they believed that by obeying those precepts and undergoing various ascetic practices , they would get such power that even the gods would dread them ; and the Sanscrit dramas are full of illustrations of the detestably selfish use they made of the power thus acquired . In Sakuntala we read how a poor girl 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by one of these " saints , " for the trivial reason that , being absorbed in thoughts of love , she did not hear his voice and attend to his personal comforts at once ; while Kausika 's Rage illustrates the diabolical cruelty with which another of these saints persecutes a king and queen because he had been disturbed in his incantations . It is possible that some of these penitents , living in the forest and having no other companions , learned to love the animals that came to see them ; but the much-vaunted kindness to animals of the Hindoos in general is merely a matter of superstition and not an outcome of sympathy . He has not even a fellow-feeling for suffering human beings . How far he was from realizing Christ 's " blessed are the merciful , " may be inferred from what the Abbe Dubois says : " The feelings of commiseration and pity , as far as respects the sufferings of others , never enter into his heart . He will see an unhappy being perish on the road , or even at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and will not stir to help him to a drop of water , though it were to save his life . " " To kill a cow , " says the same writer ( I. , 176 ) , " is a crime which the Hindoo laws punish with death ; " and these same Hindoos treat women , especially widows , with fiendish cruelty . It would be absurd to suppose that a people who are so pitiless to human beings could be actuated by sympathy in their devout attitude toward some animals . Superstition is the spring of their actions . In Dahomey any person who kills a sacred ( non-poisonous ) snake is condemned to be buried alive . In Egypt it was a capital offence to kill an ibis , even accidentally . What we call lynching seems to have arisen in connection with such superstitions : " The enraged multitude did not wait for the slow process of law , but put the offender to death with their own hands . " At the same time some animals " which were deemed divinities in one home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ( Kendrick , II. , I-21 . ) EVOLUTION OF SYMPATHY If we study the evolution of human sympathy we find that it begins , not in reference to animals but to human beings . The first stage is a mother 's feeling going out to her child . Next , the family as a whole is included , and then the tribe . An Australian kills , as a matter of course , everyone he comes across in the wilderness not belonging to his tribe . To the present day race hatred , jingoism , and religious differences obstruct the growth of cosmopolitan sympathy such as Christ demanded . His religion has done much , however , to widen the circle of sympathy and to make known its ravishing delights . The doctrine that it is more blessed to give than to receive is literally true for those who are of a sympathetic disposition . Parents enjoy the pleasures of their children as they never did their own egotistic delights . In various ways sympathy has continued to grow , and at the present day the most refined and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their pity and affection . We organize societies for their protection , and we protest against the slaughter of birds that live on islands , thousands of miles away . Our imagination has become so sensitive and vivid that it gives us a keen pang to think of the happy lives of these birds as being ruthlessly cut short and their young left to die in their nests in the agonies of cruel starvation . If we compare with this state of mind that of the African of whom Burton wrote in his Two Trips to Gorilla Land , that " Cruelty seems to be with him a necessity of life , and all his highest enjoyments are connected with causing pain and inflicting death "  --  we need no other argument to convince us that a savage can not possibly feel romantic love , because that implies a capacity for the tenderest and subtlest sympathy . I would sooner believe a tiger capable of such love than a savage , for the tiger practises cruelty unconsciously and accidentally while in quest of food , whereas the primitive man indulges in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it gives him . We have here one more illustration of the change and growth of sentiments . Man 's emotions develop as well as his reasoning powers , and one might as well expect an Australian , who can not count five , to solve a problem in trigonometry as to love a woman as we love her . AMOROUS SYMPATHY In romantic love altruism reaches its climax . Turgenieff did not exaggerate when he said that " it is in a man really in love as if his personality were eliminated . " Genuine love makes a man shed egoism as a snake sheds its skin . His one thought is : " How can I make her happy and save her from grief " at whatever cost to his own comfort . Amorous sympathy implies a complete self-surrender , an exchange of personalities : My true love hath my heart , and I have his , By just exchange one for the other given .  --  Sidney . It is the secret sympathy , The silver link , the silken tie , Which heart to heart , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bind .  --  Scott . To a woman who wishes to be loved truly and permanently , a sympathetic disposition is as essential as modesty , and more essential than beauty . The author of Love Affairs of Some Famous Men has wittily remarked that " Love at first sight is easy enough ; what a girl wants is a man who can love her when he sees her every day . " That , he might have added , is impossible unless she can enter into another 's joys and sorrows . Many a spark of love kindled at sight of a pretty face and bright eyes is extinguished after a short acquaintance which reveals a cold and selfish character . A man feels instinctively that a girl who is not a sympathetic sweetheart will not be a sympathetic wife and mother , so he turns his attention elsewhere . Selfishness in a man is perhaps a degree less offensive , because competition and the struggle for existence necessarily foster it ; yet a man who does not merge his personality in that of his chosen girl is not truly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There can be sympathy without love , but no love without sympathy . It is an essential ingredient , an absolute test , of romantic love . IX . ADORATION Silvius , in As You Like It , says that love is " all adoration , " and in Twelfth Night , when Olivia asks : " How does he love me ? " Viola answers : " With adorations . " Romeo asks : " What shall I swear by ? " and Juliet replies : Do not swear at all ; Or , if thou wilt , swear by thy gracious self , Which is the god of my idolatry , And I 'll believe thee . DEIFICATION OF PERSONS Thus Shakspere knew that love is , as Emerson defined it , the " deification of persons , " and that women adore as well as men . Helena , in All 's Well that Ends Well , says of her love for Bertram : Thus , Indian-like Religious in mine error , I adore The sun that looks upon his worshipper , But knows of him no more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Dante , Rousseau , Jean Paul , ... a mystical veneration for the feminine element of humanity as the higher and more divine . " ( Dowden , III . ) Within the last few centuries , adoration of femininity has become a sort of instinct in men , reaching its climax in romantic love . The modern lover is like a sculptor who takes an ordinary block of marble and carves a goddess out of it . His belief that his idol is a living goddess is , of course , an illusion , but the feeling is real , however fantastic and romantic it may seem . He is so thoroughly convinced of the incomparable superiority of his chosen divinity that " it is marvellous to him that all the world does not want her too , and he is in a panic when he thinks of it , " as Charles Dudley Warner puts it . Ouida speaks of " the graceful hypocrisies of courtship , " and no doubt there are many such ; but in romantic love there is no hypocrisy ; its devotion and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only the girl herself but everything associated with her . This phase of love is poetically delineated in Goethe 's Werther : " To-day , " Werther writes to his friend , " I could not go to see Lotta , being unavoidably detained by company . What was there to do ? I sent my valet to her , merely in order to have someone about me who had been near her . With what impatience I expected him , with what joy I saw him return ! I should have liked to seize him by the hand and kiss him , had I not been ashamed . " There is a legend of a Bononian stone which being placed in the sun absorbs his rays and emits them at night . In such a light I saw that valet . The knowledge that her eyes had rested on his face , his cheeks , the buttons and the collar of his coat , made all these things valuable , sacred , in my eyes . At that moment I would not have exchanged that fellow for a thousand dollars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forbid that you should laugh at this . William , are these things phantasms if they make us happy ? " Fielding wrote a poem on a half-penny which a young lady had given to a beggar , and which the poet redeemed for a half-crown . Sir Richard Steele wrote to Miss Scurlock : " You must give me either a fan , a mask , or a glove you have worn , or I can not live ; otherwise you must expect that I 'll kiss your hand , or , when I next sit by you , steal your handkerchief . " Modern literature is full of such evidences of veneration for the fair sex . The lover worships the very ground she trod on , and is enraptured at the thought of breathing the same atmosphere that surrounded her . To express his adoration he thinks and talks , as we have seen , in perpetual hyperbole : It 's a year almost that I have not seen her ; Oh ! last summer green things were greener , Brambles fewer , the blue sky bluer . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of women , individually or collectively , is , however , an entirely modern phenomenon , and is even now very far from being universal . As Professor Chamberlain has pointed out ( 345 ) : " Among ourselves woman-worship nourishes among the well-to-do , but is almost , if not entirely , absent among the peasantry . " Still less would we expect to find it among the lower races . Primitive times were warlike times , during which warriors were more important than wives , sons more useful than daughters . Sons also were needed for ancestor worship , which was believed to be essential for bliss in a future life . For these reasons , and because women were weaker and the victims of natural physical disadvantages , they were despised as vastly inferior to men , and while a son was welcomed with joy , the birth of a daughter was bewailed as a calamity , and in many countries she was lucky  --  or rather unlucky  --  if she was allowed to live at all . A whole volume of the size of this one might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and missionaries describing the contempt for women  --  frequently coupled with maltreatment  --  exhibited by the lower races in all parts of the world . But as the attitude of Africans , Australians , Polynesians , Americans , and others , is to be fully described in future chapters , we can limit ourselves here to a few sample cases taken at random. 25 Jacques and Storm relate ( Floss , II. , 423 ) how one day in a Central African village , the rumor spread that a goat had been carried off by a crocodile . Everybody ran to and fro in great excitement until it was ascertained that the victim was only a woman , whereupon quiet was restored . If an Indian refuses to quarrel with a squaw or beat her , this is due , as Charlevoix explains ( VI. , 44 ) , to the fact that he would consider that as unworthy of a warrior , as she is too far beneath him . In Tahiti the head of a husband or father was sacred from a woman 's touch . Offerings to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In Siam the wife had to sleep on a lower pillow than her husband 's , to remind her of her inferiority . No woman was allowed to enter the house of a Maori chief . Among the Samoyedes and Ostyaks a wife was not allowed in any corner of the tent except her own ; after pitching the tent she was obliged to fumigate it before the men would enter . The Zulus regard their women " with haughty contempt . " Among Mohammedans a woman has a definite value only in so far as she is related to a husband ; unmarried she will always be despised , and heaven has no room for her . ( Ploss , II. , 577-78 . ) In India the blessing bestowed on girls by elders and priests is the insulting " Mayst thou have eight sons , and may thy husband survive thee . " " On every occasion the poor girl is made to feel that she is an unwelcome guest in the family . " ( Ramabai Saravasti , 13 . ) William Jameson Reid , who visited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ graphic description of the hardness and misery of woman 's lot among the Pa-Urgs : " Although , owing to the scarcity , a woman is a valuable commodity , she is treated with the utmost contempt , and her existence is infinitely worse than the very animals of her lord and master . Polyandry is generally practised , increasing the horror of her position , for she is required to be a slave to a number of masters , who treat her with the most rigorous harshness and brutality . From the day of her birth until her death ( few Pa-Urg women live to be fifty ) her life is one protracted period of degradation . She is called upon to perform the most menial and degrading of services and the entire manual labor of the community , it being considered base of a male to engage in other labor than that of warfare and the chase .... " When a child is to be born the mother is driven from the village in which she lives , and is compelled to take up her abode in some roadside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supply of food , furnished by her husbands , being brought to her by the other women of the tribe . When the child is born the mother remains with it for one or two months , and then leaving it in a cave , returns to the village and informs her eldest husband of its birth and the place where she has left it . If the child is a male , some consideration is shown to her ; should it be a female , however , her lot is frightful , for aside from the severe beating to which she is subjected by her husband , she suffers the scorn and contumely of the rest of the tribe . If a male child , the husband goes to the cave and brings it back to the village ; if it is of the opposite sex he is left to his own volition ; sometimes he returns with the female infant ; as often he ignores it entirely and allows it to perish , or may dispose of it to some other man as a prospective wife . " 26 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not even receive separate names , and a husband considers it an act of condescension to speak to his wife . When a young man of the ruling classes marries , he spends three or four days with his bride , then returns to his concubine , " in order to prove that he does not care much for the bride . " ( Ploss , II. , 434 . ) " The condition of Chinese women is most pitiable , " writes the Abbe Hue : " Suffering , privation , contempt , all kinds of misery and degradation , seize on her in the cradle , and accompany her to the tomb . Her birth is commonly regarded as a humiliation and a disgrace to the family  --  an evident sign of the malediction of heaven . If she be not immediately suffocated , a girl is regarded and treated as a creature radically despicable , and scarcely belonging to the human race . " He adds that if a bridegroom dies , the most honorable course for the bride is to commit suicide . Even the Japanese , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women with unfeigned contempt , likening themselves to heaven and the women to earth . There are ten stations on the way up the sacred mount Fuji . Formerly no woman was allowed to climb above the eighth . Professor Basil Hall Chamberlain , of the University of Tokyo , has a foot-note in his Things Japanese ( 274 ) in which he relates that in the introduction to his translation of the Kojiki he had drawn attention to the inferior place held by women in ancient as in modern Japan . Some years afterward six of the chief literati of the old school translated this introduction into Japanese . They patted the author on the head for many things , but when they reached the observation anent the subjection of women , their wrath exploded : " The subordination of women to men , " so ran their commentary , " is an extremely correct custom . To think the contrary is to harbor European prejudice .... For the man to take precedence over the woman is the grand law of heaven and earth . To ignore this , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The way in which these kind , gentle , and pretty women are treated by the men , Chamberlain says on another page , " has hitherto been such as might cause a pang to any generous European heart .... At the present moment the greatest duchess or marchioness in the land is still her husband 's drudge . She fetches and carries for him , bows down humbly in the hall when my lord sallies forth on his walks abroad , waits upon him at meals , may be divorced at his good pleasure . " This testimony regarding a nation which in some things  --  especially aesthetic culture and general courteousness  --  surpasses Europe and America , is of special value , as it shows that love , based on sympathy with women 's joys and sorrows , and adoration of their peculiar qualities , is everywhere the last flower of civilization , and not , as the sentimentalists claim , the first . If even the advanced Japanese are unable to feel romantic love  --  for you can not adore what you egotistically look down on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and savages , such as the Fuegians , who , in times of necessity , eat their old women , or the Australians , among whom not many women are allowed to die a natural death , " they being generally despatched ere they become old and emaciated , that so much good food may not be lost . " 27 There are some apparent exceptions to the universal contempt for females even among cannibals . Thus it is known that the Peruvian Casibos never eat women . It is natural to jump to the conclusion that this is due to respect for the female sex . It is , however , as Tschudi shows , assignable to exactly the opposite feeling : " All the South American Indians , who still remain under the influence of sorcery and empiricism , consider women in the light of impure and evil beings , and calculated to injure them . Among a few of the less rude nations this aversion is apparent in domestic life , in a certain unconquerable contempt of females . With the anthropophagi the feeling extends , fortunately , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The Caribs had a different reason for making it unlawful to eat women . " Those who were captured , " says P. Martyr , " were kept for breeding , as we keep fowl , etc , " Sir Samuel Baker relates ( A.N. , 240 ) , that among the Latookas it was considered a disgrace to kill a woman  --  not , however , because of any respect felt for the sex , but because of the scarcity and money value of women . HOMAGES TO PRIESTESSES Equally deceptive are all other apparent exceptions to the customary contempt for women . While the women of Fiji , Tonga , and other islands of the Pacific were excluded from all religious worship , and Papuan females were not even allowed to approach a temple , it is not uncommon among the inferior races for women to be priestesses . Bosnian relates ( 363 ) that on the African Slave Coast the women who served as priestesses enjoyed absolute sway over their husbands , who were in the habit of serving them on their knees . This , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is obvious that the homage was not to the woman as such , but to the priestess . The feeling inspired in such cases is , moreover , fear rather than respect ; the priestess among savages is a sorceress , usually an old woman whose charms have faded , and who has no other way of asserting herself than by assuming a pretence to supernatural powers and making herself feared as a sorceress . Hysterical persons are believed by savages to be possessed of spirits , and as women are specially liable to hysteria and to hallucinations , it was natural that they should be held eligible for priestly duties . Consequently , if there was any respect involved here at all , it was for an infirmity , not for a virtue  --  a result of superstition , not of appreciation or admiration of special feminine qualities. 28 KINSHIP THROUGH FEMALES ONLY Dire confusion regarding woman 's status has been created in many minds by three distinct ethnologic phenomena , which are , moreover , often confounded : ( 1 ) kinship and heredity through females ; ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family ( domestic ) ; ( 3 ) gynaicocracy , or woman 's rule in the tribe ( political ) . ( 1 ) It is a remarkable fact that among many tribes , especially in Australia , America , and Africa , children are named after their mother , while rank and property , too , are often inherited in the female line of descent . Lafitau observed this custom among American Indians more than a century ago , and in 1861 a Swiss jurist , Bachofen , published a book in which he tried to prove , with reference to this " kinship through mothers only , " that it indicated that there was a time when women everywhere ruled over men . A study of ethnologic data shows , however , that this inference is absolutely unwarranted by the facts . In Australia , for instance , where children are most commonly named after their mother 's clan , there is no trace of woman 's rule over man , either in the present or the past . The man treats the woman as a master treats his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cunow , an authority on Australian relationships , remarks ( 136 ) : " Nothing could be more perverse than to infer from the custom of reasoning kinship through females , that woman rules there , and that a father is not master of his children . On the contrary , the father regards himself everywhere , even in tribes with a female line of descent , as the real procreator . He is considered to be the one who plants the germ and the woman as merely the soil in which it grows . And as the wife belongs to him , so does the child that comes from her womb . Therefore he claims also those children of his wife concerning whom he knows or assumes that he did not beget them ; for they grew on his soil . " Similarly with the American Indians . Grosse has devoted several pages ( 73-80 ) to show that with the tribes among which kinship through females prevails woman 's position is not in the least better than with the others . Everywhere woman is bought , obliged to submit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ honorable work , and often treated worse than a dog . The same is true of the African tribes among whom kinship in the female line prevails . If , therefore , kinship through mothers does not argue female supremacy , how did that kinship arise ? Le Jeune offered a plausible explanation as long ago as 1632 . In the Jesuit Relations ( VI. , 255 ) , after describing the immorality of the Indians , he goes on to say : " As these people are well aware of this corruption , they prefer to take the children of their sisters as heirs , rather than their own , or than those of their brothers , calling in question the fidelity of their wives , and being unable to doubt that these nephews come from their own blood . Also among the Hurons  --  who are more licentious than our Montagnais , because they are better fed  --  it is not the child of a captain but his sister 's son , who succeeds the father . " The same explanation has been advanced by other writers and by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; 29 and it doubtless holds true in many cases . In others the custom of naming children after their mothers is probably simply a result of the fact that a child is always more closely associated with the mother than with the father . She brings it into the world , suckles it , and watches over it ; in the primitive times , even if promiscuity was not prevalent , marriages were of short duration and divorces frequent , wherefore the male parentage would be so constantly in doubt that the only feasible thing was to name the children after their mothers . For our purposes , fortunately , this knotty problem of the origin of kinship through females , which has given sociologists so much trouble , 30 does not need to be solved . We are concerned solely with the question , " Does kinship in the female line indicate the supremacy of women , or their respectful treatment ? " and that question , as we have seen , must be answered with a most emphatic No . There is not a single fact to bear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a period when woman ruled . The lower we descend , the more absolute and cruelly selfish do we find man 's rule over woman . The stronger sex everywhere reduces the weaker to practical slavery and holds it in contempt . Primitive woman has not yet developed these qualities in which her peculiar strength lies , and if she had , the men would be too coarse to appreciate them . WOMAN 'S DOMESTIC RULE ( 2 ) As we ascend in the scale we find a few cases where women rule or at least share the rule with the men ; but these occur not among savages but with the lower and higher barbarians , and at the same time they are , as Grosse remarks ( 161 ) , " among the scarcest curiosities of ethnology . " The Garos of Assam have women at the head of their clans . Dyak women are consulted in political matters and have equal rights with the men . Macassar women in Celebes also are consulted as regards public affairs , and frequently ascend the throne . A few similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the princesses of the Ashantees domineer over their husbands ; but these apply only to the ruling class , and do not concern the sex as a whole . Some strange tales of masculine submission in Nicaragua are told by Herrera . But the best-known instance is that of the Iroquois and Hurons . Their women , as Lafitau relates ( I. , 71 ) , owned the land , and the crops , they decided upon peace or war , took charge of slaves , and made marriages . The Huron Wyandots had a political council consisting of four women . The Iroquois Seneca women could chase lazy husbands from the premises , and could even depose a chief . Yet these cases are not conclusive as to the real status of the women in the tribe . The facts cited are , as John Fiske remarks ( Disc . Amer. , I. , 68 ) , " not incompatible with the subjection of women to extreme drudgery and ill-treatment . " Charlevoix , one of the eye-witnesses to these exceptional privileges granted to some Indian women , declares @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at home , the slaves of their husbands ; that the men despised them thoroughly , and that the epithet " woman " was an insult. 31 And Morgan , who made such a thorough study of the Iroquois , declares ( 322 ) that " the Indian regarded woman as the inferior , the dependent , and the servant of man , and , from nature and habit , she actually considered herself to be so . " The two honorable employments among Indians were war and hunting , and these were reserved for the men . Other employments were considered degrading and were therefore gallantly reserved for the women . WOMAN 'S POLITICAL RULE Comanche Indians , who treated their squaws with especial contempt , nevertheless would not hesitate on occasion to submit to the rule of a female chief ( Bancroft , I. , 509 ) ; and the same is true of other tribes in America , Africa , etc . ( Grosse , 163 ) . In this respect , barbarians do not differ from civilized races ; queenship is a question of blood or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women in general . As regards the " equal rights " of the Dyak women just referred to , if they really have them , it is not as women , but as men , that is , in so far as they have become like men . This we see from what Schwaner says ( I. , 161 ) of the tribes in the Southeast : " The women are allowed great privileges and liberties . Not infrequently they rule at home and over whole tribes with manly power , incite to war , and often personally lead the men to battle . " Honors paid to such viragoes are honors to masculinity , not to femininity . GREEK ESTIMATE OF WOMEN Here again the transition from the barbarian to the Greek is easy and natural . The ancient Greek looked down on women as women . " One man , " exclaims Iphigenia in Euripides , " is worth more than ten thousand women . " There were , of course , certain virtues that were esteemed in women , but these , as Becker has said , differed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is only in so far as women displayed masculine qualities that they were held worthy of higher honor . The heroines of Plutarch 's essay on " The Virtues of Women " are women who are praised for patriotic , soldier-like qualities , and actions . Plato believed that men who were bad in this life would , on their next birth , be women . The elevation of women , he held , could be best accomplished by bringing them up to be like men . But this matter will be discussed more fully in the chapter on Greece , as will that of the adulation which was paid to wanton women by Greek and Roman poets , and which has been often mistaken for adoration . George Eliot speaks of " that adoration which a young man gives to a woman whom he feels to be greater and better than himself . " No Greek ever felt a woman to be " greater and better than himself , " wherefore true adoration  --  the deification of persons  --  was out of the question . But there was no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in servile flattery and hypocritical praise for the selfish purpose of securing the carnal favors of a mercenarily coy courtesan . He was capable of adulation but not of adoration , for one can not adore a slave , a drudge or a wanton . The author of the Lover 's Lexicon claims , indeed , that " love can and does exist without respect , " but that is false . Infatuation of the senses may exist without respect , but refined , sentimental love is blighted by the discovery of impurity or vulgarity . Adoration is essential to true love , and adoration includes respect . MAN-WORSHIP AND CHRISTIANITY If we must , therefore , conclude that man in primitive and ancient times was unable to feel that love of which adoration is an essential ingredient , how is it with women ? From the earliest times , have they not been taught , with club and otherwise , to look up to man as a superior being , and did not this enable them to adore him with true love ? No , for primitive women , though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were too coarse , obscene , ignorant , and degraded  --  being as a rule even lower than the men  --  to be able to share even a single ingredient of the refined love that we experience . At the same time it may be said ( though it sounds sarcastic ) that woman had a natural advantage over man in being gradually trained to an attitude of devotion . Just as the care of her infants taught her sympathy , so the daily inculcated duty of sacrificing herself for her lord and master fostered the germs of adoration . Consequently we find at more advanced stages of civilization , like those represented by India , Greece , and Japan , that whenever we come across a story whose spirit approaches the modern idea of love , the embodiment of that love is nearly always a woman . Woman had been taught to worship man while he still wallowed in the mire of masculine selfishness and despised her as an inferior . And to the present day , though it is not considered decorous for young women to reveal their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chosen ones : For love 's insinuating fire they fan With sweet ideas of a god like man . In this respect , as in so many others , woman has led civilization . Man , too , gradually learned to doff his selfishness , and to respect and adore women , but it took many centuries to accomplish the change , which was due largely to the influence of Christ 's teachings . As long as the aggressive masculine virtues alone were respected , feminine gentleness and pity could not but be despised as virtues of a lower grade , if virtues at all . But as war became less and less the sole or chief occupation of the best men , the feminine virtues , and those who exercised them , claimed and received a larger share of respect . Christianity emphasized and honored the feminine virtues of patience , meekness , humility , compassion , gentleness , and thus helped to place women on a level with man , and in the noblest of moral qualities even above him . Mariolatry , too , exerted a great influence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to respect and adore other women , and as a matter of course , it was the lover who found it easiest to get down on his knees before the girl he worshipped . X. UNSELFISH GALLANTRY . One day while lunching at an African foudak , half way between Tangier and Tetuan , I was led to moralize on the conjugal superiority of Mohammedan roosters to Mohammedan men . Noticing a fine large cock in the yard , I threw him a handful of bread-crumbs . He was all alone at the moment and might have easily gobbled them all up . Instead of doing such a selfish thing , he loudly summoned his harem with that peculiar clucking sound which is as unmistakable to fowls as is the word dinner or the boom of a gong to us . In a few seconds the hens had gathered and disposed of the bread , leaving not a crumb to their gallant lord and master . I need not add that the Sultan of a human harem in Morocco would have behaved very differently under analogous circumstances . THE GALLANT ROOSTER @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of roots in divers languages , meaning gay , brave , festive , proud , lascivious , and so on . Why not derive if from the Latin gallus , rooster ? A rooster combines in himself all the different meanings of the word gallant . He is showy in appearance , brave , daring , attentive to females , and , above all , chivalrous , that is , inclined to show disinterested courtesy to the weaker sex , as we have just seen . In this last respect , it is true , the rooster stands not alone . It is a trait of male animals in general to treat their females unselfishly in regard to feeding and otherwise . UNGALLANT LOWER RACES OF MEN If we now turn to human beings , we have to ascend many strata of civilization before we come across anything resembling the unselfish gallantry of the rooster . The Australian savage , when he has speared a kangaroo , makes his wife cook it , then selects the juiciest cuts for himself and the other men , leaving the bones to the women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Indians we still find that the women have to content themselves with what the men leave . A Hawaiian even considers it a disgrace to eat at the same place as his wife , or with the same utensils . What Kowney says ( 173 ) of the Nagas of India  --  " she does everything the husband will not , and he considers it effeminate to do anything but fight , hunt , and fish "  --  is true of the lower races in general . An African Kaffir , says Wood ( 73 ) , would consider it beneath his dignity to as much as lift a basket of rice on the head of even his favorite wife ; he sits calmly on the ground and allows some woman to help his busy wife . " One of my friends , " he continues , " when rather new to Kaffirland , happened to look into a hut and there saw a stalwart Kaffir sitting and smoking his pipe , while the women were hard at work in the sun , building huts , carrying timber , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural indignation at such behavior , he told the smoker to get up and work like a man . This idea was too much even for the native politeness of the Kaffir , who burst into a laugh at so absurd a notion . ' Women work , ' said he , ' men sit in the house and smoke . ' " MacDonald relates ( in Africana , I. , 35 ) that " a woman always kneels when she has occasion to talk to a man . " Even queens must in some cases go on their knees before their husbands . ( Ratzel , I. , 254 . ) Caille gives similar testimony regarding the Waissulo , and Mungo Park ( 347 ) describes the return of one of his companions to the capital of Dentila , after an absence of three years : " As soon as he had seated himself upon a mat , by the threshold of his door , a young woman ( his intended bride ) brought a little water in a calabash , and kneeling down before him , desired him to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the girl , with a tear of joy sparkling in her eyes , drank the water ; this being considered as the greatest proof she could possibly give him of her fidelity and attachment . " An Eskimo , when building a house , looks on lazily while his women carry stones " almost heavy enough to break their backs . " The ungallant men not only compel the women to be their drudges , but slyly create a sentiment that it is disgraceful for a man to assist them . Of the Patagonian Indians Falkner asserts that the women are so rigidly " obliged to perform their duty , that their husbands can not help them on any occasion , or in the greatest distress , without incurring the highest ignominy , " and this is the general feeling , of which other illustrations will be given in later chapters . Foolish sentimentalists have tried to excuse the Indians on the ground that they have no time to attend to anything but fighting and hunting . But they always make the squaws do the hard work , whether there be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ girl , accustomed to the gallant attentions of her lover , would not smile on the red Dacota suitor of whom Riggs writes ( 205 ) : " When the family are abed and asleep , he often visits her in her mother 's tent , or he finds her out in the grove in the day time gathering fuel . She has the load of sticks made up , and when she kneels down to take it on her back , possibly he takes her hand and helps her up and then walks home by her side . Such was the custom In the olden time . " Still , there is a germ of gallantry here . The Dacota at least helps to load his human donkey , while the Kaffir refuses to do even that . Colonel James Smith , who had been adopted by the Indians , relates ( 45 ) how one day he helped the squaws to hoe corn . They approved of it , but the old men afterward chid him for degrading himself by hoeing corn like a squaw . He slyly adds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they had no occasion to scold him again . We read in Schoolcraft ( V. , 268 ) that among the Creeks , during courtship , the young man used to help the girl hoe the corn in her field , plant her beans and set poles for them to run upon . But this was not intended as an act of gallant assistance ; it had a symbolic meaning . The running up of the beans on the poles and the entwining of their vines was " thought emblematical of their approaching union and bondage . " Morgan states expressly in his classical work on the Iroquois ( 332 ) that " no attempts by the unmarried to please or gratify each other by acts of personal attention were ever made . " In other words the Indians knew not gallantry in the sense of disinterested courtesy to the weaker sex  --  the gallantry which is an essential ingredient of romantic love . Germs of gallantry may perhaps be found in Borneo where , as St. John relates ( I. , 161 ) , a young Dyak may help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , carrying home her load of vegetables or wood , or make her presents of rings , a petticoat , etc . But such a statement must be interpreted with caution . The very fact that they make the women do the field work and carry the wood habitually , shows that the Dyaks are not gallant . Momentary favors for the sake of securing favors in return , or of arranging an ephemeral Bornean " marriage , " are not acts of disinterested courtesy to the weaker sex . The Dyaks themselves clearly understand that such attentions are mere bids for favors . As a missionary cited by Ling Roth ( 1. , 13.1 ) remarks : " If a woman handed to a man betel-nut and sirah to eat , or if a man paid her the smallest attention , such as we should term only common politeness , it would be sufficient to excuse a jealous husband for striking a man . " It is the same in India . " The politeness , attention , and gallantry which the Europeans practise toward the ladies , although often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Hindoos to a different motive . " ( Dubois , I. , 271 . ) Here , as everywhere in former times , woman existed not for her own sake but for man 's convenience , comfort , and pleasure ; why , therefore , should he bother to do anything to please her ? In the Kaniasoutram there is a chapter on the duties of a model wife , in which she is instructed to do all the work not only at home but in garden , field , and stable . She must go to bed after her husband and get up before him . She must try to excel all other wives in faithfully serving her lord and master . She must not even allow the maid-servant to wash his feet , but must do it with her own hands . The Laws of Manu are full of such precepts , most of them amazingly ungallant . The horrible maltreatment of women in India , which it would be an unpardonable euphuism to call simply ungallant , will be dwelt on in a later chapter . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a nation 's civilization is its treatment of women . It would be more accurate to say that kind , courteous treatment of women is the last and highest product of civilization . The Greeks and Hindoos had reached a high level of culture in many respects , yet , judged by their treatment of women , the Greeks were barbarians and the Hindoos incarnate fiends . Scholars are sometimes surprisingly reckless in their assumptions . Thus Hommel ( 1. , 417 ) declares that woman must have held an honored position in Babylonia , 32 because in the ancient texts that have come down to us the words mother and wife always precede the words father and husband . Yet , as Dubois mentions incidentally , the Brahmin texts also place the feminine word before the masculine , and the Brahmins treat women more cruelly than the lowest savages treat them . EGYPTIAN LOVE I have not been able to find evidence of a gallant , chivalrous , magnanimous attitude toward women in the records of any ancient nation , and as romantic love is inconceivable without such an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may infer from this alone that these nations were strangers to such love . Professor Ebers makes a special plea for the Egyptians . Noting the statements of Herodotus and Diodorus regarding the greater degree of liberty enjoyed by their women as compared with the Greek , he bases thereon the inference that in their treatment of women the Egyptians were superior to all other nations of antiquity . Perhaps they were ; it is not claiming much . But Professor Kendrick notes ( I. , 46 ) that although it may be true that the Egyptian women went to market and carried on trades while the men remained at home working at the loom , this is capable of receiving quite a different interpretation from that given by Ebers . The Egyptians regarded work at the loom more as a matter of skill than the Greeks did ; and if they allowed the women to do the marketing , that may have been because they preferred to have them carry the heavy burdens and do the harder work , after the fashion of savages and barbarians . If the Egyptians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wiped out all traces of it in modern life . To-day , " among the lower classes and in rural districts the wife is her husband 's servant . She works while he smokes and gossips . But among the higher classes , too , the woman actually stands far below the man . He never chats with her , never communicates to her his affairs and cares . Even after death she does not rest by his side , but is separated from him by a wall . " ( Ploss , II. , 450 . ) Polygamy prevails , as in ancient times , and polygamy everywhere indicates a low position of woman . Ebers comments on the circumspection shown by the ancient Egyptians in drawing up their marriage contracts , adding that " in many cases there were even trial marriages "  --  a most amazing " even " in view of what he is trying to prove . A modern lover , as I have said before , would reject the very idea of such a trial marriage with the utmost scorn and indignation , because he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Time may show that he was mistaken , but that does not affect his present feeling . That sublime confidence in the eternity of his passion is one of the hall-marks of romantic love . The Egyptian had it not . He not only sanctioned degrading trial marriages , but enacted a barbarous law which enabled a man to divorce any wife at pleasure by simply pronouncing the words " thou art expelled . " In modern Egypt , says Lane ( I. , 247-51 ) , there are many men who have had twenty , thirty , or more wives , and women who have had a dozen or more husbands . Some take a new wife every month . Thus the Egyptians are matrimonially on a level with the savage and barbarian North American Indians , Tasmanians , Samoans , Dyaks , Malayans , Tartars , many negro tribes , Arabs , etc . ARABIAN LOVE Arabia is commonly supposed to be the country in which chivalry originated . This belief seems to rest on the fact that the Arabs spared women in war . But the Australians did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be used as slaves or concubines we can not speak of chivalry . The Arabs treated their own women well only when they were able to capture or buy slaves to do the hard work for them ; in other cases their wives were their slaves . To this day , when the family moves , the husband rides on the camel while the wife trudges along on foot , loaded down with kitchen utensils , bedding , and her child on top . If a woman happens to ride on a camel she must get off and walk if she meets a man , by way of showing her respect for the superior sex . ( Niebuhr , 50 . ) The birth of a daughter is regarded as a calamity , mitigated only by the fact that she will bring in some money as a bride . Marriage is often little more than a farce . Burckhardt knew Bedouins who , before they were fifty years old , had been married to more than fifty different women . Chavanne , in his book on the Sahara ( 397-401 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arab girls : " Usually wedded very young ( the marriage of a youth of fourteen to a girl of eleven is nothing unusual ) , the girl finds in most cases , after five or six years , that her conjugal career is at an end . The husband tires of her and sends her back , without cogent reasons , to her parents . If there are no parents to return to , she abandons herself , in many cases , to the vice of prostitution . " If not discarded , her fate is none the less deplorable . " While young she receives much attention , but when her charms begin to fade she becomes the servant of her husband and of his new wife . " Chavanne gives a glowing description of the ravishing but short-lived beauty of the Arab girl ; also a specimen of the amorous songs addressed to her while she is young and pretty . She is compared to a gazelle ; to a palm whose fruits grow high up out of reach ; she is equal in value to all Tunis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to five hundred steeds and as many camels . Her throat is like a peach , her eyes wound like arrows . Exaggerations like these abound in the literature of the Arabs , and are often referred to as proof that they love as we do . In truth , they indicate nothing beyond selfish , amorous desires . The proof of unselfish affection lies not in words , however glowing and flattering , but in kind actions ; and the actions of the Arabs toward their women are disgustingly selfish , except during the few years that they are young and pretty enough to serve as toys . The Arabs , with all their fine talk , are practically on a level with the Samoyedes who , as we saw , ignore or maltreat their wives , " except on an occasional amorous evening " ; on a level with the Sioux Indian , of whom Mrs. Eastman remarks that a girl is to him an object of contempt and neglect from her birth to her grave , except during the brief period when he wants her for his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE UNCHIVALROUS GREEKS A few pages back I cited the testimony of Morgan , who lived many years among the Indians and studied them with the intelligence of an expert ethnologist , that " no attempts by the unmarried to please or gratify each other by acts of personal attention were ever made . " From this we can , once more , make a natural transition from the aboriginal American to the ancient Greek . The Greek men , says the erudite Becker ( III. , 335 ) , " were quite strangers to that considerate , self-sacrificing courtesy and those minute attentions to women which we commonly call gallantry , " Greek literature and all that we know of Greek life , bear out this assertion fully . It is true the Alexandrian poets and their Roman imitators frequently use the language of sentimental gallantry ; they declare themselves the slaves of their mistresses , are eager to wear chains , to go through fire , to die for them , promising to take their love to the next world . But all these things are mere " words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is exposed as soon as we examine the actions and the motives of these poets , of whom more will be said in a later chapter . Their flatteries are addressed invariably to hetairai ; they are conceived and written with the selfish desire to tickle the vanity of these wantons in the hope and expectation of receiving favors for which the poets , who were usually poor , were not able to pay in any other way . Thus these poets are below the Arabs , for these sons of the desert at least address their flatteries to the girls whom they are eager to marry , whereas the Greek and Roman poets sought merely to beguile a class of women whose charms were for sale to anyone . One of these profligate men might cringe and wail and cajole , to gain the good will of a capricious courtesan , but he never dreamed of bending his knees to win the honest love of the maid he took to be his wife ( that he might have male offspring . ) Roman love was not romantic , nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gallantry of the men was of a kind that made them erect golden images in public places to honor Phryne and other prostitutes . In a word , their gallantry was sham gallantry ; it was gallantry not in the sense of polite attentions to women , springing from unselfish courtesy and esteem , but in the sinister sense of profligacy and amorous intrigue . There were plenty of gallants , but no real gallantry . OVID 'S SHAM GALLANTRY While it is undoubtedly true that Ovid exercised a greater influence on mediaeval bards , and through them on modern erotic writers , than any other ancient poet , and while I still maintain that he anticipated and depicted some of the imaginative phases of modern love ( see my R.L.P.B. , 90-92 ) , a more careful study of the nature of gallantry has convinced me that I erred in finding the " morning dawn of romantic love " in the counsels regarding gallant behavior toward women given in the pages of Ovid. 33 He does , indeed , advise a lover never to notice the faults of a woman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her , on the contrary , on her face , her hair , her tapering fingers , her pretty foot ; to applaud at the circus whatever she applauds ; to adjust her cushion and put the footstool in its place ; to keep her cool by fanning her ; and at dinner , when she has put her lips to the wine-cup to seize the cup and put his lips to the same place . But when Ovid wrote this , nothing was farther from his mind than what we understand by gallantry  --  an eagerness to perform acts of disinterested courtesy and deference for the purpose of pleasing a respected or adored woman . His precepts are , on the contrary , grossly utilitarian , being intended not for a man who wishes to win the heart and hand of an honest girl , but for a libertine who has no money to buy the favors of a wanton , and therefore must rely on flatteries and obsequious fawning . The poet declares expressly that a rich man will not need his Ars Amandi , but that it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overcome the greed of the hetairai by tickling their vanity . He therefore teaches his readers how to deceive such a girl with false flattery and sham gallantry . The Roman poet uses the word domina , but this domina , nevertheless , is his mistress , not in the sense of one who dominates his heart and commands his respect and affection , but of a despised being lower than a concubine , on whom he smiles only till he has beguiled her . It is the story of the cat and the mouse . MEDIAEVAL AND MODERN GALLANTRY How different this from the modern chivalry which in face of womanhood makes a gentleman even out of a rough California miner . Joaquin Miller relates how the presence of even an Indian girl  --  " a bud that in another summer would unfold itself wide to the sun , " affected the men in one of the camps . Though she seldom spoke with the miners , yet the men who lived near her hut dressed more neatly than others , kept their beards in shape , and shirt-bosoms buttoned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , through the tint of brown , lay the blush and flush of maidenhood , the indescribable sacred something that makes a maiden holy to every man of a manly and chivalrous nature ; that makes a man utterly unselfish and perfectly content to love and be silent , to worship at a distance , as turning to the holy shrines of Mecca , to be still and bide his time ; caring not to possess in the low , coarse way that characterizes your common love of to-day , but choosing //                     