@@493019

Dramatic Issues THERE is an indestructible persistence about the dramatic instinct by virtue of which drama seems to survive every vicissitude . It is precisely because drama is the expression of such a fundamental human instinct that we must take it with a large seriousness . Drama is a social force to be reckoned with ; it both indicates the state of civilization of a community and is in itself a civilizing agent . Historical criticism has usually recognized this . It has tried to relate the drama of a past epoch to the social , economic , or religious conditions , and has found a significance in even the manners and customs of the people . Contemporary criticism , on the contrary , for the most part completely shirks the task . Our drama has been lifted out of the texture of our social life and has been treated as if it did not bear the slightest relation to our social customs and our state of culture , our economic life and our gropings towards a more than merely verbal democracy . Yet now more than ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to be of any real value it must relate the two issues in the interest of a larger social criticism . The annual scolding meted out to the tired business man is an excellent example of the falsely detached point of view present critisism . He is berated for his inveterate habit of yawning in Ibsen 's face . The issue is made purely personal , as if the business man 's preference were a kind of perversity . The only reply he is ever known to have made was printed in Life , and was to the effect that the thing that made him so tired was the kind of play he had to see . But there is a real helplessness about the tired business man , and no criticism is quite so shallow and so vain as that which habitually singles him out for a scapegoat . His psychology is not peculiar ; it is the reaction of every human being cornmitted to a regime of work without leisure . The test is easily made . Simply grind in an office for eight or nine hours with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hasty supper , and then walk down Broadway with the best of intentions towards the drama . Nine out of ten times , if you are at all like your fellow sufferers and have not made up your mind beforehand , you will shirk your Shakespeare and patronize the frankly frivolous . You may even find that you have gravitated to a theatre where you are allowed to smoke . The tired business man really raises the whole problem of culture . For culture is hardly attainable without some leisure , some pause and recovery in the onrush of the mere pressure of existence , and as long as we frown upon leisure as a yielding to the devil and an invitation to our competitor to overreach us , the finer issues of life must remain in abeyance . If European drama is superior to ours , that is due to some extent , at least , to the fact that the greater leisure in European social life has raised the standard of appreciation among audiences . While conditions remain such that the American business man can never recuperate or interpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , his wife will drag him to the temples of drama in vain . Meanwhile his worst crime , the average musical comedy , is his best achievement , for his extremely human nature is rightly opposed to the policy of the starvation of the sensuous with which a now decadent Puritanism has so long stifled all art . The relation of culture to leisure as reflected in the drama leads us to so democratic an issue as the woman question . To-day more than ever before the problem of culture lies in the hands of women . They hold the prizes and adornments of leisure and provide the stimulants to culture . But their influence is barren as long as one half is deprived of all leisure while the other half is bored with too much of it . Women at present are rushing into industry . It may well be that their very disabilities , their physical handicaps for standing the grind of industry , will work in the interests of leisure and of culture by shortening the hours of toil for men as well as for women . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic democracy is mere rhetoric . It may be left to women to show that democracy without leisure is not worth the candle . When critics grow weary of thumping the tired business man , they turn to browbeating the unscrupulous business man . The commercial manager makes good kicking . It would be futile , of course , to deny real evils here . Even such a charge as the suppression of criticism , however , has attained to gross exaggeration . Managers do not suppress criticism very much , because it is not necessary . One sees too many young and radical critics who gradually succumb to an innocuous mildness . The seduction is not so much commercial as it is personal . It is difficult to continue to write harshly about people one knows , or to criticize a charmingactress with whom one has just had tea . And it is not dramatic criticism alone that has yielded to lthe prejudices of a national temperament which frowns upon all criticism as a form of " knocking " and so naively appreciates the modicum of good in everything . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reprobation of commercialism upon the manager as if he were the only offender . He is not a public enemy because he honestly prefers making money to losing it . What are we if not commercial ? The charge bites deep into our whole life and the remedy , if anyone has it , must be applied to the very basis of society before it can affect so subtle a thing as art . But the accusation is in itself inaccurate . It would not be difficult to show that as a business man the average manager is hopelessly inferior to our pillars of society . He is , in a much truer sense , a gambler , with all the gambler 's trust in chance and haphazard organization . What perhaps more than anything else he needs is sound business training . The stock remedy for the commercialism of the managers is the endowed theatre . With those who , on the ideal assumption of an ideal state , plan an ideally perfect theatre , we have no quarrel and no concern . They move in that charmed sphere where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Nor have we any patience with those who merely contemplate a raid upon the state treasury to permit them to carry out their no doubt impeccable plans without financial or social responsibility . Between these two extremes the citizen at large must still do some hard thinking . He may incline to the idealist 's version . But he will find the sign-posts confusing . At the present moment , for example , a state endowed theatre like the Comedie Francaise has been brought to the point of collapse through political intrigue and the discontent of the actors . And our own New Theatre , liberally enough endowed , though not by the state , has succumbed to mistakes most of which a little despised business acumen might well have avoided . Nor can the citizen be guided by those theatres which , like Shakespeare 's or Moliere 's , were dependent upon royal patronage . It is merely bad political thinking to suppose that a conception of the state based upon Louis XIV 's dictum , " L'Etat , c'est moi , " has anything in common with our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its success not so much to endowment as to the fact that it was the aesthetic expression of a national religion . The problem of a modern state-endowed theatre is a new problem under new conditions of a formative democracy . But it is not merely poetical ; it is as essentially concrete as the question of railroad nationalization . It is more than a dramatic , it is a political problem . We must fully realize its implications even as we welcome any sincere movement towards state endowment . For it is one of those democratic changes which , though i inaugurated by the state , will also , if it is to be effective , bring about a change in us . That is why we can not stand apart from it . When American drama is at its lowest the cry goes out for a savior . The Great American Dramatist is coming to redeem us with a masterpiece that will express our true ideals . Just what he is to represent and how we are to recognize him is not imparted by his prophets . His possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art in a democratic civilization such as ours . Can any art be finer or nobler than the people that are its spiritual soil ? Have we attained the national maturity and the underlying unity without which a national art can not flourish ? How can a democracy which is still as inchoate as ours hope to find artistic expression ? Such questions force us to searching interrogations . We must remember that no purely mercantile civilization has ever produced any art ; it has merely hired or bought it . There was no art in the Peiraeus . That was left to the divine loafers in Athens . America as yet has little of the inner richness of experience , of accumulated tradition and religious feeling , to offer as materialto its artists . We are still a pioneer people , too active to ponder the problems of existence , and in a way too healthy to brood over merely tragic issues . A nation has the art that it deserves . The Great American Dramatist remains an elusive gentleman . Meanwhile the remarkable thing about the most typically American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Get Rich Quick Wallingford , " the concoctor of " It Pays To Advertise , " are almost impersonal to us . They lack personality because the ideas they express do not possess the peculiar quality of art . They celebrate the virtues that have made us what we are but what we do not like to acknowledge . Are they not , just for that reason , our true national mirrors and our best monitors ? Their very helplessness and the recurrent sordidness of their themes point to the task of self-culture that lies before us . When once we are purged of our commercialism , when leisure has civilized us , drama will reflect our nobler traits soon enough .                     