@@485082

employment in Chicago , and declares that " the President and the other side of the House , " instead of doing something to relieve the situation , are pursuing the " fatuous policy that they talked about on the stump . " Mr. Clark , then rising to reply , makes one point which , it must be admitted , is highly effective . Mr. Mann had pointed to the soup-houses and bread-lines brought in by the calamity of Democratic rule , and had declared that nothing of the kind was known in the panic year of 1907 ; whereupon Mr. Clark neatly counters as follows . The gentleman says there were no soup-houses in 1907 In that year I made a speech here , and quoted a whole lot of this kind of stuff which he has been quoting here to-day . Republican soup-houses was my theme on that occasion . This candid reference to his own buncombe of the past is well enough as a reply to Mr. Mann 's buncombe of the present ; but why introduce a fresh bit of buncombeby throwing out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about it , is part of a Republican conspiracy to destroy the country 's prosperity ? Frank G. Allen , plough manufacturer of Moline , HI , is to be the standard-bearer of the new Progressive party for United States Senator in the campaign of 1914 This was decided to-day at the State conference of the Moose men . But how can a mere conference , even though it be composed of the wisest men in the party , decide upon a nominee for office ? What are primaries for ? At the very time when these Illinois leaders of the Progressives were acting like reactionaries , the Progressives in the House of Representatives at Washington were calling attention to " the fact that reform of the National Convention does not touch the fundamental difference between the Progressive and Republican Few thought that President Wilson might veto the Hetch-Hetchy bill . When it passed both houses of Congress by emphatic majorities , its becoming a law was generally taken for granted . In signing the bill , which he says he examined with care , Mr. Wilson gives a statement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have prevented him from exercising the veto power , and we raise no doubt of his having done what he sincerely thought to be his duty . A President does well to hesitate and be sure of his ground before setting up his judgment against the deliberate vote of Congress . But an argument for not vetoing the bill after it is passed is one thing , and the argument against voting for the bill while it was pending is quite another . The latter is the argument which the champions of the integrity of the national parks urged , and they need not now withdraw anything they have said . President Wilson , without naming him , plainly alludes to Mr. Gifford Pinchot as one of the great advocates of conservation who have yet favored the Hetch-Hetchy invasion of the Yosemite . But this only shows how careful a man like Mr. Pinchot ought to be , lest his deserved authority be misused . And in this particular case it has been more than intimated that Mr. Pinchot was willing to give up Hetch-Hetchy in order to induce San @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conservation . The dissolution of the great telegraph and telephone combination presents three points of cardinal interest . In ' the first place , it is conclusive evidence that the feat can be done  --  a thing that has been denied over and over in regard to is distinctly emphasized by the fact that the dissolution was effected by friendly understanding between the company and the Attorney-General ; for in order to satisfy Mr. McReynolds as he has been satisfied , it may be assumed that the practical effectiveness of the scheme of dissolution was fully made out to his mind . In the second place , it is impossible to look upon the latest development in the series of great merger-dissOlutions otherwise than as a link in the chain of legitimate consequences of the memorable decisions of the Supreme Court , during Mr. Taft 's Administration , in the Standard Oil and Tobacco Trust cases . And finally , as an indication of the immediate temper of the time , the affair has very much the look of a manifestation of desire on'the part of the Wilson Administration for peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are suggested in the annual report of the Interstate Commerce Commission for the " persistence " of train accidents , " leading always to the same harrowing results " Either " a great majority of these deplorable railway disasters are unavoidable , or there exists a widespread lack of intelligent and well-directed effort to minimize the mistakes of employees in the operation of trains . " For , the report says squarely , " All of the mistakes noted above are violations of simple rules , which should have been easily understood by men of sufficient intelligence to be entrusted with the operation of trains . " " The Coin . mission goes even further . " The evidence is that in the main the rules are understood " ( our italics ) . But in many cases " operating officers are cognizant of this habitual disregard of rules , and no proper steps are taken to correct the evil . " Has the Commission ever heard of one James 0 . Fagan and of his showing up of the attitude of labor unions towards attempts by railway managers to enforce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was recently threatened with a strike because it proposed to take " proper steps to correct the evil " of avoidable accidents ? A country proud of such achievements as Col. Gorgas 's ought to be sensitive to the charge made by Professor Sedgwick , of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , that most of our city and State health boards are " incompetent and inefficient . " His speech echoes opinions expressed at the recent dedication of the medical buildings of the University of Nebraska . Speaking there for the West , as Professor Sedgwick has just spoken for the East , one scientist remarked that " trained experts are nowhere more seriously needed and unfortunately more difficult to secure than in the field of public health . " Professor Sedgwick reminded the cities that they did not spend time or money enough on experts in bacteriology , municipal hygiene , and sanitary engineering . Protessor Ward asserted that the State and other universities did not make adequate provision for training such experts . But both pointed to the same need . If the cities and States wake up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Boston grand jury , which has reported that it had not found sufficient evidence to warrant the indictment of any one for responsibility for the deaths of twenty-eight men in the recent lodging-house fire there , makes another statement of a kind that occurs with almost monotonous regularity in the story of such calamities . The insufficiency of the fire escapes had not missed the attention of the inspectors of the Building Department , and an order had been issued to the owner , six weeks before the disaster , to supply additional means of escape in case of fire ; but nothing had been done about it . It is often stated that there is not a sufficient number of inspectors in our cities ; but the trouble lies deeper . One inspector , under a system in which strict and stern enforcement of orders prevails , is more to the purpose than five inspectors with a lax execution of the law . To discussion of the many-sided problem of education in the South a proposal for compulsory education in Virginia has made a contribution of great , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Of the 600,000 children in Virginia , only 400,000 ever see the inside of a public schoolroom . Those who defend the present district-optionsystem of passing on enforced schooling base their arguments on the higher taxes involved in a change ; the root of the matter being the inveterate prejudice against compulsory education of the negro . It is highly encouraging to find Papers like the Richmond Yovintaa defending the proposal . Deducting from the 200,000 the children in private schools and those above fourteen , the Virgznion , estimates that only the cost of educating 60,000 would be added to the present burden of the schools , and asks if that is too great to be assumed at once . The child-labor law in Virginia fixes the age limit at fourteen , and not at twelve , as in most Southern States , and the palpable evils resulting from idleness are behind the agitation . If to the children of a State is given leisure to study , facilities must follow . Sixteen years of experience with the indeterminate-sentence law in Indiana show , according to the Board of Charities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , fifty-seven do as they agree and are discharged from supervision , twenty-six violate their parole , the sentences of six expire auring the parole period , so that they are automatically discharged , two die , and the remaining nine are under supervision at a given time , " reporting " regularly . An interesting portion of the statement is that dealing with the financial aspect of the system . The earnings of these prisoners during the time they " reported " totalled more than $2,000,000 . Their expenses amounted to $1,700,000 . Hence , instead of costing the State $172 a year each , as does the average prisoner , these paroled men and women made their way and had savings of about $50 each . It is pointed out that " indeterminate " is a somewhat misleading designation , as the sentences served must fall between the minimum and the maximum terms prescribed by statute for the crime committed . The parole boards at the various institutions have wide latitude both in granting pardons and in withdrawing the liberty of persons on parole . Mrs. Inez Milholland Boissevain. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support of the " white slave " moving-picture films in this city , are helping to identify the cause of woman suffrage with the advocacy of exhibitions of that character . Qualify it asthey will , their attitude will be taken by sober people , and , we believe , will be justly taken , as indicating a desire for the undiscriminating eXploitation , before general audiences , of subjects the handling of which in that manner is full of danger . The presuMption that this mischief vastly outweighs any good that may be accomplished is so strong that the most weighty and convincing evidence is required to overthrow it . Certainly no one will regard Mrs. Belmont 's ipso dixit as constituting such evidence . That she thinks the drawing of miscellaneous crowds to such an exhibition as the police have been endeavoring to suppress a " mighty service " of which " future generations will reap the benefit " will be held perhaps to throw fresh light on the quality of her reasoning powers . " Agitation , " we read , " for celebrating the tercentenary of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , began in 1909 . It was felt that unless something was done to inform the world of New England 's claim upon the year 1920 some other community might preempt the date . " In this is tacit admission of the hampering multiplicity of international expositions . If Panama were to profit by Yankee shrewdness , she might soon proclaim that in 2214 will be held a fair celebrating the tercentenary of the Canal 's completion . The case parallels the hurried announcement of the scholar that he has selected a certain spot in the domain of knowledge for a book , and warns all others off . But is it not possible that Plymouth 's ambition overleaps itself ? Of late , there has been a tendency to deny the necessity of world-wide participation in all world 's fairs ; from which we might assume the possibility of two existing simultaneously  --  perhaps not side by side , but in different hemispheres . The recall has been invoked in Orangeburg , S. C. , against the Mayor and a Councilman , who are charged with being " temperamentally unfit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the assurance which advocates of this device often give us , that the recall will be resorted to only in cases of real importance . If the present attempt in Orangeburg fails , why not start another petition for a recall election , upon the ground that the clothes of the Mayor and the Councilman in question are not of a suitable color or cut for occupants of the offices they hold ? Perhaps Orangeburg is democratic enough to entertain a petition setting forth that these officials part their hair in the middle , or are a bit fussy about their ties . The Columbia State , while having its doubts about the desirability of making temperamental fitness an issue , reconciles itself to this election by the consideration that it may call the attention of the people of South Carolina to the existence of the recall as an essential part of the commission plan of government . Unless the recall is occasionally resorted to its value will deteriorate . This is , indeed , a point that must not be overlooked . Why not insure attention to it by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it shall be the duty of the Corporation Counsel to do so at least as often as every third year ? Huerta 's generals have taken a leaf out of the book of Pancho Villa , by enlisting the services of a press agent . The Constitutionalist commander has always given notice of his strategic moves several days ahead . It is true that ne has usually followed up his advance notice by attacking in quite a different place , from the : , one designated and in a manner not at all outlined in his " release " copy . This is poor newspaper ethics . The efficacy of the method is undeniable , - however , and is acknowledged by the other side . Thus , in response to Villa 's explicit statement of his plans With regard-to the advance from Chihuahua on Mexico City , comes a detailed strategic plan from Gen. Mercado , in command of- the forces which recently evacuated Chihuahua-with extraordinary celerity . Mercado now announces that he will immediately proceed to retake Juarez and Chihuahua , and by interposing himself between the rebels and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Whether an army that felt itself too weak to hold a fortified city against the enemy is now strong enough to retake that city , together with other cities designated , is open to question . It would need a first-class press agent to make the thing seem probable . The " heroism " of Lieut . Forstner , who struck a lame cobbler of Alsace over the head with his sabre , has been rewardedwith a sentence of forty-three days ' imprisonment . This is the minimum penalty provided for such offences . As evidence at the court-marial proved the Lieutenant 's allegation untenable that he had drawn his weapon in self-defence , it had no choice but to find him guilty . The outcome of the trial must be satisfying to the outraged population of the disaffected provinces . It indicates the willingness of the higher officers in the German army to do the honorable thing . Had the offence committed by the Lieutenant been a really grave one , had he killed the cobbler and followed this up by slaughtering a few bystanders , doubtless the penalty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But with the necessity of keeping the rabble in a proper attitude towards their superiors , so that the latter will not be Ender the painful necessity of rebuking " wild game " now and then , even the Alsatians must see that it would not do to be too hard upon a high-spirited young officer . The difficulty of stamping out the duel in Germany is made plain by a recent occurrence in the army . It seems that a first lieutenant in one of the crack Guard regiments was retired a couple of years ago on the ground that he was unfitted for a military career by reason of the lack of the " power of decision " necessary- in a military officer . The facts in the case have now been made public as follows- This officer notified his superior officers that because of conscientious scruples he could not subscribe to the doctrine of the duel . He was besought by a group of officers to change his mind . He yielded to them sufficiently to withdraw his protest , but the next morning his religious convictions resumed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he stood by his position . They promptly retired him for indecision of character , which they carefully explained had nothing to do with his attitude towards duelling . They maintained that a man who could change his mind twice in twenty-four hours had not the force needed to make decisions in military emergencies . The case has attracted a great deal of attention in Berlin , and is likely to be discussed in the Reichstag . Cardinal Rampolla 's retirement from the office of Papal Secretary , just tenyears ago , may have been partly out of disappointment at his failure to be chosen as successor to Leo XIII . But since Rampolla 's election had been prevented by the veto of Austria , which presumably was well-inclined to the choice of Cardinal Sarto , it would have been difficult for Rampolla to carry on the Papal foreign policy under the new Pontiff . The Cardinal 's sympathies were with the Western Powers as against the Triple Alliance . Under his successor , Merry del Val , the controversy between the Vatican and France , for some time under way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years , in the enactment of the Separation law , the after effects of which are still visible in French political life . In Spain and Portugal , too , the Vatican has suffered reverses more or less severe since the passing of Cardinal Rampolla from power . In his failure to reach the Papal throne were once more exemplified the dangers that beset a personality strong enough to make enemies and not strong enough to ride down all opposition . It now seems certain that it is the intention of President Yuan Shi-Kai ? to dissolve the Parliament at Peking . The step may be regarded as only a temporary setback to the cause of representative government in China . It is a form of reaction which other nations have witnessed and which would seem to be almost inevitable in the evolution of parliamentary institutions . For Yuan Shi-Kai , facing the obstruction of the representatives from the southern provinces , the move may be of immediate expediency . But it is also one fraught with danger . The revolutionists of the South have been furnished with an excuse for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' South is a permanent factor on which those who oppose the rule of Peking can count . Sun Yat-Sen , the head of the recent uprising in the South , has made it plain that the struggle will be carried on . Under China 's loose system of provincial government and in the absence of a formidable standing army , there will always be local centres of discontent , and , when the opportunity offers , insurrection . Instead of attempting the extremely difficult task of allaying the historic enmity between the Chinese of the North and the South , Yuan Shi-Kai has preferred to put in force repression .                     