@@436333

The American continents , by the free and independent condition which they have assumed and maintain , are henceforth not to be considered as subjects for future colonization by European powers . ? We should consider any attempt on their part to extend their system to any portion of this hemisphere as dangerous to our peace and safety . With the existing colonies or dependencies of any European power , we have not interfered and shall not interfere . But with the governments who have declared their independence , and maintained it , and whose independence we have , on great consideration , and on just principles , acknowledged , we could not view any interposition for the purpose of oppressing them , or controlling , in any other manner , their destiny , by any European power , in any other light than as the manifestation of an unfriendly disposition towards the United States . . . . ' Taus , in 1823 , did President James Monroe , acting under the influence of his able Secretary of State , John Quincy Adams , enunciate a doctrine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have ever had . No one questions the fact that the enunciation of this policy of America for Americans , ' and our firm adherence to it for so many years , has had a very decided effect upon the history of the Western Hemisphere . There have been .. times when ambitious European monarchs would have liked nothing better than to help themselves to poorly defended territory in is now termediLatin America . When the Doctrine was originated , the Holy Alliance in Europe was contemplating the overthrow of republican government in Spain , and unquestionably looked with extreme aversion at the new republics in South and Central America , whose independence we were hastily recognizing . Russia was reaching out beyond Alaska . The firm declaration of this policy of exclusion , backed up by England 's attitude toward the Holy Alliance , undoubtedly operated to give the American republics sufficient breathing space to enable them to get on their feet and begin the difficult process of working out their own salvation , ? a process which was rendered all the more difficult by reason of Hispanic racial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of geographical conditions which made transportation and social intercourse extremely arduous . Journeys across Peru even to-day may be beset with more difficulties 722 THE MONROE DOCTRINE : AN OBSOLETE SHIBBOLETH than were journeys from Mississippi to California sixty years ago , before the railroads . It still takes longer to go from Lima , the capital of Peru , to Iquitos , the capital of Peru 's largest province , and one which the Putumayo atrocities have recently brought vividly to our notice , than it does to go from London to Honolulu . Had it not been for the Monroe Doctrine , the American republics would have found it very much more difficult to maintain their independence during the first three quarters of a century of their career . And this notwithstanding the fact that the actual words ' Monroe Doctrine ' were rarely heard or seen . In 1845 , without mentioning this shibboleth by name , President Polk declared that the United States would not permit any European intervention on the North American continent . This , as Professor Coolidge has brought out , ' pushed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although it restricted the original idea by leaving South America out of account . A few years later , while we were engaged in civil war , Napoleon III attempted to set up a European monarch in Mexico . Scarcely had we recovered , however , from the throes of our great conflict , when Mr. Seward took up with the French government the necessity for the withdrawal of the French troops from Maximilian 's support . Here we were acting strongly in accordance with the best traditions of the Monroe Doctrine , and yet the mysterious words were not employed in the correspondence . In fact , while it was generally understood that we would not countenance any European interference in the affairs of North and South America , it was not until 1895 , during the second ad- ministration of President Cleveland , that a Secretary of State thought it expedient or necessary to re-state the Monroe Doctrine and to bring us to the verge of a European war by backing it up with an absolutely uncompromising attitude . Venezuela had had a long-standing boundary dispute with British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was discovered that in the disputed territory were rich gold fields . In the excitement which ensued , the Venezuelans appealed to the United States , and Secretary Olney , invoking the Monroe Doctrine , brought matters to a crisis . Our defiant attitude toward Great Britain astonished the world , and greatly pleased the majority of American citizens . The very fact that we had not the slightest personal interest in the paltry sixty thousand square miles of jungle southeast of the Orinoco , added to our self-esteem . It raised our patriotism to the highest pitch when we realized that we were willing to go to war with the most powerful nation in Europe rather than see her refuse to arbitrate her right to her ancient possession of a little strip of tropical forest with a government which was not in existence when England took British Guiana , but which was an ' American Republic . ' Fortunately for us , Lord Salisbury had a fairly good sense of humor , and declined to take the matter too seriously . Instead of standing , in the proverbial British manner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ polite . ly ignored the Boundary Commission which we had impetuously called into existence , and , dealing directly with his neighbor Venezuela , arranged for an international court of arbitration . In our exuberance over the success of Mr. Olney 's bold and unselfish enunciation of the Monroe Doctrine we failed to realize several aspects of this question . THE MONROE DOCTRINE : AN OBSOLETE SHIBBOLETH 723 In the first place , we h declared the Monroe Doct part of International La distinguish between law In the second place , a new theorem . In th Olney : The states o as well as North , proximity , by nat similarity of Gove dons , are friends cially and politica States . ' A few years ear tart of State , Blai esistenee the Int American Republi tinted a doctrine o which has glowed fully ever since . Mr. Olney 's woids recognized this doctrine . But whe he gave geograph-n we began the ne Monroe Doctrin the geographical American alliance Furthermore , t new Monroe Doctrine was establish d on another false idea , the existence of atural sympathy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of act , instances might easily be multipl ed to show that our South American eighbors have far more natural sy pathy for , and regard themselves as uch more nearly akin to , the Latin ces of Europe , than to the cosmopoli n people of the United States . How Spain feels was shown recently in the case of a distinguished Spanish professor who was able to find time to make an extended journey through Latin America , urging Pan-Hispanism , but could find no time to make an extended journey through the cities of the United States , although offered lavish hospitality and considerable honorariums . How Brazil feels was seen a few years ago in Rio Janeiro , when Brazil was holding a national exposition . Each state of that great Republic had a building of its own , but no foreign nations were represented , except Portugal , the mother country , which had her own building . Of the difficulties of establishing any kind of an alliance between ourselves and the South American republics no one who has traveled in South America can be ignorant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writer : Essential points of difference separate the two Americas . Differences of language , and therefore of spirit ; the difference between Spanish Catholicism and the multiform Protestantism of the Anglo-Saxons ; between the Yankee individualism and the omnipotence of the State natural to the South . In their origin , as in their race , we find fundamental antagonisms ; the evolution of the North is slow and obedient to the lessons of time , to the influences of custom ; the history of the Southern peoples is full of revolution , rich with dreams of an unattainable perfection . ' One of the things which make it and 724 THE MONROE DOCTRINE : will continue to make it difficult for us to treat fairly with our Southern neighbors is our racial prejudice against the half-breed . As Senor Calderon bluntly says : ' Half-breeds and their descendants govern the Latin-American republics ' ; and it is a well-known fact that this leads to contempt on the part of the average Anglo-Saxon . Such a state of affairs shows the difficulty of assuming that Pan-Americanism is axiomatic , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on ' natural sympathy . ' In the third place , the new form of the Monroe Doctrine declared , in the words of Secretary Olney , that the ' United States is practically sovereign on this continent . ' This at once aroused the antagonism and the fear of those very Southern neighbors who , in another sentence , he had endeavored to prove were friends and allies , commercially and politically , of the United States . ' Less than three years after the enunciation of the new Monroe Doctrine we were at war with Spain . The progress of the war in Cuba and the Spanish colonies was followed in South America with the keenest interest . How profoundly it would have surprised the great American public to realize that while we were spending blood and treasure to secure the independence of another American republic , our neighbors in Buenos Aires were indulging in the most severe and caustic criticism of our motives ! This attitude can be appreciated only by those who have compared the cartoons published week after week , during the progress of the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one , Uncle Sam is pictured as a benevolent giant , saving the poor maid Cuba from the jaws of the ferocious dragon , General Weyler , and his cruel mistress in Spain . In the other , Uncle Sam in the AN OBSOLETE SHIBBOLETH guise of a fat hog is engaged in be . smirching the fair garments of the Queen of Spain in his violent efforts to gobble up her few American posses. sions . Representations of our actions in the Philippines are in such disgust . ing form that it would not be desirable to attempt to describe some of the Argentine cartoons touching upon that subject . Our neighbors felt that a decided change had come over the Monroe Doctrine ! In 1823 we had declared that ' with the existing colonies or dependencies of any European power we have not interfered , and shall not in ' terfere ' ( so runs the original Monroe Doctrine ) . In 1898 we not only interfered , but actually took away all iof Spain 's colonies and dependencies , freeing Cuba and retaining for our ( selves Porto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a moment wishing to enter into a discussion of the wisdom of our actions , I desire to emphasize the tremendous difference between the old and the new Monroe Doctrine . This is not a case of theories and arguments , but of deeds . What are the facts ? In 1895 we declare that we are practically sovereign on this continent ; in 1898 we take a rich American island from a European power , and in 1903 we go through the form of preventing a South American republic from subduing a revolution in one of her distant provinces , and eventually take a strip of that province because we believe we owe it to the world to build the Panama Canal . Again , let it be clear that I am not interested at this point in defending or attacking our actions in any of these cases , ? I merely desire to state what has happened , and to show some of the fruits of the new Monroe Doctrine . ' By their fruits ye shall know them . ' THE MONROE DOCTRINE : AN OBSOLETE SHIBBOLETH @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ escaped the attention of our neighbors in South America is our intervention in Santo Domingo , which , although it may be an excellent thing for the people of that island , has undoubtedly interfered with their right to do as they please with their own money . Furthermore , within the past three years we have twice landed troops in Central America , and taken an active part by way of interfering in local politics . We believed that the conditions were so bad as to justify us in carrying out the new Monroe Doctrine by aiding one side in a local revolution . Of our armed intervention in Cuba it is scarcely necessary to speak , except to refer in passing to the newspaper story , credited and believed in Cuba , that if American troops are again obliged to intervene in the political life of that country , they will not be withdrawn as has been the practice in the past . The menace of intervention , armed intervention , the threatened presence of machine guns and American marines , have repeatedly been used by Latin-American politicians in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And we have done enough of that sort of thing to make it evident to disinterested observers that the new Monroe Doctrine , our present policy , is to act as international policeman , or at least as an **29;640;TOOLONG , whenever the little fellows get too fresh . Is this Doctrine worth while ? Let us see what it involves : first , from the European , second , from the Latin-American point of view . By letting it be known in Europe that we shall not tolerate any Euro pean intervention or the landing of European troops on the sacred soil of the American republics , we assume all responsibility . We have declared , in the words of Secretary Olney , that the United States is practically sovereign on this continent , and that its fiat is law upon the subject to which it confines its interposition . ' Therefore European countries have the right to look to us to do that which we prevent them from doing . A curious result of this is that some of the American republics float loans in Europe , believing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their European creditors forcibly to collect these loans . Personally , I believe that it ought to be an adopted principle of international law that the armed intervention of creditor nations to collect bad debts on behalf of their bankers and bondholders is forbidden . If this principle were clearly understood and accepted , these bankers and underwriters would be far more particular to whom they lent any great amount of money , and under what conditions . They would not be willing to take the risks which they now take , and many unfortunate financial tangles would never have a beginning . It is natural for a republic which has great undeveloped resources , much optimism , and a disregard of existing human handicaps , to desire to borrow large amounts of money in order to build expensive railroads and carry out desirable public improvements . It is equally natural that capitalists seeking good interest rates and secure investments , should depend on the fact that if the debtor country attempts to default on its national loans , the government of the creditors will intervene with a strong arm . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even though a thorough , business-like , and scientific investigation of the possessions and 726 THE MONROE DOCTRINE : resources of the borrowing nation might show that the chances of her being able to pay interest , and event-. ually to return the capital , were highly problematical , and to be reckoned as very high risks . Millions of dollars of such loans have been made in the past . It is perfectly evident that many of these loans can-. not be repaid ; that the time is coming when the creditor nations will look to us as the policeman , or ' elder brother , ' of the Western Hemisphere , to see to it that the little boys pay for the candy and sweetmeats they have eaten . Is it worth while that we should do this ? One can not dodge the truth that the continuation of our support of this Doctrine implies that we will undertake to be responsible for the good behavior of all of the American nations . If we are the **25;671;TOOLONG who will not permit any outsider to spank our irritating or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of keeping them in order ourselves , for we can not allow the American family to become a nuisance . And some members of it have a decided tendency in that direction . Is this task worth while ? Will it not cost more than it is worth ? Is there not a better way out of the difficulty ? Furthermore Europe knows that in order to continue to execute our self-imposed and responsible mission we must run counter to the most approved principles of the law of nations . The Right of Independence is so fundamental and so well established a principle of international law , and respect for it is so essential to the existence of national self-restraint , that armed intervention , or any other action or policy tending to place that right in a subordinate position , is properly looked upon with disfavor , not only in Latin America , but by all the family of civilized nations . The grounds upon AN OBSOLETE SHIBBOLETH which intervention is permitted in international law differ according to the authority one consults . But in general they are limited to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intervening state , and to the duty of fulfilling engagements . When , however , the danger against which intervention is directed is the consequence of the prevalence of ideas which are opposed to the views held by the intervening state , mast authorities believe that intervention ceases to be legitimate . To say that we have the right to in. tervene in. order to modify another state 's attitude toward revolutions is to ignore the fundamental principle that the right of every state to live its life in a given way is precisely equal to that of another state to live its life in another way . In the last analysis , no intervention islegal except for the purpose of self-preservation , unless a breach of international law has taken place or unless the family of civilized states concur in authorizing it . t If , then , our adherence to the Monroe Doctrine means , practically , disregard of the principles of the accepted law of nations , is it worth while to continue ? Why should we not abandon the Monroe Doctrine , and publicly disclaim any desire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our neighbors ? Why should we not publicly state to Europe that we shall not intervene except at the request of a Pan-American Congress , and then only in case we are one of the members which such a Congress selects for the specific purpose of quieting a certain troublesome neighbor ? From the Latin-American point of view , the continuance of the Monroe Doctrine is insulting , and is bound to THE MONROE DOCTRINE : AN OBSOLETE SHIBBOLETH 7e7 involve us in serious difficulties with our neighbors . We seem to be blind to actual conditions in the largest and most important parts of Latin America such as Brazil , Argentina , and Chile . We need to arouse the average citizen to study the commercial situation and the recent history of those three Republics . Let him ponder on the meaning of Brazil 's one hundred million dollars of balance of trade in her favor . Let him realize the enormous extent of Argentina 's recent growth and her ability to supply the world with wheat , corn , beef , and mutton . ' Let him examine Chile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or not these nations are fit to take care of themselves , and are worthy of being included in an alliance to preserve America for the Americans , if that is worth while , and if there is any danger from Europe . Let him ask himself whether or not the ' A B C ' powers , t hat is the Argentine , Brazilian , and Chilean governments , deserve our patronizing , **30;698;TOOLONG attitude . The fact is , we are woefully ignorant of the actual conditions in the leading American republics . To the inhabitants of those countries the very idea of the existence of the Monroe Doctrine is not only distasteful , but positively insulting . It is leading them on the road toward what is known as the ' A B C ' policy , a kind of triple alliance between Argentina , Brazil , and Chile , with the definite object of opposing the encroachments of the United States . They feel that they must do something to counteract that well-known willingness of the American people to find good and sufficient reasons for interfering and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spain , for sending armies into Cuba , for handling the customs receipts of Santo Domingo , for taking a strip of territory which ( South Americans believe ) belongs to the Republic of Colombia , for sending troops into Nicaragua , and for mobilizing an army on the Mexican frontier . ( In regard to the latter point , it may be stated in passing that it is not the custom for South American nations to mobilize an army on a neighbor 's frontier merely because that country is engaged in civil war or revolution . ) To the ' A B C ' powers , even the original Monroe Doctrine is regarded as long since outgrown , and as being at present merely a display of insolence and conceit on our part . With Brazil now owning the largest dreadnoughts in the world ; with Argentina and Chile building equally good ones ; with the fact that the European nations have long since lost their tendency toward monarchical despotism , and are in fact quite as democratic as many American republics , it does seem a bit ridiculous for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ element in our foreign policy . If we still fear European aggression , 1 and desire to prevent a partition of South America on the lines of the partition of Africa , let us bury the Monroe Doctrine and declare an entirely new policy , a policy that is based on intelligent appreciation of the present status of the leading American powers ; let us declare our desire to join with the A B C ' powers in protecting the weak-e r parts of America against any imag1 nable aggressions on the part of European or Asiatic nations . Some people think that the most natural outlet for the crowded Asiatic nations is to be found in South America , and that Japan and China will soon be knocking most loudly for the 728 THE MONROE DOCTRINE : AN OBSOLETE SHIBBOLETH Most of us , when we read those words , smile , knowing that they are not true ; yet that does not affect the fact that the Latin American , when he reads them , gnashes his teeth and believes that they are only too true-If he belongs to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his head angrily , and increases his hatred toward those Yankis , ' whose manners he despises . If he belongs to one of the smaller republics , his soul is filled with fear mingled with hatred , and he sullenly awaits the day when he shall have to defend his state against the Yankee invaders . In every case the effect produced is contrary to the spirit of peace and harmony . In another book , which is attracting wide attention and was written by a young Peruvian diplomatist , there is a chapter entitled , ' The North American Peril , ' and it begins with these significant words : To save themselves from Yankee imperialism , the American democracies would almost accept a German alliance , or the aid of Japanese arms ; everywhere the Americans of the North are feared . In the Antilles and in Central America hostility against the Anglo-Saxon invaders assumes the character of a Latin crusade . ' This is a statement not of a theory but of a condition , set forth by a man who , while somewhat severe in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States , and who remembers what his country owes to us . Yet he asserts that in the United States , ' against the policy of respect for Latin liberties are ranged the instincts of a triumphant plutocracy . ' The strident protest in this book has not gone out without finding a ready echo in South America . Even in Peru , long our best friend on the Southern Continent , the leading daily papers have during the past year shown an increasing tendency to criticize our THE MONROE DOCTRINE : AN OBSOLETE SHIBBOLETH 729 actions and suspect our motives . Their suspicion goes so far as actually to turn friendly words against us . Last September a successful American diplomat , addressing a distinguished gathering of manufacturers in New York , was quoted all over South America as stating that the United States did not desire territorial expansion , but only commercial , and that the association should combat all idea of territorial expansion if any statesman proposed it , as this was the only way to gain the confidence of South America . This remark was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exclaimed , ' Who does not see in this paternal interest a brutal and cynical sarcasm ? Who talks of confidence when one of the most thoughtful South American authorities , Francisco Garcia Calderon , gives us once more the cry , no longer premature , " let us be alert and on our guard against Yankeeism . " ' Even the agitation against the Putumayo atrocities is misunderstood . To no one is it a secret , ' says one Latin-American writer , ' that all these scandalous accusations only serve to conceal the vehement desire to impress American and English influence on the politics of the small countries of South America ; and they can scarcely cover the shame of the utilitarian end that lies behind it all . ' Another instance of the attitude of the Latin-American press is shown in a recent article in one of the leading daily papers in Lima , the government organ . In the middle of its front page in a two-column space is an article with these headlines : ' NORTH AMERICAN EXCESSES ? THE TERRIBLE LYNCHINGS ? AND THEY TALK @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may easily be Imagined . It begins with these words : ' While the Saxons of the world are producing a deafening cry over the crimes of the Putumayo , imagining them to be like a dance of death , and giving free rein to such imaginings ; while the American Government resolves to send a commission that may investigate what atrocities are committed in those regions , there was published , as regards the United States , in La Ravin of Buenos Aires a fortnight ago the following note , significant of the " lofty civilization and high justice " of the great Republic of the North . ' Here follows a press dispatch describing one of the terrible lynchings which only too often happen in the United States . Then the Peruvian editor goes on to say , ' Do we realize that in the full twentieth century , when there is not left a single country in the world whose inhabitants are permitted to supersede justice by summary punishment , there are repeatedly taking place , almost daily , in the United States , lynchings like that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ IV Is it worth our while to heed the writing on the wall ? ' Is it not true that it is the present tendency of the Monroe Doctrine to claim that the United States is to do whatever seems to the United States good and proper so far as the Western Hemisphere is concerned ? Is there not a dangerous tendency in our country to believe so far in our own rectitude , that we may be excused from any restrictions either in the law of nations , or in our treaty obligations , that seem unjust , trivial , or inconvenient , notwithstanding the established practices of civilized nations ? Our attitude on the Panama tolls question , our former disregard of treaty rights with China , and our willingness to read into or read out of existing treaties whatever seems to us right and proper , have aroused AN OBSOLETE SHIBBOLETH at a place whose development is so es . sential to the development of Ecuador itself . ' Recent efforts on the part of far-sighted Ecuadorian statesmen to remedy these conditions by employing American sanitary engineers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ received by the Ecuador . ian populace so ill as to cause the fall of the Cabinet and the disgrace of the minister who favored such an experiment in modern sanitation . Peru suffers from the conditions of bad health among her northern neighbors , and yet the leading newspapers in Peru , instead of realizing how much they had to gain by having Guayaquil cleaned up , united in protesting against this symptom of Yanki ' imperialism , and applauded the action of the Ecuador mob . Is it worth while to continue a foreign policy which makes it so difficult for things to be done , things of whose real advantage to our neighbors there is no question ? The old adage , that actions speak louder than words , is perhaps more true in Latin America than in the United States . A racial custom of saying pleasant things tends toward a sus ? picion of the sincerity of pleasant things when said . But there can be no doubt about actions . Latin-American statesmen smiled and applauded when Secretary Root , in the Pan-American Congress at Rio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the equal rights of the smallest and weakest members of the family of nations deserve as much respect as those of the great empires . We pretend to no right , privilege , or power that we do not freely concede to each one of the American Republics . ' But they felt that their suspicions of us were more than warranted by our subsequent actions in Cuba , Santo Domingo , and Nicaragua . Our ultimatum to THE MONROE DOCTRINE : AN OBSOLETE SHIBBOLETH 731 Chile on account of the long-standing Alsop claim seemed to them an unmistakably unfriendly act and was regarded as a virtual abandonment by Secretary Knox of the policy enunciated by Secretary Root . Another unfriendly act was the neglect of our Congress to provide a suitable appropriation for the Second Pan-American Scientific Congress . Before 1908 Latin-American Scientific Congresses had been held in Argentina ( Buenos Aires ) , Brazil ( Rio Janeiro ) , and Uruguay ( Montevideo ) . When it came Chile 's turn , so kind was her feeling toward Secretary Root , that the United States was asked to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ First Pan-American . Every one of the four countries where the international scientists met had made a suitable , generous appropriation to cover the expenses of the meeting . Chile had felt that it was worth while to make a very large appropriation in order suitably to entertain the delegates , to publish the results of the Congress , and to increase American friendships . This First Pan-American Scientific Congress selected Washington as the place for the Second Congress , and named October , 1912 , as the appointed time for the meetings . But when our State Department asked Congress for a modest appropriation of fifty thousand dollars to meet our international obligations for this Pan-American gathering , our billion-dollar Congress decided to economize and denied the appropriation . Wheh the matter came up again during the Congress that has just finished its sessions , the appropriation was recommended by the Committee on Foreign Affairs , but was thrown out on a technical point of order . Now , you can not make a Latin American believe that the United States is so poor that it can not afford to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Chile have done . They argue that there must be some other reason underlying this lack of courtesy . No pleasant words or profuse professions of friendship and regard can make the leading statesmen and scientists throughout Latin America forget that it was not possible to hold the Second Pan-American Scientific Congress because the United States did not care to assume her international obligations . Nor will they forget that Chile spent one hundred thousand dollars in entertaining the First Pan-American Scientific Congress and that the ten official delegates from the United States government enjoyed the bounteous Chilean hospitality and were shown every attention that was befitting and proper for the accredited representatives of the United States . In short , here is a concrete case of how our present policy toward Latin America justifies the Latin-American attitude toward the country that has been maintaining the Monroe Doctrine . Finally , there is another side to the question . Some of the defenders of the Monroe Doctrine state quite frankly that they are selfish , and that from the selfish point of view , the Monroe Doctrine should at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commerce would suffer were Europe permitted to have a free hand in South America . Even on this very point it seems to me that they make a serious mistake . You can seldom sell goods to a man who dislikes you except when you have something which is far better or cheaper than he can get anywhere else . Furthermore , if he distrusts you , he is not 732 THE MONROE DOCTRINE : AN OBSOLETE SHIBBOLETH going to judge your goods fairly , or to view the world 's market with an unprejudiced eye . This can scarcely be denied . Everyone knows that a friendly smile or cordial greeting and the maintenance of friendly relations are essential to holding one 's customers . ' Accordingly , it seems that even from this selfish point of view , which some Americans are willing to take , it is absolutely against our own interests to maintain this **27;730;TOOLONG policy , which typifies the new Monroe Doctrine . Furthermore , Germany is getting around the Monroe Doctrine , and is actually making a peaceful conquest of South America which will injure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make a military conquest of the Southern republics . She is winning South American friendship . She has planted colonies , one of which , in Southern Brazil , has three hundred and fifty thousand people in it , as large a population as that of Vermont , and nearly as large as that of Montana . Germany is taking pains to educate her young business men in the Spanish language , and to send them out equipped to capture Spanish-American trade . We have a saying that ' Trade follows the flag . ' Germany has magnificent steamers , flying the German flag , giving fortnightly service to every important port in South America , ? ports where the American flag is practically never seen . She has her banks and business houses which have branches in the interior cities . By their means she is able to keep track of American commerce , to know what we are doing , and at what rates . Laughing in her sleeve at the Monroe Doctrine as an antiquated policy , which only makes it easier for her to do a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Spanish America . To be sure , we are not standing still , and we are fighting for the same trade that she is , but our soldiers are handi-capped by the presence of the very doe , trine that was intended to strengthen our position in the New World . Is this worth while ? At all events let us face clearly and frankly the fact that the maintenance of the Monroe Doctrine is going to cost the United States an immense amount of trouble , money , and men . Carried out to its logical conclusion , it means a policy of suzerainty and interference which will earn us the in-creasing hatred of our neighbors , the dissatisfaction of Europe , the loss of commercial opportunities and the forfeiture of time and attention which would much better be given to settling our own difficult internal problems . The continuance of adherence to the Monroe Doctrine offers opportunities to scheming statesmen to distract public opinion from the necessity of concentrated attention at home , by arousing mingled feelings of jingoism and self-importance in attempting to correct the errors of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Doctrine , we shall find that its legitimate , rational , and logical growth will lead us to an increasing number of large expenditures , where American treasure and American blood will be sacrificed in efforts to remove the mote from our neighbor 's eye while overlooking the beam in our own . The character of the people who inhabit the tropical American republics is such , the percentage of Indian blood is so great , the little-understood difficulties of life in those countries are so far-reaching , and the psychological tendencies of the people so different from our own , that opportunities will continually arise which will convince us that they require our intervention if we continue to hold to the tenets of the Monroe Doctrine . It is for us to face the question fairly , and to determine whether it is worth while to continue any longer on a road which leads to such great expenditures , and which means the loss of international friendships . That international good will is a desideratum , it needs no words of mine to prove to any one . Looked at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ethically , morally , commercially , and diplomatically , we desire to live at peace with our neighbors and to promote international friendship . Can this be done by continuing our adherence to the Monroe Doc-trine ? From the unselfish point of view , and from the point of view of the world 's peace and happiness , there seems to be no question that the Monroe Doctrine is no longer worth while . Mr. Bryce , in an able exposition in his recent South America , has clearly pointed out that the Spanish American 's regard for the United States , and his confidence in its purposes , have never even recovered from the blow given by the Mexican War of 1816 , and the annexation of California . For many years , a political tie between ourselves and the other American Republics was found , says Mr. Bryce , in our declared intention to resist any attempt by European Powers either to overthrow republican government in any American state or to attempt annexation of its territory . So long as any such action was feared from Europe , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ felt a corresponding interest in their clients . But circumstances alter cases . To-day , when apprehensions of the old hind have vanished , and when some of the South American States feel themselves already powerful , one is told that they have begun to regard the situation with different eyes . " Since there are no longer rainclouds coming up from the east , why should a friend , however well-intentioned , insist on holding an umbrella over us ? We are quite able to do that for ourselves if necessary . " ' Mr. Bryce continues : ' It is as the disinterested , the absolutely disinterested and unselfish , advocate of peace and good will , that the United States will have most influence in the Western Hemisphere , and that influence , gently and tactfully used , may be of incalculable service to mankind . ' Old ideas , proverbs , catchwords , national shibboleths , die hard . No part of our foreign policy has ever been so continuously held and so popularly accepted as the Monroe Doctrine . Hoary with age , it has defied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the subjugation of the yellow-fever mosquito . Based on a condition that has long since disappeared , owing its later growth and development to mistaken ideas , it appears to our South American neighbors to be neither disinterested nor unselfish , but rather an indisputable evidence of our overweening national conceit . The very words Monroe Doctrine ' are fraught with a disagreeable significance from our neighbors ' point of view . There is no one single thing , nor any group of things , that we could do to increase the chances of peace and harmony in the Western Hemisphere comparable with the definite statement that we have outgrown the Monroe Doctrine , that we realize that our neighbors in the New World are well able to take care of themselves , and that we shall not interfere in their politics or send arms into their territory , unless cordially invited to do so , and then only in connection with , and by the cooperation of , other members of the family . If it is necessary to maintain order in some of the weaker and more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not by ourselves , but by a Congress of the leading American powers ? If it is found necessary to send armed forces into Central America to quell rebellions that are proving too much for the recognized governments , why not let those forces consist not solely of American marines , but of the marines of Argentina , Brazil , and Chile as well ? In some such way as this we can convince the other Americans ' of our good faith , and of the fact that we have not made up our minds to conquer South America . ' By adopting a foreign policy along these lines we can establish on a broad and solid foundation the relations of international peace and good will for which the time is ripe , but which can not arrive till we are convinced that the Monroe Doctrine is not worth while .                     