@@493021

Cooperation in the United States T HE tide of cooperative sentiment and achievement has turned in the United States . After seventy years of fumbling and visionary experiment , some thousands of unquestioned successes are at hand . If western Canada is included , probably more than three hundred millions ' worth of business was cooperatively done in one country last year . Cooperative fire insurance , creameries , elevators , purchasing societies with some four hundred stores , now represent a movement as invincible in its growth as is the drift of political power to the people . These movements are inseparable both in their strength and weakness . Just as in politics since 1900 the initiative , referendum , direct primary , direct election of Senators , strike at secrecy and monopoly in caucus and convention , so , too , comes the economic revolt against the corresponding stealth and privilege in our business life . From the state it comes as " regulation " and forced publicity . In unconscious partnership with trade union principles , it establishes standards in methods , conditions and rates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were already mediaeval . I have noted that successful cooperation everywhere first sprang from suffering . The classes from which cooperation always emerges have not felt these necessities in the United States acutely enough to organize against them until very recent years . The pressure of population , the rising price of land , the passing of farming into an industry requiring capital , and the mounting cost of living , have compelled some millions of our citizens toreckon for the first time with neglected virtues like saving and thrift . In 18$0 a Rochdale pioneer said , " We began our store simply because we were suffered into it . " The severities of economic pressure have begun to " suffer " us into it . Our reckless prosperity , our uneasy and shifting populations , our delight in extravagance , the wide demand in competitive industry for all available talent , have hitherto handicapped the humbler ways of cooperation in this country . Except sentimental ones , not a reason can be given why a man should leave even the bleaker soils of New England for the West . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are closing up for ordinary folk . A disenchanted Easterner told me in California , " If you 've got to saw wood instead of playing for luck , you might as well do it back East as here . " All these sobering changes multiply our chances for cooperative enlargement in this country . A dare-devil competition has " suffered " us into such convincing success as we have thus far won . Year after year , southern California tried to market her fruits as if the process were an all-around free fight . From the grower to the eater there was no interest which did not suffer . The separate grower found himself with less and less influence over the railroad , over prices , and over far-off commission men . Cooperative organization has remedied this . Powers that were secretly used by distant middlemen have been called in , and are now used and directed by the growers . What organization has done for large business it here does for the smaller . Grading , packing , inspection , marketing , are all taken into their own group-control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The " consent of the governed , " the " people 's rule " with neither privilege , secrecy nor monopoly , are here working themselves into social and economic habits which will more and more influence our political life . In the Central Exchange and the forty independent cooperative associations , above eighty per cent of the citrus fruit is thus handled . Three out of four of California 's 12,000 growers are in cooperative team work . Because they equalize benefits , check speculation and economize production , these first results in cooperation everywhere increase . In the Northwest apple-growing is now more and more controlled and managed by thousands of cooperators . One hundred and eight locals supervise the entire business ? the loading , the warehousing , the distribution of orchard supplies . United in a central organization , they " give expert advice on all orchard matters , regulate and consolidate shipments , receive , distribute and supervise the filling of orders , maintain a system of uniform inspection , and in some cases keep the accounts and distribute returns . " Because it is so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cooperative revolution in dairies and creameries . In rural insurance against loss of stock , fire , hail , cyclone , etc. , this self-government principle is so successful in nearly 160o companies that failures have been but a fraction of one per cent . Minnesota claims to have saved for her farmers above $700,000 annually through this cooperation in insurance . Two years ago not one of her r so companies had failed . This State is perhaps the leader among our commonwealths . With the inclusion of farmers ' telephones , Minnesota has at least 2000 cooperative associations doing a yearly business of sixty millions of dollars . In another field cooperative irrigation is at work on five million of the thirteen odd million acres of irrigated land .. In cooperative selling and supply associations the number and variety are such that they can have here but casual mention . The struggle for cooperative control over the grain elevator demands a closer scrutiny . Before 1900 , these storehouses had been built and controlled by private , speculative interests . As they became more closely organized and began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farmer lost control over his market . Where his wheat was to be sold or at what price , how it was to be graded , how much docked , what the middleman 's service was to cost , all became unknown quantities . Even if squarely dealt with , his forced exclusion and ignorance became a source of angry suspicion . Some plucky attempts were early made by farmer groups to take this marketing power into their own hands and administer it in their own interests . By 1910 , States like Iowa , Minnesota and Dakota had hundreds of these groups handling grain in enormous quantities and at the same time purchasing cooperatively for members coal , lumber , machinery , flour and general supplies ? in Iowa alone 200,000 tons of coal and nearly a million 's worth of other products . It is true that many of these movements have failed . Some are shabbily financed and poorly managed , and few have proper accounting . Many tend to sag toward ordinary joint stock companies . Precisely as with cooperative and democratic management , political as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has set in against them by private interests . It is upon the inevitable imperfections in every new movement that the critics seize . Yet in the teeth of these criticisms and a fierce competitive opposition the gains of cooperation can be marked month by month . In its totals , it is an amazing growth . As good an authority as Professor L. D. H. Weld writes me with strongest emphasis : " Their failures are nothing as compared with those of line elevator companies , hundreds of whose houses have been closed down during the past few years and many of which have been torn down . I can say without hesitation that the marketing of grain at country points in Minnesota , at least , is coming more and more into the hands of the farmers themselves . Two hundred and seventy farmers ' elevators of this State now market about one-third of all the grain that is marketed . . . . One farmer out of every five in the State belongs to a farmers ' elevator company . The aggregate volume of business for the year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ total of approximately $24,000,000 , of which about $22,000,000 represents the value of grain , flour , twine and other supplies purchased for themselves . These elevators now handle about 3o per cent of the- grain marketed by Minnesota farmers . " Professor Weld , returning from studies in Canada , wrote again : " The whole development has taken place in an incredibly short time . The Grain Growers ' Grain Company was not organized until 1906 . Since that time it has become an immense corporation , the largest single handler of grain on the Winnipeg market . The Saskatchewan Cooperative Elevator Company was not started until 1911 , and the quantity of grain handled in 1912-13 was over 12,000,000 bushels . " There are 14,000 farmer shareholders in each of these two companies , with the principle " one-man-one-vote " and a limited holding of stock . The Grain Growers ' Grain Company carries the cooperative practice into the purchase and distribution of carload lots ? flour , coal , fruits , etc . The very service for which cooperation gets least credit is the instant check upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same time that competitors are compelled to pay the farmer a higher price for his products , while vicious old-line monopolies have been definitely broken . It is upon a mass of facts like these that " The Grain Growers ' Guide " of Winnipeg comments in the present month . " We may now look forward , " it says , " to seeing the day when every local community in the West will have its cooperative store , warehouse , elevator , and everything else that is needed for community service , owned and controlled by the people of the community on true cooperative methods . " It is upon this ownership and control by the people that our eyes must be fixed . Wherever that power is secure ? in a store , in insurance , in cow-testing and live stock associations , in the great fruit and grain marketing ? we have the sure working principle around which the more perfected cooperation of the future will slowly develop . It is this larger movement ? literally " from the ground up " ? which will more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the cooperative store will have its own broader and firmer foundation .                     