@@486972

It is not likely that much more will be heard of the latest agitation in favor of some plan  --  apparently a trade conspiracy  --  for the protection and encouragement of the native American dramatist In the first place , it does not seem to have any backing except that of an inconsiderable performer , who has profited largely by the use of foreign material , and , in the second place , it proposes the application of a boycott against all foreign plays which , without the aid of inconceivable legislation , could not be proclaimed , and could not , in any circumstances , be enforced . This protection idea , of course , is rooted in utter fallacy  --  for art does not need coddling for its development , but fair and open competition  --  but it is so common that it may be worth while to cast an eye over the existing theatrical situation and see how the case stands . The first point to keep in mind is that the interests of the public at large , not of a restricted class , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ' fight against the law of supply and demand . Broadly speaking , the best plays of their class  --  there are exceptions , of course , to every rule  --  will yield the largest commercial return . If plays of foreign origin make the most money in the United tates  --  ra proposition which is by no means universally , even if it be approximately , true  --  the logical presumption is that in the public judgment at least they are of superior quality . As a plain matter of fact , they very often are . It is little short of idiotic to suggest that they ought to be excluded , in order that inferior compositions might enjoy a monopoly . The truth is that within the last half-a-dozen years substantial fortunes have been made in this country by young dramatists with crude sensational pieces exhibiting the worst characteristics , while devoid of the artistic workmanship , of their foreign prototypes . Many of these have been destitute of any redeeming feature , some of them have been vile enough to be stopped by the police . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , many native dramatists , within the same period , have won fortune with genuine American plays , both serious and comic , which were not only innocent , but of substantial dramatic and artistic merit . It is clear , therefore , that the American drama has not been suppressed , but is growing . That it has been hampered can not be disputed . So has the English drama , and much in the same way . But one reason  --  not the only one , however  --  why English and Continental plays occupy so many of our theatres , is that the theatre is an older institution on the other side of the Atlantic than it is here , and the dramatic output there is larger . There is also in Europe a larger body of play-writers of established reputation . A comparison of the-English and American fields would show ' that the former is much the richer in older men of proved dramatic.ability . But there is abundant promise in the swelling ranks of the younger men in. this country . It is too soon yet to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eugene Walters , Edward Sheldon , Rupert Hughes , Jules Eckert Goodman , Porter Emerson Brown , J. Hartley Manners , and W. J. Hurlbut . They are all suffering still from the exuberance of youth and have not learned how to distinguish between strength and violence . But they all show signs of dramatic instinct , as well as a keen sense of theatrical situation , and when , with experience , they have acquired moderation , they may all go far . C. M. S. McLellan may yet add to the reputation which he earned with his " Leah Kleschna . " John Corbin , in his " Husband , " furnishes a pledge of much higher achievement in the near future . This is an immature work , but evinces grasp of form and ' power of expression , and is marked by clear and courageous purpose . Thompson Buchanan reveals humdr , originality , and theatrical capacity in " The Cub . " Rachel Crothers has demonstrated ability of no common order in " The Three of Us " and " A Man 's World . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Edward Knoblauch has written " The Shulamite . " Butler Davenport came near to writing a first-rate comedy in " Keeping Up Appearances , " and there is true comedy in the " Her Husband 's Wife " of A. E. Thomas . Charles Rann Kennedy , a new American , has written two of the most remarkable plays in the last decade in " The Servant in the House " and " The Winter Feast ? ' And then there is Percy MacKaye , the author of " Sappho and Phaon , " a piece of high artistic and dramatic merit , and " Joan of Arc , " an eloquent and imaginative romance . Unfortunately , his genius is wayward and has strayed of late in perverse and unprofitable ways , but nevertheless it is a force to be reckoned with . On the whole , the native playwright does not appear to be greatly in need of protection . ' He has to face at powerful opposition , but that is wholesome , and ought to be inspiring . But he , in common with his English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is not opposition that is hurting him , but the lack of it . The whole stage in England and America is groaning and smothering , because the greedy , ignorant , and demoralizing commercial system , which has no other principle than the seizure of the immediate dollar , and no regard for either art or morals , has secured the control of the majority of the theatres of both countries , and so made itself the arbiter of what shall be played and who shall play it . The public virtually no longer has a voice as to the character of the dramatic entertainment which it prefers . " Runs " are a matter of preordination . If a play fails in one city , it is not withdrawn , but is started on its predestined circuit . In this respect one syndicate is just as evil as another . The " long run " is equally fatal to the development of actors and the creation of dramatists . The sooner the opposing syndicates cut each others ' throats , the better for actors , writers , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not protection , but a free fight . And there are signs that it is coming . Walter Prichard Eaton , for several years an industrious writer on dramatic subjects in the daily and periodical press , has revised a number of his essays and collected them in a volume entitled " At the New Theatre and Others " ( Small , Maynard &; Co ) On the whole  --  although many persons of wider experience than the author will disagree wholly with some of its judgments ? it is a clever and entertaining book , full of sharp observation and lively humor and a wholesome spirit of independence Mr Eaton at least knows the contemporaneous theatre well , has ideas of his own and expresses them with indisputable ability , if with a somewhat injudicious dogmatism Some of his dicta , for instance , on the old and modern schools of acting , the meaning of versatility , etc , would have been , greatly modified , doubtless , if he had had any actual acquaintance with the more finished players , on either side of the Atlantic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trenchant and true observations on the evil wrought by the syndicate system , and on the benefits of the open theatre , but is , it may be feared , somewhat too sanguine concerning the immediate outcome of existing managerial rivalries . One syndicate is very much like another But , of course , opposition is a good thing in itself . His estimates of the genius of some modern stars need not be disputed , but they will not be approved by veteran playgoers About the work of the New Theatre he writes with point and discernment , and his papers on Clyde Fitch and Augustus Thomas are both excellent . Sir John Hare writes to a London journal as follows : " I shall be extremely grateful if you will contradict a statement , which I believe has emanated from America , to the effect that I am to visit that country professionally in the spring . " Gustav Amberg announces that he has completed arrangements with the management of the Irving Place Theatre by which Herr von Possart will appear at that playhouse for a special engagement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Herr von Possart , who is in the front rank of living actors , brings his own complete company , and will make a brief tour of the principal American cities His repertory will include " The Merchant of Venice , " Shylock being one of his most famous impersonations ; " Nathan the Wise , " " Friend Fritz , " and " Fallissement , " by Bjornsen . With all these plays his name has long been associated in the minds of Germanic playgoers He comes to America only by special permission of the Prince Regent of Bavaria , without whose consent it is not possible for him to appear outside his native country . His company is recruited exclusively from players in the regular organizations of the Court Theatres in Munich and Berlin . Bernard Shaw 's new play , " The Dark Lady of the Sonnets , " is to be presented for the first time , in London , by the National Shakespeare Memorial Committee , at two matindes , organized for the benefit of the scheme . The author himself speaks of his piece as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half an hour The characters are limited to four ? Queen Elizabeth , Mary Fitton ( the Dark Lady ) , Shakespeare , and a Beefeater . The theory that the Dark Lady was Mistress Fitton has been adopted , and Mr Shaw has availed himself of the opportunity to attack the notion that Shakespeare was an illiterate Shakespeare , according to Mr Shaw , was the son of a men:hart , . who considered himself a gentleman , and married a woman of good family , who considered herself a lady , at a time when the modern conception of a middle class did not exist . The success of the latest play of H. H. Davies , " A Single Man , " which has just been produced in London , seems to depend largely upon the power of a single scene It opens , apparently , in a vein of clever but not very sincere light comedy . A middle-aged bachelor falls in love with a pretty little girl , not yet out of her teens , and , being shy , begs his typist to undertake his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earnestness which shows how much her heart is set upon her employer . Succeeding in her suit , she can not bear the contemplation of his happiness , and soon the old bachelor begins to think that he , too , may have made a mistake One evening , as the typist is about to leave him , and he is preparing to dine alone , he asks the former to share his solitary meal , and , with the first sip of champagne  --  an unknown liquor  --  her tongue is loosed and she betrays the love that is in her . This scene is said to be managed with charming delicacy and imagination , and to raise the whole play to a higher level And it is admirably played by Cyril Maude and Hilda Trevelyan . The death is announced from Rome of Henrietta Hobson , once a very popular English actress , and for many years the wife of the well-known Henri Labouchere , the editor and owner of London Truth In 1860 it happened that she and one other ? Henry Irving  --  were picked together out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Theatre Royal , Manchester . Bristol was another of the towns where ( those being the days of stock companies ) she learned her business and won admirers . She was among the many well-known players who at one time or another appeared on the stage of the old Prince of Wales 's Theatre under the Bancrofts ; but her chief successes were won at the Queen 's Theatre , - in Long-acre . She was one of the brilliant company brought together by Alfred Wigan to play in that theatre at its opening in 1867 ? a company which included also Henry Irving , Ellen Terry , Charles Wyndham , Lionel Brough , and J. L. Toole . Later she herself assumed the management of the house . One of her productions was Mr. Labouchere 's version of Sardou 's " Patrie , " called " Fatherland , " in which she played with great success the part of Dolores ( Countess Rysoor ) . After her retirement her days were spent chiefly at Pope 's Villa , Twickenham , and later at Mr. Labouchere 's villa near Florence . 