@@486101

Sin ; To judge by the New York papers , last month 's elections in Cuba appear to have been regarded by the American people with a surprise bordering on amazement They passed off in an almost Sabbatical calm ; the issue has been accepted by the defeated party , not , indeed , without much grumbling and protestations , but still w ithout any overt acts of rebellion ; and the President-elect is a gentleman who , in character and position and training , stands an far above the ordinary run of Cuban Politicians as Mr Woodrow Wilson is above the ordinary run of American politicians . But mingling with their very just bewilderment there is also , I should judge , a sincere satisfaction among Americans that Cuba has emerged so well Ordeal ; that the republic has received a new lease of life , and that a President has been elected , with every promise of conducting a strong , honest , and economical administration . In all the comments I have read in the American papers I have encountered nothing but a spirit of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and of confidence in the character and success of his approaching Presidency . Looking at the question merely as a detached Englishman , who knows America , and has twice visited Cuba , it seems to me that Cuban-American relations need something more tangible than mere expressions of good-will and an indefinite though valuable atmosphere of benevolence If they are ever to he put on a really satisfactory footing , it is essential , so far as I can see , that the interpretation to be placed upon the Platt amendment , as well as the administrative arrangements at Washington for dealing with Cuban questions , should receive a permanent form I doubt whether many Americans realize the extreme incoherency of the present state of affairs . Under the Platt amendment , the United States retains the right to intervene for the purpose , to put it broadly , of warding off two calamities  --  anarchy and bankruptcy . But any one who has been at all behind the scenes of Cuban politics and administration knows perfectly well that the supervision actually exercised goes far beyond the terms of the formal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frequently enforced in matters that exclusively concern the Cubans themselves . In this way the Cuban Administration is largely deprived of the moral authority that every Government ought to possess , and the political inexperience which it is the sincere wish , I believe , of the American people to remove , is really perpetuated . The fact is , the Cubans never quite know where they are , or with whom they are dealing . One day the American Minister at Havana receives instructions from the State Department ; the next day he may receive contradictory instructions from the War Department or the President or the Insular Bureau ; and on the day following he may have all the appearance or acting simply en his own impulses . A habit of meddling with the details of Cuban Administration and of hampering and hauling up Cuban Cabinet Ministers in the discharge ' of the ordinary functions of government , has thus grown up , greatly to the resentment of the rulers of the island and to the serious impairment of whatever sense of responsibility they may possess . The Cubans believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ customary , without the knowledge either of the American nation or of the American Congress Being naturally a suspicious people , they look upon it as the forerunner of intervention , or , at any rate , of a concerted attempt to govern Cuba without the bother and expense of a formal occupation of the island . They have perSuaded themselves that there are certain officials in the Washington departments and certain Surreptitious " interests " that are conspiring against their independence , and they point out , as they well may , that Senator Root , when he was Secretary of War , expressly and officially declared that the Platt amendment-was- " not synonymous ith intermcddling or interference with the affairs of the Cuban Government , but the formal action of the Government of the United States , , based upon just and substantial grounds , " There is another aspect of this question that well deserves attention . The highly elastic interpretation placed by the authorities at Washington upon the Platt amendment encourages every concession-hunter who has been disappointed of his prize , every contractor whose bills are disputed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any sort of grievance against the Cuban Government , to appeal to the United States for the exercise of diplomatic pressure on his behalf . I read only yesterday in the London Times of an extraordinary instance of this character , an instance in which an English railway company operating in Cuba has induced the British Foreign Office to protest at Washington against a railway concession granted by the Cuban Government to an American company , and has invoked the Platt amendment to justify its protest . With things as they are , it is the merest gellaniry to speak of the Cubans as a self-governing people . There is no degree of interference with their domestic concerns , which the Platt amendment can not be , and has not been , stretched to cover -- and , to the - best of my judgment , illegitimately stretched ; and , in the absence of any great or well-informed public or Congressional interest in Cuba , it is , I think , an undoubted fact that subordinate officials at Washington have at times been more zealous than discreet in their dealings with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , have rained upon the authorities in Havana with excessive and exasperating prodigality . All this is obviously unsatisfactory . To an outsider , it looks as though the Republicans had fallen into a careless and mechanical way of dealing with Cuban affairs . But , with the advent of a new President in the United States , of a broader and more statesmanlike vision , and with an unfettered way of looking at things , and with the simultaneous election in Cuba ofa a President of high character and intent on furnishing an orderly and economical Administration , there seems no reason why Cuban-American relations should not be placed on a. far more definite and wholesome basis SYDNEY BROOKS . London , December 6. 