@@434781

A FRENCH poster hangs on my wall . It is drawn and colored with the deliberate excellence of the Gallic craftsman , Its sentiment is simple and sincere . Four children have stopped in their play to salute two wounded soldiers . The children are equipped with odds and ends of military trappings . A little boy of a realistic turn has an old canteen slung over his shoulder . A little girl , being without arms or accoutrements , has made good her claim to the ( lag . The soldiers , bandaged and lame , stump unconcernedly by . They are no more identifiable with the gentle and debonair patients of ' Mademoiselle Miss ' than with the greedy , smutty , feeble-minded degencrates who were so unfortunate as to be nursed by Miss La Motte . They are sons of France who , as a matter of course , have defended their country in the hour of her uttermost peril ; and they are unaware that the children of France have opened to them the doors of the citadel where dwell the secret things of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arms , as creatures recognizable and understood . A sense of comradeship is expressed in the round-eyed stare of the little boys , a dawning perception of the great sacrifice has stiffened their swaggering little bodies to attention . They pay their homage eagerly , although they can not reckon the extent of their indebtedness . They do not know that France is giving her men to save her children , to hand down to these unconscious beneficiaries her untarnished honor , and the holy of holies , freedom . For this is what the war means to the nations which are now combating the great Teuton drive . This is what is plied in Lloyd George 's simple statement : " the British Empire has invested thousands of her best lives to purchase fut ure immunity for civilization , and the investment is too high-priced to be thrown away . ' If the Allies permitted themselves to be caught sleeping in a fool 's paradise , they woke up to see their children 's heritage imperiled by their illusion , and they have spared no cost to preserve it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own uttermost desolation . The menace which threatened them has been intercepted by their dead fathers , and they live , poor little wondering ones , to see  - -   - -   as God wills ? the vindication of justice , or its final defeat and dishonor . A few years ago , Chancellor David Starr Jordan dared to say in a commencement address , ' France is , by her own admission , decadent . ' This decadence , he averred , was the inevitable result of the wastage of Napoleon 's wars , the loss of the flower of her manhood . To-day , not even a German would repeat such words . Ennobled by patriotism , purified by self-abnegation , the soul of France mounts like a flame to Heaven . The fineness of her civilization is shown by the spirit in which she defends it . Animated by a single purpose , sustained by a single hope , she lives only to free her soil from the invade ? . Her children are growing up in a world bleak with pain , but swept clean of gross ideals , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and frivolity . The children of England have conic early to a realization of their country 's profound peril , her stern resolve , herindomitable valor . They see the wounded soldiers in the streets , the Zeppelins in the sky , the grass-grown courts of Cambridge and of Oxford , never so splendid as in their desolation . Their young eyes perceive in the object-lessons which surround them the cost am the value of nationality . They are being moulded by the austere hand of adversity into the material of which men are made . The children of Belgium share in the martyrdom of their parents . They are like the young boys and girls , baptized in water and in blood , who stood with the early Christians in the arena , before the callous eyes of Rome . They are feeble with privation , and sad with premature grief . Pope Benedict has begged the children of the United States to keep alive a million and a half of these little unfortunates by giving them a cup of milk or chocolate and a larded biscuit once a day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America , which has thriven on the calamities of Europe ; but the asking is a revelation of shame . On Belgium 's vast storehouses of grain Germany battened for a year . On Belgium 's harvests , garnered but not shared by Belgians , Germany feeds herself to-day . With the money wrung from Belgian towns , Germany paid , and pays , her army of occupancy . With the labor forced upon deported and enslaved Belgians , Germany fortifies herself against her enemies . The coal dug from Belgian 111 hies is Germany 's bait for the friendship of Switzerland . And now the Pope of Rome asks the children of the United States for a cup of milk to keep the children of Belgium from starving . The forlorn irony of it , the acquiescence of the neutral nations in it , shadows the civilized world ; but the soul of Belgium lives . In every wasted little body this soul survives ill-usage and ill-will . The Christian children thrown to the beasts cemented with their innocent blood the indestructible edifice of Christ ianity . The mounting emotions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heart of a child . Then Baydon 's mother lifted her streaming eyes , and said to her fouryear-old son , ' My clear , my dear , they have cut off the Queen of France 's head ! ' she gave him not only an indelible impression of horror and grief , but a point of view which life was not long enough to efface . To-day , thousands of children are receiving impressions as deep and as poignant . Their sensitive minds are being hardened into convict ions and resolves . They are being prepared by the destiny which despoiled them to play their hazardous parts . Mr. Ernest Moore , in an address delivered last spring before the City Club of Chicago , emphasized a truth which Americans for the most part ignore or deny , that the child does not belong to its parents , but to the state , to organized society as a whole . " Ile parents , ' said Mr. Moore incisively , ' have duties to the child , but no property in hint . He must , whether they are willing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apprentice to certain social activities , which he is compelled to perform as long as he lives . He must come to a realizing sense of what sort of an undertaking he has inherited . ' The American sentimentalist. is wont to speak of a son , even a grown-up son , as if he were the exclusive possession of his mother , as if he spent his life in a perambulator , to be wheeled about at her volition . Mr. Bryan warned the National Education Association last July that we should not ' rob the cradle ' at the behest of militarism . An agitated correspondent of the Surrey , troubled by the sending of the National Guard to our frontier , asked what inMimeo could he brought to hear ? not upon Mexico , and not upon Washington , but upon the mot hers who so thoughtlessly throw their sons away . ' One would suppose that the National Guard wore knickerbockers , and had been withdrawn from the innocent pastimes of infancy . Kittens would be granted as much sense of personal obligation as are the young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their civic dm ies , whose manhood compels citizenship , and whose citizenship compels unswerving loyalty to the Constitution . It is true , and I freely grant it , that far too much oratory has been used by the civilized world to glorify danger ( which in itself has no moral or intellectual value ) , to confuse and conceal political issues ( which may be barren of rectitude ) , and to awaken ( regardless of circumstances ) the fighting spirit of youth . But it is also true that the most beautiful phrases which language can afford have been used to glorify safety , to disguise our sensitiveness to discomfort , and to appease the conscience of the materialist . ' Blazing the way for an era of peace and good will ' is a euphemism which consecrates our commercial activities . ' Idealism based upon a love of man , ' describes pleasantly our smiling unconcern . These flowers of speech bloom brightest in the electioneering hothouse ; but they are very decorative at mass meetings and public dinners . When combined with certain familiar generalities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the establishment of international good-will , ' the enforcement of international equity , ' they soothe our troubled spirits , and give us courage to count the ships trading in our ports , carrying our citizens , and sunk on our coast , for the edification of our attentive navy . Now and t hen an impassioned pacifist assures us that 314 WAR AND when men shall have learned truth , faith , compassion and love , there will no longer be need of warfare , or need of world-politics ' ; and it seems , on the whole , easier to await the undated advent of these charming virtues than to vex our souls now over their stern sister , justice . It is asserted , possibly with truth , that juvenile delinquency has been on the increase in England and Germany during the past two years . A noted ' but nameless British psychologist is of the opinion that war has provoked this outbreak of youthful depravity . ' The boy knows that cities are being looted , and his own wild , predatory instinct tends to break forth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind , the fact that the boy knows his father is not at home to thrash him seems a simpler solution of the problem . Something of the kind has been observed in piping times of peace , when parental discipline chanced to be relaxed , and it has been held to indicate ordinary astuteness rather than any great depth of depravity . As a matter of fact , the English boy 's father who is soldiering From Wipers ( lows to Noove-Chapelle , has had no chance to loot anything more sacred than the commissariat , and this pillage is profanely believed to be the prerogative of the Army Service Corps . A whiff o ' shrapnel will dae nae harrm to time strawberry-jam pinchers , ' observes Private Tosh in a moment of unworthy misgiving . The German boy 's father has looted safely and unreservedly in conquered provinces ; but one doubts if his offspring  - -  under the awful eye of authority ? has clone anything more lawless than tread on the grass . If he has gone so far as to wheel his bicycle on the wrong side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fall . Meanwhile , in our peaceful states , THE CHILD juvenile delinquency has reached a stage when it has become a serious menace to society . Determined theorists cling desperately to ' war news ' and pride in fighting kin ' as one way of accounting for this excess of misconduct ; but they look too far afield . The Brooklyn boys , who last August proved themselves to be daring and accomplished burglars , did not rob because the towns of Flanders had been sacked . The ingenious little lad who held up the service on the Fourth Avenue subway by turning oil ' the current , and the less adroit youth who laid iron piping across the Essex Street tracks , were not incited to this dangerous mischief by the calling out of t he National Guard . The baby bandits ' of Chicago were not impelled to lawbreaking by the devastation of Poland . Something is amiss with communities which can not train their children to order and decency . The enforced absence of fathers in the fighting countries may be considered a legitimate cause for youthful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patriotism , an early acceptance of responsibility . The increase of juvenile crime in our own country has no legitimate derivative , beyond a growing disdain for consequences , a candid contempt for magisterial jurisdiction . Cheap standards and self-indulgence must bear their share of blame . The nations which are warring for aggrandizement or for safety have changed the face of Europe ; but to charge the lawlessness of American children to their account is to underestimate our liability . II This brings me face to face with the dilemma which confronts our American educators . How much information concerning the great war is fit to be imparted to the immature mind of the child ? How far should we enlighten his innocence ? How long dare we leave him in doubt ? There are parents and teachers who would , if they could , guard American children from any knowledge of the overshadowing sorrows of Europe ; and there are parents and teachers who think no child too young to feel his share of pity , to hold out his little hand in help . There are boys and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; there are others who have been encouraged to ' adopt ' some French or Flemish orphan , to write to this desolate child , to work and save for him , to follow , from the security of their homes , his precarious career . It is the difference between courage and caution , between cotton-batting and the open road . The clear and candid presentation of current events has for years been recognized as an important . element of education . It is designed to quicken the child 's interest in the living world , and to give him some foundation of fact. , upon which he must sooner or later build for himself an intellectual dwelling-place . His personal convictions and his sense of values depend largely upon the way in which he has been taught to regard the happenings of every clay . Since the outbreak of the great war , current-event classes for the old as well as for the young have been profoundly stimulated by the pressure of affairs , the speed of history in the making . They have also been complicated by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engage in intricate academic egg-dances , ? few things on earth being harder than the drawing of polite inferences from murderous deeds . War-maps are the only avenues of information which preserve an unviolated passivity . For thirteen months after Austria had struck the match which fired Europe , the St. Nicholas magazine , which is read by many thousands of little Americans , ignored t he conflagration . For thirteen months it presented its young readers with its accustomed blend of fact and fancy , but took no notice of the stupendous events which left little else to be considered . ln September , 1915 , it abandoned this attitude of unawareness , and started a Department of Current History . ' Since then it has published in every issue a brief commentary on the European war , the Mexican disasters , t he labor troubles , the presidential election , and other news of t he day . It condenses its budget into a few curt , clear , intelligent , impartial paragraphs , warranted to arouse no partisanship , and offend no sensibilities . All such educational thoroughfares @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I was a little schoolgirl , current events were left severely out of our limited courses of instruction . We seldom read the newspapers ( which I remember as of an appalling dullness ) , and we knew little of what was happening in the present . But . we did study history , and we knew something of what had happened in the past. , ? we knew and deeply cared . Consequently we reacted with fair intelligence and no lack of fervor when events were forced upon our vision . It was not possible for a child who had lived in spirit . with h Saint Genevieve to be indifferent to the siege of Paris in 1870 . It would not have been possible for a child who had lived in spirit with Jeanne d'Arc to be indifferent to the destruction of Rheims Cathedral in 1914 . If we were often left in ignorance , we were never despoiled of childhood 's generous ardor . Nobody told us , as some children are told to-day , that war is always a cowardly business , ' or that courage is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young minds on stale paradoxes , or paralyzed our emotions , or taught us to regret ? like those amazing youths encountered occasionally by pacifists ? the foolish impulsiveness of adults . There was something profoundly fearless in our approach to life , in the exposure of our unarmored souls to the assaults of enthusiasms and regrets . Even our sense of patriotism expanded fitfully , quarrelsomely ( for the ferment bred by the Civil War had not yet subsided ) , and without artificial stimulus . The State Superintendent of Public Instruction in Pennsylvania said at a recent meeting of the National Education Association in Cincinnati that . an American schoolboy should be taught . to repeat every day to himself , ' I will work and vote and live for the best interests of my country . Yea , if need be , I will fight for my country , and die in its defense . ' Apart from the exigencies of oratory , this seems a heavy programme . The aver age boy is chary of moral axioms , and high ? articulate ? resolves . If he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote , when he is twenty-one , according to his limited insight , and he will fight , if need be , at his country 's call . But he will not ? if he is human ? dilate from ten to twenty with sentiments of a declamatory order . He will not put the shy secrets of his soul into the familiar phrases of a theme . Mr. William James , who dreamed always of some great ' moral equivalent ' for tile discipline of camp , would have had young men devote two years to battling with drudgery ; to subduing Nature , and wresting from her , in mines or on ranches , on farms or in logging-camps , something of use to the world . An enthusiastic contributor to the New Republic , following Mr. James 's lead , but seeing breakers ahead if eager , but unaccredited , workers should interfere with organized labor , ? which has no bowels for sacrifice , ? has proposed , in place of soldiering or drudgery , two years of compulsory social service . All young Americans , girls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ages of sixteen and twenty-one , into regiments , and sent forth to better conditions in town and country . This ' national service ' is to be administered by the state , but supervised and subsidized by the Federal Government , which is always intrusted with the paying of bills . There are to be flying squadrons ' of youth , traveling widely , seeing the world , and lending everywhere a. helping hand ; and there are to be ' long periods of camping in national parks , and upon ocean beaches , ' ' I have a picture of eager young missionaries , ' writes this sanguine reformer , ' swarming over the land , spreading the health-knowledge , the knowledge of domestic science , of gardening , of tastefulness , which they have learned at school . ' And 1 have a picture of an outraged world assailed by these advance guards of progress . - What Mr. James sought was the apprenticeship of youth to noble bondage , and the wisdom to accrue was to be the wisdom acquired in humility . His plan was impracticable , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heroic ? permit no serious deviations from their rule ; but it was sound in theory . It did not include the enforced dissemination of the schoolgirl 's standard of taste , of the growing boy 's knowledge of hygiene . It never contemplated prolonged holidays at the expense of the public , or the subjection of society to the compulsory leadership of youth . There are some of us who believe that military training would give to young Americans the patience and endurance which Mr. James coveted , and the readiness to serve which is rightly conceived to be the supreme test of chivalry . But military training is regarded with suspicion by people who fear that the beat of ' a drum will be the inevitable prelude to war ; and by people who are able to convince themselves that we invite the danger we recognize , and avert the danger we deny . It is hard to meet the determined pacifist with facts , because he is as impervious to them as a tortoise is to a spring shower . He says academically , ' It is easy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rival militarisms . It is a soldiers ' war . ' Some one observes practically , ' But England had no soldiers ? to speak of ? in August , 1914 . She thought she could afford to " wait and see " before she " sprang to arms " ; and while she was springing ? which took a year , and was quick work at that ? her best and bravest sons were sacrificed to this illusion . ' Whereupon the pacifist replies , still academically , ' Too much of the world 's history has been written in blood ' ; and leaves the subject sunk in a phraseological quagmire . How can we meet intellectually the type of disputant who points with triumph to the extinction of a Jurassic lizard in the year 8,000,000 B.C. ( I accept . the given date ) as an argument for not building American cruisers in the year 191G , A.D. ; and who distributes portraits of this engaging reptile to drive his lesson home ? If the Stegosaurus had not been snatched from the pacifists to serve as an advertisement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still be doing duty as a timely illustration of the vanity of preparedness . III It has been observed by teachers ( the kind of teachers who practice observation ) that the interest of the child in cause and effect is a strong and vital interest . It is part of his unconscious effort to solve the crowding enigmas of life , and it is the foundation of his logical perceptions and his moral sense . It gives him his bias for physical science , for that experimental education of which Mr. Edgeworth was the first English exponent ; and it is the secret of his vigorous partisanship when his human interests are fired . Alone among educators , Mr. G. Stanley Hall finds neutrality , a high and ideal neutrality , ' to be an attribute of youth . Ile is so gratified by this discovery , so sure that American boys and girls are following impartially ' the great . struggle in Europe , and that this judicial attitude will , in the coming years , enable them to pronounce the true verdict . of history , ' that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ premature ? pride . " Fite true verdict of history ' will be pronounced according to the documentary evidence in the case . There is no need to vex our souls over the possible extinction of this evidence , for closer observers than our impartial young Americans are placing it permanently on record . The phrase ' high and ideal neutrality ' needs elucidation . Civic neutrality is a recognizable thing . It is enjoined by authority which has it claim upon our obedience . No citizen is warranted in offending against its clearly defined decrees . No nation is warranted in violating the pact which pledges it recognition . When Germany marched her invading armies across Belgium , she placed herself on record as overriding international law . She entered the ranks of the freebooter . Nevertheless there is nothing high or ideal in civic neutrality . Its object is not the good of others , but . peace and security at home . Belgium was not neutral as a matter of convenience to France , but to save her weakness from assault . She asked of the Powers the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own sake , not for her neighbors ' . deleted material conceive of its value ? And what is the worth of teaching which does not rate t he grace of freedom above all earthly benefactions ? how can justice live , save by the will of freemen ? Of what avail are civic virtues that are not the virtues of the free ? Pericles bade the people of Athens to bear reverently in mind the Greeks who had died for ( ; twee . Make these men your examples , and be well assured that happiness comes by freedom , and freedom by stoutness of heart . ' The prelate who said he would rather see England free than England sober , knew the supreme significance of self-control . It is not by selling the navy decanters that we honor sobriety , or foster the qualities of citizenship . To withhold from a child some knowledge ? apportioned to his understanding ? of the world 's sorrows and wrongs is to cheat him of his kinship with humanity . We would not , if we could , bruise his soul @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him from that callous content which is alien to his immaturity , and which men have raised to the rank of a virtue . The little American , like the little Armenian and the little Serb , is a son of the sorrowing earth . His security ? of which no man can forecast the future ? is a legacy bequeathed to him by predecessors who bought it with sweat and with blood ; and with sweat and with blood his descendants may be called on to guard it . Washington 's soldiers and Lincoln 's volunteers laid their lives down that the American child might be safe ? safe in freedom and with honor . The Columbus Despatch told us some months ago the story of a man who , returning from Europe to the United States , laughed uproariously day and night at the contrast between the sufferings and horrors he had witnessed abroad and the peaceful prosperity of home . The distressing nature of his recollections added zest to his heart-whole enjoyment . It would he a glorious thing , said the Despatch , if more Americans could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to quicken their appreciation of their own blessings , their gratitude for their comfortable lot . There used to be some strong-stomached Christians who anticipated an especial satisfaction in I leaven front the contemplation of the torments of the damned . But they had the excuse of believing that it was the damned 's own fault that they were damned . Pity would have been inconsistent with justice . France and Belgium are paying the penalty of Germany 's violence , and of her repudiation of her pledge . Their sorrow is the heroic sorrow of t hose who suffer for justice 's sake . It implies the voluntary surrender deleted materialin exchange for a triumphant ideal which is shared by les times Wen aces of every race and clime . There is little in such devotion to soothe us to complacency ; but there is much to awaken every noble and pitying emotion of our souls . The American child who does not know the tide of Belgium 's heroism and of Belgium 's wrongs has been denied the greatest lesson the living world can teach . The little state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this defense saved France , has become one of the controlling forces of Europe . " rhe moral triumph of Belgium , ' says Cardinal Mercier , ' is an ever memorable fact for history and civilization . ' Upon our understanding of such moral triumph , when linked to material defeat , depend our clearness of vision and our sureness of touch . If we forbear to tell American children this glorious and shameful episodic out of consideration fur the hyphenated vote , we place our scheme of education on a level with the education of Germany , where children are taught the things which a watchful bureaucracy deems it prudent and advisable for thesis to learn . Patriotism in the United States is not subject to subtle reservations unknown to patriotism elsewhere . Its creed is the old simple creed of sacrifice , the old austere renouncement of personal comfort and well-being . It is inadequately expressed by draping a theatre in bunting on elect ion night , or by having an actor dressed as Uncle Sam drive across the stage in a pony cart , and wave an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a symbol of our manhood , of something homely , and strong , and self-respecting , why do we make him ridiculous , debasing bins into a caricature , and employing him as a medium of advertisement in shop-windows. and street cars ! It is indicative of our national insouciance that , while in one theatre this absurd figure ? rendered more farcical by the adroit use of electric lights ? was received with lazy applause , a chorus in an adjacent theatre was cheerfully parodying our national hymn , to the unfeigned amusement of the audience . If we are disposed to treat practical issues sentimentally , and to make abstract sentiment ludicrous , if we deny the impelling power of duty and the value of simple emotions , we have little left to fortify us in our hour of trial . It is possible for advanced pacifists to allude ironically to the Red Cross and the Army Medical Corps as ' screaming anomalies , ' and to propose something called ' planetary patriotism ' as a substitute for the protective love we bear to the land of our birth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Americans , who have worked fourteen hours a day on the French battle-front fort he rescue and relief of the wounded , see anything anomalous in their labors ; and it would be impossible to make little Americans put Mongolia and the Unit ed States on the same level of regard . Planetary patriotism demands nothing beyond committees and phrase-making . Practical patriotism may at any hour ask the sacrifice of life . Not even the ' wooden Juggernaut , prudence , ' can be trusted to save us forever from the call of our imperiled country . Therefore we do well to recognize that war for aggression is a sin against the civilized world , and that we have no right to demand immunity for the aggressor , because prolonged resistance is shattering to our nerves . Therefore we do ill to rob our children of reverence for justice , of respect for bravery , and of compassion for pain . It is not enough for them to rejoice in their own safety , in their immunity from personal violence . They must bear in mind that happiness comes by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To strip from the service of the soldier its heroic quality , to deny him the fruits of Isis sacrifice , to see in Isis endurance , stupidity , in his courage , folly , in his wounds , mere festering flesh , in his death , only corruption and decay ? this is the most terrible blindness that can befall mankind . So was the Pagan blind when he saw in the mangled body of the Christian nothing but foulness and defeat . The realism which repudiates the spirit achieves amazing accuracy of detail , but it stops forever short of the truth . The heroism which preserves the hope of the world is the heritage of the world 's youth . It is the ' sovereign disinfectant , ' saving the soul of the child from the leprosy of materialism , from safety-worship , and from the elevation of his own selfish interests into the rank of a divine appointment .                     