@@435982

To the Atlantic for January , 1909 , I contributed a paper bearing this same title . ' American Democracy ' was then used , and is still used , in its broader sense . The trend of events has made the trust remedy then advanced the declared policy of the party now in power , but the principle on which that remedy rests is the common heritage of all who believe in democracy itself . That principle demands the solution of the trust problem without destroying the fabric of our institutions . It demands the prevention of monopoly , not its regulation . This proposal , made in 1909 , I shall call the Williams bill proposal , because it has become identified with the Senate bill introduced by John S. Williams of Mississippi , who from its inception has been its most effective advocate . Senator Williams wrote me early in 1909 that this proposal furnished the key to the trust situation , and asked me to draft the bill which he later introduced . Later he wrote , ' You have the right sow by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his has been the grip that held , and the credit , if there be any credit , for its present position and promise of accomplishment , is chiefly his . The proposal itself has been so fully established that there are now a number of pending bills based upon it , introduced by leaders of the different parties and factions ; it is apparently accepted without question as both con- stitutional and practicable . It calls in its simplest terms for a federal law excluding from interstate commerce corporations which fail to comply with such conditions as Congress finds and declares necessary to preserve the freedom of that commerce from corporate monopoly , ? ' an effective prohibitory law stating in detail the conditions of incorporation , management , and governing laws necessary to enable a corporation to engage in interstate commerce . ' It is based on a fact which is now undisputed , that monopoly is created by government and can not exist without its aid , and ! that our modern monopolies have been created by the state grants of corporate powers necessary to their existence . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his notable address of February V , 1910 , in which he said that the resulting condition is strongly analogous to that which arose in the reign of Elizabeth by the express grant of royal monopolies . The most complete and conclusive statement of the genesis and growth of monopoly under the grant of the state corporation laws is that made at the 1911 convention of the American Bar Association by its President , Hon. Edgar H. Farrar , of New Orleans . Judge Farrar particularly condemned the holding company and the unlimited capitalization allowed to modern corporations , and said , Monopoly comes 258 AMERICAN DEMOCRACY AND CORPORATE REFORM to them by virtue of their size , organization and strength just as surely as monopoly went to the East India Company by royal grant ' ; adding that Congress can drive out of interstate and foreign commerce all corporations with fictitious or watered stock , all corporations whose capital stock is so great as to constitute them practical monopolies or suspects of being such , all holding companies , and all companies whose stocks are owned by holding companies or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1909 and was , at the time Judge Farrar spoke , embodied in the Williams bill introduced in the Senate April 20 , 1911 , covering the specific items mentioned . In September , 1909 , the New York World called this proposal to the attention of the so-called Saratoga Conference which was deliberating on the future policies of the Democratic party , and urged upon it the importance of presenting a definite policy on the trust question . The platform adopted was negative on this question , and this omission was criticised by the Outlook in an editorial in which it said , ' As soon as the Democratic Party takes a stand on one side or the other of the giant struggle over the whole industrial problem that is paramount in this country , it will become vitalized , but until it does that it is negligible . ' Between 1909 and 1912 the entire aspect of the trust question changed . The banner of national socialism was raised at Ossawatomie , and the Democratic party seemed still to be unable to meet the issue squarely on one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decisions in the Standard Oil and Tobacco Trust cases , the situation altered . Monopoly was attacked and defeated . Its origin and its methods became more clearly defined , and in particular the fact of its creation by and dependence upon corporate devices became more clear to the general public . The Williams bill proposal was justified by the events which followed it , and gradually acquired strong individual support and public recognition . The Attorney-General of the United States , who in court and forum had contributed so largely to this result , publicly stated on March 30 , 1912 , that the Williams bill was the most practicable and indeed I think the only clearly thought out and intelligently conceived legislation in that direction , ' ? in the direction , that is , of prevention of monopoly by restrictive laws . The Democratic party in July , 1912 , nominated Woodrow Wilson for President , and , on the initiative of Senator Williams , made its appeal to the voters with the following anti-trust plank , embodying the proposal which had been ignored by the Saratoga Conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We therefore favor the rigorous enforcement of the criminal as well as the civil law against trusts and trust officials , and demand the enactment of such additional legislation as may be necessary to make it impossible for a private monopoly to exist in the United States . We favor the declaration by law of the conditions upon which corporations shall be permitted to engage in interstate trade , including , among others , the prevention of holding companies , of interlocking directors , of stock-watering , of discrimination in price , and the control by any one corporation of so large a proportion of any industry as to make it a menace to competitive conditions . ' The Outlook prediction was fulfilled . Democracy was vitalized , when for the first time in any party platform the restriction of corporate evils was declared to be the specific remedy fort destroying private monopoly . The AMERICAN DEMOCRACY AND CORPORATE REFORM 259 average voter , I believe , grasps quite clearly the plain general meaning of this remedy . He has , wisely or unwisely , an inherited antipathy to corporate privileges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ready recognition of the fact that monopoly is the outgrowth of corporate privilege , and can be destroyed by its limitation . He is surprised not at the declaration , but at the failure to apply it long ago . He knows that ' a private monopoly is indefensible and intolerable . ' In the words of a member of the English Long Parliament , quoted by Judge Farrar , he has found them , a nest of wasps ? a swarm of vermin which have overcrept the land . Like the frogs of Egypt , they have gotten possession of our dwellings and we have scarce a room free from them . They sup in our cup ; they dip in our dish ; they sit by our fire . We find them in the dye-vat , washbowl , and powdering tub . They share with the butler in his box . They will not bate us a pin . We may not buy our clothes without their brokerage . These are the leeches that have sucked the commonwealth so hard that it is almost hectical . ' It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meaning of the platform remedy , in connection with the situation now existing , and with the effort now being made to dispense with this remedy or to subvert it to the perpetuation of monopoly ; also to make plain the fact that the platform pledge calls for certain definite things the effect of which will be as complete as the party promise to make it impossible for a monopoly to exist in the United States . ' The first platform pledge is for the rigorous enforcement of the criminal as well as the civil law against trusts and trust officials . ' It was perhaps expected that the enforcement of the law would be more rigorous ' and ef fective under Mr. McReynolds than under Mr. Wickersham , and the Union Pacific dissolution is cited as evidence that this has been the case . In justice to the subject , it must be said that the difference is largely one of form . In the Standard Oil case , the common-stock ownership was not disturbed , and so long as it continues the trust ' remains . The Southern Pacific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be physically converted into actual stock by a Union Pacific stockholder , but their exchange for actual stock by such a stockholder , by sale and purchase on the Stock Exchange , was not restrained by the decree , and was accomplished at a cost of twenty-five cents a share brokerage . The common control has apparently been retained ; if it was worth retaining it could not be destroyed by such a measure . I cite this simply to emphasize the futility of the rigorous enforcement ' of the present law against corporate monopoly . It has not been and will not be destroyed in this way , nor , I believe , by the trusts eating out of the hands of the Attorney-General , ' to quote the current characterization of a process that originated with the last administration and has some of the features of an immunity bath ' for its fortunate victims . The evil is an underlying one , and requires an underlying remedy ; such was Mr. Wickersham 's conclusion after four years of actual experience , and it is not apt to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it will be reestablished to-morrow , for the means by which it was created remains , and can not well be controlled by judicial decree , or by adjustments similar to those of the Standard Oil and Union Pacific cases . The acceptance of such adjustments , as a permanent solution of the problem , involves 260 AMERICAN DEMOCRACY AND CORPORATE REFORM a surrender not by the trusts but by the Democratic party ? a surrender in the face of an assured victory . The platform recognizes this fact and demands the enactment of such additional legislation as may be necessary to make it impossible for a private monopoly to exist in the United States . ' Monopoly is destructible , and will be destroyed . In these bold words the Baltimore Convention met the issue raised at Ossawatomie . Monopoly today is on the defensive . Its cause and the way to its removal are known to the electorate , and to the active leaders of Congress who were members of the Convention that adopted this declaration . The platform pledge is strong and it is specific , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and will be made to subvert it so as to effect the perpetuation of monopoly . It calls for certain definite , substantially unmistakable provisions of law , for a declaration by law ' of certain ' conditions ' which must be met . The Williams bill proposal embodying these conditions had been thrashed out in the Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce and was known to all members of Congress at Baltimore who had followed the subject . It is embodied in the platform . The trade commission ' proposal , and various proposals to amend the Sherman Act so as in effect to permit a ' reasonable restraint of trade ' by good trusts , ' were also well known , ? if anything , more widely known than the Williams bill . They are not embodied in the platform . The danger of the subversion of this remedy is serious . It is evidenced by the report of the Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce , presented on February 26 , 1913 . Its only specific recommendation for legislation embodied the Williams bill proposal in the following words : ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corporations now or hereafter organized under state law , and engaged in or proposing to engage in such commerce , further conditions and regulations affecting both their organization and the conduct of their business . ' The Senator who wrote the report , referring to 10 out of 20 manufacturing establishments heretofore in competition ' desiring to consolidate , said : There ought to be a way in which the men in such a venture could submit their plan to the government , and an inquiry made as to the legality of such a transaction , and if the government was of the opinion that competitive conditions would not be substantially impaired there should be an approval , and in so far as the lawfulness of the exact thing is concerned there should be a decision , and if favorable to the proposal there should be an end of that particular controversy for all time . ' A more apt statement of the programme for the creation of monopoly under a federal bureaucracy could not well be made . It subverts the whole proposal adopted by the committee , and instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggests ' regulations ' under which it may be perpetuated ' for all time . ' Woe betide the American Republic , if combinations of industry can by executive approval make ' an end of that particular controversy for all time . ' The proposal , if adopted , would be a new and greater mother of trusts . From its womb would spring , for the first time in our history , full-grown national monopolies , vested for all time ' with the sovereign grant of the United States . There have been , and will be , many similar efforts to secure an executive discretion in the ' regulation of combinations , ' issuing cards of admission or orders of exclusion directed to particular corporations . AMERICAN DEMOCRACY AND CORPORATE REFORM 261 They will be presented with great ability as authoritative embodiments of the platform plank , in several forms and from many sources . They can have but one certain result . Mr. Wickersham said in July , 1911 , on the subject of federal regulation , ' It has been openly advocated quite recently by representatives of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a means of salvation and to preserve , under government supervision , great organizations whose continued existence is menaced by the recent interpretation of the Sherman Anti-trust Act . ' To ' preserve ' them ? this is the crux of the whole subject ? on the borderland of monopoly and as near to its accomplishment and rich rewards as the executive for the time being may permit . When the mind contemplates , in the light of history and with a knowledge of men , the vast meaning of this picture , it is small wonder that our executives , no less than our ' captains of industry , ' have at times inclined to favor a power so full of possibilities . Its possibilities are different for different men . It appeals to the beneficent autocrat , with the idea of compelling industrial peace and justice through the land , a dream fit for a Marcus Aurelius . It appeals to political ambition , with its possibilities of a great political autocracy controlling the destinies of the nation . Last , but not least , it appeals to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with its promise of salvation to existing combinations and of future growth . It means but one thing certainly , and Ihat is , monopoly under the possible restraint of government . The sanction it will enjoy , but the restraint will not be felt . The thing is practically impossible in any government that is free and expects to remain free . It is useless to speculate on a matter of such absolute certainty . Ours is a republican form of government . The only problem of ' regulated monopoly ' under it is to outwit , mislead , or corrupt the ever-changing powers that be , all the big brains and money , cunning and greed of the country working toward a common end , with nothing to check them but a handful of men , big and little , each holding a political office at a small salary until a better office or a better salary is offered him , and hoping for something worth while when he returns to unofficial life . Where are the presidential secretaries and bureaucrats of yesterday ? The question is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bureaucratic efficiency under a republic , of regulated monopoly in a democracy . The head of the Steel Trust is the most pronounced advocate of such a system , a system of the ' good trusts , ' of great industrial combinations riveting the chains of commerce with executive permits , growing imperceptibly , but ' for all time , ' and irresistibly , to the complete dominance of industry . Fortunately the party elected to power is pledged to the destruction of monopoly , not by regulation , but by the enactment of specific legislation , which by the terms of the declaration excludes the idea and possibility of ' regulated combination . ' Fortunately , also , there is one man in the United States who has kept his mind open on this question , not perhaps individually , but as President , nor has he expressed any other view but that the causes of monopoly are known , and we must act with that knowledge to destroy and prevent them . Correcting a popular impression to the contrary , he has very recently said with much emphasis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process of government , that I shall be spokesman for some- 262 AMERICAN DEMOCRACY AND CORPORATE REFORM body , not for myself . I have to confine myself to those things which have been embodied as promises to the people at an election . That is the strict rule I have set for myself . ' The recent report of the Secretary of Commerce , which covered the field of possible legislation , contained no suggestion of federal regulation . Its specific recommendation of ' legislation looking to fundamental charter provisions for every corporation doing interstate business ' states the proposal and details of the Williams bill ; it is the only recommendation that has not been adversely criticised by the press . ' Les hommes sont impuissants pour assurer l'avenir ; les institutions seules fixent les destinies des nations . ' ( Men are powerless to assure the future ; institutions alone fix the destinies of nations . ) These were the remarkable words of Napoleon , the most powerful man of modern history . We are at the threshold of an era , the beginning and the end of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the name of Woodrow Wilson ; but it is an era remarkable , not for the man , but for the institutions which he is upbuilding and reestablishing upon their original foundations , to bear the shocks of succeeding ages . In that work and that way lies undying fame . The other way , a Wilson or a Bryan disturbing the fabric of our institutions would soon surrender to a Debs the work and the fame of institutions yet untried . A restored democracy triumphant over the monopoly-ruled paternalism from which we have suffered is the mission of the party now in power . The executive will not dictate the laws , nor will he ask or receive the power to enforce them ' with discretion . ' Monopoly will be destroyed , but not by the officers or employees of a federal bureau , matching their knowledge and their wits against the trained special ists of our great trusts . The unfortunate episode of the Tennessee Coal and Iron acquisition should be sufficient as an experiment in so one-sided a programme . The ' additional legislation ' specifically demanded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the conditions ' necessary to the prevention of specific corporate evils . Congress is competent to exercise its prerogative of legislation , and the subject is one that can be completely covered by a remedial law . A ' declaration by law ' is a political platform in itself . It disposes at once of all plans for the administrative control of business . It accords with our established principle of government , and requires a ' government of law and not of men . ' The things to be ' declared by law ' are ' the conditions upon which corporations may engage in interstate trade . ' The programme of legislation is declared and does not admit of generalities . It recognizes the fact that monopoly is an act of government , and that the problem is not to prevent its growth by natural laws , for such growth is impossible , but to prevent its creation by special privileges by which alone it has its inception and fruition . In the last five years , no one , lawyer or layman , has questioned this proposition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ privately have publiel ignored it and will continue to do so . Nor has anyone ever explained just how , without the special privilege , and facilities conferred by these state statutes , our modern trusts could have been created , or how , without them , they can now exist . Individuals might attempt to combine by private agreement , but such agreements never have been and never will be upheld or enforced , and without the aid of government in enforcing them they are worthless . They were uniformly held AMERICAN DEMOCRACY AND CORPORATE REFORM 263 illegal at the common law , and the original Standard Oil and Sugar trusts were destroyed by the courts of Ohio and New York , respectively , and then went to and obtained from New Jersey the statutory power to do what the courts had held illegal . Without this statutory power they could not have been created . The Williams bill proposal is directed against the licensing of monopoly , as an un-American and sovereign abuse of governmental power , not against any proper function of the state . It is directed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the individual engaged in or dependent on commerce , against special privilege . It is based on the democratic function of the federal government ; it demands a restrictive uniform law , and involves no vestige of grant or privilege , of executive discretion or administrative control . It removes the evil at the source , and leaves commerce and the individual free as they were before the inception of privilege and monopoly . From one point of view , it may be said that , disregarding monopoly and competition , regulated or unregulated , and every other question affecting restraint of trade , except the undisputed fact that there are certain recognized corporate evils affecting commerce which can be corrected by federal law , it should be possible for all to unite in correcting these evils , pending their agreement or disagreement on other questions . No one can very well oppose such a law , except the few who are bold enough to demand that these corporate devices should be retained for the benefit of monopoly . Open opposition is impossible , but the trouble comes , and will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made , to graft upon this simple measure one or another of the various other remedies desired by different interests . Correct these specific ' charter-enacted ' evils first , simplify the problem by reducing monopoly to its own ' inevitable evolution , ' and we shall , I believe , be in a position clearly to understand and deal with ' economic combinations ' and ' unfair competition . ' The proposed remedy does not demand , as some have thought , the immediate change of all the corporation laws of the states , but the amendment by the corporations themselves of their own charters under those laws , and , where necessary , their reorganization , so that they may become safe instruments of commerce . The state laws will be amended when their unsafe grants have become valueless . The general proposal needs , I believe , little further explanation . It is not federal incorporation , although it may be taken as the democratic alternative for that remedy , and is neither so drastic nor so revolutionary in principle . It may have the effect , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charters . By requiring restrictive safeguards in the organization of corporations , Congress can accomplish everything that the creating state should accomplish , and yet remain entirely free to require further safeguards as they may be needed . The power asserted is one of complete control over the charter , organization , and conduct of corporations engaged in interstate trade , ? a control , however , to be exercised restrictively by a general law , without any element of license or regulation , beyond requiring such publicity as may be necessary to insure compliance with the law . The remedy no longer lies with the states , for any one of the forty-eight may perpetuate the evil ; and , indeed , if they should all unite to-day to destroy it by amending their laws , we might awake to-morrow to find yesterday ' s 264 AMERICAN DEMOCRACY AND CORPORATE REFORM monopolies chartered by some South American republic . Congress alone can protect the commerce of the nation against this particular danger ; acting for all the states and all the people , it can exclude from that commerce every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being a safe and proper business agency . What must be the prescribed conditions ? The several items enumerated are , like the programme itself , specific and admit of little substantial variance in the legislation necessary to put them into complete effect . The first condition required is one to effect the prevention of holding companies . ' At this suggestion , the Democratic member of Congress wants to consult the 1913 amendments of the New Jersey Corporation law , though President Wilson has denied that these amendments forecast in any way his idea of a federal law . His meaning is plain , when one reads in Section 49 as amended , that any corporation formed under this act may purchase property , real and personal , and the stock of any corporation , necessary for its business ... provided further that the property purchased or the property owned by the corporation whose stock is purchased shall be cognate in character and use to the property used or contemplated to be used by the purchasing corporation in the direct conduct of its own proper business . ' This amendment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existing under the New Jersey laws , plainly furnishes no light on the problem of eliminating the holding company . On the contrary , it furnishes an instance of the charter-power under which the holding . company exists ; and a company with this power , as Senator Williams expresses it , is a potential monopoly . ' According to Judge Farrar , ' The most vicious of all the provisions in the statutes aboveenumerated is that authorizing one corporation to own and vote stock in another . This provision is the mother of the holding company and the trust . It provides a method for combining under one management and control corporations from one end of the nation to the other . ' Mr. Wickersham , who speaks with the authority of experience , is convinced that ' Probably no one thing has done more to facilitate restraint of trade and the growth of monopoly than the departure from the early rule of law that one corporation can not own stock in another . ' The holding company , according to President Taft 's message of January 7 , 1910 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the great trusts and monopolies . ' What are the corporate conditions necessary for the prevention of holding companies ' ? Mr. Wickersham has said that if Congress should exclude them from commerce , ' the axe would indeed be laid at the root of the trust evil . ' Judge Farrar would also exclude ? and it is essential to exclude ? ' all companies whose stocks are owned or controlled by holding companies . ' It is a simple matter to exclude holding companies , though Congress has waited a long time to do it ; but it is not so simple to exclude companies controlled by holding companies . The corporation can not prevent the holding company from acquiring its stock ; the latter may remain in its own state and control the commerce of the nation . Professor John Bates Clark , in his recent edition of ' Control of Trusts , ' suggests a remedy when he says that the incentive for forming such companies would be removed if it were enacted that the shares of industrial companies owned by holding companies should have no voting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the state or by the corporation itself as AMERICAN DEMOCRACY AND CORPORATE REFORM 265 a part of its charter ; and as to existing companies it would have to have the assent of the stockholders whose right to vote is to be destroyed . This right is binding upon the state and corporation which are parties to it . It is not binding upon Congress . Conceding , as we may , that Congress can not change the state-made grant , it can exclude from commerce any corporation that holds this grant in a form inimical to the freedom of commerce . It can exclude every corporation in which any other corporation has the right to vote , and can in effect compel the surrender of that right by any person or holding company engaging in commerce as a member of the corporation , or compel the reorganization of the corporation under a new charter denying such right ( a reorganization in some cases under state laws , instead of in all cases such as would be required by federal incorporation ) . In every effort to deal effectively with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposition that , in the words of Chief Justice Marshall , a corporation ' may be correctly said to be precisely what the incorporating act has made it ? to derive all its powers from that act , and to be capable of exerting its faculties only in the manner which that act authorizes . ' And Chief Justice Waite has added that ' every corporation necessarily carries its charter wherever it goes , for that is the law of its existence . ' In a very real sense , the charter is the only law that it can not ignore or evade , but it is also a law by the aid of which , if so designed , it can successfully evade other laws . There can be no permanent solution of the matter that does not reform the charter and make the corporation a safe instrument of commerce . Mr. Justice Brown has said that the corporation is presumed to be incorporated for the benefit of the public ' ; and the Baltimore platform has declared that it must be so incorporated if it is to engage in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill , and I agree with Senator Williams that it is the only theory on which the proposal of 1909 can be made completely effective ; and the only way in which monopoly , dependent for its existence on corporate devices , can be completely destroyed and prevented . It is the method indicated in the recent report of Secretary Redfield , urging ' fundamental charter provisions ' to be required of all interstate corporations . The holding company is prevented by Senator Williams 's bill , first , by requiring that the corporation shall not have the power to acquire or hold the stock of other corporations ; second , by requiring a provision in its charter that no other corporation shall have any vote or voice , directly or indirectly , in its affairs . This may be supplemented , if necessary , by imposing the penalty of forfeiture on any member of the corporation who prevents it from amending its charter to conform to the law . It will , I believe , be sufficient for Congress to declare the law : its conditions will be met . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charter restrictions is instanced by the following unwise provision in the charter of a Panama steamship corporation organized in New Jersey in 1911 : ? The power of any stockholder or director to vote on any question shall cease upon notice from the Postmaster-General of the United States that such a stockholder or director represents a competitive railway interest . ' The second condition required is one to effect the prevention of interlocking directors . ' Here , also , the efficient remedy seems to be plain and unmistakable . It would be unjust to do as one bill introduced by a very able Senator attempted to do ? exclude a 266 AMERICAN DEMOCRACY AND CORPORATE REFORM corporation from commerce if one of its directors happens to become a director of a competing company . He may do this after his election . The corporation can not control him , and its life or death is in his hands . The corporation can be protected only by a charter provision against such an event . Senator Williams has , I believe , laid the axe at the root of the tree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ competing corporation ineligible as a director , extending this provision also to include any person representing any competing interest . I quote again from the charter of the existing New Jersey corporation to which I have referred : No person shall be eligible as a director who shall be a director in or an officer or agent of any corporation or association engaged in any competitive transportation business by rail . ' The Williams bill requires the charter to declare any person representing a competitive interest , including a director in a competing corporation , to be ineligible as a director . Such a charter provision is self-operating . The attempted election of an ineligible director is a nullity and the office remains vacant . The charter is safeguarded , and the corporation is a safe instrument of business . The same method adapts itself to the third requirement , that of a condition preventing watered stock . It is unjust to provide , as one important Senate bill did provide , that a corporation should be excluded from commerce if it issued capital stock with a par value exceeding by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ property received therefor . ' Under this provision , an honest business error in the valuation of the property would exclude a corporation from commerce and effect its ruin . What is needed , and all that is needed , is to nullify the dangeroussanction that has been supposed to be given under some state laws , to issue stock at any valuation declared by the directors . Senator Williams , in the bill revised with his sanction and introduced in the lower House by Honorable William R. Smith of Texas , has entirely nullified the permissive statutory power by requiring that all stock shall be fully paid or payable , and permitting it to be paid in property only when its value has been determined on oath filed in a public office to be not less than the par value of the stock , or , in the case of stock authorized to be issued without par value , to be not less than $5 per share . This condition applies after the passage of the law , but is required to be inserted in the charter within:a limited time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the state laws . The fourth condition required by the Baltimore platform deals with management ' rather than incorporation ' or governing laws . ' It must prevent discrimination in prices . ' The Williams bill excludes any corporation which destroys competition by any unfair methods , including ' temporarily or locally reducing prices . ' One of the New Jersey ' seven sisters ' meets quite specifically the language of the platform . It declares it a misdemeanor to ' , discriminate in prices between different persons . . . or sections . of the State . . . after making due allowance for the difference , if any , in the grade , quality or quantity , and in the actual cost of transportation . . . if the effect or intent thereof is to establish or maintain a virtual monopoly , hindering competition or restriction of trade ' sic . This provision , applied to different persons and sections of the United States , ' adapts itself admirably to the platform requirement . It is not possible to discuss here the various statutes relative to unfair competition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions that might be contained in the federal law , but I wish to express the thought that the state in creating a corporation , and Congress in admitting it to interstate commerce ' for the benefit of the public , ' may well require of it the highest standard of business ethics , even as to matters with respect to which the same standard might not so justly be required as a restriction of the liberty of the individual . The last condition demanded in the platform is one to effect ' the prevention of control by any one corporation of so large a proportion of any industry as to make it a menace to competitive conditions . ' This is perhaps the one item in the platform declaration which is not entirely specific . It may be met by a general condition in the language quoted , excluding a corporation from commerce if it acquires a dominance of any industry . It may , and perhaps should , be met by a provision limiting the capital to be employed in a particular industry . Limitation of capital was originally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the creation of corporations . But today the limit is fixed by the corporation charter adopted by it under a general law , and not by a special charter granted by the legislature . There is , of course , no question of the power of Congress to limit the capital of corporations engaged in interstate trade . Judge Smith 's revision of the Williams bill asserts this power with striking efficiency . It excludes a corporation from interstate trade if its authorized capital exceeds $200,000,000 , unless a larger capitalization shall be permitted by special act of Congress ; subject also to any lower limitation of capital which Congress may at any time prescribe for corporations engaged in any particular industry . ' Let us summarize the conditions demanded by the platform . First , the only conditions which can be imposed on corporations engaged in interstate trade to prevent holding companies are ( 1 ) a condition that the corporation itself shall not be a holding company , that is , that it shall not have the charter power to hold stocks of other companies ; M a condition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ company , which can only be effected by requiring a charter prohibition against such holding , and may be met in part by a charter prohibition against the voting of any stock so held . Second , the only condition that will prevent interlocking directors is one that the corporation shall not have as a director a person who is a director in ; any competing company , and that can justly be effected only by requiring a charter provision declaring any such person ineligible as a director . Third , the only condition that will prevent watered stock is one that requires the stock to be fully paid , or payable upon an actual valuation , and the most effective ultimate condition for this purpose is to make this a charter requirement ; the charter law is the only one that is incapable of evasion . Fourth , the only condition that can be imposed by a declaration by law , ' which will prevent discrimination in prices , is one similar to that contained in the New Jersey amendment approved by Governor Wilson . And fifth , the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control of an industry by one corporation , is one that limits the capitalization of corporations engaged in particular industries . These are the only conditions specifically required by the platform . They are the chief conditions necessary to the prevention of monopoly . Had they prevailed in the past , monopoly would not now exist . Would their requirement now destroy existing monopolies ? For instance , what effect would they e98 AMERICAN DEMOCRACY have on the common-stock control of the dissolved ' Standard Oil and Tobacco trusts ? Is it possible to meet the recent taunt of Senator Gallinger , made on December 3 , 1913 , following the reading of the President 's message , when he is quoted as saying that attempts to suppress private monopoly would ' be about as successful as the Standard Oil suit , which has resulted in no change of ownership , no reduction of prices or of profits . ' The Democratic party and individual members of Congress will wish to go before the country in a situation different from that which confronted the last administration . They must present a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anti-trust declaration . As an aid to the solution of this question of common-stock ownership , let us go back again to the origin of the corporation , and bear in mind the basic fact that ' it is presumed to be incorporated for the benefit of the public . ' The state , in creating a corporation should , and Congress when admitting it to commerce can , write at the head of every charter and into its every provision the words , Salus populi suprema lex . " Phe state creates a corporation on the assumption and with the intent that it shall be an independent business unit . The state has a plain right so to condition its organization as to safeguard this intent . The incorporators themselves in the first instance would be apt to desire such safeguards . The buying-in ' privilege peculiar to a corporation is a special privilege which does not exist with respect to a partnership . The state , in granting this privilege , should protect itself and the incorporators against the facility which it presents for the acquisition of control by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condition for this purpose is the requirement of a AND CORPORATE REFORM charter provision similar to that of the Williams bill , that no person representing or holding stock in a competing company should be eligible as a director or have ' any vote or voice in its affairs . ' If such a provision were inserted in the charters of the various Standard Oil corporations , it would not take very long to obtain competitive conditions between them . The several interests would separate themselves very quickly to secure the control of separate corporations . The Waters-Pierce interests have pointed the way toward such action . It has been suggested that Congress might prohibit the voting of stock by a holder in a competing company , if done with intent to prevent competition . Even if such a law were constitutional , its enforcement would be extremely difficult and partial . The burden of proof would be upon the government , or possibly the contending stockholder seeking to establish the intent . In the absence of any strong contest , the actual control would continue as it is . Here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and permanently solved , only by going to the root of the evil , requiring the corporation to be safeguarded by its charter law against control by competing interests . It is a safeguard which the state should require in the first instance , which experience and present conditions show to be necessary , and which Congress can require as a part of the conditions it now aims to impose on corporate organization . The interlocking ' of corporate interests is the real evil . It can be made impossible only by charter safeguards which shall effectively prevent ownership of stock by a competitive interest . Short of this there are three degrees of prevention , if I may so express it . The first is the prevention of interlocking directors by the charter provision AMERICAN DEMOCRACY AND CORPORATE REFORM Q69 above mentioned . This is , I believe , of little practical value in cases like that of the dissolved Oil Trust , where each director remains a stockholder in all the constituent companies . Competition between companies so officered is impossible . The second degree , which would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ require a charter provision that no person representing a competitive interest , as director , stockholder , or otherwise , shall be eligible as director . The third , and much more effective , charter provision , is that no such person shall be entitled to vote as a stockholder . The fourth and completely effective provision is that first suggested , that no such person shall acquire or hold any stock or any interest therein , directly or indirectly , placing a heavy penalty on its secret ownership with intent to exercise control . This should and could be required of a new corporation created by a state if it is to be made proof against acquisition by competitive interests . Whether the federal law should go so far as to require so drastic a condition as to either existing or future corporations , is an open question . The power is there , and if at any time its exercise seems necessary , it should be used . We can not meet this problem if we surrender in advance to I he view that the state grants have by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the rights acquired under them are too complex to be dealt with by an effective law . We should , I believe , prescribe conditions to take effect at onee that will disintegrate and batter down the corporate walls of existing monopoly ; but we must also prescribe conditions , to take effect within one , two , or three years , that will reach the creating power and prevent for all time the use of the corporate charter , whether granted by a state or by a foreign government , as a means of circumventing the Sherman Act or of monopolizing the nation 's commerce . Any bill that is drawn will have to be carefully guarded as to its effect on existing corporations , first , to compel without evasion the complete disintegration within a reasonable time of all existing monopolies ; second , to allow reasonable leeway for the amendment of charters of other corporations with a view to ultimate complete uniformity in the substantial safeguards to be required . With respect to holding companies it may be said , that though they owe their origin to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incidental legitimate uses which it may be possible not to destroy . I do not mean by this that they should be permitted as an institution , and prohibited only when used ' with intent to create a monopoly , ' a provision that would throw us back on the existing law ; but that the prohibition asserted and expressed might be accompanied by an exception , in effect permitting one corporation to operate , under subsidiary charters , separate branches of one business , treating it in other respects as a single corporation , and not permitting it to hold less than ninety per cent of its subsidiaries ' stock , or to combine competing properties . The adjustment of this far-reaching corporate reform to the actual business conditions of the country will not , I believe , be as difficult or drastic as one might at first suppose . It is directed primarily to requiring an amendment of the charters of corporations organized under the so-called liberal state laws . This can be done by each corporation for itself under the broad power given it to make or amend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some cases , but , as every corporation lawyer knows , reorganization is not a destructive or necessarily burdensome measure ; it is readily effected for a business advan- 270 CIVIL ? SERVICE REFORM AND COMMON SENSE tage or profit . Amendments of state laws will naturally follow , and a large amount of leeway can safely be given by the law to corporations already organized under conservative state laws . Permanent exceptions , however , need not , and I believe should not , be allowed as to existing corporations ; and the ultimate aim should be to subject all corporations engaged in interstate commerce to a uniform standard of organization fully prescribed by a general federal law . The result should be to give Congress the same complete power to protect the commerce of the nation from corporate evils that any independent sovereignty has over corporations doing business within its territory , whether created by itself or by a foreign power . The remedy proposed , says Senator Williams , ' is the right one : efficient , sufficient , operating in the open and by force of prescribed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condemns the genius of our form of government . The power to grant corporate privileges remains in the state , subject always to the restrictive power of the general government , a power that can be asserted not to create special privilege , but only to protect the liberty of the individual against it . This , I take it , is the supremely democratic function of the federal government , the bulwark of our individual liberties , protecting the liberty of each by the force of all , against any special privilege created by the state governments .                     