@@487204

LORD LANSDOWNE 'S demand that the Allies state publicly the terms on which they are willing to make peace contains little or nothing that is new . His specific proposals have all been made before . They scarcely vary from what Mr. Asquith has repeatedly said . Lansdowne 's suggestion that the Allies should even profess a willingness to " examine . . . a group of international problems , some of them of recent origin , which are connected with the question of the freedom of the seas , " goes no further than Sir Edward Grey did when he was Foreign Secretary . The real significance of Lord Lansdowne 's letter , which was the sensation of the day in London , lies in the man himself and the hour at which he speaks out . For he is of the very type of stern and unbending Tories . His long and distin  --  guished official career gives him the ear of the public as few men not now in the Government could have it . He is no pacifist , no timorous weakling . During @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he was the spokes  --  man of the Government in the House of Lords , and was then , as he has since been , a thorough-going believer in the war and its ardent supporter . Indeed , in the critical days of August , 1914 , Lord Lansdowne was one of the Conserva  --  tive leaders who privately informed the Liberal Prime Min  --  ister that they would support him if he declared war on Ger  --  many , with the plain intimation that they would attack him if he did not . Such then is the British statesman , with such a record behind him , who now urges the nations at war with Germany to state their aims frankly for the purpose of discovering whether they are not able to attain what President Wilson called a " covenanted peace . " It should be noted that Lord Lansdowne lays the chief stress on what might seem secondary matters . No purpose to blot Germany out as a great Power ; no imposition of a form of government upon her people ; no economic war after the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been expressed by President Wilson , since the United States entered the war . And if any one thinks they are subordinate details , let him recall what the German press and the German Government have been say  --  ing . They have pictured the Allies as bent on annihilating Germany , as determined to destroy her commerce after the war and to shut her out of the markets of the world . These fears may be unfounded . Certainly , Mr. Wilson did his best to dissipate them . It is , of course , possible that the mili  --  tarist party in Germany exaggerated all this in order to de  --  ceive the people and induce them to keep up the struggle . But if that is so , what better strategy could the Allies pur  --  sue than to repudiate these alleged war aims of theirs , and to make clear their real aims ? On the main points there is no thought in Lord Lans  --  downe 's mind of abatement or surrender . Belgium , and the reparation due her , he still puts " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minimum for all in the war against Ger  --  many . Until her Government gives explicit and binding as  --  surances on that point , there can be no peace . Bethmann ? Hollweg appeared to be nearly ready to speak the needed word and give the needed guarantees . The Reichstag reso  --  lution of last July looked that way distinctly . Just at pres  --  ent , unfortunately , as the Swedish delegate to Berlin re  --  cently reported , the Pan-Germans and the annexationists appear to be temporarily in the saddle . The culbute g  --  ni ? , rale in Russia and the Italian victories have given them new hope . This was reflected in the speech of the new Chan  --  cellor , which was largely a defiant glorification of German military prowess . The other things are , however , tacit in von Hertling 's remark that Germany and her allies stand by their answer to the Pope , in which they favored disarma  --  ment . This must receive sharp prominence in any restate  --  ment of the war aims of the Allies . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system will be the severest pun  --  ishment of wicked militarists . Rapacious militarism  --  the kind which still talks of making Germany rich and great by unscrupulous war , and reckons up its " booty " in Italy in terms of millions of marks  --  must be permanently defeated , if this world is to remain a fit place for civilized men . Our Big Shipping Plans A MERICANS remember as one of their proudest mari time boasts that in 1861 our total tonnage  --  river , lake , and coastwise ships included  --  was only a half-million tons behind the total tonnage of Great Britain and her depen  --  dencies ; and that our deep-water tonnage , which amounted to half the entire 5,300,000 tons , carried about 70 per cent . of our exports and imports . How many realize now that when the present shipbuilding programme is com  --  pleted we shall again be pressing close upon Great Britain , and should be able again to care for nearly all our trade in our own vessels ? Our latest information from the Ship  --  ping Board presents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The United States merchant marine now includes about 400 vessels of over 1,500 deadweight tons , aggregating about 2,900,000 tons in , or capable of being in , the foreign trade . Of this about 700,000 tons represent German or Austrian vessels . The Board has further let contracts for 884 new vessels , aggre  --  gating roughly 4,750,000 tons ; has requisitioned 426 ves  --  sels building on the ways of over 3,000,000 tons ; and has contracts pending for about 100 other vessels of 610,000 tons . The total is between 11,000,000 and 11,500,000 tons ; and if we add to this the American tonnage not used or usable on the high seas , we shall have a marine not far from the total British marine , and one amply able to take care of such a commerce ( about 25,000,000 tons ) as we had before the war . To carry through this programme by the end of 1918 or soon after demands that the United States build more than ten times as many vessels as it ever built before in the same time , three times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as many as the whole world . It is nat  --  ural men should doubt that it can be done . Can we turn out enough steel ? An authoritative Pittsburgh source tells us that the continuous and heavy increase in steel mate  --  rials required is already being obtained . Last year the average monthly output increased from about 55,000 tons to about 65,000 , thus far in the present year it has risen to about 200,000 tons monthly , in the next four months it is expected to reach an average of 250,000 tons , and it is hoped to reach 500,000 tons by next March . Can we obtain enough wood ? The composite and wooden ships will require in the year nearly 400,000,000 feet of South  --  ern yellow pine timber alone , and another 100,000,000 feet for docks , ways , etc . The output has been rather short of 600,000 feet a day , or about half of what is required , but it is rising by leaps and bounds , and Southern timber men are confident it can be brought to the mark . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which great saw  --  mills have been brought into play . Can we get the boil  --  ers and engines ? We are assured that the reciprocating engines for the wooden boats are being manufactured in sufficient quantity for all purposes , and that the turbines for the steel ships are also coming as rapidly as needed . Can we get the yards and labor ? Here is the rub , yet the fact that new contracts have been or are being let for nearly a thousand vessels , that when the requisitioning began it affected 426 vessels on the ways or soon to be there , is evidence of a certain readiness of facilities . Labor officials are cooperating with the Government in obtain  --  ing men . The question of men presents three aspects , for besides builders , ship-officers and seamen in great numbers will be needed . It is estimated that the yards will employ 400 , ? 000 to 500,000 when under full pressure , and that they now have not many more than 200,000 . The Shipping Board speaks of 250,000 as required , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and so many can be released from building trades and automobile and other factories , that to obtain this industrial army is chiefly a matter of mobilization . Pacific Coast marine journals report that pessimists there have been surprised at the liberal supply of good labor . Recent arrangements as to wages will undoubtedly help on either coast , both in draw  --  ing men to their work and in keeping them there . As for officers , 5,000 of whom will be needed on decks and 5,000 in engine departments , the United States has established nearly twenty free Government navigation and engineering schools . Two experts from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology are at the head of this national system . Candidates are , with exceptions in the engineering schools , required to have sea experience ; they take a six weeks ' course , then go on pay as junior officers of coastwise or South American vessels , and are eligible to the extremely well-paid positions of the regular service . Monthly now hundreds graduate from these schools . Commander E. L. Bennett recently told a Congressional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coming months for ordi  --  nary service , 65,000 would be trained on shore . There are great training schools on the Lakes , and even inland ? Dunwoodie , Minn. , is typical . At Norfolk there will soon be accommodations for 30,000 men preparing for all kinds of naval service . The fighting fleet can be used to train men for mercantile service ; British and other sail  --  ors can be used if necessary ; and we can draw on the many thousands of men discharged in by-gone years from the regular navy . The hugeness of the whole programme , we must remem  --  ber , makes possible big mistakes , big disappointments , big setbacks which will still not be so big as to be really formi  --  dable. ' here are bound to be missteps . So far as we can see now , no element of uncertainty save that which con  --  cerns labor for the yard comes anywhere near justifying dark forebodings ; and with special inducements , recruiting measures , and improvised schools , labor is being scraped together . The effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must make  --  the provision of ships , food , and armed men . The Government is laying its plans with a breadth that indicates its faith in the immense energy and resourcefulness of the nation . The Negro 's Brighter Outlook NE of the most notable actions taken by the Ameri-  - -  lean Federation of Labor at its Buffalo meeting has gone practically unnoticed . We refer to its decision to organize the negro workingmen , notably in the South . By this vote it struck down race prejudice in union-labor cir  --  cles , and , it is to be hoped , put an end to the bitter antagon  --  ism which has prevailed among organized workingmen against the colored American . We are , of course , not so blind as to believe that this action was due to any purely altruistic motive . It has been forced by the growing power of the negro workingman , his rise in the social and indus  --  trial scale , and his recent migration in such large numbers to the North . At East St. Louis there is pretty convinc  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ riots . At Buffalo there was , fortunately for the good name of labor , a realization that a different policy must prevail . Curiously enough , the white Southern delegates were reported as favoring this move . Perhaps this is wholly due to the fear of unorganized competition and the use of negroes as strike-breakers . Whatever the motive , it is so long a step forward towards recognizing the indus  --  trial equality of the negro as to cause much rejoicing among the colored people . North and South the color line has rigidly been drawn against them by the very men who preached the equality and solidarity of labor . Here and there in the North negroes have been admitted to unions , but in the main the color line has been as rigidly drawn against them as on the railways of the South . It was an untenable position for the Federation of Labor , and en  --  lightened ( or unenlightened ) self-interest has now led the way to a reversal of its historic and unfair position . If the negro migration from the South is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in policy , then that interesting economic phenomenon is again to be ac  --  claimed as the most momentous industrial happening for the race since Emancipation . We have frequently called attention to its interesting phases  --  that there has been absolutely no leadership or organized propaganda ; that it has bordered at times upon a psychological panic in that well-to-do farmers have left without , in some places , even waiting to dispose of their property ; that it has been heaviest in those counties where there have been the most lynchings and the worst misgovernment by the white over  --  lords , and that it has none the less lacked , as a movement , any self-consciousness . But whatever its causes and its peculiar manifestations , it has been working wonders in the South , which far offset the evils of overcrowding and generally improper housing which confront the negro when he reaches the North . One of the most valuable results of this exodus has been a sudden recognition in the South that if it would keep its negro labor it must bid for it precisely as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has been possible to misgovern and depress the negro because the poor , dumb man had no refuge or desire to seek one . Now that he is of such stature that he can think for himself , and the high wages of this war-time have created a lure that he can understand , Southern planters and merchants are suddenly realizing that if they would get ahead they must find out what is wrong and why the old proud boast that the South erner knew best how to care for the negro is suddenly proved to be in error . So there have been most interest  --  ing meetings between colored and white leaders in Mem  --  phis and numerous other places where for the first time the best men of the two races have come together to counsel as to what is wrong and to see what can be done . Invari  --  ably , the colored people have submitted their long list of grievances , which always includes grave injustice in the courts  --  where the negro is denied a trial by members of his own race  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notably in the schools . If it is true that this change is due to the " pocket-nerve " of the white man being affected , the negroes are not quarrelling with this ; they are thankful for help , whatever may be the cause . Far-reaching this changed attitude of the South and the changed tone of its press are certain to be . They come , moreover , in a year that sees not only the recognition of the race by organized labor , but the most momentous Su  --  preme Court decision in its favor since the Dred Scott de  --  cision  --  that making it impossible to establish segregation of the blacks in any American city . The year has also seen the establishment of a camp for negro officers from which 626 officers were commissioned to an army that con  --  tains also a hundred colored medical officers and 83,600 drafted negroes , in addition to the many thousands who have voluntarily enlisted . There are not enough officers in proportion to the colored soldiers or population ; nor can the War Department clear itself from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with phases of this army matter . The tendency still is to make the negro a stevedore , and not a soldier . But since this comes from an Administration which began its career by segregating the negro in the Washington departments , has never spoken out against lynching of blacks or the East St. Louis bar  --  barities , or recognized in any way the existence of a negro problem , we must perhaps be thankful that it has seen the light to this extent . The Decision on the Harvard Technology Merger THE Supreme Court of Massachusetts on Tuesday of last week decided a case of great importance to uni  --  versity development in its State when it forbade the merger of Harvard University and the Institute of Technology for the purpose of creating a great scientific school , jointly to be managed by the two institutions and thus to avoid building up two great schools of science side by side  --  actually within two miles of each other . The court held that the purpose of the proposed merger , however meri  --  torious , was not in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whose millions were the basis for the union , and that , therefore , the will must be upheld . From the point of view of confirming the sacredness of a last will and testament , the decision is of far-reaching value . There has been of late years a tendency in all courts to allow the administrators of great trusts to break pro  --  visions of a will which have been clearly outgrown by the lapse of much time . This happened in the Sailors ' Snug Harbor case in New York city , in which the courts permit  --  ted the trustees to disregard certain provisions as to the retention of real estate . But what is allowable after ahundred years is not to be taken as a precedent in this case , after a lapse of only a dozen years since the testator left his wealth to Harvard for the purpose of creating a great scientific institution . Aside from the question of upholding the will , we can not but feel that simple justice required the court 's decision , for the late Prof. Nathaniel S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was on record as tes  --  tifying that Mr. McKay carefully went over the plant of the Institute of Technology before drawing his will , and was so little pleased with what he found there that he de  --  liberately gave to Harvard the means for starting a new scientific school . This may have been wise or unwise , large or petty , but Harvard accepted those provisions when it took over the money left to it under the will . An effort was made to convince the court that the School of Applied Sci  --  ence on the Charles River Embankment ( that is , the Insti  --  tute of Technology ) is a " Harvard school , a department of Harvard University , " but the court declared that it could not assent to any such interpretation because the two in  --  stitutions are distinct , even though 14 of the 120 members of the faculty of the Institute come from Harvard . The court held that as the engineering school was not only sit  --  uated at the Institute , but was controlled and conducted by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was im  --  possible to say that it was really a part of Harvard within the meaning of the will . From the educational point of view this is unquestionably a regrettable outcome . Eight years after Harvard received the first four millions of the McKay bequest and estab  --  lished its Graduate School of Applied Science , with a view to making it serve science as the Harvard Law School and the Harvard Medical School are serving their branches of education , the new school had attracted less than sixty graduate students , while there were at the same time 250 graduate students seeking the higher degrees offered by the Technology . When the merger was decided upon , Har  --  vard transferred all its professors of civil , mechanical , min  --  ing , electrical , and sanitary engineering to the Institute , and prepared to abandon all form of scientific instruction . Now that this plan is wrecked , the Harvard authorities must sit down to face an uncomfortable and difficult situa  --  tion and to undo whatever they may have done in conjunc  --  tion with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shall there be a renewal of the efforts to bring about an actual union of these two great schools ? President Eliot favored it in 1904 and 1905 to the extent that he desired the physical removal of the Institute to Harvard to bear a relationship towards the University such as the colleges of Oxford and Cambridge bear towards those uni  --  versities . This was bitterly opposed by the graduates of the Institute , who insist that it shall keep its separate entity . Since that time the Institute has erected its splen  --  did new buildings on the bank of the Charles , has raised large sums of money , and received some State aid . It is altogether probable , therefore , that any effort to revive President Eliot 's scheme or one like it will fail . The court 's decision makes it plain that the Institute can not receive any of Gordon McKay 's money unless it is actually as much under the control of the Harvard governing bodies as are the Law School and the Medical School . What , then , shall Harvard do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subdivision of the field of science . New de  --  partments and new needs are constantly arising . Thus , at the Institute they are just establishing a great depart  --  ment of marine architecture in consonance with the nation 's new plans for a mercantile marine . For some time past the Institute has been specializing in matters of aviation , even before the United States entered the war . It would seem , therefore , as if Harvard might select certain branches of science for its own and reach a friendly agreement with the Institute in regard thereto . Whether anything like the present arrangement of having individual students carried simultaneously as attending both institutions can be again worked out is difficult to foretell . But if some such compromise is not arrived at , Harvard is likely to duplicate the Institute needlessly , or to suffer from " undi  --  gested " millions and be recreant to her solemnly accepted trust . For by 1956 the McKay money will amount to no less than twenty-three millions , some authorities even pre  --  dicting that it will reach thirty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crack which will try to the utmost Cambridge administrative genius . Offensive Billboards NOW that at 11 P. M. darkness falls like a poultice on the eyes of Broadway pedestrians , some of them have taken heart to look askance at the billboards . It is an achievement to check for a time the careering Roman chariots which tear down upon the gigantic kitten that in turn bowls spools at enormous jumping-jack brownies , with a phantasmagoria of minor atrocities in green , red , and white fire helping them shut out the stars . How much bet  --  ter still if we could walk the street in daytime without need of consciously closing our minds against the advertiser 's appeals to drink his cocoa , eat his bacon , wear his corsets , smoke his cigars , sip his wine , and buy his bungalows ! Our Court of Appeals held some years ago in this connection that " esthetic considerations are a matter of luxury and indul  --  gence rather than of necessity , " a verdict which  --  think how it would have outraged Ruskin , and turned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of life we could dispense with the necessities ! ? may be law , but is not common-sense . But accepting the law , could we not take over all vacant lots as war-gardens and decree that the hoardings deprive their rocky surfaces of the sun ; or commandeer the wood as kindling ; or allege that these 3,000 billboards are in brazen imitation of something German , as many are certain to be , and so drive them forth ? The billboard is far from being metropolitan or even urban , it is so old , and it has grown steadily worse ; and it is not surprising that the crusade against it has assumed immensely wide proportions . Advertising long constituted a pleasingly mild invasion of the country , in the form of roughly painted injunctions on plank fences to buy some one 's pills , and tin segments proclaiming from telegraph posts the merits of some one 's chewing tobacco . But the billboard has come in with the automobile . Where once the traveller mused that every prospect pleases , he is now brought to a stop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of a great clothing sale ten miles to one side , and a polemic for the kitchen-ranges sold just be  --  hind . Where he once exclaimed that to one who has been long in cities pent ' t is very sweet to look into the open face of heaven , he now wonders which of two contentious adver  --  tisements of automobile tires is the more mendacious . The barns that once nestled picturesquely against the rocky hill  --  sides now display broad sides gaudily lettered by the best painter from Boston or Chicago , amid near-by boulders with similar inscriptions . The railways between New York and Philadelphia would have delighted Dr. Johnson , who is said to have stated that one green field was like another , but that Fleet Street was endless in variety and interest ; he could pass between these two cities , a hundred miles apart , with  --  out once seeing a green field . We do not mean to say that billboards yet form a solid wall between , though that consum  --  mation is not far off ; but simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one sign before another comes plainly in view . The wooden cows would especially please Dr. John  --  son 's Cockney soul . In their bitterness some men have said that all billboards are evil ? Lord Dunsany , for example , exasperated by the beef-extract signs which plaster all England ; but this is not so . Some signs are artistic , as one now prominent in this country drawn by Maxfield Parrish for a company making automobile tires ; some are so ingenious as to please the mind if not the eye , as the famous hoarding of a British comic paper , representing a jolly man seated at a picnic lunch beside a stream , reading the said comic paper with such an abstraction of intense mirth that he does not see that he has forked a frog instead of a bit of meat , and is popping it into his mouth . Along a dirty canal , or stretch of ugly vacant lots , or even some dull streets , a signboard may be temporarily praiseworthy , though we may believe that the ugliness would be sooner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But in New York four years ago a commission reported that billboards " are not confined to the unimproved tracts and rubbish yards on the outskirts of the city . . . but are thrust into the very finest vistas which our public places present " ; that " they rob the people of their rightful heritage of beauty " ; and that they " very frequently have an injurious effect upon property values and are a real nuisance . " This commission recommended nearly twenty restrictions upon the billboards . They should not be allowed near parks , squares , and first-class residential districts , vulgar advertisements should be censored , there should be strict requirements regarding the removal of rub  --  bish near them and the prevention of fires , they should not be allowed to restrict light , localities should exercise local option to prohibit them , and a grand excise tax should be laid on the outdoor advertising business . New York 's pres  --  ent ordinances , as limited by the Court of Appeals ' decision , are quite inadequate . In most of Europe , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ severely kept within proper bounds , and one is less struck by them than by the posters which give real scope for the artists . In this country , Chicago is perhaps in the vanguard with an excellent ordinance , upheld last year by the Supreme Court of the United States , mak  --  ing it illegal to erect a billboard in residential blocks without obtaining the consent in writing of a majority of property-owners on both sides of the street , taking out a city permit , and paying fees of $3 for each 25 lineal feet . In Washing  --  ton , D. C. , and Los Angeles , the consent of the residents is similarly required . Ottawa , Canada , has a very rigid ordi  --  nance for the control of billboards . Slowly the movement for proper regulation will make progress , and in the end the nuisance will be reckoned among the curious transiencies of American social history .                     