@@486337

Whoever has carried the election , and whatever the precise complexion of the popular and electoral vote when all the returns are in , the United States stands to-day in the presence of something like a political revolution . It glares at one from the map . The Republican party is confined to a fringe of States in the East and North . Even in them its former hold is broken . Look at New England . The old assured Republican majorities are gone . Only by the narrowest of margins was victory won . And when we think of Ohio and Kansas lost , and the confident Republican ascendency in a half-dozen other States of the Northwest imperilled or shattered , we can hardly be blind to what Is going on . The sceptre of political power is passing to the West in conjunction with the South and Southwest It came very near doing so visibly in Bryan 's first campaign . If he had not had a fatally weak issue , the thing might have been done then . Now it is virtually an accomplished fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Virginia line of Presidents , or John Quincy Adams that of the New England line ( Pierce was little more than a tool of the South ) , the election of the present year will be regarded by the historian as having written finis to a chapter of American political development . Its significance is more than geographical . The alignment of States on the physical map of the country is only an accident . What really tells is the spirit , the sentiment , the attitude behind the grouping . The change is one of soul , not of region . This we see when we note how the shrunken majorities and low estate of the Republican party in New England correspond to the astonishing returns from Western States . It is deep answering to deep . The verdict is in both sections against the stand-pat policy of the Republicans , and the sit-tight campaign of Mr. Hughes . Of him in certain portions of the West where he campaigned , the old Cynical comment on Henry Clay might be revived  --  that more persons came to hear him and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of any other candidate . The field was ready for tilling by Mr. Hughes . If he had in even one of his speeches risen to the height of his opportunity , and shown himself a flame of fire to light the path to the future , he need not have left the voters puzzled , alienated , dismayed . But he never once seemed to perceive that the great awak ening of 1912 , with the breaking up of parties which took place in that year , had any message for him . He could easily have won a mighty response from the progressive West ; as it was he merely baffled and chilled it . The chief lesson of the election is that the spirit born of the strivings of the past eight years could not be exorcised by a Bourbon Republicanism . And in light of the present moment , the wedding of contradictories ? Hughes and Roosevelt , Republicans and Progressives  --  celebrated at Chicago , re , 4 7-eels itself as the sinister and hypocritical thing it was  --  something worse than a marriage of convenience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was to in. - spire disgust . Another demonstration which we are grateful that Tuesday gave us is that the crass , mercenary , brute appeal of high protection has lost its power . In the old days the West used to answer to it unfailingly . And Mr. Hughes attempted to renew it in the crudest form . Stout enemy of corruption that he is , he lent himself to a dogma that has been the source of more debasement of our political life than any other single cause . Daniel Webster warned against it on its first appearance in our politics . Other clear-sighted men of his generation declared that if a party undertook to distribute largess to favored individuals by means of a protective tariff , the purest and most profound statesmanship could not make head against it . And no longer ago than 1908 , when Mr. Hughes was speaking for Taft , and was using the same unthinking language about the tariff that he has been repeating all through this campaign , William Lloyd Garrison , jr. , wrote to him to express wonder that a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blind to the insidious undermining of political virtue through log-rolled and purchased tariffs . Happily for the country , that hideous spell is broken . When the West resists and resents this form of political bribery , as it did on Tuesday , we may hope that the day is not far off when superstitious notions about protection will be put in the way of ultimate extinction . To this whole vast change coming over the spirit of the political dream of America , one man has all along been sensitive . No tribute to the political genius of Woodrow Wilson could be higher than that given by this year 's election returns . His prophetic soul , brooding on things to come , had flashes of insight where Hughes saw nothing but dull materialism . And the bold way , in which the President flung himself upon the free and marching spirit of the West , staking all his political fortunes there , has brought him great distinction and a great reward . For he has shown himself a veritable Pathfinder , not only for his party but for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the United States , Mr. Wilson has shown us all that we must roll up our political maps and make one entirely new . REAL HECKLING Aroused by a heckler , Mr Hughes to-day rounded out his declaration of principles . . . These were questions which his managers had long believed would be asked before the campaign ended Mr. Hughes went at the job as if glad of the opportunity to tell the American people where he stood on these Issues without taking the initiative . They were questions which had been asked him in paid advertisements in every city he had visited. ? News dispatch . These words give one a new Idea of the helplessness of candidates . Here Mr. Hughes had been going up and down the land , burning to say what he thought about an embargo on munitions , but compelled to keep silent about it because no kindly heckler appeared to relieve him of the responsibility of " taking the initiative . " His extended journeyings are now explained . It could not be possible that somewhere in the country a man was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Republican candidate upon the question was as keen as Mr. Hughes 's desire to state it . If only he covered enough territory , sooner or later he would find that man . True , the question which he hoped to be asked was being put to him " in paid advertisements in every city " he visited , but it was beneath the dignity of a candidate for President to take judicial notice of paid advertisements . He must wait for a heckler . Or was his motive deeper ? Was he luring the Democrats to spend their good money on advertisements when ' a heckler could have been hired at a small fraction of the expenditure ? The American practice is for a candidate to get a friend to write him a letter , to which he writes a reply , both letters being given to the newspapers as spontaneous expressions of opinion which it has occurred to the writers might be of interest to others . So the Democrats wasted their money on advertisements and Mr. Hughes continued to pray for a heckler . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The fact that the man who made it risen to the necessities of the situation . When Brussiloff took nearly 400,000 Austrian prisoners in three months , there were enough German troops to stop up the gap . When the Austrian armies lost Transylvania , there were enough German troops to win it back . Austria has virtually collapsed , but Germany has shown herself able to take up the additional burden . In view of what Germany has accomplished in two years of defensive warfare , what becomes of that Law of Necessity which compelled the German armies to smash through Belgium , in order to get at Paris , in order to settle with France , in order that Germany might turn rapidly against her real enemy , Russia ? For that is the sequence which Germany pleaded in her justification of the torture of Belgium . The menacing hordes of the Slavic Empire must be thrown back . Before that , France must be crushed . Before that , Belgium must be overrun . Was this roundabout process really necessary ? Given her wonderful resourcefulness in defence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behind her trenches and her machine guns , while she was squaring her accounts with the Czar . That Russia would have speedily collapsed under the main assault of the Teutonic armies , there can be no question . It may be that France would have come to the aid of Russia . But as the able war editor of the Manchester Guardian points out in an illuminating paper in the Atlantic Monthly , it is doubtful whether France , coming to the rescue of Russia , would have fought with the same tenacity that she is displaying against the invader of her soil . What the role of Great Britain would have been without Belgium invaded is another subject of speculation . What public sentiment would have been outside of Europe , what the attitude of this country would have been , there can be little doubt ; and Germany has insisted that the attitude of the American people has been a prime cause in depriving her of yictory . The fact is that it was not necessity , but appetite , that sent the German armies into Belgium . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before turning on Russia , but the desire to crush France as an object in itself , and the belief that the trick could easily be turned . The writer in the Atlantic Monthly goes so far as to absolve the German Government from this purpose . He insists that the Chancellor , which means the Kaiser , was only intent on establishing German predominance in the Balkans . That could have been attained bya war conducted in the manner outlined above . But the General Staff , under the influence of the " Westerners , " Tirpitz , Moltke , and Falkenhayn , forced upon the nation the doctrine that Russia could be defeated only in France . In spite of the failure of the Marne and the retirement of Moltke , this party was strong enough to retain control of the General Staff . At Verdun the " Westerners " resumed their game , at what cost we know ; and a cost all the more excessive when one thinks of what Germany might have accomplished in the east with the half-million men , more or less , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to conquer Paris and let the Russians into Galicia and East Prussia , so Falkenhayn failed to win Verdun and paved the way for Brussiloff , the entrance of Rumania , and the capture of Gorizia . To-day the " Westerners " would seem to be definitely out of it . The Government has asserted itself against the General Staff . But the world properly refuses to recognize the conflict of opinion within German circles . For the tragedy of Belgium on the one hand , and the failure of the German strategy on the other , it holds Germany as a whole responsible THE RESTORATION OF POLAND . In the Teutonic pledge of a revival of the Polish kingdom the outstanding fact is that self-government for Poland has behind it now the promise of Allies and Central Powers . From that point the Peace Congress will have to set out when it takes up the question of Poland 's future . It does not matter that the promise of autonomy from Petrograd at the beginning of the war was a tactical move in the great war game , precisely as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Vienna is a move in the same game . The principle has been laid down . The price which Petrograd and Berlin have contracted to pay for the support of the Polish people and the sympathy of the outside world can no more be recalled than the price that Petrograd and Berlin have paid for the guns and ammunition they have contracted to buy . The German semiofficial press is welcome to its boast thatit remained for the Central Powers to give the first concrete demonstration of the rights of the small nations . The Allied press is welcome to retort that the concession has been forced from a Germany facing defeat . To the outside observer it is enough that out of the wreck and evil of the war one solid gain for progress and civilization hasemerged ; and not the least , because the gain falls to the share of a people that has suffered more than any other in this war . For Poland 's woes under the forward and backward sweep of armies have been heavier even than Belgium 's . Restored Poland may mean one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would mean the redstablishment of Poland as it was before 1772 , with the restoration of the territory taken by Russia , Prussia , and Austria , and complete independence . Or it might mean such territorial reintegration , with partial dependence on the Central Powers as the member of a new federation of Central Europe . Or it might mean the incorporation of Poland into either the German Empire or the Hapsburg Empire as a national state , with its own army , like the position which Bavaria holds under the Hohenzollerns and Hungary holds under the Hapsburgs . Or it might mean these varying gradations of self-government applied to a smaller territory than that of Poland before the partitions . The first hypothesis is out of the question . That West Prussia and Posen will not be Germany 's self-denying contribution to the rebuilding of the Polish kingdom , that Austria will not throw in Galicia as her own share , is plain enough . The manifesto speaks of the new kingdom as to be constituted out of the " districts " conquered from Russia , the exact frontiers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Poland of 1772 that the Central Powers have promised . As to the liberties to be enjoyed by the new kingdom , there is no definite statement . Independence is not mentioned in the manifesto . The new kingdom is to develop its national life in " intimate relations with both Powers , " and in " due consideration of the general political conditions prevailing in Europe and of the safety and welfare " of Germany and Austria . What is foreshadowed is an autonomous Poland with a Platt Amendment more rigorous than our own checks upon Cuban independence . For in the new Polish kingdom the organization , instruction , and command of the Polish army to be constituted " shall be arranged by common agreement . " The phrase " intimate relation with both Powers " is significant . It disposes of the hypothesis of Poland as a kingdom within the framework of the Hapsburg , monarchy or the Hohenzollern monarchy . It calls up the grandiose idea of a Mittel-Europa outlined by Naumann , the possibility that after the war Central Europe will be united in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the economic union will be under the leadership of Germany . Can Germany and Austria refuse to give up their own share of the ancient Polish patrimony for the rebuilding of Poland ? In consistency they can not ; but they may take the position that the gift of national life they are bestowing on Poland is itself so great that they can hardly be asked to divest themselves of territory they have held for nearly one hundred and fifty years . Will the people of the new Polish kingdom be content to have millions of Poles remain outside the kingdom under foreign rule ? They will not be content , but for a great many years to come they are sure to make a virtue of necessity , and by that time the organization of Mittel-Europa may have reached the point where the question of Posen and Galicia may be solved without difficulty . Undoubtedly there will have to come a change In Prussian policy in Posen . But that will follow automatically . It is impossible to think of a Polish kingdom living in " intimate relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The establishment of a national Polish state will bring about an era of good feeling in'Posen such as exists in Galicia . That would be the Teutonic argument . It is an argument based entirely on the supposition of German victory in the war . And for the future of the war the Teutonic Manifesto is highly significant in that it means the end of all rumors of a possible separate peace with Russia . Concerning France and Belgium the Central Powers have made no threats or claims . But Russia is to be made to pay . The manifesto may be in fact the result of Russia 's refusal to enter into separate negotiations . THE AUSTRALIAN ELECTION . Returns upon the referendum election in Australia to determine the question of conscription for European service leave no doubt of Premier Hughes 's defeat . The result was close and mixed . While the latest figures show in the populous industrial State of New South Wales 264,000 for and 378,000 against , In Victoria they show 287,000 for and 275,000 against ; while in the comparatively rural South Australia they show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show 69,000 for and 25,000 against . But it is indicated that out of a vote of two millions the anti-conscriptionists will have a majority of 100,000 . By this the social progressiveness of the continent will be felt to be vindicated , while those who have watched with disgust Hughes 's course during his recent visit to England will rejoice at the partial repudiation . The split which the issue has caused in the Labor party is shown in the resignation , on the eve of the election , of a Minister , an assistant Minister , and the Vice-President of the Executive Council . There was talk during the campaign of the formation of a new Labor party , and there were radical members of Parliament who denounced Hughes as a tool of Northcliffe and his Tory press and called first for the defeat of the proposal and then the elimination of the Premier . The issue on which Hughes went to the Commonwealth was repeatedly asserted to constitute a crisis . He declared in speech after speech that the country  --  which has enlisted 300,000 men , owns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great war factories  --  was not doing its share . The Empire had requested it to keep its five divisions on the firing line intact , and to do this 16,500 men a month would be needed  --  yet volunteers came in by " driblets , " 300 a day . For want of compulsion not only was the Australian quota dropping , but those who did go to the front had insufficient training . Demand far surpassing supply , volunteers had to be sent off at once . Thus in September , 32,500 men were needed to fill gaps and complete the first division , with the regular 16,500 afterwards . For this there were 40,000 in London and 40,000 in Australian camps ; by December they would be exhausted , and the newest contingent would have to leave with less than two months ' drill . Conscription was pointed to as the " historic necessity " of war , the American Civil War draft cited , with the recent British argument that conscription was just in that it does not drain off the ardent and courageous earliest . Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estimates of the numbers eligible and still unenlisted reached 300,000 . Two ex-Premiers , Cook and Watson , came forward , and with them the Federal Liberal party , while a Universal ServiceLeague found the support of non-partisans like Prof. Edgeworth David , of Sydney University , Prof. Orme Masson , of Melbourne University , and Archbishops Wright and Kelly . Upon the argument that " Great Britain has more than nine millions helping fight the Germans  --  over one-tenth the population bearing arms , over one-twelfth manufacturing arms , " Hughes , whom the Sydney Morning Heraldreports as received in all the Australian capitals " with enthusiasm , " was emphatic . The opposition undoubtedly found its chief strength in labor men whom the Premier could not drag with him , and In the women ? though the latter 's vote was thought doubtful to the end . With the extreme radicals Hughes had already clashed over the refusal of the Broken Hill miners last summer to accept arbitration . But it was the disaffected moderates in labor ranks who proved his chief - opponents . F. G. Tudor , Minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There was wide fear that the country was bowing to militarism , and the men who have won in Australasia the most favorable working conditions known responded to the sentiment that human life should not be at the disposal of arbitrary state mandate . Others were fearful that military conscription might pave the way to industrial conscription , and that future Governments might use this power to coerce labor when it was at odds with capital . The British Liberals who heard with resentment Hughes 's advocacy of the immediate destruction of German trade within the Empire and the vigorous prosecution of a post-bellum tariff war , had their counterpart in Australian Liberals who looked on Hughes 's whole course as lacking in humanity , and vision . It was argued that conscription would defame the patriotic reputation Australia had made at Gallipoli and in France ; that Australia , considering the demands for men at home in a new country , was doing her share ; and that the difference in the numbers brought out by the conscriptive and voluntary systems would be far too small to justify such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the more eloquent in that Australia had already gone far on the road to it . It was Mr. Hughes , Senator Pearce , and the ex-Premier , Watson , who several years ago , aided by Roberts , converted a pacifist Labor party to the present system of universal training for home defence . Conscription for home defence was instituted a month before the election by Government action without a referendum . The campaign just waged was one of the hottest in Australian history , with the slogan , " Would the Kaiser rather have you vote yes or no ? " widely used . With sentiment in Canada and South Africa what it is , the Australian election adds to the general assurance that the great self-governed Dominions will not act as Prussia:nism would have them do .                     