@@493220

December 24 , 1919 THE NEW James ever dreamt of . Let me illustrate his exuberance : " America is a turmoiled giant who can not speak . The giant 's eyes wander about the clouds : his feet are sunk in the quicksands of racial and material passion . One hand grasps the mountains , and the other falls bruised and limp upon ' the lowlands of the world . His need is great , and What moves across his eyes is universal . But his tongue is tied . " " Gashes like the Grand Canyon of the Colorado where earth lies disemboweled and men peer down into the stupendous womb of life . " " This is the prairie . . . And then the white man . Buffalo and Indians vanished . But the loam of the plains wag ready like a wanton woman . Here was a race who would plant endless wheat and corn , a race of insatiate desire . The prairie would have fruit to dower and domi ? nion the world . Here at least was a race of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " A stench that is warm and thick , and th4t is stubborn . A stench somehow sorrowful and preg- 444e , as if the sweat of men joined with the guts of beasts brought forth a new drear life . And when the wind is from the South , this stench is wafted out to the entire city . Dreiser , " a burly giant with a face as tender as a little girl ? s . " Carl Sandburg is aware of himself : that means aware of life : that means in love . " " Dell read the manuscript of the first book Sherwood Anderson 's and took it shouting to New York . " , These passages indicate Mr. Frank 's enormous and imperturbable complacency . It is , next to the outlandish logrolling , perhaps the worst limitation of his book . For while only a young man could write so extravagantly , only a smug young man could make extravagance so ornamentative , and Mr. Frank 's smugness in style makes one contemptuous of the basic judgment that " cultural America in 1900 was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Whitman . " On the whole , however , the book transcends its special pleading . Its glance at the buried cultures of the Mexican and the Indian is interesting , and its interpretation of the Jews in America is exceptionally good . Had Mr. Frank avoided the illusion that he was writing a new Democratic Vistas , he might have written an attractive book . F. H. A Wounded Intellect Leonid Andreyev ( 1871 - 1919 ) I have traversed many towns and lands , and nowhere have I seen a free man , " says one of Andreyev 's Heroes : " I have seen only slaves . I have seen cages in which they live , beds on which they are born and die ; I have seen their hatred and love , their sin and virtue . And their pleasures have I seen ; miserable attempts at reviving ancient joy . And whatever I saw bore the stamp of stupidity and madness ? . Amid the flowers of a beautiful earth they have erected a madhouse . " These words could be made a motto to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fundamentals of our life . Things taken by mankind for granted he subjects to a sharp scrutiny only to arrive at the conclusion that there is madness and horror " everywhere . Human existence , human thought , human actions and valuations strike him as full of exasperating problems that allow no rest and no happiness to the inquisitive mind . The simplest of these problems is , perhaps , the problem of the subconscious . Man never knows what he is apt to do in a few minutes . " Thous ? ands of lives are present in my soul , " Andreyev says in one of his essays , " lives that preceded my birth . Every life speaks its own language . " Can there be any prospect of freedom for the individual ? Andreyev creates one work after the other to emphasize this lack of freedom . Man 's passions are the abysmal brute that is ever lurking in the depths of the human soul . Man 's thought is a treacherous weapon that turns against its master in the most crucial moment . Man is limited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glance under the skull of another human being . Man thinks he is embracing the universe while he himself is only a slave to laws of thought and existence that ? not he has created and not he is at liberty to alter . Walls and walls are surrounding Andreyev on every side : The wall of the laws of nature that makes every human being a prisoner in the world , and the wall of our psychology that makes a man a prisoner within his own brain ; the wall of blind fate determining the lot of man with implacable cruelty , and the wall of the unknown that breathes dread into human souls ; the wall of modern culture crushing every trait of creative individuality ; and the wall of human institutions with their misery , hatred , oppression of the weakest , and the streams of innocent blood ; the wall of age which nobody can fail to approach , and the wall of all walls ? death looming up at the end of men and worlds . Against all these walls , Andreyev 's thought beats with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no consolation . Religion is no answer to him . God , if there is a God , is the greatest of all riddles that make man 's mind despair and man 's heart ache with indignation ; love leads nowhere since men that burnt themselves out in a great sacrifice of love have not improved the world ; good in general is of no avail since it is a shame to flaunt one 's goodness in a world steeped in sin , wretchedness and evil . Only a miracle could break the numerous walls that sur ? round our existence , but he who puts his faith in a miracle is finally deceived and betrayed . Thus Andreyev is engaged in a cruel feud with life , with destiny , with God , with reason . He challenges his masters , the masters of all our fortunes , in the words of Anathema : " I am tired of searching . I am tired of living and of fruitless suffering in my vain pursuit of the thing that ever escapes me . Give me death , but do not torture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he hears from " Him who Guards the Entrance " is : " My face is uncovered , yet you do not see it . My speech is loud , yet you do not hear it My commands are clear , yet you do not know them . And you shall never see and never hear and never understand . " He who Guards the Entrance is speaking " in the language of silence , " and loud cries out Andreyev , the man with the wounded intellect , in a con ? temptuous protest against a reply that answers nothing . Loudly rings that cry of despair through all Andreyev 's writings . From the angle of these multifarious queries Leonid Andreyev appears to be the most universal writer . From the standpoint of psychological motives and moving social forces , however , Andreyev is intrinsically Russian . It is not an accident that whenever he happens to portray actual life in a realistic manner , he finds nothing but poverty , cruelty , meanness . The village as he sees it is in the grip of unspeakable misery ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the common urban population knows no happiness ( The Little Angel , In the Fog , Darkness ) ; hardly one out of a thousand men in the street can preserve his human dignity and honor . In the later periods of his creative work Leonid Andreyev seldom resorts to mere description of existing conditions . Yet whenever his prob ? lem compels him to glance at life 's realities , it seems as if he had opened a trap-door into a cold and dark cavern full of poisonous gases . This subterranean current , always felt if not always accentuated in Andreyev 's colorful and sonorous configur ? ations ; this omnipresence of poverty and degradation under ? neath a thin crust of modern culture , an abysmal apparition that sent a chill through Russian intelligentzia of what ? ever social or political denomination , makes the " abstract " Andreyev very close to " concrete " Russian life . In fact , Andreyev kept very careful watch over Russian political and social events of the stormy years . Starting with the Red Laughter ( 1905 ) which reflected the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any of his former creations in spite of its dubious artistic value , Andreyev marks every new phase in Russian soda-political movements with a new story or play . The place of So it was Om ) is outwardly transferred into a historical no man 's land , in reality it pictures the fatefulness of a mass-movement in a popular revolution . The Governor ( 1906 ) represents a Russian official who has sinned against the people and who falls a victim of revolutionary vengeance . Savva ( x906 ) is an anarchist who wants " to destroy everything , the old houses , the universities , science , the old literature , the old art " in order " to free the earth , to free thought , to open a new , great , unknown world . " In Darkness ( 1907 ) , a terrorist , an idealist , raises the question : What right has a man to be good in face of so many sinful wrecks whose sins are not their own fault ? King Hunger ( 1908 ) is a reflection of the Russian general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) is a direct outcome of the numerous armed insurrections in Russian towns in the same year . The hero of Sashka Zhegulev is the leader of a band of " expropriators " , half bandits , half revolutionists , with whom the Russian earth was abundant after the abortive revolution . The Seven Who Were Hanged ( 1909 ) gives utterance to the horror and indignation experienced by thinking Russia at the sight of numerous scaffolds erected by autocracy to punish political opponents . The Sorrows of Belgium ( 1914 ) is a hymn to the self-sacrificing spirit of the little country under German invasion . In all of these works Andreyev is not so much interested in the events themselves or in their outcome , as in their meaning for the human conscience , in their bearing upon the universal problems of human existence . In this as in all other aspects of his creative activities , Andreyev is the spokesman of the Russian intellectual who was awakened by modern progress from the sluggishness of a patriarchal system to the realization of the complexity of life . The Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of either heroic sacrifice for a common cause or cowardly abstinence from life 's constructive work presented itself to every self-conscious individual . Life itself was undergoing catastrophic changes . Everything was shaking , yielding , giving way to new forms . It looked as if a powerful hand had tossed all structures asunder revealing the very foundations . Russian intellect was feverishly scrutinizing life , revaluing the most harrow ? ing problems . It was in the nature of Russian surroundings to tinge all these gropings with the dark colors of sadness , loneliness , pessimism . Andreyev was the writer destined to embody this spirit of intellectual unrest in striking artistic pictures . When he wrote his great question marks , he brought together strong yet unclear currents of thought and emotion diffused through thinking Russia , and out of them created vivid images . The response was vast . Andreyev is never contented to write a story for the story 's sake . Every story or play of his represents a problem . The scheme is somewhat like this : Granted a man is Pat in certain conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spiritual or moral effect ? The surroundings and conditions thus become of subordinate importance ; the center of gravity is put into the spiritual or moral reaction . The form itself becomes of subordinate value . None of the Russian writers has so often changed the form of his writings and none is so difficult to put into a class . In his early works ( 1898-1902 ) Andreyev is still under the apparent influence of Chekov and may be classed with what is commonly known as the " realistic school . " Yet already The Wall ( 1901 ) with its lepers vainly attempting t ? crush or climb over the implacable and eternally silent Great Wall that stands between them and the unknown bears all the earmarks of a symbolistic work . So is The Ocean ( 1911 ) a tragedy which , to put it into the wade ? a Russian critic , is " a hymn to chaos , " " to those boundless unconquered elemental powers of life , to those new and fearful possibilities which exceed all limits of conscious creative work . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ christened in Russia as schematization , while Hunger and The Black Marks ( 1908 ) are populated P0 mere allegories . Andreyev 's method is never the same in two successive productions , yet Andreyev is everywhere the same with his passionate temperament , with his furious impact , with his fearless piercing of the most painful wounds , with his masterful imagination and with the power of expression which makes even the abstract creations of his mind glow with intense life and which makes the excruciating pain of a Don Lorenzo or a Judas Iscariot become our own . It is Andreyev 's personality that lends unity to all his productions . For this personality , thinking Russia loved Andreyev and crowned him among the masters of its thought . Andreyev 's style is the most metallic in all modern Russian literature . His works have to be recited , not read . His prose has a unique rhythm which makes it more musical than many of the free verse creations . " There is a spiral-like impetuosity in the combination of Andreyev 's words , and phrases , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lash your face , they importunately intrude into your soul , they moan and clang , they ring the great alarm bell , they strike your heart like claps of thunder , they rankle in your soul , sometimes they yelp and howl like hungry dogs begging for mercy and attention . Andreyev loves contrasts ? kith contours are sharp . Everything is thrust on the canvas with crude and bold strokes , sometimes producing a sensational effect . " And yet , there is often a beautiful tenderness almost bashful love of life and youth in many of Andreyev ? s works . In spite of his heralded objectivism , there is a strain of lyricism vibrating through his thunderous questionings at times rising to heights of powerful harmony and drowning all other sounds . It is this personal , intimately human quality that lends his writings a peculiar fascination . It was consistent with Andreyev 's pessimism to look with dismay upon the recent turn in the Russian revolution . To him it was the end of Russian culture , the agony of Russia itself . In this as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fellow intellectuals to whom he remained faithful unto death . We have all read his recent clarion tall against the rule of the proletariat in Russia . The strain Proved too great for his heart that became weakened by assiduous work and incessant burning . With him , a great man has disappeared from the horizon of Russian letters , and his death will be painfully felt wherever Russian creative genius is valued . MOISSAYE J. OLGIN . Two Novels Deep Waters , by W. W. Jacobs . New York : Charles Scribner ? s Sons . With greater variety and a more interesting interplay of struggle between group and individual , W. W. Jacobs gives us in Deep Waters another collection of anecdotes from the lives of his familiar English sea folk . These stories , like their predecessors , are alongated plot situations of mistaken identity , mystery , petty malice , and awkward love-making which gain their humor from the generic and intrinsic qualities of the tale rather than from superimposed comment or cleverness , and rest C their main interest on an ingenious use of dramatic suspense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ credulity can not be separated from them nor blurted in short quotations , but must follow the windings of the story through bewilderment and explanation to the end . Like the incidental narratives of village or neighborhood , these minute folk tales are , in skeleton , an unconscious sort of literature , unpretentious and isolated . In the hands of a great artist , Chekov or De Maupassant , they become symbolic and illuminating ? but Jacobs is content to record . In the musings of the night-watchman , indeed , the author has attempted to stretch the meaning of the story beyond the lives of the actors and build the bridge of significance from the particular to the universal , but the night-watchman , strangely , is no greater artist than his creator . He can not supply by a whimsical reflection the revealing accuracy of observation which selects the characteristic detail from the uncritical material of life , and in showing us the veracity of the particular makes us realize that only the truly specific is general . Although the stories remain isolated and at least half is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . Their very bluntness makes the humor more quaint and curious and the lack of an elaborate stage setting and of journalistic manipulation adds to their verisimilitude and spontaneity . Compared with their Great American cousins , these English short stories are quiet and undecorous . Their personnel have not been manicured for a movie-bemused audience . They refuse to go through life slightly over-dressed and under-fed , lack the supreme athletic prowess of our westerners , and are not so heavily salt-encrusted as our Cape Codders . They are never so extraordinary as our heroes ; but they have a far closer connection with the human race . 