@@486115

LORD NORTHCLIFFE is admittedly an able journalist , as modern journalism goes . Whatever may be thought of his methods or his ideals  --  and we are not of those who have regarded them as at any time free from grave defects he nevertheless has a keen eye for " news , " a keen perception of what the public is interested in and of the demands to which it is ready to respond . His principal organ , the London Times , is probably the most powerful daily newspaper in the world . What is more ; Lord Northcliffe is a weighty factor in British politics , and is credited with having made or unmade more than one political reputation . When , accordingly , he speaks out in unmeasured condemnation of the secrecy with which the preliminaries of the peace conference have thus far been conducted , we may be sure not only that the situation itself is rapidly approaching the dimensions of an international scandal , but also that public opinion is about xeady to demand a change . " Nothing can be worse for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declared in a statement at Paris the other day , " than an atmosphere of secrecy and half truths . " " Shall the destinies of millions of people in all quarters of the globe be left to the tender mercies of a comparative handful of delegates , against whose enactments there is no public appeal ? Such would be mockery of that principle of self-determination of free nations which has been fought for and won in this war . " It is of the highest importance , that the American public should realize the gravity of the situation which Lord Northcliffe , in the words just quoted , describes without exaggeration . In spite of a rigorous censorship  --  and ' the rigors of the censorship over both newspaper and private correspondence have not been materially relaxed since the signing of the armistice  --  and the optimistic dispatches of certain American correspondents who tell how President Wilson has quieted all fears and is certain to have his way , the fact remains , that nothing of importance regarding a democratic peace settlement has yet been done openly , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as yet of a purpose to have anything done openly . Neither Mr. Lloyd George nor M. Clemenceau nor Signor Orlando stands for open discussion of peace terms , nor do they appear to have been affected in the least by such protests as those of the British Labor party , or of labor and Socialist forces elsewhere , against the course which is being pursued . Even Mr. , Wilson can no longer be counted among the supporters of open diplomacy ; for while he is indeed reported to have expressed a wish for open discussion at the conference , he not only has taken no steps , so far as the public knows , to make his wish effective , but is himself holding private conferences daily with the representatives of other Governments regarding their respective claims and their attitude toward his own supposed programme . One might , perhaps , view the situation with less concern were there some reasonable assurance that what is being done behind closed doors is being done with , sedulous regard for the people 's wishes and the people 's welfare . Such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one positive indication has yet appeared that the peace settlement which is soon to be undertaken at Versailles will be a people 's settlement , or that it is really , if mistakenly , intended to be a people 's settlement . Hardly asingle delegate whose appointment has been announced , from any country anywhere , can properly be called a people 's delegate . The men who apparently are to speak for the nations at the peace conference are , in overwhelming majority , either the heads or the leading members of the Allied Governments , who , however successfully they may have piloted their countries through the war , are nevertheless responsible for evefy abuse of power and every suppression of constitutional liberty which the war has developed within their political jurisdictions ; or routine administrative officials with eyes and ears open only to precedents and proprieties , and wholly subservient to their chiefs ; or discarded diplomats of the old school , dragged from retirement to lend dignity to the assemblage and at the same time to pacify some partisan clamor. , As a peace conference of people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ' differences , and safeguard the future of the nations , ' the congress of Versailles bids fair to be , in personnel , little more than , a ghastly joke . And what , down to the present time , is the situation with which the conference will go through the forms of dealing ? At bottom , the character of that situation is determined by the secret Treaty of London , concluded in 1915 between Great , Britain , France , Italy , and Russia , and still accepted as binding by the first three of those Powers notwithstanding that ! Russia has withdrawn . Of all the known diplomatic agree --  ; ments which underlie the war , the Treaty of London is the most reprehensible . Not only did Italy , by that treaty , bargain for the reward , in money and territory , which ' it should receive in return for its entrance into the war on the side of the- Allies , but the Allied Powers themselves , champions of the rights of peoples and of the sanctity of international agreements , secretly consented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expense , not alone of Austria , but of friendly states . If it is the disgrace of the . then Governments of Great Britain and France that they should have plotted in secret for the ' ultimate parcelling of territory which did not belong to them , it is the deeper shame of Italy that it put a price upon its support and stayed out of the war until the price was guaranteed . Yet the secret Treaty of London is still - in force . Mr. Balfour has recently declared its observance to be an honorable obligation of the British Government , while Italy not only proposes to stand for it to the letter , but is already proceeding with the occupation of the Slav territories which the treaty promised . Mr. Wilson , who is reported to have discussed the question with Premier Orlando and Baron Sonnino , appears not to have been able to shake the determin.tion of the Italian Government to have its pound of flesh . The secret understandings which Lord Northcliffe denounces , however , go further . Already the cable dispatches have told us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Treaty of London have been in secret conference , and have reached an agreement upon the main lines of policy which they will support at the peace conference . What does this mean ? The answer may be read by any one who will scan the list of some of the chief problems which the peace settlement involves . The Jugoslays , whose national independence the United States and the Allies have recognized , but who now find themselves the victims of Italian aggression , will have to accept a compromise ; for Italy is an important factor in the Allied plans for the Mediterranean , and must not be offended . ' The CzechoSlovaks , whose national independence has also been recognized , will likewise have to accept the decision which will eventually be announced and which perhaps has already been secretly . arrived at . The immediate fate of Russia , which neither either indemnities nor annexations , is perhaps at this moment being decided in secret pozvrparlers in which no representative of the Russian people is allowed to participate . So with Germany , and Austria , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Turkey , and all the rest ; so also with indemnities , and military occupation , and the German fleet , and the economic war . There is only one course that can save Mr. Wilson and his policies . That is to insist upon the immediate abandonment and repudiation of the Treaty of London and the whole baneful structure of secret negotiations and private understandings ; and , failing that , to appeal-to the peoples against their Governments . Unless this is done , the peoples who now look to Mr. Wilson will before long look to themselves . Responsible Diplomacy S ENATOR JOHNSON 'S resolution demanding informa- ton regarding the policy and purposes of the United States Government in Russia was referred to the Committee on Foreign Relations , where it now reposes and is likely to repose for a much longer time than the urgency of the matter makes either convenient or tolerable ; for such is the mechanics of what the Senator himself , in speaking to his resolution , without a hint of irony , styled " the great democracy of the world . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is not nominally democratic , has made reply to a similar demand . His reply was not , it is true , very informative or convincing . For the most part it went over the ground covered by our State Department in what Senator Johnson accurately terms the " disingenuous announcement " made at the time of our armed incursion upon Russian soil . For the rest , Lord Milner merely intimates that those who question the good faith of the British Government are , ill-informed . The answer to this , of course , is obvious . But the point we raise is that Viscount Milner made some sort of reply , made it with pretty fair promptness , and made it because he had to ; while in " the great democracy of the world " there is no way short of a Congressional investigation to compel the Department of State to make any reply at all . Mr. Lansing can disregard entirely the Johnson resolution . He can tell Senator Johnson and his entire body of associates , and all the force of public opinion that could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their pains . If Viscount Milner 's reply is unsatisfactory , his questioners can make trouble for him until he does better . He is immediately and continuously " on the carpet , " as our slang goes . The ' American Secretary of State can not be touched by any demonstration of popular interest , short of the violence of a raiding mob . No one would pretend that the British system is perfect ; Lord Milner 's presence and influence in the Government is prima facie evidence that it is very far from perfect . But it does enforce upon its agents a high degree of direct responsibility to the people , while our republican system enforces none and encourages none . Everyone should be cordially interested in Senator Johnson 's resolution . We can not have too ample information about our proceedings in Russia ; the stamp and seal of pro-found hypocrisy can not be put too clearly upon the pretensions made by our Government for their inauguration . Yet in itself the possession of this information makes little against the recurrence of such a national disgrace . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At most , the Senator 's resolution amounts to a complaint that the present regime of officeholders have taken unscrupulous advantage of the irresponsibility permitted them by our constitutional machinery . Well , but President Wilson himself used to talk somewhat so , a few years ago . Without disparaging the Senator , it is quite possible to imagine a regime of his own , - a few years hence , taking the same unscrupulous advantage of the same license . Officeholders are notoriously beset , beset far beyond the common run of- men , by the demons of need , greed , and vainglory . President Lincoln , himself the best politician of his time , frankly said that by the very nature and exigencies of his trade , the politician is " a long step removed from common honesty . " Mere blame , therefore , mere showing-up of the misfeasances of this or that set of public servants accomplishes little , so long as the opportunity is left wide and free for another set to do likewise . So long as they are not made directly and immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serve , what is the practical point of complaint when those interests are not served ? Any housekeeper knows how much better practical policy it is to count the spoons every day than to leave them uncounted for four years and then make a fuss because some of them are missing . Indeed , we believe that our liberal publicists beget a dangerous political cynicism by their querulous preference for complaint against their public servants rather than for calling on the people to correct the almost ludicrous conditions of irresponsibility under which those servants work . The liberal element in politics , the liberal press , have little more of value to offer ' usually than might be simmered down to the inept suggestion to " turn the rascals out . " The people , appraising this feeble stuff by instinct at its proper value , are led into a cynical despair of their own power and a belief that the ills they suffer are somehow part of the ' order of nature and must be borne with a quietist indifference . It is very well to be indignant over Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after all , our troops are there , the disingenuous policy of our officeholders is in full force and there is no way to defeat or check it . One thing we can do , however  --  and Senator Johnson does not mention it . We can democratize our State Department , and thereby give ourselves the best possible guarantee that nothing of the sort shall happen again  --  not in Mexico , for example , a year or two hence . It is very well to complain about the way the wind is blowing at the peace conference , but the peace conference is sitting ; its preliminary arrangements , its trades , and deals , are all made and they can not be unmade . But one thing , again , we can do . We can make such constitutional changes as will insure us a representative government instead of a delegated government ; and then we shall be prepared against any emergency of the kind hereafter . Is there anything conceivably more mischievous , more preposterous , than that the foreign and domestic policies of a great nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motion on its axis ? Yet we hear no recommendation of a fundamental change , either from Senator Johnson , from Mr. Roosevelt , or from our leading progressive practitioners  --  and this in spite of the dark record of failure registered against our practice and technique of self-government when put to the test of great emergency . No one wants a revolution except a , " revolution by due course of law . " A revolution by violence is a terrible indictment against a people that commits its fortunes to it . When enough intelligence can not be organized to cooperate with impending social changes to avert a revolution by violence , the people are in a bad way . Our hope is that the American people will see in the Johnson resolution a reminder that the business of the State Department is their business , and that they are entitled to full cognizance of every process of it ; and that they will promptly create conditions whereby they can get this knowledge whenever they want it . We hope that the humiliating and disastrous course-of our public affairs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earnest of precisely what they may expect as long as they tolerate a delegated and irresponsible government instead of the representative government that they have all along supposed they possessed . The organization of this knowledge will be the beginning of a revolution that is not violent , but orderly and glorious . - More " Truth " About Russia T HE following circular letter , carrying the business letterhead of the American Defense Society , Inc. , has been received by a clergyman who furnishes it for publication . December 13 , 1918 Now that the hearts and souls of all the people in this country are rejoicing over the success ' of right over militarism and autocracy , one important fact is apt to be overlooked and that is the need of the party of law and order in Russia for aid in organizing her economic life and transportation facilities . Millions of people are destined to die of starvation in Russia this winter due to the fact that her transportation facilities have been destroyed by the Bolsheviki inefficiency . Russia is the gigantic granaiy of the world and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man 's support , yet to-day she lies bleeding and destroyed in the grasp of a few pro-German foreigners who have been backed entirely by German money . Americans know vaguely of the sacrifices Russia made in the causes of the Allies , of her millions of dead and wounded . and the awful results of the revolution . At the present moment Russia looks to America for deliverance from the Bolsheviki menace . France and England have long been ready to render Russia the only effective assistance she needs , that of uniforming the party of law and order so , that relief may be sent the Russian people in the form of clothing and drugs . The party of law and order is at present personified by the party in Siberia headed by Admiral Kolchak . Supporting him are 37,000 troops composed of 12,000 armed troops and 25,000 Czecho-Slovaks . In Siberia there are from two to three hundred thousand mobilized troops who are waiting and willing to do the work but are kept back because they have no arms nor equipment . This party of whom Admiral Kolchak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law and order , and America ought to cooperate with the Allies in supplying this party with every necessity to enable ' them to drive out the- Bolsheviki and restore order to the country . In advocating support of this party , I wish to inform you that you will not be advocating the support , of any one political party in Russia . The program put before the Supreme War Council in Versailles , states that it was necessary for the Allies themselves to choose reputable military commanders to re-organize the Russian national army and that the party of Admiral Kolchak would abide by the decision of Versailles . This is enough to show you the sincerity andwillingness of the Russians themselves to forget their own political opinions and cooperate with the Allies . Realizing the tremendous influence exerted by the ministers of this country , we are asking them to preach on Sunday , December 29th on the need for some action being taken in Congress to see that Russia is given the help she needs . We urge you to give this matter your immediate attention and shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon request . I am enclosing with this letter a pamphlet entitled " Help for Russia " which you may be interested in reading . May I hear from you on this matter at your earliest convenience ? Yours sincerely , CHARLES STEWART DAVISON , Chairman Board of Trustees If Senator Johnson , whose demand for an investigation of American dealings with Russia has proved so extremely disturbing to the State Department and to various persons and " interests " at Washington and elsewhere , needs further information than has already poured in upon him regarding the way in which sentiment in favor of military intervention in Russia has been worked up in this country , he can not do better than to include Mr. Davison and the American Defense Society in the scope of his inquiry . Of all the self-constituted organizations which have devoted themselves to stimulating " patriotisin , " rooting out pro-Germanism real or fancied , and devising " loyalty tests " which are a menace and a scourge , none has been more active than the American Defense Society . The full story of - its operations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sister aggregation , the National Security League , whose " patriotic " exertions are being investigated by Congress , its name has been coupled in newspaper reports with stories of intimidation , boycott , and even personal indignity and violence , directed against individuals or institutions in various parts of the country whose " loyalty " was not sufficiently intense or outspoken ; and it has not , so far as we are aware , publicly denied complicity or disclaimed sympathy . Of late it appears to have been turning its rubber-soled attentions to prospective sales of German-made goods , and the other day the newspapers announced that some seven hundred dealers , including several who , one would have thought , should have known better , in New York city alone had promised , at its " request , " to refrain from handling such articles . The letter which we reprint shows the Society in a new role . Our spiritual counsellors are now " asked " to tell us what to think and what to do about Russia . The American Defense Society is out to support the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of fact in the letter are patently perversions of truth , ... while others are ingenious or clumsy misrepresentations , and that the whole statement shows abysmal ignorance of what the situation in Russia really is , does not prevent this self-appointed guardian of the ? American conscience from summoning the clergy to its standard and proffering " further data and information " to back them up . The American Defense Society has many ways of making the weight of its displeasure felt , and we fear that some ministers will fall into the pit that has been digged for them . Those who do so , however , may be pitied and forgiven , for the honorary president of the Society is no less a personage than Mr. Roosevelt , and one of its honorary vice-presidents is President Hibben , of Princeton University . If Mr. Roosevelt and President Hibben are so blind as to believe that the reactionary Kolchak and his party are the real hope of Russia , they can not complain if their followers also fall into the ditch . We hope that Congress will not stay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , root and branches . The public , which has suffered much , is entitled to know who is back of the Society , where its money has come from , and what its methods have been and are . It is also worth while to know whether a concerted movement to overthrow a foreign Government with which the United States is not at war , or to support a revolutionary Government on foreign soil , or to coerce merchants in the matter of foreign trade , is or is not beyond the reach of the Federal statutes . Safeguarding Our Minds DURING the war unaccustomed restraints have been placed on the press , on private correspondence , and on public and private speech . The public is more fully aware of the censorship exercised over newspapers and letters than of that over books ; yet the latter has great interest . To begin with library circulation , we have first the coup perpetrated through the Library War Service Headquarters in the Library of Congress during the absence of Secretary Baker in Europe . An imposing index expurgatorius was compiled of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any copies of these found in camp libraries were ordered removed or destroyed . The list of books given this gratuitous advertising was a varied one . It included Chesterton 's " Utopia of Usurers " and two books by Ambrose Bierce , one of them published in 1901 . One volume was by a high Federal official now in Paris ; another was " A German Deserter 's War Experiences , " which one would have supposed might well have been used as material by the American propaganda officials . Public library authorities also took it upon themselves to censor the books admitted to circulation , so that readers should have , not the varied matter of this rough-and-ready world , but such strained and sifted stuff as should lead them to think and feel as the trustees thought they ought to do . - Secretary Baker on his return at once annulled the order banning the books , with the remark that " American soldiers can be trusted to read whatever any other citizen can be trusted to read . " Unhappily , Secretary Baker 's liberal policy seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Unfortunately , too , it was met with what was apparently a conspiracy of silence on the part of the press ; of course the plus qu'aboutiste press had opened in full cry after the original prohibition . The postal censor also was busy . One of his victims was Ellen La Motte 's " The Backwash of War . " Others were Benson 's " Inviting War to America , " which circulated freely for nearly two years after its appearance in May , 1916 ; Lajpat Rai 's " An Open Letter to Lloyd George " ; and a pamphlet by Lenine , " The Soviets At Work , " in which he discusses the problems that confront any effort at economic reorganization on Socialist lines  --  a book , needless to say , necessary to every student of contemporary developments . The ignorance and carelessness displayed in the process of postal suppression were extraordinary . A publisher would be notified of the non-mailability of a work that he had never published . A book would be held up for months before a decision on it was rendered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already effected by others , and a book that was mailable when published by one firm became suspect when issued by another . For example , take Veblen 's " Imperial Germany and the Industrial Revolution . " Brought out in 1915 , it seems to have roused no official concern until June , 1918 . The firm that had meanwhile taken it over was asked for a copy by the Post Office - Department . On October 11 it was declared unmailable , although only a short time before , Mr. Creel had advised a certain newspaper to print portions for propa- ' 1 ganda purposes . Latzko 's " Men in War " seems to have caused the most serious alarm . It was at first allowed to circulate . Later , not only was it forbidden to go through the post office , but agents of the Military Intelligence Department came to the publishers ' office to make sure that it was not being illegally circulated , put men in uniform at all the exits , and instituted a search . After some near-Prussian by-play the authorities were satisfied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and exacting a promise that all stray copies returned to the publishers should be reported to the Department and sealed by the firm . This book , which describes the horrors of war in an international spirit , is written by a refugee Hungarian officer , and contains satirical though veiled pictures of Hindenburg ( in " The Victor " ) and the Crown Prince . - Even more interesting to thoughtful persons than the suppression of books is official tatopering with them at their source . A member of the firm of Ginn &; Company , the well-known text-book publishers , has made public the following communication : WAR DEPARTMENT OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF STAFF Washington October 14 , 1918 . GINN &; COMPANY , 70 Fifth Avenue , New York City . Gentlemen : We thank you for the copy of " Outlines of European History , " Part II ( with Supplement ) , that you sent us . We have had one of our officers examine it with care . He has found the volume unobjectionable , and we have passed it without criticism . Very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Director of Military Intelligence , Chief Military Censor . By R. Hughes , Major , U. S. A. As a friend writes us : " Discriminating historians in the future will know what dependence they may place upon the texts of Ginn &; Company , since these are not the mere haphazard productions of irresponsible scholarship but are each and every one examined with care by an officer of the General Staff , found unobjectionable , and passed without a word of criticism by the Director of Military Intelligence . " " The tumult and the shouting dies . " The general amnesty of political prisoners which so many liberals all over the country are hoping for as the best New Year 's gift may well be accompanied . fly forgiveness for much that has been ill-judged and hasty in the last feverish months and years . But now , before the lesson is forgotten , is the time-to take mental account of stock , and to consider how the great mass of the American people can be helped - to see that freedom of thought matters , and why . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the existing powers of the Post Office , which in their present - shape are a disgrace to American intelligence , can be reduced to reasonable and proper limits .                     