@@430690

 | IN the Nation-wide discussion about preparedness it seems to be assumed generally that we can guard against foreign aggression by spending a million dollars or so on a well-equipped army and a wellequipped fleet . This is a curious fallacy . The great lesson of the war , the fact that has been writ large across Europe in letters of blood and fire , is that munitions and armaments are merely incidents of preparedness . Preparedness is a far deeper and more complex problem . An individual in a community infested with gunmen may prepare for eventualities by purchasing a pistol . But a nation in a world of aggressive nations must look to more than its guns . For the worst that war can bring it must be prepared in its agriculture , in its industries , in its transportation system , in its educational system , in its banking and currency , in the conservation of its natural resources , and , above all , in the conservation of the health and prosperity and happiness of its people . Unless a nation is so prepared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If Germany had been prepared with men and guns merely , the European war would not have outlasted the first year . Before the end of that time the representatives of Russia and France and Great Britain would have been dictating their terms in Berlin . In spite of her great armies and her clever generals , in spite of submarines and Zeppelins and 42-centimeter guns , Germany , shut in from the world , must have succumbed to the starvation of her industries and her people . Unquestionably Germany is the arch-exponent of preparedness . Therefore it will be wise for us in this matter to look to and learn from Germany . Two factors have tended to make Germany great in preparedness . One is the fact that her fundamental law emphasizes the protection and care of the individual , just as our fundamental law emphasizes the protection and care of private property . The other factor is the policy of national cooperation in industry , in agriculture , in everything that tends to promote the general wellbeing . While we have clung tenaciously to a policy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , welding her industry together in a smoothly working machine . Colonel Roosevelt 's New Nationalism of a few years ago , which was so sternly rejected by our political leaders and our newspapers , merely stated in mild form certain theses of government and economics that have been accepted as truisms in Germany for over forty years . Our own immigration statistics indicate that a great change has been taking place in Germany in the past few decades . From 1881 to 1890 we got nearly a million and a half immigrants from the German Empire . Up to the time the war began the German immigration dwindled until by 1913 it was less than fifteen thousand , or less than the immigration from Turkey . During the past decade , in fact , the number of persons who have settled permanently in Germany has exceeded the number that left her shores . The secret of this change has been Germany 's radical policy of conserving her workers . The so-called Prussian common law , promulgated by Frederick William in 1794 , recognized the right of every subject to work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poor . Bismarck made this one of the keystones of his internal policy . " Give the workingman work as long as he is healthy , " he said ; " assure him care when he is sick , insure him maintenance when he is old . . . . A man is entitled to say , ' Give me work , ' and the state is bound to give him work . " This was in 1884 . It is only a few years back that unemployed workers asked a President of the United States what they could do , and his reply was , " God knows ! " It is only three years ago that a man in New York City went about asking for work . The authorities gave him , not work , but a year in jail . This disposed of the man temporarily , but not the problem . The workingman out of a job in Germany can register at the local labor exchange in any town and get work at his trade as soon as a job offers . Usually no fee is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by co-operative societies , usually with city and state appropriations . The different labor exchanges co-operate throughout the Empire . While the man is waiting for a job the exchange is his club . He can read or play games there free of charge and receive a meal , a drink , and a cigar for a few cents ( in Berlin  | 7 1/2 cents ) . In recent years the number of jobs secured through the exchanges has been close to two million a year . In addition , in times of stress , extraordinary public improvements are started to give widespread employment . Public agricultural enterprises also provide work . And the result ? In the eight years ending with 1911 unemployment in Germany ranged from 1.1 per cent to 2.9 per cent of the wage-earning population . In New York and Massachusetts for a similar period it ranged from 6.8 per cent to 28.1 per cent . In New York City last winter , in a census taken of nearly one hundred thousand wageearners by the Federal Government , 16.2 per cent were out of work . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of unemployment is not part of the problem of preparedness . Widespread unemployment means a great influx into the ranks of tramps , drunkards , ne'er-do-wells , and petty criminals , and you can not make good soldiers of these . The plan of human conservation , known as workingmen 's insurance , which Lloyd George was recently denounced for fathering in England and which most of our lawmakers still consider a form of Socialistic mania , has been compulsory throughout the German Empire since 1884 . The workingman is insured against illness , accident , prolonged incapacity , and old age , and if he dies his widow and orphans are provided for . In cases of illness or accident he receives medical attendance and medicines , as well as half his wages . The insurance scheme embraces clerks and office employees , short contract and itinerant laborers in agriculture , workers at home , teachers , tutors , druggists , members of theatrical troupes , and orchestras . The insurance fees are divided between employers and employees , the Empire adding an amount equal to that paid by both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the present it is equally zealous for the workingmen of the future . Though Germany spends on elementary schools little more than half as much per capita of population as we do , Germany unquestionably gets more out of her school systems than we . There are districts in the United States where the children get only twelve weeks of school a year , a practice that any German rural school authorities would consider barbarous . Nowhere in the United States is there a longer school term than in New York City , where the children get nine hundred and fifty hours of school in a year . Throughout the rural districts of Germany the children get as much or more . The children in Berlin get about fifty per cent more school training in a year than the children in New York . In fact , our large cities have a shorter school day , a shorter school month , and a shorter school year than any cities of the first class in Germany , France , or Great Britain . Moreover , the child in the German cities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consider beyond their province . The German school-children are taken on long tramps and camping excursions through the country . The schools give them medical attendance and advise the parents on diet . Poor children receive a hot breakfast in school , and holiday camps are provided for those who are run down . Paternalism ? Oh , yes ; but it does produce a sturdy race , and one result is a minimum of juvenile delinquents . The German school system is an important foundation stone of the edifice of preparedness . At the age of fourteen , as in our most progressive States , the youth in Germany has completed his elementary schooling . But whereas the great mass of our children get no more education whatever , the German children are still looked after by the schools . An Imperial law passed in 1900 makes it imperative for employers to grant time as prescribed by the local authorities to their workers between the ages of fourteen and eighteen to attend the continuation schools . Statistics show that in Berlin ahout ninety per cent of the workers of from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worker , grown up , still feels over him the protecting arm of Government . He may rent a house from the municipality at a price lower than that of a dark three-room tenement in New York . If he wishes to build his own home , the city will sell him the land , and the city-owned mortgage bank will let him have money on the easiest terms . If he wishes to live in the suburbs , he can commute on the state-owned railway for less than it costs to ride in the New York subway . Wherever he lives , the universal German system of taxing the unearned increment on land protects him from the high rentals consequent on the activities of the real estate speculator . The city dweller pays about 2 1/2 cents to ride in a street car , and precautions are taken  | to prevent overcrowding . The parcel post will bring to his home fresh country vegetables with the morning mail . He buys meats slaughtered under the strictest sanitary supervision in the municipal abattoirs . For his benefit the city is likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bakeries , dairies , ice plants , restaurants , dock systems , cemeteries , stone , brick , and tile works , a pawnshop , and a fire insurance business . He may put his savings in a municipal savings bank with the knowlesge that the profits above his interest will not go into the hands of a few stockholders , but be spent for the common weal . In the evening he may attend for a few cents an opera or a high-class orchestral performance in the city-owned opera-house . Probably it would be inexpedient for American cities to attempt to emulate the remarkable system of municipal Socialism that prevails in Germany . But we have much to learn from German cities in the conservation of human welare . A few years ago the government of the city of Schenectady , New York , determined that the high price of ice was a cause of infant mortality in the poor districts . The city built an ice plant to reduce the infant death rate , but this activity was declared unconstitutional and the ice plant had to be abandoned . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being made in filthy , closed cellars . A law was passed abolishing the cellar bakeries , but that also was declared unconstutional . Obviously , the babies that die in Schenectady can never fight for their country and the consumptive workers in cellar bakeries will not make good soldiers . If Germany successfully repels her enemies in this war , it may be an exaggeration to attribute her salvation to Friedrich List . But it is on the doctrines of this obscure economist that Germany 's economic strength is founded . Co-operation and nationalization of resouces were the gist of his teachings . Like a true prophet , he was without honor . Ridiculed and discouraged , he shot himself in 1846 . A few years later his doctrines became the foundation of Bismarck 's economic policy . As a result , in agriculture , in industry , in transportation , Germany has not been left to develop at haphazard , but these things have been stimulated and coordinated by a strong nationalistic policy . A few generations ago Germany was a poor nation agriculturally . Her fields , impoverished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farmer . But the Government did not permit the farmer to fight his losing battle alone . It trained a great army of chemists to help the farmer in fertilizing his land , and it enlisted in his aid the transportation system and the banks . The consequence is that during the past thirty or forty years Germany has increased her agricultural production to an extraordinary degree and become more and more self-supporting , until , when the pinch came in the present war , she was able to feed herself without outside aid . During the past twenty years the German farmer has virtually doubled his per acre yield in wheat , rye , oats , and barley . Our farmers are getting about as much oats and corn per acre as they did in the early seventies , and in forty years their per acre yields of wheat , rye , and barley have shown but slight increase . In agricultural efficiency we stand to-day about where Germany was a quarter of a century ago . Our politicians like to boast that we feed the starving hordes of Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have changed from a food-exporting nation to a food-importing nation . From 1880 to 1884 inclusive we imported 5503,000,000 worth of foodstuffs ending June 30 , 1914 , the shoe was on the other foot . Our food imports had increased to $1,016.000,000 and our exports dropped to $642,000,000 . In agriculture we have been falling steadily into unpreparedness . We permit a chaotic system of distribution whereby the farmer gets only a third of the value of his product , the rest being swallowed up in railway charges and percentages for the multiplicity of middlemen . In some cases seven or even more middlemen successively take from the consumer 's dollar before it gets to the farmer . We permit our farmers to plant and also to ship their products in ignorance of the demand for them . When they need to borrow money , our farmers must pay excessive interest rates , much higher than any of their brothers in industry . In Germany the Government ( or co-operative associations fostered by the Government ) sees that the farmer gets a square deal in distribution ; it provides for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with only a little patch of land can obtain co- operative farm machinery at a small rental : in times of stress he knows he can get special railway rates that will enable him to pull out with a profit , and , if necessary . he will receive tariff protection and even direct bounties : mid if he has to borrow money on mortgage or make a short-term loan to get in his crops . an elaborate system of land bank associations assures him of easy terms . The German farmer pays between three and four per cent for his money on mortgage , and for shortterm loans in the neighborhood of five per cent . The American farmer who can obtain a loan for less than twice the amount charged in Germany is in luck . The sugar situation in Great Britain and Germany since the war furnishes an interesting side-light on preparedness . Germany , by means of high import duties on sugar , by export bounties and subsidies for chemical research , has built up her beet-sugar industry until she is the foremost sugar-producing country in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ India the best canesugar lands in the world , has become dependent for this necessity on the German beet factories . Since the war there has been no appreciable rise in the price of sugar in Berlin or Vienna . But almost as soon as war was declared London housewives found themselves paying ten and fifteen cents a pound for sugar , and these famine prices continued for several months . In the first half-year of war England 's unpreparedness in sugar alone must have cost her people a hundred million dollars . In the case of our own struggling sugar industry the attitude of our Government has been one of curious detachment , and to-day we are dependent in large measure on foreign-grown sugar . If our ports were blockaded against Cuban sugar , we should find ourselves in a sorry plight . The cane fields of Louisiana and the beet-fields of the West provide less than a quarter of our supply . The Underwood Tariff Law contained a provision gradually abolishing all tariff duties on sugar . Though this law presaged the certain ruin of the Louisiana industry and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Administration took the position that an industry that could not stand on its own feet was better dead . If the German Government had reasoned thus , Great Britain would probably have won the war easily on sugar alone . Last fall the Administration announced that the free sugar plan would be dropped . not because the war had taught us that home-grown sugar was a large item of preparedness , but because the Government needed the revenue . The transportation policy of Germany has been a big factor in the preparedness of her agriculture and her industry . " The railways , " said Bismarck , " are intended rather to serve the requirements of trade than to earn a profit for their owners . " This radical utterance , made forty years ago , has since been the keynote of German policy . Since 1884 the Government has had virtually a monopoly of railway ownership . The railways have been developed to meet the needs of trade , and along with them a system of inland waterways has been built up which is a model for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the export trade and for imported raw materials for German factories ; but the foreign manufacturer who sends his goods into Germany must pay more for transportation than his German competitor . During the past thirty years the railway capitalization cost per mile has actually been reduced . The roads are run on a net profit of more than six per cent on actual cost . In fact , save for a slight annual loss on the waterways , all German governmental businesses are run at a profit . In the German states nearly forty per cent of all Government financial requirements are defrayed by profits from state enterprises . Largely because Germany has solved her railway problem she ' has risen to the first rank as a manufacturing nation and wonderfully increased her agricultural wealth . During a period when British exports have scarcely more than doubled hers have increased fivefold . Our own railway problem is a long way from being solved . We have , it is true , evolved a cumbersome rate-fixing system that may be worked out to serve the needs of trade . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ managers of our transcontinental lines still find themselves tied to totally different , often contradictory regulations in different States . Our laws tend to restrict the railways to small , competing units even when these units logically should unite in one co-operative machine . Too often the policy of the railways is to exact the highest rates from the manufacturer and the farmer rather than to encourage production by co-operating with them . The rebate and the special rate , which  | have been found so useful in building up industry in Germany , are forbidden by our laws . Among our roads bankruptcy has grown so common that it is estimated that one-sixth of our railway mileage is operated under receivers . Similarly our Governmental policy in respect to big business combinations has been a hinderance rather than a help . Though there is no doubt that the so-called trust is a necessary and useful , indeed an inevitable , economic development , both of our leading political parties have been consistently antitrust . Indeed , the leaders of the party at present in power have idealized a nation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the eighties , when increased facilities for transportation and communication had started the movement toward industrial combination , this tendency was investigated both in Germany and the United States . The German Government decided on a policy of watchful encouragement . Our lawmakers gave us the Sherman Anti-Trust Law . In this country a condition of anarchic competition prevailed in the petroleum business . The rise of the Standard Oil Company put an end to the wasteful squabbles and established an American business as a great factor in international trade . But for years our Government fought the great oil combination , and finally succeeded in having it nominally dissoleved into thirty-odd parts . The intention at least was to restore competition in the industry . The potash industry in Germany suffered from competitive conditions similar to those in the oil business here . The German Government actually ordered the warring units to combine . The terms of the combination were fixed by law , the amount of production regulated in accordance with the best interests of the industry as a whole , and maximum prices fixed for the domestic market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it did not play fair . The German Government saw to it that the great potash combination did play fair . It recognized the value of big business in the potash industry , and the result has been that that industry has carried on foreign market after another . " To overthrow syndicates would be to destroy the ability of our country to compete abroad , " said the Prussian Minister of Commerce a decade ago . Our Government has persisted in attempting to overthrow our syndicates or trusts . There is the case of the Harvester Trust , formed primarily to capture foreign trade . After ten years of activity the Harvester Company was compelled to face a suit for dissolution . Though it was proved that the company had been conspicuously fair to competitors and to its labor , that its stock was not watered , and that it was selling a greatly improved product at virtually no advance in price , the United States District Court ordered it dissolved because in certain products it controlled eightyfive per cent of the output . If this is our final solution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enterprise and the technical efficiency of our factories , Germany will drive us from the markets of the world . A lot of little squabbling domestic businesses can not hold foreign markets against a single great co-ordinated enterprise , any more than a lot of little squabbling domestic armies can withstand a single great army . Our business men in foreign trade have often remarked that their German competitors seemed to have not only a business but a nation behind them . If we are to take up preparedness seriously , we must go to the root of the matter and devise means for National co-operation . We may not wish to emulate Germany 's Government ownership of transportation , but we must think of our railways less in terms of dividends and more as servants of trade . We may not wish to go in for Germany 's municipal Socialism , but we must look upon our cities less as profitable fields for real estate speculators and public service corporations and more as dwelling-places for human beings . We must consider our wheat-fields , not in terms of how large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ middleman may exact from them , but in terms of loaves of bread . We must find statesmen who are capable of thinking in terms of the Nation instead of in terms of little localities , of little businesses , of little political advantages . We must test time-honored theories in the light of modernity , and , if necessary , adopt new theories to square with new facts . If necessary , in our Government system of checks and balances we must abolish some of the checks . What the war has demonstrated is simply this That nation is best prepared for war which is best prepared for peace .                     