@@466845

WITHOUT question , Kaiser William II is the most histrionic sovereign of his time , and perhaps of any time . As a boy in school at Cassel , he was fond of amateur acting and sketched a scenario and dramatis persona of a play in which Charlemagne was the principal charac-ter . The instinct to set the stage has been manifested in every period of his life . He has not only collaborated in the writing of plays ; he has superintended the rehearsal of them on the stage , and is fond of organizing historic ballets . In the larger field of scenic impression which only a monarch can command . he has displayed the same talent for dramatic effect . Not only has he patronized the theater , but he has affirmed the value of it to him as a sovereign . " Yes , " he once stated in public , " the theater is also one of my weapons . . .. It is the duty of a monarch to occupy himself with the theater , because it may become in his hands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rules , one is that no Hohenzollern may be represented on the stage without the Emperor 's express permission , and he must be previously given an opportunity personally to revise the part . Nothing political can be permitted to be introduced . Joseph Lauff 's " Frederick of the Iron Tooth , " dealing with a revolt against an Elector of Brandenburg , was thus revised ; and i Leoncavallo was invited to write an opera upon it , " Der Roland von Berlin " ; but the Kaiser personally cut out the story of the woman who figured as Frederick 's mistress , and wrote in the margin of the manuscript , " A courtesan has no place in a Hohenzollern drama . " He has even attempted to rescue the reputation of the half-mythical kings of antiquity , apparently for no other reason than to maintain the dignity of theroyal caste . The Greeks and Lord Byron had represented Sardanapalus , the Assyrian king , as the most effeminate and debauched monarch that ever existed ; but the Kaiser , at the expense of two hundred thousand marks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opera of great magnificence has restored him to respectability as a brave sovereign who could face a heroic death rather than yield to his enemies . The effort was incidentally a fine tribute to scholarship as well as to kingship , but it was not so great an artistic success as the Emperor had expected . " You ca n't dramatize a museum , " a Berlin critic had the courage to say , and the public joined in confirming the judgment . It is convenient for a monarch , claiming to rule by divine right , to possess a gift for histrionic action . Not being able by any current system of philosophic thought to establish the thesis of a right to rule by special divine authority , such a claimant must resort to other means . This pretension being merely a dogma incapable of proof , it belongs to the realm of faith rather than of knowledge . To induce faith in it , or assent to it , signs , symbols , and , above all , the practical alvantages of the doctrine to the believer , must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must play the part it implies successfully , or he is lost . As a claimant of divine right a plain person in civilian clothes , and crowned by a silk hat , could hardly hope t i have a following ; eyen among a superstitious people . There is no evidence that as a young prince William II was especially pious or exceptionally devoted to the offices of religion ; but he understood , as Frederick the Great , although personally a disciple of Voltaire , understood , that there was in the German people a deep undercurrent of religious feeling which German princes had successfully utilized to increase their power and their estates . In his first proclamations to his subjects the Kaiser did not set up the claim which he afterward made the foundation of his throne . The memory - of the Kulturkarapf , in which Bismarck had so deeply offended the Catholics of the Empire , was a sufficient reason for not too much accentuating questions of religion at a time when the new Emperor was gaining his foothold . It was not until these wounds had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of , that the claim was positively asserted in the Emperor 's speeches ; for Bismarck considered the expression von Gotten Gnaden to mean " by the grace of divine permission , " not " by the grace of divine appointment " He had had ton much to do with maintaining the Prussian throne and establishing the Empire to accept any form of mysticism in connection with either . The Kaiser 's first enunciation that even remotely savored of the full-blown dogma was in March , 189o , at a meeting of the provincial diet of Brandenburg , where he spoke simply of " a talent intrusted to me by God , which it is my task to increase . " A year later , at Bremen , he said , " We , the Hohenzollerns , regard ourselves as appointed by God to govern and lead the people whom it is given us to rule . " It was not , however , until 1895 , at Konigsberg , that he announced that his crown was " born with him , " and that he would follow the same path @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his own right was sovereign prince in Prussia . " Two years later , at Coblentz , he spoke of his " fearful responsibility to the Creator alone , from which no human being , no minister , no parliament , no people can release the prince . " So long as this presumption led practically to no oppressive act , the German people felt no impulse to challenge this apparently harmless obsession . German writers who have commented upon it have not taken it very seriously , and have been inclined to excuse it as an ebullition of sincere religious rapture , induced in great measure by the thrilling events of the war of 1870 and the sudden rise of the Empire , which had touched all imagination and appeared to many pious minds as a direct divine intervention . If the Empire itself was a miracle , why should not the Emperor , who certainly had never been chosen by the people , be recognized as a part of it The Kaiser has always seemed to his people a sovereign over whom a special divine watchfulness was needed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could prove , or wish to prove , that his extraordinary sponta-neity , his occasional delphic ambiguity , and his extreme exaltation of will and purpose unfitted him to be a medium of supernatural influence ? He has been so devoted to his task , so industrious , so versatile , so completely a symbol of the aspirations of the German people , that he has had only to play the role in order to create faith among his trustful subjects and to silence , upon nearly all occasions , the impulse to detraction . Other nations do not understand this . The impossibility lies in the fact that they are not Germans . The Teutonic race may not possess so refined an esthetic sensibility as the Latin , but it has been peculiarly receptive to the symbolism of art . Here was an avenue to German faith which the Kaiser was quick to perceive and to utilize . Monuments in great numbers have marked his reign , the silent sentinels of national glory . Nut only have his ancestors been- thus memorialized , but he himself has been constantly brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home in Germany . He has been painted as a Roman Emperor and as the war-god Mars . His life-size statue in marble forms part of the external decoration of a church , where he figures as a canonized saint . He and his House are glorified in windows of stained glass , and magnificent vases of porcelain are adorned with his portraits . Every German embassy throughout the world possesses a life-size representation of his well-known face and figure . Photography has made his features familiar in a hundred ways , until his image is stamped indelibly upon the memory of nearly the whole human race . He would be recognized if he passed by in any village , not only of Germany , but wherever the printing-press is known . This is no accident . The world wants to know what a sovereign by divine right is like . One distinction which ' William II is said to have craved has been denied him . His grandfather , William I , had raised objections to the title " German Emperor " ( " Deutscher Kaiser " ) , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To this Bismarck objected that it would involve a claim to non-Prussian territory , that the council had chosen the former title , and that the German sovereigns would , perhaps , not agree to a change ; and , after some contention , but in a testy humor , the lesser title was accepted . When William II became Emperor , it is said , he desired to magnify his office by the ceremony of a regular coronation , and in 1892 had a throne constructed for this purpose after antiquarian drawings made by Emile Dopler . There was to be ordered a reproduction of the crown of Charlemagne , Emperor of the Holy Roman Empire , who on Christmas Day , Boo , had been crowned at Rome . The unwillingness of the federal princes to assent to a coronation is reported to have defeated the project ; but it is claimed that a photograph is in existence in which the Kaiser is represented seated upon the throne , an ermine cloak over his shoulders , the imperial scepter and the globe in his hands , and a gilded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ head . But this is only the corollary of a far greater demonstration . Art , all art , in the Kaiser 's opinion , is a valuable and appropriate vehicle of sovereign influence . History is wholly the work of princes . All that is great in the world emanates from them . Of his grandfather , William I , he has said , " God had destined him to realize the desire of all Germans and to give unity to Germany on the field of battle . For that work he was able to find great men who had the honor to execute his designs , and as his councilors to work with him . " The whole of civilization is nothing but the result of such instruments of God , chosen to carry out the divine plan in human life . " Properly speaking , " he says , " William I has become for us a saint . " By inference , all Hohenzollerns are saints , or in process of becoming saints . All painters , sculptors , musicians , and architects have the duty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their princes . " The cult of the ideal is the greatest work of civilization . . . . It can accomplish its task only with the aid of art . " But what is the " ideal " in the Kaiser 's mind ? It is defined by him as " the inspiration which God sends to the artist , " and the highest existing example of it is in the Siegesallee , which tells the story of the House of Hohenzollern . Believing himself especially open to this form of inspiration , Kaiser William II has always considered himself a great critic of art , and , therefore , the most competent person to direct its development . Even in Germany , however , this conviction is not generally shared . Indeed , the Kaiser and the experts in art have seldom agreed ; but in practice his judgment has usually triumphed . Although artistic feeling is , perhaps , the most refractory and untamable of all the impulses to self-realization , artists , being human , have for obvious reasons been anxious to receive imperial approbation . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The passion of the Kaiser for the grandiose is celebrated sumptuously in Berlin . What it might lead to in time is , perhaps , only prefigured in the attempt to embody Prussian history in the vista of the Siegesallee , in the image of Germania on the top of the Siegessaule , and in the Gargantuan architecture of the Kurfiirstendam . Grossartig and kolossal are the vocables that express the impression everywhere created . In a long personal conversation , the substance of which it is no violation of confidence on my part to repeat , the Kaiser dwelt upon the value of " form " as a medium of public education . " Men think most often and most deeply , " he said , " of what they have seen . To impress the eye is to take possession of the mind . " It is a mode of conquest which the Kaiser has practised all his life . In the large field of imperial development also art has had a great part to play . The time , the place , and the scenic accessories for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been carefully chosen . The result , primarily calculated for Germany , has not always been precisely what was intended . At Damascus , for example , during his journey in the East , William II took occasion to say how deeply moved he was " at standing on the spot where one of the most knightly sovereigns of all times , the great Sultan Saladin , had stood " ; overlooking the fact that this " knightly sovereign " was a heartless murderer who had sacked Jerusalem and turned its holy places into mosques . Not content with this fulsome compliment to a fan atic of the past , the Kaiser next proceeded to offer the hand of perpetual friendship to the most notorious criminal of the age , the Sultan Abdul Hamid , and " the three hundred million Mohammedans scattered over the earth who venerate him as their caliph . " While at home the words were passed over , lightly as an excusable means of preparing the Mohammedan mind for the favorable reception of German commercial penetration and control , even in Germany the performance evoked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a hundred million of the population in his estimate of his Oriental friends , and that it was precisely Saladin who had struck Christendom its most fatal blow by the capture of the Holy City ; while to other nations this adulation was a clear premonition of the exclusive Oriental policy on the part of Germany that has culminated in a world war . Under ordinary circumstances , the Kaiser finds it easy to play the role of apparent omniscience , because he can summon to his side for his information on any subject the most learned specialists in the Empire , who are always eager to enjoy this distinction . Having utilized this advantage to an extraordinary degree , he is , undoubtedly , in matters in which he is interested , as far as German knowledge extends and German prejudice permits , one of the best-informed persons in the world . For all his important audiences and utterances he carefully prepares . He speaks with American exchange professors with a fullness of knowledge of their subjects that frequently surprises them . Nothing gives him greater pleasure than to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learned of from a German professor , or from a military or naval officer . Sometimes , however , his informant has been wrongly selected or has misunderstood the theme ; as when , for example , the Emperor delivered a rather technical discourse to a supposed expert in the science of seismology , only to learn that his visitor was a geographer . Within the limits of his knowledge , which is wide , and served by an excellent memory , the Kaiser 's mind is extremely alert and active , prone to resort to and to evoke repartee . He is seldom caught napping , for his position gives him every advantage , and his courtiers are disposed to leave him the victor in every encoun-ter of wit , and even in every serious controversy . Except by Americans , he is seldom frankly dealt with ; and his interest in them , when it is not for purely political purposes , arises largely from his real interest in the freedom with which they are accustomed to express themselves . The legend of the Kaiser 's " spontaneity " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were not original with himself . Such , for example , was the celebrated " Kruger telegram " of January 3 , 1896 . It is now well established that this was not an impulsive and personal performance . It was so strictly official that the text of it was prepared in the Foreign Office and brought ready for signature to the Chancellor 's palace by the Secretary for Foreign Affairs , Baron Marschall von Bieberstein , the Kaiser having been summoned to Berlin from Potsdam to approve it . He at first demurred , but at last permitted himself to be persuaded ; and Herr von Holstein , who was waiting for the result in the anteroom , has testified to the jubilation of the Secretary as he came from the presence of his Majesty waving in triumph the paper to which the Kaiser had just appended his signature . The telegram was generally interpreted as a purely personal message of congratulation to President Kruger that he had defeated the Jameson raid " without calling on the help of foreign Powers " ; thereby conveying the intimation of willingness on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been necessary . Not unnaturally the British government , considering it as a menace that might be followed by action , as an answer put a flying squadron in immediate commission and made an official announcement that , by a convention of 1884 , the foreign relations of the Transvaal had been placed under the supervision of the British Foreign Office . As nothing further happened , the Kaiser for many years bore in silence the odium of this unwise suggestion of German intervention . It was just that he should do so , for by his own theory of government there is no defensible distinction between his personal and his official acts . Being responsible to no one , a sovereign , , jay divine right can never be expected to apologize or explain . To do either would be a confession of his own accountability . An absolute ruler can punish a councilor for giving him bad advice , but if he follows it the act can not be regarded by him as an error . The king can do no wrong . The attempt in any way to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , therefore , purely academic . So long as William II 's theory of his personal supremacy is not rejected , the Imperial German government , and even the whole German nation , are bound to assume.responsibility to other powers for what the sovereign does or fails to do . It is the necessary consequence of submitting to absolute personal authority . The speech made by William II at Tangier , on March 31 , 1905 , only nine days after the " We are the salt of the earth " proclamation at Bremen , was regarded throughout Europe as an open challenge to France , whose proposals of reform in Morocco the Sultan , Abdul-.Aziz , was practically cautioned not to regard . " Germany , " said the Kaiser , " has great commercial interests in Morocco . I will promote and protect trade . . . and make it my care to secure full equality with all nations . This is only possible when the sovereignty of the Sultan and the independence of the country are preserved . Both are for Germany beyond question , and for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The news of this pronunciamento was instantly flashed round the world , and for weeks all Europe was breathlessly awaiting what would happen next . Like the " Kruger telegram , " this fulmination was at first set down as one of the Kaiser 's personal indiscretions ; but it soon became evident that it was the Foreign Office where the mist en seine of Germany 's new foreign policy had been conceived . Prestige in Europe was , undoubtedly , one of the objects to be obtained ; but there was a still more important reason for declaring the " integrity " of Morocco . Kaiser William had promised the Mohammedans " scattered over the globe " that the German Emperor " will be their friend at all times . " " We should have completely destroyed our credit in the Mohammedan world , " said Von Billow , " if so soon after this declaration we had sold Morocco to the French . Our ambassador in Constantinople , Baron Marschall von Bieberstein , said to me at the time , If we sacrifice Morocco in spite of Damascus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our position in Turkey and therefore all advantages and prospects that we have painfully acquired by the labor of many years . " Certainly , no more effective method of proclaiming an intention to intervene in the affairs of North Africa , where Germany was exposed to no danger and had no other than very limited commercial interests , could have been chosen . What shocked the chancelleries of Europe was that it was thought necessary thus publicly to strike France a blow in the face . It seemed like the opening of an entirely new school of diplomacy , in which the mailed fist was to take the place of argument . From a less strident declaimer than William II the same acts might not have been subject to the same interpretation ; but , notwithstanding professions of peace , he was constantly justifying the imputation of aggressive purposes by his utterances at home . At the gala dinner attending the unveiling of the statue of Moltke , for example , a short time after the speech at Tangier , the Kaiser introduced his toast by crying out , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are placed with reference to the rest of the world : in consequence , hurrah for the powder dry and the sword sharpened , for the recognized purpose and our forces ever on the alert , for the German army and the General Staff ! " It is true that there had been in 1904 an agreement between Great Britain and France , whereby Great Britain was not to be interfered with by France in safeguarding her interests in Egypt , and France was to be free to demand reforms in her near neighbor , Morocco ; but the commercial interests of Germany were in neither case denied or affected . The attitude of Germany was expressed in the speech from the throne of November , 1905 . " The difficulties which have arisen between France and us , apropos of the Morocco affair , " said the Kaiser , " have no other origin than a tendency to regulate without our collaboration questions where the German Empire has interests to defend . " In claiming equal commercial privileges in an independent country awaiting future development , the position of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time the saber had been publicly rattled and a virtual threat of war uttered by a Great Power in the face of friendly nations for such a cause . " The signs of the times , " the Kaiser declared in his speech from the throne , " make it a duty to the German people to reinforce their defenses against all aggression . " A different temper might have secured to Germany , without disturbance , every right , in so fat as her interests could be made to appear ; but the purpose of William TI was not so much to maintain German interests in Morocco , which at most were inconsiderable , as to assert , in a manner to force recognition , the dominant position of Germany as a World Power that had always to be reckoned with in every question . To force this admission , the demand was made that France should be summoned before a European Conference ? a tribunal before which the Kaiser has since systematically held that no nation could honorably be compelled to appear . For a time it seemed as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Delcasse , who had negotiated the arrangement with Great Britain , was forced out of office , while Von Billow was created a Prince . Diplomatically , the calling of the Conference of Algeciras , in 1906 , at first appeared to be a triumph for Germany ; but in the end proved the virtual isolation of the German Empire , except for the loyal adherence of Austria-Hungary , which won the distinctionof britV or , . CXXXVII. ? No. 815. - 29 liant second . " It served to reveal the ambition of Germany to dominate ; but substantially it obtained for her nothing that could not have been secured by a reasoned exchange of notes ? namely , the " open door " in Morocco , which was never denied . In its ultimate consequences , as a thinly veiled threat to France at the moment when Russia was impotent as an ally , German insistence threw the stress of future diplomatic intercourse upon armed force and rendered the problems of equity mere problems of power . It is , however , only in the light of later developments that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understood . It immediately became evident that France would never permit herself , through a rapprochement between Russia and Germany , to be brought into vassalage to the Kaiser , as he had intended . The interest of William II in the secret treaty with Nicholas II , therefore , soon began to relax . The agreement the two Emperors had made , that the Kaiser , on his visit to Copenhagen , in July , 1905 , should inform the King of Denmark that , in case of war with England , Germany and Russia would be obliged jointly to seize and occupy that kingdom , fell by the wayside ; and the Kaiser informed the Czar , " 1 thought it better not to touch the subject with the Danes and refrained from making any allusions , as it is better to let the idea develop and ripen in their heads and to let them draw the final conclusions themselves , so that they will of their own accord be moved to lean upon us and fall in line with our two countries . " Evidently , since Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revolution , the Kaiser was not so eager to insist upon the alliance he had been laboring to impose upon Nicholas H. In fact , in the changed conditions , an alliance would , perhaps , be wholly undesirable ; for it might , without a substantial equivalent , place Germany under obligations to a Power unable even to save itself . Just here we have , through recent disclosures , an interesting revelation of the Kaiser 's real estimate of the divine right and responsibility of rulers . In August , 1905 , William II was encouraging Nicholas II to accept parliamentary government for Russia . " I beg you , " he writes , " to accept my warmest congratulations for this great step forward in the development of Russia . step Not only so , but he explicitly advises the Czar to place the responsibility of the terms of peace upon the Duma ! " I would in your place not miss this first and best opportunity , " he continues , " to decide to get in close touch with your country 's feelings and wishes about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportunity to decide , or take part in the decision , relating to its future . . . . The decisions which are to be taken are so terribly earnest in their consequences and so far-reaching , that it is quite impossible for any mortal sovereign to take the responsibility for them alone on his shoulders without help of his people . " Is this the spirit in which the Kaiser was ruling in Germany , when he said , " You Germans have only one will , and that is my will ; there is only one law , and that is my law " ? Should the people 's parliament bear " the odium of the decision " between peace and war , as the Kaiser proposed , and have nothing to say regarding secret treaties of alliance which might lead to war ? Yet the Kaiser wishes the secret treaty to remain secret , although he attaches less importance to it than before . Still , with a change in the cards , it might prove useful . " We joined hands and signed before God , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therefore think the treaty may well come into existence . " Nevertheless , as bitterly as any democrat , he rails against the alleged secret diplomacy of " the arch mischief-maker of Europe in London , " as he calls Edward VII , whom , he says , " brigands in a wood , " he declares , he has sent the Russian ambassador to Copenhagen on a clandestine mission , to induce the Czar 's mother to influence him for a policy against Germany . Nicholas II , with the war off his hands and the Duma to " bear the odium " of the terms of peace ? but only to be disbanded a short time afterward ? wasresuming his independence , defending his ambassador as grossly misunderstood , and thinking lightly of the secret treaty . William II , on the other hand , having arrived at the conclusion that England , after all , was likely to be a more useful friend than Russia , while tightening the alliance with Austria-Hungary , who at the Conference of Algeciras had proved , " la fideliti d'un allie sar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain . On August 3 , 1906 , during the visit of Edward VII at Kiel , the Kaiser wrote to the Czar : " The maintenance of friendly relations between Germany and England is an absolute necessity for the world . I am pleased about this result of Uncle Bertie 's visit . " In less than a year , " the arch mischief-maker of Europe " had become the mainstay of peace . The meeting with Uncle Bertie at WilhelmshOhe , in August , 1907 , was also " satisfactory " ; and the Kaiser recorded , " Uncle Bertie in good humor and peacefully disposed . " In November of that year William II returned the King of England 's visit , and in his speech accepting the degree of Doctor of Civil Law conferred upon him by Oxford University , praised Cecil Rhodes ? who had been reported to be the inspirer of the Jameson raid ? for " the amplitude of his views " in founding scholarships at Oxford which " permitted young Germans to associate themselves with young Englishmen in studying the character and qualities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not neglected , and in a speech to them the Kaiser said : " We belong to the same race and to the same religion . These are bonds which ought to be strong enough to maintain harmony and friendship between us . " Wearing a British uniform and adorned with British academic honors , for the Kaiser there was now no need of the secret treaty with Russia . Thus , within two years , and without other reason than the hope of increasing the power of Germany , William II had abandoned the Czar in the time of his weakness , after secretly conspiring with him to isolate Great Britain and attach France to a Russo-German alliance ; and , failing in this , he had endeavored to form a close relation with Great Britain , in order to prevent an entente with France . We shall see how , a little later , unable even with these new professions of friendship for the " arch mischief-maker of Europe , " as he had called Edward VII , to prevent the growinggood under-standing with France , the Kaiser made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because the King was endeavoring to be friendly with the Czar . It is , perhaps , an inevitable consequence of the system that has long prevailed in Europe , that all general understandings are in danger of being rendered impossible by the assumption that friendship between a sovereign 's friends signifies hostility toward himself . So long as the friendship of nations is based on the conception of offensive and defensive alliances , this assumption is a perfectly natural one . It runs through the entire history of European diplomacy . It is the foundation on which the whole theory of the balance of power rests . Too large an aggregate of mutually friendly nations has always created the suspicion of a conspiracy among them against the others , which then feel it necessary to find new friends , outside the combination , in order to hold the first group in check . As the aggregation broadens , isolation seems intended ; and when isolation is believed to be com-S lete , the peril is felt to be unendurable. o long as secret diplomacy is practised these conditions may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence that at any time since the beginning of his reign William II had in mind any plan , any principle , or any desire for a general understanding in Europe that would relieve the nations from dependence upon armed force for their safety . The opportunity had been twice offered . In 1898 , the Czar of Russia had proposed a limitation of armament . The German delegates to the first Hague Conference were instructed to take no part in discussing this subject , and it was promptly dropped from thepro-gram at Germany 's instigation . The English and American delegates , supported by Russia and France , sought to establish international institutions that would enable nations disposed to act justly to solve at least some of their problems in a judicial manner . The history of that effort is well known . The German first delegate , Count Miinster , dismissed the idea of arbitration as " humbug " ; and the reason he gave for this opinion , as reported by the American first delegate , was that " Germany is prepared for war as no other country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a performance that could not be equaled by France or Russia or any other state . An arbitration court would , however , give an enemy time to make his preparations . Therefore it would only place Germany at a disadvantage . " It was only after extraordinary efforts to induce the Emperor to see that this attitude , if persisted in , would cause him and his country to be distrusted , scorned , and . hated by every civilized people , and especially by millions of the German race in America , that instructions were finally issued from Berlin to accept some kind of purely voluntary and occasional method of adjudicating international differences ; but without the least promise to resort to it , even in the case of strictly legal questions . The second Hague Conference offered another opportunity . It was treated in a different manner , but with almost the same result . Three eminent German jurists were sent as delegates . Their instructions have not been published , as those of the United States have been ; but it was given out by them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land or sea , could not even be considered , Germany was ready for arbitration and a court of international justice , and was prepared to work for them . This time , the Kaiser , although he had manifested no interest in this Conference , had set the stage for avoiding the error his delegates had made in the first . It soon became evident , however , that while Germany , her allies , and her Balkan satellites were , " in principle , " ingeniously professing to accept every great aim of peaceful international organization , they were blocking every practical proposal leading to a definitive result . The method was very simple . Unlike the parliamentary bodies of a single nation , in which decisions are made by majorities , an international conference requires , because of the complete sovereignty of the separate states composing it , entire unanimity before any final result can be obtained . Playing several small Powers as mere pawns upon a chess-board , the German first delegate was able , when he did not find it convenient himself to raise objection , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's allies or benevolent colleagues . . By those accustomed to trace the m-tricacies of negotiation , and who knew the affinities that were controlling this collusion , often quite perplexing , the procedure was from the beginning perfectly comprehended ; and , months before the termination of the Conference , they were prepared to predict that , notwithstanding Baron Marschall von Bieberstein 's bland and plausible assurances that Germany was eager for a court of arbitral justice , no such courtwould ever be i brought to completion in that Conference . Hardly credited at first , this predic-tion was extremely . . disappointing to the American delegation , which throughout toiled bravely on , in the hope that success might ultimately prove attainable . Whispered from time to time , even by those delegates who sincerely wished for a good result , were the words , " Germany must not be isolated ! " With the support Baron Marschall von Bieberstein was able to command , the danger of Germany 's isolation was not so imminent as her nervous neighbors sometimes feared . If Germany were isolated , they knew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in such a denouement the gathering of the storm ; for , with the plans that were then in contemplation , Germany would not yield tothe decisions of a European Areopagus . Baron Marschall von Bieberstein knew there was no probability of Germany 's isolation . To Isolate Germany would be to defy Germany ; and it was felt , even by the most ardent advocates of the judicial method of dealing with international controversies , that it was not the part of wisdom to permit a convocation called in the name of peace to become the occasion of provoking war . As weeks and months slipped by , the intention of Germany became so evident that the American first delegate , the Honorable Joseph H. Choate , who had toiled like a giant in the cause of effective international justice based on law , had the courage , with greater regard for truth than for diplomatic precedent , to say of Baron Marschall von Bieberstein , the German first delegate , in a plenary session of the Conference , and in his presence : " Baron Marschall von Bieber-stein is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even of obligatory arbitration , and even of general arbitration between those he chooses to act with ; but when it comes to putting this idea into concrete form and practical effect he appears as our most formidable adversary . He appears like one who worships a divine image in the sky , but when it touches the earth it loses all charm for him . He sees as in a dream a celestial apparition which excites his ardent devotion , but when he wakes and finds her by his side he turns to the wall and will have nothing to do with her . " A few weeks after the adjournment of the Conference His Maiesty the Kaiser visited Holland as the guest of the Queen . He spoke with fervor of the relations between the Houses of Orange and Hohenzollern , recalled how the Great Elector had found his noble spouse in Holland , and wished the kingdom " prosperity in the midst of the benefits of peace " ; but of the great work so recently undertaken there , for the peace of the whole world by representatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that ever assembled ? he had not one word to say . To play the double role of William the War Lord and William the Peacemaker at the same time , even with such able support as the Kaiser believed himself to have in Count Munster , who was chosen for his " common sense , " and Baron Marschall von Bieberstein , who was chosen because in Oriental diplomacy he had out-Turked the Turk , exceeded the dramatic talent of even this prodigy in histrionic art . Beneath the flowing robe of the peacemaker the protruding scabbard of the sword has always trailed across the stage , and it has rattled loudest when the Kaiser has discoursed most vociferously of the German love of peace .                     