@@430720

 |p615  the German-Swiss poet , formerly as beloved in Germany as in Switzerland , declared the Swiss right of defense : Why , you ask , are our troops on all the frontiers ? Simply because we have not entire confidence in any of our neighbors . It is no time to talk of discourtesy . Political organisms called states are not moral forces . They move less by sentiment than by brute force . It is not insignificant that they take as their device birds of prey . Their philosophy may be resumeed in a single sentence : The state devours all that it can . There is an atmosphere of war in Switzerland which sustains a certain nervous tension . The smallest village is familiar with the roll of tambours ? but Swiss tambours . Basel hears the incessant rumble of the heavy batteries in the Vosges , carried sometimes as far south across the Jura as Geneva . Dependent upon surrounding countries for her food supply , many observers were convinced that for her very existence Switzerland would be drawn into the war . Resistance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to triple the national debt . Imports have fallen to half of what they were in 1915 . Federal railway returns have dropped . For want of materials and coal many factories have been obliged to shut down . Hotels are deserted . Mobilization has been another serious handicap . Indeed , Switzerland seems to have suffered all of the hardships of war but one , the greatest ? loss of life . Before analyzing some of the conflicting French and German influences in Switzerland , it would not be out of place to recount briefly some aspects of Swiss dependence upon these neighboring countries . Over fourteen per cent of the population is foreign . On the eve of war nearly half the population of Geneva was foreign , largely French . Zurich and Basel , in the zone of German influence , boast of twenty and forty-two per cent , respectively . Little concerned with the development of the country , except in so far as it restrained their own freedom of action , these migratory waves formed a serious check to every national movement . As will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of international financier 's mind which is keen to grasp any immediate economic advantage , but very slow to see dangers threatening national integrity . In many bourgeois circles it nurtured a flabby cosmopolitanism which succumbed only before the threatened invasion of the country . The profound racial gulf dividing French and German Switzerland seems in many respects to have been deepened by the war . The Swiss of Geneva , Neuchatel , and Lausanne are closer in culture and in sympathies to France than to their fellow-Swiss of German extraction . The strong Protestant center of Geneva , in part of old French Huguenot stock , though highly particularist , has close religious ties with Protestant France . But anti-clericalism and skepticism in France , especially of the last two decades , had alienated , as in Alsace , the sympathies of simple Protestant and Catholic folk in neighboring cantons . During the Franco-Prussian War opinion in French Switzerland was divided . Memories of Napoleon and the menace of Imperialism made nearly half of the population look with favor upon the German cause . But to-day FrenchSwiss are united in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sympathies to France and England . without admiring Russia , " is their rather common democratic attitude . These ties with France find their origin in a common respect for democracy , liberty , tolerance , and , above all , for the principle , doubly enforced since the invasion of Belgium , that a people has a right to a voice in its own destiny . French literature and the French stage have a considerable influence over the culture of these western cantons . To satisfy their material needs the people looked to France rather than to Germany . The lower French freight rates were established on a strip of the adjoining Swiss line . Such industries as lace and clock making were dependent upon their French and English clientele . The hotel trade , too , looked directly to these foreign visitors . But , compared with German infiltration into the Swiss territory bordering the Empire , French influence sinks into insignificance . So extensive was it that one German newspaper , the " Gegenwart , " referred to the country as an economic dominium of Germany . Carl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ played in Swiss development , an influence which made him forget that the Swiss frontier existed . He looked to the Rhine for romantic inspiration . He felt the throb of the great intellectual evolution in Germany as though it were his own country . German professors fill chairs in German-Swiss universities . The German educational system throughout Switzerland facilitates this . When a chair is vacant in a German-Swiss university , it is a simple matter  |p616  to find a German to fill it . The system works automatically . The same is true of Swiss students , who continue without break their studies in Germany . In French Switzerland , on the other hand , the divergence with the French system tends to exclude French professors . The number of French-Swiss students who study in France also is considerably smaller . Before the war a considerable Swiss press was notoriously dependent upon German agencies , and many papers frankly represented German interests . There is no religious friction here between Swiss and South German Catholics and Protestants . The Protestant clergy has naturally looked rather to Germany than to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vischer. a German-Swiss , recently , in " Wissen and Leben. " a series of Swiss political pamphlets , that you are not only Protestants and Swiss , but also German , and by your speech and your family relations are bound to Germany by a thousand ties . " There have been other disintegrating forces at work in Switzerland . Coincident with the growth of the foreign population has been that of the international hotel . Over thirty-five thousand Swiss were engaged in this business . In hotel regions visions of easy money spread among the lower classes . Yodeling became more profitable than farming , and the eccentric peasant frocks peddled from the hotels had a deplorable effect upon household economy . A series of international conventions , as that of the St. Gothard Pass in 1909 , are typical of a rather short-sighted federal policy . This St. Gothard agreement applies to rates between Germany and Italy . In return for certain dividends the Swiss Federal Council bound " to perpetuity " the federal railways not to enter into combination with any company whose lower tariff would make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the perpetuity clause , in the failure to base the convention upon the common principle of reciprocity , and in the recognition of German influence over Swiss railways . Patriotic Swiss , while recognizing substantial economic advantages in such projects as that of St. Gothard and as that of the Rhine Canal to Basel , also saw in them a tendency to economic tutelage under Germany . The Swiss Federal Government might well have been compared to the board of directors of a large and successful corporaUTLOOK 12 July tion . The firm 's business was conducted to the approximate satisfaction of the shareholders , the Swiss people , who , not particularly well acquainted with each other , demanded nothing more than to receive their periodical dividends in the shape of enlightened industrial legislation . War declared , Swiss neutrality was put to the test . Economic pressure was brought to bear from all sides . It has become in some respects an impasse for the Swiss dealer . He can not get coal from Germany , upon which he is absolutely dependent , except in return for certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Allies , more preoccupied with the economic isolation of the central states than with the existence of Swiss industry , denied him materials susceptible to export . This awkward position was somewhat modified by the S. S. S. ( the Swiss Society of Surveillance ) , modeled after the Dutch Overseas Trust . By this co-operation with the Allied Governments , Switzerland is assured French and British exports , subject to a heavy penalty if re-exported to the central states . Such , however , has been the mass of forms and regulations which incrust all dealings with this Society that many despairing Swiss have been driven into the arms of more complaisant German dealers . Swiss industries suffered another blow by the intolerant attitude of many buyers on both sides who declined further relations with companies which do business with their enemies . Neutrality in such straits is a hard word . Dangers of immediate invasion over , and the general mobilization diminished , disintegration forces inside the country set to work with renewed energy . German-Swiss , unconcerned by German infiltration , showed a high degree of susceptibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any recognition of the invasion of Belgium an abnegation of Swiss existence , and who fear German Imperialism as nothing else in the world , the callousness of their Teutonic fellow-countrymen seems a menace to Swiss neutrality . The writer was present at a dinner given in celebration of a Geneva festival some weeks ago . A well-known Swiss editor , of Francophile tendencies , spoke with indignation of an officers ' mess he attended where the German-Swiss officers , at their separate table , celebrated with champagne the German victories in Russia . To this editor these  |p617  German-Swiss had forfeited their birthright . A young Swiss officer to whom the writer repeated the remark laughingly asked : " And do you know what the French-Swiss officers at the next table were doing the following week ? They were clinking glasses to the French victory in Champagne . " To the average French-Swiss neutrality involves a general condemnation of the invaders of Belgium . It is jokingly said of these intransigeants . " The French would like peace , but the Lausanneois will not let them make peace . German-Swiss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neighboring Empire make unemotional criticism of the war impossible . " We see the same factors which make the Swiss tolerant or intolerant toward their belligerent neighbors at work inside . So different are the views of these two peoples that they have but few points of intellectual contact . There have indeed been crises which would resemble the pre-bellum antagonism between rival states were it not for the spontaneous sinking of all differences before the greater obligation of defending Swiss national integrity . The invasion of Belgium , disclosures of espionage , the affair of the two colonels ( described further on ) , the tearing down of the German consular flag at Lausanne , and the decision in the colonels ' case have all been moments of painful tension . A certain hybrid Swiss press accentuated these differences . German press agencies made good use of their influence in Switzerland . There are strange anomalies . An article inspired by a German agency appears in a local paper . The following day it is copied in the " Frankfurter " or some other " Zeitung " as typical of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out with exclamations , " So that is what the Swiss call neutrality ! " This dependence moved Swiss patriotic societies to action . Foremost among these is the New Helvetical Society . It takes its name from the famous patriotic organization of the eighteenth century . Organized some two years before the war among younger French-Swiss Nationalists , its rapid growth and lofty aims make it resemble many of the Italian societies of the early forties . To maintain a democratic , self-conscious state presents many of the same problems as to create one . War declared , the New Helvetical Society became a doubly powerful national influence . To neutralize foreign NS AT WAR 617 press agencies it established a central news bureau , a feeder to the many small local sheets . It secured control of the Minerva &; Familien Company of Zurich . This German agency supplied weekly pictorial supplements to 128 Swiss newspapers . The only difference between these pictures and those which appeared simultaneously in Germany was that , instead of the Kaiser reviewing the Imperial Guard , followed by a picture of the Kaiser @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supplement would alternate the two by interposing a picture of Alpiners or of a prize herd of some canton . The change in control has already had a salutary national influence . 4f the writer lays himself open to the criticism of over-emphasizing German influence in Switzerland , it is because he finds it , through better organization , much more susceptible to definition than the French . The former is a more extensive , a more aggressive factor in Swiss political life . French and Italian publicists , by lectures and pamphlets , have gone as far as the censor would permit in expounding their causes in Switzerland . But in general there has been a regrettable disregard on the part of the Allies of Swiss public opinion , and Allied propaganda , as a result , has been of too desultory a nature to permit generalization . German military organization fascinated certain of the ' Swiss staff and encouraged them to emulation on a small scale at home . They see the safety of the state in efficient organization , in centralization of power , and in subordination at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favor the censorship ; a prompt suppression of anything bordering upon popular demonstration . They admire in external affairs a vigorous ReaIpolitik . At least two of them , the Colonels Egli and von Wattenwyl , let their zeal carry them too far . They were charged with and convicted of communicating the confidential Swiss army bulletin to a German military attache . A more serious charge , dismissed but not entirely discredited for want of evidence , was that of disclosing Russian secret code reports to the same beneficiaries . Colonel von Sprecher , Chief of the Swiss General Staff , a man of unquestioned integrity , in his desire to avert humiliation to the profession , covered the acts of his subordinates and went so far as to declare that in return for valuable information he could conceive a Swiss officer offering something which might not  |p618  absolutely conform with ' v s neutrality . This conception of national bargaining drew a storm of protest from French-Swiss . The attitude of Colonel von Sprecher resembles that of Colonel Reuter / .. b ern fame , who , rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : . , r impertinence , took the entire responsibility upon himself , and of course secured what approximated an acquittal . That everything concerning the army is sacred and not open to crass civilian discussion is a revolting idea to the majority of French-Swiss : and the week of discussion in the Federal Assembly following the trial very definitely established this . They demanded a more loyal respect for Swiss neutrality , a subordination of military to civil authority , and a limiting of the powers assumed by the Federal Council . They protested against further centralization of power . and against what they called the Prussianizing of the country . It is obvious that mutual understanding between two peoples of such different points of view , and subject to such different influences as the French and German Swiss , is IUTLOOK 12 July confronted by almost insurmountable obstacles . But the war has reinforced a national consciousness and a conviction that , no matter how great local differences may be , they are less painful than the disasters which would follow Swiss disruption . In a common . love @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they see a basis for future accord ; and in their associations made possible by a mutual tolerance of racial differences they see an example which in the future , if followed by their larger neighbors , would be a great step toward the peace of Europe . ; ; We may each develop according to our genie , recognizing our differences , but united in a defense of freedom of thought , and a culture which more powerful neighbors would hinder and destroy . " Francesco di Chiesa , an Italian Swiss , in a memorable address in 1913 , compared the Swiss Confederation to a , Greek temple . The columns , each independent of the other ? the Swiss cantons ? are not perpendicular , but slightly oblique . They rise imperceptibly toward a common axis , a common ideal .                     