@@430464

CAN it be said that America is falling prey to the collective soul of the negro ? Some sociological writers of promi nence believe so . Some psychologists are of the opin ion . One thing is infallibly certain : if there is any tendency toward such a psycho-physical amalgamation , toward such a na tional disaster , it should be definitely pointed out and some measures taken to inhibit the influence and avert the increasing danger . History attests that national degeneracy has followed in the wake of indiscriminate and unchecked racial interblendings . This is , of course , true in a sense relative to the reproduction of species . But from the psychological and occult standpoint the sexual sense is not of as wide a meaning as the mental and sug gestive influence which might mark its power on popular life and fancy . Thought is anterior to conduct and determines its mode , qual ity and intensity of expression . It lends color to the moral meaning . In this light it is readily understandable how inferior thought-expression , the collective sentiment , conduct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might definitely affect the life of a superior race by influencing its lower types , if not in fact the average type , which is not far removed from the lower . A civilization must not be confounded with the average type . The average type is unimportant . Those only who stand out in bold relief in the mental and ethical culture of any race or age are truly representative of a civilization . The common lot is incomparably distinct from the high achievement of the Supermen . The majority is in closer touch with the general psychical atmosphere of a race immediately inferior , or a race indefinitely inferior , with which it may come into contact . Another powerful fact ever to be borne in mind in the con consideration of inter-racial amalgamatory influences is the superiorit y of the physical instincts of the average type in any cultural civilization and the comparatively less evolution of the mental and ethical qualities . Plainly speaking , the average type is more closely identified with the evolved instincts of the inferior race than with the high-cultured Superman of the respective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a significant line of demarcation . It is impossible for a high type to be influenced by a low type . It is extremely possible for an average type , and types below the average , to be influenced by the proximity and physio-psychical vibrations of an inferior race . The reader is asked to exercise his judgment and imagination in reference to these hypotheses as analogous and applicable to the negro and the common American type . It is not advisable to be too radical . A suggestion bears enough of the ominous . All civilization of whatever character and description is based upon the moral element . It is the moral element with its spiritualization of lower instincts that underlies those refined 2esthetic ties upon which the family and community relationships of a highly civilized race are founded . On the individual family the State is founded . Another significant fact is that a desirable transmission of evolved hereditary instincts depends upon the maintenance of the moral element . If this be in any way retrogressively influenced , the decay of the race is certain . As previously stated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by reason of the latter 's specialized nerve and brain centres . Yet there is a method by which highly individualized types may drift to the abnormal through the undermining of the moral sentiment . And this is brought about by indiscriminate association and physical proximity with members of an inferior race . We must remember that a high type labors under extreme nervous tension and excitability . Their sensations are hyper-acute . Certainly , they entertain high moral sentiments ; yet there is no particular guarantee for their maintenance if contrary instincts occur in too close relation with highly evolved nerve centres . A high type is either excessively normal or abnormal . History shows us that where men of highly nervous and mental culture succumbed to the tremendous sexual seductiveness of a member of an inferior race , the mentality of those men and those personal psycho-physical qualities by which they held their standing in the realm of affairs were noticeably dwarfed . Marc Anthony is not the only instance ? and it is said Cleopatra was an Ethiop . At all events , these suggestions alone explain the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Southern type of seventy years ago . Those familiar with the Congressional scandal of that time need not draw on their imagination . The unin formed reader may do so and his awakened interest may lead him to peruse the personal history , memoirs and biographies of some of our more distinguished statesmen . By this interpretation we can understand how the average man directly , and the Superman indirectly , is affected by inferior racial types , and the history of the American negro stands unexampled as appropriately explanatory . True , men can damn facts by the surface show of conduct . No one would suspect from the treatment accorded the negro that he possessed any telling influ ence , yet the weak moments of some men and the garrulousness of others have revealed facts . Thus indirectly and directly a nation or a race may succumb to the vibrations of inferiority , provided these have enough po tency and seductiveness to disturb or undermine the general moral sentiment . Turning the pages of history , dismissing the con consideration and confining our attention to the paradoxical influence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rome in its higher racial conceptions suffered irremediably from its close association with the degenerate Persian civilization . There is no doubt that the debauched condition and the influence of the racially retrogressive types of the Orient was the psychological downfall of Rome ; the cause that perverted the simplicity , cour age and candor of the early Roman spirit and stigmatized it with the fire and fever , the passions and perversions which enfeebled the warrior upon whom Rome depended . Thus when these influ ences assumed their most destructive proportions the tide of cir cumstance threw the German masculinity against the effeminate Roman , with the result of the disruption of the Empire and a new political map of Europe . Nature works by circuitous paths . The debauching influence which upsets a nation may exist in the nation 's consciousness . It may equally exist in the sub-consciousness of a nation , and this applies to the American situation . The degenerating influences do not parade the highway of public opinion . They operate in sequestered instances and under the silence which has its motive in the fear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and those who pry closely become knowers of facts . There is a great deal of psychological significance , yes , physiological significance , in the segregation of types . There is a great deal in the maintenance of that segregation . It implies that the racial stock , the racial physiognomy , remains uninfluenced and unimpaired . It means that the physiological conduct and motiveforces remain intact . We notice the converse and reverse of this truth in our modern day as well as in the ancient eras . Our country is ? has been several decades since more definitely ? segregated in type as strictly as though marked by political lines . All nations are formed from the selection and segregation of types . Though apart from the subject , it is somewhat remarkable that for this reason America was not differentiated into various nationalities rather than one United States , because the segregation of types is marked . The tendency to separate nationalizing was emphasized , however , in the Southern secession . We have had , and have , our New England type , with its proverbial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western types , with their instinct toward bourgeois domesticity ; our Southern type , with its eccentric accentuation of social caste . The strict differentiation in type of the latter , more than all else , was the psychological cause of the Civil War . Physiological differences mean difference of temperament , and the especially wide difference between the Southern and Northern type , on reaching its climax of development , manifested itself in the bitterest clash . All wars have a similar origin . Men ascribe them to political fault-findings , when in reality the political faultfindings are only avenues of expression for psycho-physiological and temperamental distinctions . The difference in type is not so radical between the Western and Middle West and Northern type ; yet the distinction is recognized . In the day of further specialization of national types , however , the different sectional types are fast disappearing before the interstate materialization of the typical American type . History only repeats itself . The same differentiation and specialization has obtained not only in the formation of all nationalities , but of all races as well . Races @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of several dead races , numbers of survivors of one ante-historic race mingled with the survivors of other ante. .. toric races giving rise to the evolution of our modern yellow , brown , red , black and white races . Seeming deviations of the previous paragraph lead to an important physio-psychological truth ? the final Caucasianization of the negro , making him physiologically equal with the white . Some may laugh at the suggestion , but can they satisfactorily answer this question ? Why is it that the black color , the inkblack color of the negro , has increasingly diminished in exact ratio as the flowing years separate us from the Civil ' War ? Is it possibly racial amalgamation ? Racial amalgamation does not essentially involve reproduction , although wholesale instances are not wanting . It involves the injection of white into negro blood and physical force , and vice versa . That alone has its telling physical changing process . Such relationships interblend types in a tremendously physiological sense . It is impossible that members of different races should have intimate relations without a certain exchange of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not shouted from the housetop . All this is relative to the gradual amalgamation of initiatively widely separate racial types . Similarly , as the earlier separated American types are becoming centralized into one type , so the American negro , already possessed of many of the mental and emotional characteristics of our nation , has become so importantly different from his African ancestor that to call him a plain Ethiop would not be touching the point . He is already an American citizen . Who knows what he will be six generations hence ? Apart from this it remains singularly mysterious just exactly why the negro type is gradually relinquishing its darker bodily shade and coming into a rarer and more Caucasian color . There are negroes , and an increasingly growing number of them , whose color is not far removed from the average Caucasian of Southern Europe or Western Asia . Many of them in truth might be taken for Orientals of the darker Italian or Spanish types . The only reasonable hypothesis is ? the amalgamation of the negro with the Caucasian . It alone can account @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ head , the gradual thinning of the lips , the gradual contraction of the nostrils and the grad ; .. change in the texture of the hair , receding from its primitive curly state to the straight black , coarse hair of the South Asiatic , the Malay or Pacific Island type . This is so emphatically striking that attention only need be called to the fact . There are some things which we know , but which we try to ignore because of their vast import . But ignoring them does not change their relative influence , which continues until it reaches a point where it can no longer be checked . Indirectly and through this amalgamation a decided change is perceptible , a change which is physiologically raising the negro to an equality with the white . And the physiological implies the temperamental , mental and psychological . Some might ask , apart from color is not this desirable in the extreme ? A mo ment 's reflection might change the balance in favor to marked disfavor . Color has of itself no mental or psychical importance . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inter-influence of higher and lower mental qualities . We have seen how a lower form can not be absorbed by a higher without indirectly partaking of its lower qualities and nature . This leads to the second and the most important of the phases in this consideration ? the psy cho-mental and moral , embracing numerous subordinate subjects . The foregoing paragraphs serve as necessary introduction to this larger field , requiring , to a large extent , an analysis of the negro life and character . Being closer to more primitive conditions , more closely related to the higher mammalian types than to the exalted evolutionary state of representative Caucasians ? of Caucasians as such ? the negro partakes of this lower enfoldment and is closer to natural character in expression ; to speak explicitly , closer to the animal type in instinct . A description of negroid traits will forcibly bring to mind the idea of this close relationship : The abnormal length of the arm , sometimes reaching to the knee-pan . Prognathism ( facial angle , 70 ? ; in Caucasian , 82 ? ) . Weight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 20 oz. ; average European , 45 Oz . ) Coal-black eye , black iris and yellowish sclerotic coat . Short flat , snub nose , broad at the extremity , with dilated nostrils and concave ridge . Thick , protruding lips , showing inner surface . Very large zygomatic arches . Exceedingly thick cranium , enabling him to use the head as a weapon of attack . Weak lower limbs , terminating in a broad flat foot , with low instep , projecting and somewhat prehensile great toe , and " lark heel . " to . Complexion deep brown , blackish or even black , not due to any special pigment , but to the greater abundance of coloring matter in the Malphighian mucous membrane . Short , black hair , distinctly woolly , not frizzly . Thick epidermis , cool , soft and velvety , mostly hairless , and emitting a peculiar odor described by Pruner Bey as hircine . Frame of medium height , thrown somewhat out of the perpendicular by the shape of the pelvis , the spine , the backward projection of the head and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ close much earlier in the negro than in other races . The description stands on its own merit . It shows the remarkable similarity between negro and lower types and primitive instincts . Scientists have measured to points of accuracy the variation in evolution of different racial brains . The Caucasian , of course , is in the lead . The Australian Bushman is in the rear . But how far removed in frontal and general brain construction is the head of a typical negro from that of a Bushman ? Not by any very noticeable degree . This is stated because of its moral bearing . Steeped in inferior standards of life , primitive in thought and feeling , vehemently sensuous in expression , the moral standards of the negro , if admitted to express themselves in a highly civilized community , will influence it to no desirable degree . It is easier to slip backward than to go forward . It is easier for a highly civilized community instinctively to follow lower or more primitive morals than to follow its own high ideals . Retrogres sion is a very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is induced by close proximity to degenerative environment . Progression is the symbol of self-control and of the attainment that has been brought about ; retrogression the relaxation of that control and the conterminous setting back . One noticeable feature of the negro character , one more prominent than others , is a specific racial indifference to those high mental and moral barriers which raise the progressive type to the climax of civilization and of mental and moral vigor . The negro is morally relaxative . As a race he fails to understand the reason for any extreme moral endeavor . We need not fear any extended negro asceticism . He lives more of a vegetative life , eats , drinks , sleeps , goes through all the physical requisites and , provided this life is not disturbed in its expression , he cares little for any other . It would be unjust to say that there are not representatives of the race who are on a higher plane , but we are considering the race collectively , for it is the race as a whole which has suggestive force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the increase of negro population , the increased and unhampered circumstances of negro expression , should not have an important reaction on the white population , particularly as the latter is daily allowing the negro greater and more impor tant social recognition and privilege . By social recognition is not meant interchange of social courtesy , but the living down of that aloofness which previously strictly differentiated the rela tionship of white and black . That this differentiation is now almost nominal may be seen in that growing freedom of daily converse and interchange of life which our industrial conditions have allowed and furthered . Of course , this can not fail to bring the types closer together and increase the influence of negro over the white . This furtherance of social relationship is par ticularly visible in contrast throughout the South , where the negro was once regarded as less than human . The South is making less demand for respect and recognition of inferiority on the part of the negro . All along the line the walls of social demarca tion are weakening . The indifference to any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the negro character , particularizes itself in shallowness of emotion and careless freedom of moral con ceptions . No one will accuse a negro of any great emotional elasticity or rareness . The emotions are more physical than a ? sthetic . In fact , the term esthetic is discordant with the wilful ness of the type . We shall later understand why this phase in particular should wield a detrimental influence over the average American mind . There is nothing more vital in the expression of the life of any race than its music . Its music is the symbolism for the summary of its emotional attainment and possibility . There is no need to say that the " rag-time " music , or , as it is popularly called , " rag music , " has its visible source in the ancestry of negro music . It is negro music more modernly adapted . It was typically negroid in the years prior to the Civil War . It bears radical resemblance to the fantastic waywardness of Creole song . It is a modulated derivation . Now the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ typically American . It has outgrown its negroid limitations and achieved national importance . There is a popular demand for it . Fortunately , it is assuming a more desirable interpretation , yet the entire range of vaudeville song is permeated with the derivative type . There is a certain sway and swing , a certain indescribable sensuous something appealing and suggestive about the ring and melody , the rhythm and versification of this music . Scru tinizingly criticised , all of the songs are insidiously perverting ; they are indicative of relaxative morality , of disparagement of the marital tie , of triviality in relationship of sex , etc. , and the entire moral code might , be included . There is not even an attempt made at concealment of the thought conveyed in the song . It is out-and-out vulgarity . It has been previously implied that the music of a nation or a race is symbolic of its collective character and the discrepancies of its individual character . Accordingly , our rag-time and ragtime evolved music is symbolic of the primitive morality and the perceptible moral limitations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is almost unknown , and the widest latitude of moral uncertainty is conceded . Be that as it may , it is of relative importance isolatedly considered . Its significance lies in whatever influence it may exercise over the average American mind . During the last quarter of a century the increase of divorce , the lapsing of the marital code , the indiscriminate illicit cohabitation , with its growing uncertainty and increased danger , are all more or less due to our popular music , developed as it is from the negro rag-time . The necessary provision almost for the birth of sexual crime , at least its more immediate furtherance , is the atmosphere of a questionable cafe and the passion-appealing , the sensuous music we have been discussing . How could it be otherwise when the music had its birth through the sensuously sonorous larynx of the negro and was first voiced from his savage , sensuously formed mouth ? How could it be otherwise when the ancestry of the music was first voiced in the wild , weird , barbarous howl of the protypical African ? It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is not the physical as much as the mental , which touches the physical in expression , that counts in a telling manner in racial counter-influences . Accordingly considered , the complete reaction of the negro 's thought and conduct upon the American , particularly the Easterner , is visible in social dis turbance and intricacy . It is believed by many sociologists that these disturbing conditions are directly or indirectly to be attrib uted to the influence of the negro on American life ; the influence of the lower race on the weaker portion of society . It is reasonable ; and , what is more , it is true .                     