@@430472

IT is impossible to doubt the vitality and the vigor of the new movement of sexual hygiene , especially that branch of it concerned with the instruction of children in the essential facts of life . In the eighteenth century the great educationalist Basedow was almost alone when , by practice and by precept , he sought to establish this branch of instruction in schools . Two years ago , when the German Diirer Bund offered prizes for the best essays on the training of the young in matters of sex , as many as five hundred papers were sent in . We may say that during the past ten years more has been done to influence popular feeling on this question than during the whole of the preceding century . Whenever we witness a sudden impulse of zeal and enthusiasm to rush into a new channel , however admirable the impulse may be , we must be prepared for many risks and perhaps even a certain amount of damage . This is , indeed , especially the case when we are concerned with a new activity in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are so ancient and so wide , their roots ramify so completely and run so deep , that any sudden disturbance in this soil , however well intentioned , is certain to have many results which were not anticipated by those responsible for it . Any movement here runs the risk of defeating its own ends , or else , in gaining them , to render impossible other ends which are of not less value . In this matter of sexual hygiene we are faced at the outset by the fact that the very recognition of any such branch of knowledge as " sexual hygiene " involves not merely a new departure but the reversal of a policy which has been accepted , almost without question , for centuries . Among many primitive peoples , indeed , we know that the boy and girl at puberty are initiated with solemnity , and even a not unwholesome  | hardship , into the responsibilities of adult life , including those which have reference to the duties and privileges of sex . But in our own traditions scarcely even a relic of any such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintain a custom , and even a policy , of silent obscurantism . Parents and teachers have considered it a duty to say nothing , and have felt justified in telling lies , or " fairy-tales , " in order to maintain their attitude . The oncoming of puberty with its alarming manifestations , especially in the girl , has often left them unmoved and still silent . They have taken care that our elementary text-books of anatomy and physiology , even when written by so independent and fearless a pioneer as Huxley , should describe the human body absolutely as though the organs and functions of reproduction had no existence . They have congratulated themselves if they could pilot the youths , and especially the maidens , under their guardianship into the haven of matrimony not only in apparent chastity , but in ignorance of nearly everything that marriage signifies and involves , alike for the individual and the coming race . This policy has been so firmly established that the theory of it has never been clearly argued out . So far as it exists at all it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : sex things must not be talked about because they are " dirty " ; sex things must not be talked about because they are " sacred . " We must leave sex things alone , they say , because God will see to it that they manifest themselves aright and work for good ; we must leave sex things alone , they also say , because there is no department in life in which the activity of the Devil is so specially exhibited . The very same person may be guilty of this contradiction when varying circumstances render it convenient . Such a confusion is , indeed , a fate liable to befall all ancient and deeply rooted tabus or taboo . We see it in the tabus against certain animals as foods ( as the Mosaic prohibition of pork ) ; at first the animal was too sacred to eat , but in time people came to think that it is too disgusting to eat . They begin the practice for one reason , they continue it for a totally opposed reason . Thus every movement of sexual hygiene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inharmonious clash of contradictory notions . This is especially the case if sexual hygiene is introduced by way of the school . It is very widely held by many , who accept the arguments long so ably set forth by Frau Maria Lichnewska , that the school is not only the best way of introducing sexual hygiene but the only possible way , since through this channel alone is it possible to introduce an antidote to the evil influences of the home and the world . Yet to teach children what some of their parents consider as too sacred to be taught , and others as too disgusting , and to begin this teaching at an age when the children , having already imbibed these parental notions , are old enough to be morbidly curious and prurient , is to open the way to a complicated series of social reactions which demand great skill to adjust . Largely , no doubt , from anxiety to counterbalance these dangers , there has been a tendency to emphasize , or rather to overemphasize , the moral aspects of sexual hygiene . Rightly considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moral significance . But in the actual teaching of such hygiene it is quite easy , and the error is often found , to make statements , and to affirm doctrines ? all in the interests of good morals and with the object of exhibiting to the utmost the benficial tendencies of this teaching , ? which are dubious at the best and often at variance with actual experience . In such cases we seem to see that the sexual hygienist has indeed broken with the conventional conspiracy of silence in these matters , but he has not broken with the conventional morality which grew out of that ignorant silence . With the best intention in the world he sets forth , dogmatically and without qualification , ancient half-truths which to become truly moral need to be squarely faced with their complementary half-truths . The inevitable danger is that the pupil sooner or later grasps the onesided exaggeration of this teaching , and the credit of the sexual hygienist is gone . The rash and unqualified statements concerning the immense benefits of continence , or the awful results of self-abuse -- frequently found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Stated with wise moderation they would have been helpful . Pushed to harsh extravagance , they are not only useless to aid the young in their practical difficulties , but become mischievous by the injury they inflict on oversensitive consciences , fearful of having fallen short of these high-strung ideals . This consideration brings us , indeed , to what is perhaps the chief danger in the  | introduction of any teaching of sexual hygiene : that is to say the fact that our teachers are themselves untaught . Sexual hygiene in the full sense ? in so far as it concerns individual action and not the regulative or legislative action of communities ? is the art of imparting such knowledge as is needed at successive stages by the child , the youth and maiden , the young man and woman , in order to enable them to deal rightly , and so far as possible without injury either to themselves or to others ,  - -  ith all those sexual events to which everyone is naturally liable . To fulfil his functions adequately the master in the art of teaching sexual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He must have a sufficing knowledge of the facts of sexual psychology , sexual physiology , and sexual pathology , knowledge which , in many important respects , hardly existed at all until recently , and is only now beginning to become generally accessible ; ( 2 ) he must have a wise and broad moral outlook , with a sane idealism which refrains from demanding impossibilities , and resolutely thrusts aside not only the vulgar platitudes or wordliness but the equally mischievous platitudes of an outworn and insincere asceticism ; for the wise sexual hygienist knows , with Paschal , that " he who tries to be an angel becomes a beast , " and is less anxious to make his pupils ineffective angels than effective men and women , content to say with Browning , " I may put forth angels ' pinions once unmanned , but not before " ; ( 3 ) in addition to sound knowledge and a wise moral outlook , the sexual hygienist must possess , finally , a genuine sympathy with the young , an insight into their sensitive ' shyness , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speak to them simply , frankly , and humanly . If we ask ourselves how many of the apostles of sexual hygiene combine these three essential qualities we shall probably not be able to name many , while we may suspect that some do not even possess one of the three qualifications . If we further consider that the work of sexual hygiene , to be carried out on a really national scale , demands the more or less active cooperation of parents , teachers , and doctors , and that parents , teachers , and doctors are in these matters at present all alike untrained and usually prejudiced , we shall realize some of the dangers through which sexual hygiene must at first pass . It is , I hope , unnecessary for me to say that , in thus pointing out some of the difficulties and the risks which must assail every attempt to introduce an element of effective sexual hygiene into life , I am far from wishing to argue that it is better to leave things as they are . That is impossible , not only because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mischievous , but because it is based on a confusion which contains within itself the elements of disruption . We have to remember , however , that the creation of a new tradition can not be effected in a day . Before we begin to teach sexual hygiene the teachers must themselves be taught . There are many who have insisted , and not without reason , on the right of the parent to control the education of the child . Sexual hygiene introduces us to another right , the right of the child to control the education of the parents . For the parents can not exercise the duty of training and guiding the child in the difficult field of sex without preliminary education , and such education , to be real and effective , must begin at an early age in the parents ' life . The school teacher , again , on whom so many rely for the initial stage in sexual hygiene , is at present often in almost exactly the same stage of ignorance or prejudice in these matters as his or her pupils . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elementary scientific knowledge of the facts of sex , of reproduction , and of sexual hygiene , and is more often than not without that personal experience of life in its various sexual aspects which is required in order to teach wisely in such a difficult field as that of sex , even if the principle is admitted that the teacher in class , equally whether addressing one sex or both sexes , is not called upon to go beyond the scientific , abstract , and objective aspects of sex . For personal and particular advice on the concrete difficulties of sex , as well as for the more special and detailed hygiene of the sexual relationship and the precautions demanded by eugenics , we must call in the physician . Yet none of these things so far enter the curriculum through which the physician passes to reach his profession ; he is often only a layman in relation to them . Even if we are assured that these subjects form part of his scientific equipment , that fact by no means guarantees his tact , sympathy , and insight in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | interviews , both these being forms of imparting sexual hygiene for which we may properly call upon the physician , especially toward the end of the school or college course , and at the outset of any career in the world . Undoubtedly we have among us many mothers , teachers , and physicians who are admirably equipped to fulfil their respective parts ? elementary , secondary , and advanced ? in the work of sexual hygiene . But so long as they are few and far apart their influence is negatived , if it is not even rendered harmful . It must often be useless for a mother to instil into her little boy respect for his own body , reverence for the channel of motherhood through which he entered the world , any sense of the purity of natural functions or the beauty of natural organs , if outside his home the little boy finds that other little boys and girls regard these things as only an occasion for sniggering . It is idle for the teacher to describe plainly the scientific facts of sex , as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if , outside the schoolroom , the pupil finds that , in the newspaper and in the general conversation of adults , this sacred temple is treated as a common sewer , too filthy for minute explanation , and that the books which contain even the most necessary descriptions of it are liable to be condemned as " obscene " in the law courts . It is vain for the physician to explain to young men and women the subtle and terrible nature of venereal poisons , to declare the right and the duty of both partners in marriage to know , authoritatively and beforehand , the state of each other 's health , or to warn them that a proper sense of responsibility toward the race must prevent some ill-born person from marrying , or at all events from procreating , if the young man and woman find , on leaving the physician , that their acquaintances are prepared to accept all these risks , light-heartedly , in the dark , in a heedless dream from which they somehow hope there will be no awful awakening . The moral to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole of life . It is not a branch of mathematics , or a period of ancient history , which we can elect to teach , or not to teach , as may seem best to us , which if we teach we may teach as we choose , and if we neglect to teach it will never trouble us . Love and hunger are the foundations of life , and the impulse of sex is just as fundamental as the impulse of nutrition . It will not remain absent because we refuse to call for its presence , it will not depart because we find its presence inconvenient . At the most , it will only change its shape , and mock at us from beneath masks so degraded , and sometimes so exalted , that we are no longer able to recognize it . It is useless to attempt to introduce sexual hygiene as a subject apart , and in some respects it may be dangerous . When we touch sex we are touching sensitive fibers which thrill through the whole of our social organism , just as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bodily organism . Any reform here , to be vital , any true introduction of sexual hygiene to replace our traditional policy of confused silence , affects the whole of life or it affects nothing . It will modify our social conventions , enter our family life , transform our moral outlook , perhaps reinspire our religion and our philosophy . That conclusion-need by no means render us pessimistic concerning the future of sexual hygiene , nor unduly anxious to cling to the policy of the past . But it may induce us to be content to move slowly , to prepare our movement widely and firmly , and not to expect too much at the outset . By introducing sexual hygiene we are breaking with the tradition of the past which professed to leave the process by which the race is carried on to Nature , to God , especially to the Devil . We are claiming that it is a matter for individual personal responsibility , deliberately exercised in the light of precise knowledge which every young man and woman has a right , or rather a duty , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to - the sphere of sex in the reproduction of the race may well transform life and alter the course of civilization . It is not merely a reform in the classroom , it is a reform in the home , in the church , in the law courts , in the legislature . If sexual hygiene means that , it means something great , though something which can only come slowly , with difficulty , with much searching of hearts . If , on the other hand , sexual hygiene means nothing but the introduction of a new formal catechism , and an occasional goody-goody perfunctory exhortation , it may be introduced at once , quite easily , without hurting anyone 's feelings . But really , it will not be worth worrying about one way or the other .  |                     