@@466835

THERE is nothing spec tacular , or possibly even interesting , about the personality of Mr. Henry M. Waite , the much-talked-about " City Manager " of Dayton , Ohio . This new idea in municipal government found little favor at first with the newspaper men . Mr. Waite 's long tabulations of statistics , showing the people precisely how their money had been spent , and what they had obtained for it , furnished few opportunities for headlines . The every-day squabhlings of political factions , the picturesque romances involved in the distribution of patronage , the Homeric conflicts of party leaders , the alternating emotions inspired by " wide-open " and " closed towns , " the extravagant descriptions of waste and corruption ? these details , however humiliating and sordid their implications may have been , at least made American municipal politics exciting and entertaining . Compared to this lurid atmosphere , the present regime of efficiency in Dayton hangs over the community almost like a pall . The City Hall itself symbolizes the new and quiet spirit . Ordinarily this building in American cities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " It is the place where politicians and their retainers gather to discuss and determine questions of state and too frequently its disheveled appearance suggests the personal motives and the waste and extravagance that dominate municipal policies . The Dayton City Hall , an inconspicuous building of unspeakable architecture , astonishes by its neatness . The floors are carefully swept ; the clerks and other employees are industriously bending over their work ; no local statesmen , with upturned cigars and hats perched on the back of their heads , are issues gathered in mysterious corners discussing momentous ssues in whispers and now and then buttonholing more important gentlemen who pass in and out of the executive offices . The whole situation suggests that here we have a large number of prosaic rooms in which several hundred people are engaged in performing certain daily tasks , quite as part of an industrial or corporate organization . One of these offices bears the sign " City Manager . " The door is always i open , and Mr. Waite is always completely within view . Quite commonly he is talking to one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the men , women , or even children who make up the citizenship of Dayton . If it is summer-time he may be sitting in his shirtsleeves ; always he is dressed in an easy-fitting business suit , never assuming the frock coat and the white necktie that usually distinguish urban statesmanship in this country . He is a trim-looking , smoothly shaven , somewhat stocky gentleman of forty-seven ; his steady poise , his quietly resting body , the gray eyes that calmly gaze at his i callers through eye-glasses indicate not only assurance , but extreme self-command . He does not greet his callers with effervescence ; neither does he treat them with disdain . While talking with them he does not glance at the ceiling and nervously finger his mail ; neither does he encourage protracted interviews . There is a feeling that Mr. Waite has all the time necessary for the details of the i business in hand ; yet it is equally apparent that he has no time for ordinary small talk or extraneous matters . He listens attentively , asks questions quick-ly , smiles pleasantly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eagerness if he happens to touch upon the general merits of the Dayton plan . The fact is that Mr. Waite behaves admirably in character ; he is precisely what he has always been ? a man with the technical training of an engineer , experienced in problems of public works , accustomed to dealing with figures and facts , and having none of the talents that make the great American politician . It is plain why the reporters , in the first days of his incumbency , found him so little to their liking . The one quality that he lacked was the gift of publicity . Mr. Waite solved this problem in a way that sheds the utmost light upon his methods . He placed at the disposal of the reporters the entire official correspondence of Dayton ; duplicates of every letter , as they i are written , are placed in a basket- , to which the newspapers have free and constant access . They even see the mail which , in most cities , would be regarded as extremely confidential ; in case publication of the facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manager keeps them out of the press . In this way Mr. Waite has developed publicity of a novel kind . The government of Dayton has no secrets from its constituents , for at any moment any citizen can learn precisely how his public servants are spending his money . They can get the names of everybody with whom the city is doing business and the terms upon which they are doing it , and they can learn every night the city 's financial situation to the last penny . The manager 's open door and open reception-room , his open books and open correspondence emphasize the basic principles of publicity upon which the new system is based . Yet this city of Dayton , and the sixty others which have adopted the same municipal organization , are perhaps working out the final experiment in the much-vexed problem of American municipal government . It seems probable that , after trying endless " plans , " we shall reorganize all American cities in accordance with the Dayton idea . The first fact concerning in manager plan imme- diately argues n its favor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closet philosopher ; like the British constitution itself , the Dayton plan represents the working of immutable and insistent forces . A group of visionary men did not develop this scheme from their inner consciousness ; external circumstances forced the city to adopt it . Until April , 1913 , the city of Dayton had followed the hidtoric course of all American municipalities , and the inefficiency and corruption of its administration represented the commonplace American standard . It possessed two great parties and several smaller ones constantly struggling for supremacy ? that is , for the spoils ; it had the usual easy-going electorate ; and , like most American cities , it had its periodical eruptions of virtue and " reform administrations , " followed by the usual relapse into civic indifference . Like the " decent element " of New York , Chicago , and San Francisco , Dayton 's citizens were " too busy " to keep a constant watch upon their public servants . Occasionally the " business men " lamented the growth of " socialism " among the city 's increasing foreign population ; women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Red Light district , and in all other details Dayton simply played true to the American type . Indeed , Dayton reached a depth of municipal inefficiency almost unexampled even in the United States . " Government by deficit " was the description frequently applied to it . " What Dayton needs is not a manager , but a receiver , " was Mr. Waite 's first remark after glancing through the books . That Dayton should have no budget , that local politicians instead of experts should be filling the offices , that each department should be a separate entity in itself , that taxes should be high , that the public health should be neglected ? all this we should have expected , for that is the American plan ; what rendered Dayton almost unique was that it floated bond issues to pay current expenses , such as the salaries of school-teachers , policemen , and the like . All this time , however , the city of Dayton presented precisely that contrast which has astounded so many foreign commentators on the United States . That was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private business . Alongside this absurd city government great businets enterprises had developed in recent years . These industries had acquired a world-wide reputation for the skill with which they were organized and the energy and success with which they were conducted , and experts from America and Europe frequently came to Dayton to study the last word in modern business organization . These factories did more than turn out a huge annual product and enrich their owners . They were really great industrial communities , and their proprietors had acquired a great reputation for the interest which they displayed in the human side of their enterprises ; they had private training establishments for their employees , pension systems , night schools , hospitals , playgrounds , and the like . They regarded it as part of their duty not only to make their employees successful breadwinners but successful citizens , and they even established facilities for teaching their foreign workingmen English and training them in American history and the meaning of American institutions . Thus here , existing side by side , Dayton had these two glaring phenomena : a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a high death rate , a high infant-mortality rate , a Red Light district , an insufficieritwatersupply , streets full of uncollected ashes and rubbish , unsanitary jails , frenzied municipal finance ; on the other side great industrial establishments whose watchword was efficiency , whose success and whose attractiveness to industry had increased the population of Dayton from fa , 000 to 116,000 in twenty years . It seems strange , does it not , that these two contrasting facts should not have conveyed their own lesson ? For years the enlightened people of Dayton had fussed over the ever-present problem , " How can we improve our city government ? " They sent experts abroad to study the matter in all its phases , hoping to find elsewhere a scheme that would fit local conditions . They ran the whole gamut of single-chamber plans , i borough plans ; commission plans , nitia-tive , referendum , recall , and what not . Yet all this time the answer to their queries apparently lay at their very feet . Dayton 's great industries had clearly evolved a system of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of administering Dayton ? building roads , sewers , water works , collecting garbage and ashes , managing schools , police and fire departments was just as much a business as that of making cash-registers , automobiles , and other manufactured products . Why not take the system that had proved so successful in business and use it for the city government ? Already certain far-seeing citizens had caught a glimmering of this truth ; it took a great natural calamity , however , to make it as clear as daylight . In March , 1913 , came that great convulsion that will always figure in Dayton history as the " high water . " The melting snows of winter rushed down into the Miami Valley , overwhelmed Dayton , flooded her banks , factories , and schools and forced the citizens to take to rowboats , high buildings , and the roofs of floating houses . This was the greatest crisis in the city 's history , and it called for quick action . Dayton 's officials stood around and wrung their hands helplessly , not having the slightest idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been spent in winning elections , making speeches , cultivating popularity among voters , and distributing political jobs , their helplessness in face of such a crisis is not surprising . The managers and sub-managers of Dayton 's factories immediately assumed control , and in a few hours they had completely organized the business of rescuing citizens , providing them with food and shelter and clothing . By the time the water went down a new Dayton had been planned to take the place of the old . Not only had the people been saved from destruction ; they had had an unparalleled example of efficiency in government . In this great crisis , however , their regularly elected officials had failed them ; their privately conducted enterprises had performed the duties with which certain mayors , corporation counsels , comptrollers , and aldermen had been intrusted by the electorate . The activities of the corporation presidents , superintendents , department heads , and the like had been " extra-constitutional , " and their only justification had been their success . For a year or two Dayton , as already said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If it were really seeking a plan that would produce efficiency , apparently it was not necessary to look fir . The ' hand of Providence itself had pointed the way . Why not adopt- the system that had worked so well in this great natural crisis ? Why not take over the administration ideas that had given Dayton precisely the organization which had displaced its feudal charter when real administration was needed ? It seemed not improbable that the same business organization that produced cash-registers , automobiles , agricultural implements , turbines , railway cars , and sewing-machines , could also sweep the streets , construct highways , remove garbage , build water-supply , maintain parks , manage the police and fire departments ; in fine , perform the numerous activities which we have usually regarded as the exclusive province of politicians . Already a few inconspicuous communities elsewhere had experimented with this idea , and Dayton 's new Bureau of Municipal Research had given some attention to the plan . Dayton 's experiences with the flood gave the example and created the public sentiment that made possible the change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dayton 's corporations , was concentration of authority and responsibility . The stockholders elected a board of directors who had general supervision over affairs . This board did not attempt to control the detail of the business ; in most instances it selected a president , or vice-president , gave him complete authority , and demanded results . This manager appointed the heads of departments , giving them authority in turn and in turn exacting results . Thus those twin forces of efficiency , authority and responsibility , became the predominant factors in the whole system . Why not introduce them as the governing powers in the city administration ? Fundamentally that is the idea that lies at the basis of the " City Manager " plan . The stockholders ? the citizens ? elect a board of directors , the five commissioners . These gentlemen have a free hand to engage a manager , to purchase him in the open American market , and to pay him such a salary as the circumstances may warrant . This manager has complete authority to run the business of the city , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held completely responsible for its success . He selects the heads of his departments , and is not obliged to select them from the city of Dayton . The relation of these heads to the city manager is identically that of the department heads of a great corporation to the chief executive ; the relation of the manager to the city commission is the same as that of the executive to the directorate ; and the relation of the commission to the voters is the same as that of the directorate to the stockholders . Naturally this proposal aroused much antagonism . The socialists opposed it for good socialistic reasons ; since it was based upon the organization of successful private business , its origin was clearly " capitalistic . " The politicians ridiculed the idea , and their opposition was similarly logical . Why should they submit to " government by non-residents , " when " there are plenty of men right here in Dayton who know how to run our town ? " Yet there were other opponents , less logical though they may have been more honest and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ un-American . " It seemed inconceivable that an American city could exist and that municipal liberties could be preserved without the usual division of the city into wards , without a frock-coated mayor , a local legislature , an elected comptroller , sealers of weights and measures , coroners , and all the lengthy list who made voting a Dayton ballot , as some one remarked , " like voting a bed-quilt . " Still many of these functionaries descend from the days of Magna Charta , and their position seemed as sacred as habeas corpus and trial by jury . But Dayton 's electorate is an intelligent and progressive one , and , for the most part , has outlived the age of superstition . And it had just had a persuasive illustration of efficiency and inefficiency . So Dayton turned its back upon the past , and , by a large majority , accepted the City Manager plan . Let us not forget that ultimate responsibility to the voters resides , not in the manager , but in a commission of five men . There are no aldermen , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the useless lumber that usually makes city administration so cumbersome and intricate . But the duties of the commission are not entirely ornamental . One of them , the one who gets the most votes , has the title of Mayor ; he presides over the weekly meetings , represents the city on ceremonial occasions , and gets $1,800 a year salary , whereas the other commissioners get $1 , zoo . This commission is the local legislature , in the same sense that the directorate is the legislature of the corporation . It meets weekly and passes such ordinances as its wisdom prescribes , and its approval is needed to perform the greatest function of government ? the adoption of a budget . Its most important direct responsibility , however , is the selection of the manager , and , after performing this duty , its main occupation is keeping a close eye upon this important employee , and assuring itself that he measures up to the job . It engages this gentleman for no specific term , for it can " fire " him summarily if convinced that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the position of commissioner is one of great dignity and responsibility , and the first commission elected was almost ideally representative , its members comprising a labor leader in the printing trade , an office manager for a large industrial corporation , a manufacturer , a brick contractor , and a merchant . The new charter did not prescribe that these gentlemen should select their manager outside of Dayton ; it gave them free scope to seek him anywhere . Business prudence indicated that a nonresident might prove most satisfactory at that particular moment , for Dayton resembled a bankrupt business house that badly needed a " new deal . " When reorganization demands the elimination of the unfit and the selection of the fit , a private business ordinarily selects its reorganizer outside of its own ranks . A stranger , since he has no accumulated loyalties and is uninfluenced by personal associations and long-standing friendships , is clearly best fitted to " hire and fire . " Dayton 's new commission offered this job first to General Goethals , suggesting the salary , hitherto unparalleled in American cities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duties elsewhere , and it was necessary to get some one not quite so well known . The procedure was precisely that of a largecorporation looking for an executive head . Several possible candidates were summoned to Dayton , and their personal and professional qualities were carefully examined . Of them all Mr. Henry M. Waite made the most favorable impression . Mr. Waite was not eagerly soliciting the job ; he had just declined a place that offered him $D6 , ocx ) a year ; he was therefore an independent agent , and was not obliged to accept the novel opportunity except on his own terms . He was forty-four years old , had been educated at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , had started his professional career as a transit-man on the Big Four Railroad , and had worked his way up , serving as division engineer , bridge engineer , road-master , superintendent on different lines , finally becoming chief engineer and vice-president of the Clinchfield Coal Corporation . His only contact with a municipality had been as chief engineer of public works in Cincinnati , under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of protesting politicians the Dayton commission offered Mr. Waite $12,500 a year . To those who shouted that no man with any public spirit would accept such a " monstrous " salary Mr. Waite 's retort was eloquent and direct . He was not accepting the job out of any sense of public spirit . Naturally he had that pride in his work which should inspire any properly constituted professional craftsman , and he was not blind to the opportunities for social service which it presented . Primarily , however , he had something to sell i to Dayton ? his efficiency as an executive , and Dayton , if it really wished his services , must somewhere approximate their market value . This being a City Manager was as much a job as that of being a lawyer , a doctor , or a railroad president ; he was not undertaking the work from any passion for public life , or as a stepping-stone to a Governorship , a Senatorship , or possibly the Presidency . Any time Dayton thinks that a cheaper man can do the work better , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And Mr. Waite selected his subordinates on the same basis . As an evidence of lack of prejudice , he asked representative Dayton organizations to furnish him names of the most competent men who were available to head each of his departments , but he neglected to ask the advice of that order of society who would have been most prolific in suggestions ? the machine politicians . As head of the Department of Finance he made an obvious but somewhat unusual appointment ? Mr.Hugh E. Wall , a distinguished certified public accountant . Mr. J. E. Barlow , a man with a high reputation as an engineer , became head of the Department of Public Service ? another instance of " government by non - residents . " Dr. D. F. Garland , a man who , as pastor of a Lutheran church , had displayed that quality known as " social consciousness , " was made superintendent of the Department of Public Welfare . Mr. H. P. James , who had served as a member of Dayton 's fire department for fourteen years . became Director of Public Safety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and police departments . The net result of these and other appointments was that elimination of political control for which so many American cities have struggled but which few have realized . In selecting minor employees , all political considerations have likewise been disregarded , complete dependence being placed on a Civil Service Commission . Mr. Waite has now had five years in which to test this new municipal system . What , then , have been the results ? In view of the fact that we have in Dayton , almost fur the first time in the nation 's history , a municipal organization that is spending money purely on business principles , it would be surprising if there should not be definite evidences of improvement . The facts brought forward are not spectacular or dramatic ; the details of municipal housekeeping comprise columns of figures , contrasting the price of hose now with the prices paid under the old system , tangible evidences of economy in the purchase of typewriter ribbons , paper clips , and even more substantial Items such as the reduction of the debt . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not hesitated to pay market prices for city employees , and there has been a slight increase in the tax rate . However , there has beenan even greater decrease in other things . One of these is the death rate . Before the Waite regime this stood at 15.7 ; since it has dropped to 13 . Another detail is the decreased infant-mortality rate ? perhaps the severest test of enlightened civic administration ; this has dropped from 124 per thousand in 1913 to 87 in 1916 . Yet the average Daytonian needs no elaborate statistics to provethat he is living in a changed municipal environment . He sees the signs on every hand.His streets are now painstakingly repaired and cleanly swept , whereas six years ago they were filled with filth and rubbish . Under the old political control the Daytonian had difficulty in drawing water from the tap for his morning bath ; the pressure was low and the supply so uncertain that water famines were not infrequent . Now water is as plentiful as heaven intended that it should be ; new pumps , new pipe-lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reconstructed water system ; aod , while these facilities have been so completely modernized , the cost to the citizen has appreciably gone down . Dayton now collects its garbage , whereas formerly it was permitted to gather unheeded in unsalubrious heaps ; a modern reduction plant . built by Mr. Waite , not only protects the city 's sanitation , but brings a large revenue from the sale of grease and tankage . The city now has its own asphalt plant ? an experiment in municipal ownership that has produced excellent results ; it has adopted an elaborate plan of conservancy which , unless the nation 's greatest engineers are wrong , will prevent future floods ; it has planned and begun building a new comprehensive sewer system based upon the requirements , so far as they can be foreseen , of 1950 ; it has acquired large properties which have been set aside for parks ; it has built a municipal greenhouse , constructed several new bridges , planted thousands of trees , and lighted the streets as they had never been lighted before . Dayton 's police force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vice question , has abolished grafr , closed the Red Light district , and made the city outwardly decent and safe . And the City Manager is a leading American exponent of that new conception of city government ? that it exists not only to safeguard life and property , but to promote social betterment , and to make existence more comfortable , enjoyable , and edifying for the everyday man , woman , and child . Perhaps we shall find Dayton 's greatest contribution to municipal administration , not in her water plant , her sewerage system , and accounting methods , but in that branch of her civic life known as the Department of Public Welfare . Dayton , like all American cities , especially those which have had a rapid industrial development , has its poor quarters , its thousands of underfed children , its idle working classes , its army of vagrants and social delinquents , and its hahies dying for lack of fresh air and decent surroundings . What is the City Manager doing about this elementary problem ? The new Department of Public Welfare is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classes . And here again Dayton 's business enterprises have pointed the way . Its great manufacturers have long been famous for those attempts to benefit its employees which are comprehended under the name of " welfare work " ; in their organizations baths , lunch-rooms , gardens , playgrounds , clubs , rest-rooms , lectures , schools , and kindergartens have figured almost as conspicuously as the finished product . Since these men were reorganizing the city on the plans which had been developed in private industry , " welfare work " necessarily became a part of the system . Doctor Garland , who has charge of this department , is responsible for the public health , recrea-tion , parks , correctional and reformatory institutions , outdoor relief , legal aid , municipal lodging-house , and public nursing , while he is also expected constantly to study the causes that produce poverty , delinquency , disease , and crime . Besides reducing the death rate , he has revised the milk standard and lowered by So per cent . its bacterial content ; he has cleaned the public markets , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the food-supply . His department examines nearly two hundred thousand school-children every year , vaccinating the unvaccinated and providing free clinics where most ailments can be treated . Its energies in " cleaning up " the city extend to cutting weeds on vacant lots , and conducting campaigns against those citizens who scatter broadcast papers and rubbish . Doctor Garland has much simplified the municipal lodging-house problem by demanding of its prospective guests half a day 's work and a bath ? stipulations that have cut the patronage down 75 per cent . A city employment agency furnishes saleswomen to department stores , seamstresses to households , and " hands " to the local factories . A city legal-aid service furnishes legal advice to hundreds of citizens , most of them repre-senting those poor and ignorant classes that so easily become the victims of legal technicalities . This department has driven all loan sharks out of town and made life exceedingly uncomfortable for fraudulent instalment houses . Most cities are built for adults ; the city plans , with their streets , their alleys , their ornate parks , and their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inhabit them . Dayton has suddenly awakened to the fact that children form an it i important part of its popu-lation , and t is recasting its physical organization with that as a starting-point . Streets and alleys are all right for mature pedestrians and draymen , but nature never intended that children should live in them and derive from them their education . In 1915 Mr. Waite 's Department of Welfare established eighteen playgrounds , and each public school added a similar annex to its equipment . Now marble-shooting , iackstones , kite-flying , baseball , and swimming are regular municipal activities . Wherever Mr. Waite finds a vacant lot he immediately attempts to convert it into a baseball diamond . He has placed the full force of the city government behind the amateur baseball league ; he is himself one of the most pertinacious " fans " at these contests and has personally established a prize cup.Play festivals are more important functions than the " inaugurations " that are still the great days in most American municipalities . On such occasions one may witness the folk games and folk 