@@430567

 | PROFESSOR FISHER , of the Committee of One Hundred appointed to consider the problem of the national health , was laboring with Senator Works of California , the official representative in Washington of the Christian Scientists . " Your approval , Senator , " he said , " of such measures as clean streets and playgrounds is really an indorsement of preventive medicine . " " But , " exclaimed Senator Works , " I did not know you meant those things as being preventive medicine . I thought preventive medicine meant serums . " " No , " said Professor Fisher , laughing ; " it means mosquito-bars and bath-tubs . " It is not only serums and bacteriology , but mosquito-bars and bath-tubs , clean streets and plenty of sewers , together with an efficient organization to perfect the operation of such things , that have revolutionized the conditions of health in New York City . Consider what has been done for poor children alone . Recently I stood in one of the fifty-five diet-kitchens maintained by the city . A poor woman of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Evidently familiar with the proper course of procedure , she said to the nurse in charge , " I have given him castor-oil and barley gruel ; now what shall I do ? " This incident is remarkable because the woman never before had come within the reach of the Health Department . In the danger that menaced the child , she had learned to take the first essential steps not through experience or instruction , but merely through neighborhood gossip . CONDITION OF NEW YORK HALF A CENTURY AGO TEN years ago such a thing would have been impossible in New York or in any other large city . The tremendous agencies that now exist for the medical enlightenment of the masses were then unheard of . A generation ago New York was in a condition of almost primeval darkness concerning questions of public health . Canton or Constantinople is to-day little worse off than was America 's chief city then . In 1866 the public health conditions of New York were in so low a state that the average length of life of the inhabitants was thirty years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the average length of life was sixty-six years . Thus the value of human life , reckoned in terms of time alone , had more than doubled in less than half a century . Let us go back to the year following  | the Civil War . The only paving in New York then was of cobblestones , and many streets were unpaved . All were in filthy condition , being irregularly cleaned by contractors , who shirked their work . There was no general system for the removal of ashes and garbage , and these were thrown loosely upon the streets . In three quarters of the city , cellars were in foul condition , often flooded with water and undrained . At that time , incredible as it may seem to the modern New Yorker , few houses were connected with sewers . Offensive trades , such as the boiling of bones , offal , and fat , were carried on without hindrance . There were numerous cesspools and cisterns overflowing with filth . Much of the city 's milk was obtained from cows kept in dark , crowded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The animals were diseased , and the milk was unclean , unwholesome , and frequently was watered . In alleyways and back yards great quantities of manure were allowed to accumulate . Farmers sometimes bought it and carted it off for fertilizing ; but if no farmer happened to come along , the stuff stayed there indefinitely . Outhouses were neglected , and never were properly cared for by the scavengers , who worked for grafting contractors . The practice of keeping swine in the built-up portions of the city was common . The slaughterhouses were in horrible condition , and the offal from these could not be properly cared for because of defective sewers . Tenement-house conditions were as had as they have ever been anywhere . No space was left unoccupied . Sheds , basements , and even cellars were rented to families and lodgers . The vast numbers of immigrants pouring in , and the constricted space on Manhattan Island , made rents so high that even a corner in a cellar brought an exorbitant price . Single rooms were divided by partitions , and whole families occupied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people were then living in cellars in New York . Ten years before that period many of the city houses had been shaky from quick building ; after the war , figuratively speaking , they had fallen into the cellars . At that time New York could hardly claim distinction as a great city . Travelers referred to it as an overgrown vil- lage , into which had been shoveled slovenly hordes of European immigrants . The annual death-rate was thirty-four per thousand , while that of London was about twenty-three per thousand . And it must be remembered that New York 's new population was composed of vigorous men and women , the cream of other localities , with what should have been healthy offspring , who had quickly centered here , ambitious and active ; whereas London was an ancient city , bearing the ills of its own age . It must be remembered also that at that time the medical profession knew little of bacteriology ; antitoxins were unknown ; people lived like ostriches , with their heads in the sand concerning questions of sex hygiene and child @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be discovered . Cities had always existed , it is true , but they had to be constantly replenished by fresh blood from the country , and most of them had space to spread out into the country , and thus absorb naturally some of the health that comes from fresh air . But here was a city that had little chance to spread . It was confined to a narrow , rocky island , and was growing more rapidly than any other city in the history of the world . " Bounded on one side by a bluff and on the other side by a sound , " it was burrowing into the earth and climbing constantly into the air to make room for its fast-growing population . It was the center of the fiercest contest for money and power , yet it failed to hold long those who came there . The men that made money went to Europe to spend it , and those that fell in the . fight went to the Nest to recuperate . Immigrants that arrived there with money went on to the West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result was that New York did not primarily become a city of residence , but the resort of those who either through the necessity of poverty or the necessity of ambition sojourned there . Of all American cities it became the most artificial ; there life came to be lived at its highest tension ; there the struggle for existence became fiercest . It is apparent that in such a city Nature can not be left to her own devices . When man deserts Nature , she promptly retaliates by deserting man . And , in substitution of so-called " natural " living , there  | has been developed the present-day mode , built up of scientific analysis , skilful treatment , and thorough organization . A NEW DEPARTURE THE health campaigns of the last fortyfive years divide themselves naturally into two groups , those that came before 1900 and those that came after that year . The early campaigns were the more obvious ; the later campaigns are the more subtle in their tactics , but none the less effective . Before 1900 the death-rate had been reduced by more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousand ; in 1900 it was 20.57 per thousand . During this period of thirty-four years wells had been gradually eliminated as sources of drinkingwater , until not one was left in the principal parts of the city . Young children who never had been in the country were brought to the well in Central Park and they gazed into it as a curiosity , just as they looked at the bears and the greenhouses . At the same time the general water-supply was vastly improved . To live in cellars was made illegal , and there was a general improvement in the condition of dwellings . Street-cleaning became well organized ; sewers were laid in almost all the streets , and refuse was cared for scientifically . The public supervision of contagious diseases became effective ; good use was made of new medical discoveries , such as diphtheria antitoxin , and the public hospitals were improved . Yet the advances in sanitary safeguarding since 1900 are more wonderful than those that came before . In the last twelve years the death-rate has been reduced by a quarter from its comparatively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1911 it was 15.13 per thousand . For 1912 it was 14.11 per thousand . However , this reduction of more than six per thousand has been won with over twice the effort that was necessary to make the first fourteen per thousand . The city budget for 1912 carried an appropriation for the Department of Health of more than $3,000,000 . As much more was spent the same year by the seventy-odd organizations , private or semi-public , the purpose of which is the betterment of health conditions . Besides , there has been the devoted labor of more than seven thousand physicians . In all this vast field of effort , as diversified as the entire scope of modern science , as complex as civilization itself , two main lines stand out conspicuously . New York was a pioneer among cities in both . These concerned the treatment of tuberculosis and children 's diseases . The organized fight against tuberculosis in New York , under the latest approved scientific methods , dates only from 1904 . Before that time there was no successful effort on the part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to deal with it intelligently when it was discovered accidentally . Yet New York is as great a sufferer from the white plague as any other locality . Its congested living , its large Negro population , and its indigent foreigners , ignorant of our language and customs , make it a fertile breedingground for the tubercle bacillus . Within eight years , twenty-nine tuberculosis clinics have been established , and several day camps have been built where sufferers can recuperate without expense and without leaving the city . In all these thorough blood and sputum tests are made with modern scientific apparatus . At the same time , it has been widely made known that to recover from the dread disease it is not necessary to leave the city , which , situated between two bodies of water , is swept constantly by fresh air , the chief necessity in the treatment of tuberculosis . SAVING THE BABIES BUT the really remarkable work in the reduction of the death-rate within the last few years has been done among the children . It is here that the war worth waging has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Key says , this is the century of the child , New York proved it in its first decade by concentrating the health battalions on infant mortality . " A baby that comes into the world has less chance to live one week than an old man of ninety , and less chance to live a year than a man of eighty , " Bergeron , the French authority on children 's diseases , said ten years ago . Within five years those chances have been increased by a third in New York . In 1911 , throughout the United States one death in every five was that of a child under one year of age , while in New York only one death in  | every eight was that of a child under one year of age . Yet five years before that time New York 's average of infant mortality had been equal to that of the rest of the country . And in 1912 the infant mortality was further decreased by six per cent. , a greater decrease than that of any other city . What has accomplished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the attention of the Board of Health , whose department of child hygiene now receives a larger annual appropriation than any other ( in 1913 it will have more than $600,000 , a fifth of the entire budget ) ; and , second , the work of the New York Milk Committee , a semi-public organization composed of many of the chief physicians and philanthropists of the city . Eight years ago there was not one infants ' milk station in New York . The babies of the poor were obliged to live on what milk could be found easily for them . Few could afford and still fewer could find what is known as " Grade A " milk , which sells in the commercial market for from fifteen to twenty-five cents a quart , and which is thoroughly inspected and certified . At the close of 1912 there were seventy-nine such stations in the city . At every one Grade A milk was sold at the nominal price of eight cents a quart , so as to be in easy competition with ordinary commercial milk . Every day thousands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , their chief purpose is not the mere selling of pure , rich milk . They serve principally as dispensaries . The milk is used by the city as a lure by means of which ignorant mothers are brought within the reach of the physicians of the Health Department . With the milk , thorough instruction and advice as to the care of infants is given gratis . The old idea that mothers know entirely how best to care for their own children has been proved erroneous . Not all mothers in a large city know how to care for their children . Many of them are virtually as helpless as the children themselves . They have to be taken in hand , trained , and taught in the care of their offspring as completely as the children themselves are taken in hand a few years later in the pubschools . In addition to the seventy-nine dispenof milk and medical knowledge , the city maintains a large corps of trained nurses who make visits , especially during the summer , to the homes to complete the instruction . In the poorer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a city nurse at least once in ten days . The average cost is fifty cents a month for each child . At the same time the inspection of the general milk-supply has become thorough . The city 's inspectors now cover all farms within two hundred miles from the city hall , and the sources of supply are thus kept in proper sanitary condition . The city also gives ice in summer to those families ( with children ) that are unable to buy it . In the summer of 1912 , 900,000 pounds were thus distributed . This is in addition to the accepted efforts to secure better playgrounds , better ventilated schools , etc . A decade ago the summer death-rate among children in New York was from two to three times as high as the winter death-rate . For the last four years it has been steadily decreasing , and in 1912 it was almost as low as the winter deathrate . Deaths from diarrheal diseases among children have been reduced to a minimum through the concentrated efforts of a few years . The next work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respiratory diseases . This is a more difficult problem . Yet the greatest problem in infant mortality has still to be solved . This is the care of the " institution " baby . As in England and in France , the largest number of deaths among New York children occur among the illegitimate and those lacking a mother 's care during the early months of life . In 1911 more than forty per cent . of the deaths of infants under one year in Manhattan occurred in institutions . The institutions that receive foundlings are too few and too poorly equipped . One day Mr. J. Pierpont Morgan saw in the street , within a block of his home , a poor woman hugging despairingly to her breast a new-born infant . In consequence , he caused to be built the million-dollar lying in hospital on Stuyvesant Square , which has already been the means of saving many an innocent life . But that superb hospital , large as it is , has not the facilities for taking care of more than a small number of the infants that require such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marvelous as they have become , have not been the chief aid in the reduction of the death-rate , especially among children . Public education has really had more to do with it . Even those in direct charge of the work in infant mortality do not assert that the entire credit for the satisfactory progress should be given to the milk stations , the dispensaries , and the hospitals . Pamphlets , lectures , newspaper articles , and school-room instruction are at the base of the advance . Publicity has proved to be a greater force than milk inspection . Certain popular newspapers in New York have the power to achieve definite radical reforms in modes of living whenever they choose to prosecute a vigorous campaign . Just as the newspapers can expose corruption in any of the city 's departments , so almost as readily they can uproot or at least substantially lessen certain sanitary evils . A case in point is their campaign against the fly last summer . By means of wide-spread and vigorous news articles and editorials they succeeded in so rousing the mass of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department officials testify readily to this . The work of the social settlements , of the mothers ' clubs , of the neighborhood nursing associations , of the diet-kitchens , all contribute to the general education that is bringing about a condition of excellent public sanitation . This work is necessarily of slow growth . Its effect is not nearly so evident as that of vaccination , of smallpox segregation , or of typhoid diagnosis . It is not so simple as establishing proper sewers or purifying the water-supply ; but it is no less important . IN all this tremendous volume of public sanitary education , no one feature stands out more clearly than the work being done in sex hygiene . Prudery is passing ; there can be no doubt of that . Within the last five years every public school in New York has introduced a course of teaching in its physiology or biology department the aim of which is to acquaint the growing boy and girl with the essential facts of sex life , to open their eyes to sexual evils , and to prepare them to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign-born and native , or those whose false modesty is worse than their ignorance , are day by day being taught by their daughters of twelve and fourteen , who have learned their lessons in school or in neighborhood classes , certain essential facts of sex life , ignorance of which has brought about pitiful conditions of disease and death . The effect of this is not yet fully apparent in a decreased death-rate , but there can be little doubt that within a very few years it will have its result . For instance , one third of the infant mortality is due to prenatal conditions , congenital diseases which afflict the child at birth , and which mean either speedy death or a lingering , crippled life . The larger part of these untoward prenatal conditions are due to sexual diseases . To eliminate them will require two sustained efforts : the further abolishing of prudery , with consequent rigorous sex hygiene , and the enactment and enforcement of laws that will require proper medical examination before marriage . A physician told me recently that in his opinion within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and woman desiring to marry can do so only with a doctor 's certificate that shall carry with it a clean bill of health . Once that is done , it is confidently believed that the death-rate among infants will fall off perhaps by a quarter , and surely by a fifth or a sixth . The educational work in this field is being done for the future . With present adults there is little hope ; but the fathers and mothers of the next generation will be much better equipped . IN one more campaign the immediate future seems likely to yield great results perhaps almost as important as those resulting from the discovery of antitoxin . This will be from the use of the new antityphoid serum , which the Department of Health in December , 1912 , decided to use as extensively as possible in New York . This decision followed close on the War Department 's public declaration that the anti-typhoid serum had proved a success , virtually eliminating the disease from the army . In 1909 there were more cases of typhoid in the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that India 's population is two and a half times  | that of the United States . In 1907 there were more cases of typhoid in New York than of pellagra in Italy , though Italy 's population is six times that of New York . In this work , as in children 's diseases and in tuberculosis , New York is a pioneer , and yet New York is better off regarding typhoid than many other American cities , for it has a lower typhoid death-rate than Boston , Chicago , Washington , or Philadelphia ; yet its typhoid death-rate is higher than that of London , Paris , Berlin , or Hamburg . Last spring when Wilbur Wright , the aviator , died of typhoid fever at the age of forty-five , several newspapers were honest enough to speak of it as a murder ? a murder by the American people , through neglect and ignorance , of a genius who , had he been allowed , might have lived to be of still more distinguished service to the world . In the last two years the New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ typhoid-fever outbreaks . In nearly every instance it was found that the disease could be traced to a " carrier . " A carrier is a person who has recovered from an attack of typhoid , but who remains infected . One outbreak of four hundred cases was traced to the infection of a milk-supply by a typhoid carrier who had had the disease forty-seven years before . In another outbreak of fifty cases the contamination was traced to a man who had the disease seven years before . Within the last few months the case of " Typhoid Mary " has received much attention . This woman has recently brought suit against the Department of Health for damaging her career as a cook . For more than six months she was kept in a sort of exile by the department . Before that time she had been a cook in many households , and wherever she went typhoid fever followed her . Although she had suffered with the disease many years before she was apprehended , the germs were said to be still very lively in her system . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely to communicate typhoid to any one at any time ; and therefore Mary did no more cooking . There is no telling how many carriers are loose in New York at present , and the only known way of averting the danger is by the use of the serum which the army has found efficacious . It is estimated that about three per cent . of those recovering from typhoid become bacillus-carriers . As yet typhoid vaccination is not compulsory among the public at large , as in the army ; but a strong movement is felt in the city to make it so . When typhoid-fever becomes as thoroughly controlled as smallpox , or even as diphtheria , the death-rate will drop another point or two . It will be the last of the filth diseases to go . It is asserted by competent authorities that eighty-five per cent , of the cases are preventable . OPINIONS OF AN EXPERT DR . LEDERLE , Health Commissioner of New York City , says that while typhoid vaccination is likely to prove of untold benefit , other specific improvements should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the milk-supply . At present there is no central testing-station . He recommends also an improved method of sewage disposal , either by treatment or by carrying it farther out to sea , thus preventing pollution of the harbor . There should be a drainage of surrounding land to do away with mosquitos ; improved methods of street-cleaning that would result in the prevention of flying dustclouds ; and the open garbage receptacles and dumps should be abolished in favor of cremation of all refuse . The campaign against the fly must be carried on more vigorously every year , and immediate steps are to be taken for the protection of all foods from fly contamination . This will be an extension of the control of food , together with the proper filtration of the public water-supply . Dr. Lederle says further that increased hospital facilities for contagious diseases are needed . There will be further popular education in sanitary matters , special stress being laid on the need of fresh air in homes , schools , factories , offices , theaters , and churches ; and a comprehensive publication will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classes , of the comparative nutritive and cost values of foods ; and further changes in the customs of the time , due to these plans and to other activities , will result in a simpler manner of living . This should render overeating less frequent and re- duce the consumption of alcohol and medicines . Finally , in addition to these efforts , which are under the direction of public officers , the health commissioner declares that if the death-rate is to be further reduced , there must be in the immediate future two changes : first , a definite advance in bacteriological knowledge ; and , second , a change in the attitude toward the health of our adult population . " Save the babies ! " was the cry of the last decade . " Save the middle-aged ! " will be the cry of this . The real race suicide is not in the insufficiency of births , but in the inadequate knowledge of the diseases of maturity , and in the inadequate care and prevention of these diseases . Deaths from arterio-sclerosis , apoplexy , kidney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the increase , and have been for ten years past . Of the 75,000 persons that died in New York in 1911 , 17,000 died of " middle-age complaints . " The intense life of New Yorkers , their intemperance in eating , drinking , and working , contributes chiefly to the increase in the middle-age death-rate . However , Bright 's disease , diabetes , and cancer are not more a mystery than diphtheria was before antitoxin was discovered . Bacteriology has its fields of further effort well laid out in those directions . It is the contention of those that give their lives to the study of the subject that " public health is a purchasable commodity . " The struggle , then , is between the death-rate and the dollar rate . Contribute more money to the cause of public health , and the death-rate will go down . Forty thousand babies were saved in 1910 at an average cost of eighteen dollars . It would have cost more to bury them , as the cheapest sort of funeral costs twenty-five dollars . The appropriation for the care @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; it is larger than in most cities . Still , it is not enough . Where the health officers ask for a dollar and a half , they get a dollar . The excuse is that the rest of the desired money is needed to improve parks and streets , for the police and fire departments , for the city government , the water-fronts , etc . Besides , the people of this city are absolutely obliged to spend about $100,000,000 a year on automobiles , candy , theaters , alcoholic drinks , tobacco , diamonds , and such other urgent needs of life . What is left over , after those necessities are provided for , goes toward the preservation of health ! The average expectation of life for man varies in different countries in direct proportion to the application of efficient principles of hygiene and sanitation . In India , for instance , where sanitation is low and the majority of the population live , like Kim , on " the ravellings of circumstance , " the average duration of life is less than twenty-five years . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are high , and the Government takes up the ash-heaps regularly , a normal man may expect to live more than seventy years . In Massachusetts , which is the only one of our States to furnish us with reliable statistics , the average duration of life is forty-five years . Wherever sanitary science is active , the length of life is steadily increasing . In India it is stationary ; in Europe it has doubled in the last 350 years ; in New York , as we have seen , it has doubled within the last half-century . Despite the many obstacles , it seems likely that when the next general census is taken the death-rate of the metropolis will be down to thirteen per thousand . With such a rate , every person in the city may expect to live to be seventy years old . And most of them will say , " Is n't that old enough ? "                     