@@430692

 | FOR the first time in a year the political events of a month have outweighed the military . The declaration of war upon Germany by Italy , followed the next day by the sudden emergence from neutrality of Rumania and new declarations of war that made the little Latin state a full-fledged ally of the enemies of Germany , changed the whole face of the European situation , raised new problems , answered old questions , opened other horizons . And above all else the course of Rumania demonstrated the moral ascendancy which has at last been acquired by the group of nations which are united against the Central Powers . There comes a time in all great wars when the issue becomes unmistakable . It may be that a tremendous and decisive battle like Leipzig accomplishes the result , it may be that a relatively indecisive battle like Gettysburg , supplemented by Vicksburg , advertises to the world , neutral and belligerent alike , that the outcome is no longer in doubt , however long the distance to the final decision may be . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Everyone knew that Rumania would not join the Central Powers . Everyone knew that her political interests and her sentimental bonds were with the Latin partners of Russia and Britain . But what no one could know was whether Rumania would ever enlist in the war and they were satisfied that Rumanian enlistment would only come when the coolest , keenest , and most observing of statesmen , those actually in charge of Rumanian affairs , were convinced that the outcome of the war was no longer hidden and that the hour had arrived when those who hoped to profit by the defeat of the Central Powers must associate themselves with the victors . More than all else Rumania was a weather-vane . German publicists , quite as frankly as the Allied , conceded that the Rumanian decision would be based upon realities ; it would be , in a sense , a decision to make Rumania an accessory after the fact . Therefore the Rumanian decision came as a terrible and still oppressing blow to Germany . It was a blow that could neither be explained away by brave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a neutral nation , a neutral nation facing grave dangers and positive perils when she surrendered her neutrality . In Bucharest the case of Germany and of the enemies of Germany was submitted to the final test and Rumania decided that Germany was beaten . Go back a year and recall that the same decision was made in Sofia by the Bulgarians on the evidence then available ? the decision to quit the neutral position . But a year ago Sofia , acting on the evidence then available , voted for the Central Powers . So far have the events of the recent months differed from those of last summer . Verdun , Galicia , Gorizia , the ever-rising tide of Allied progress along the Somme , these have supplied the basis for Rumanian decision . Four months have passed since Germany lost the offensive , four months in which every day has brought new evidences of German loss , Austrian weakness , Allied appreciation in strength and determination . In viewing this great world war it is well , from time to time , to turn away from the study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the trench lines , and recognize in the larger perspective what is taking place . Many years later the history-books will dwell more on incidents like the Rumanian decision than on the events of many months of the war . This Rumanian decision marks one of the great moments of the struggle . It marks the lowest point in German prestige since the conflict began . Morally , Germany lost at Bucharest one of the decisive battles of the war and all that has been happening inrecent months and has been disclosed in fragmentary comment was summarized at Bucharest .  | What Rumania had to gain by the defeat of the Central Powers has always been patent . Across her frontiers in Transylvania , Bukowina , and the Banat are 3,500,000 people of Rumanian race and tongue , living under conditions recalling the plight of Italians subject to Austrian rule in the Valley of the Po before the liberation of Italy . The dream , the hope , the purpose of all Rumanian patriots has ever been to contribute to the reintegration of the Rumanian race . To the hour of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the years since Rumania gained her freedom . But such a unification could be achieved only after the downfall of Austria-Hungary . Over forty years there has been no promise of such a downfall and Rumania has marched with the Central Powers , as did her Latin sister , Italy . With a Hohenzollern sovereign , an aristocracy permeated by Teutonic influence , Rumania has been an ally of the German emperors . The Russian course in taking Rumanian Bessarabia after Plevna gave German diplomatists a handle in Bucharest , as French invasion of Tunis gave them a handle with Italy . Yet it was always inevitable in the case of Rumania , as of Italy , that the desire for national unity would some day override all arbitrary and ephemeral political alignments . Transylvania for the Rumanians , Trieste and the Trentino for the Italians , were reasons why these nations could not forever remain in the orbit of the Central Powers and must become their enemies whenever the moment for the realization of national hopes arrived . Had Allied diplomacy been a little less stupid , Rumania might have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spring of 1915 , at the precise moment when Italy made her decision . But that moment was lost and the subsequent defeats of Russia abolished all chance for many months . Yet when Russia did return to the offensive , when a second Austrian collapse followed , when Bulgarian conquests in the Balkans raised a new peril to Rumania , nothing could be more certain than that Rumania would make the decision . Not to be another Belgium or a second Serbia , this was the chief solicitude of Rumanian statesmen , but not less determined were Rumanians that they should not be another Greece and see the golden moment pass forever and preserve a sterile neutrality to the hour when the lands Rumanians desired to possess were apportioned among the participants in the war or made the y : ice of a separate peace with Hungary . A good many foolish words have been spoken in criticism of the Rumanian course . Yet the fundamental fact is that millions of men and women , who are Rumanian by race and tongue and desire to be Rumanian by nationality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Hungarian provinces and subjected to the most stupid and intolerable attacks upon their language and their racial individuality . The desire of men of a race to be united is one of the most deepseated of human emotions . The desire of the Italians of the Po Valley to be joined to Sardinia , to exchange Hapsburg for Savoy sovereignty , supplies one of the fine pictures of Nineteenth Century history . The real driving power in Rumania was the same . If Rumania realizes her dream she will be a nation of nearly 90,000 square miles , holding 13,000,000 people , not less than 10 , - 000,000 of whom will be Rumanian by tongue . Among the remainder there will be not one but several races and tongues and in substantially all the territory Rumania will acquire Rumanians will hold a clear majority . In the East as in the Valley of the Po the Hapsburg Empire drew arbitrary lines separating men of the same race and sought to maintain the lines by crushing the spirit of her captives . Her failure in Italy was not more striking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failed with the Rumanians she failed with the Serbs . III . THE POLITICAL CONSE-QUENCES ? HUNGARY It was in Budapest that the Rumanian decision awakened its first echoes . On the moment of the declaration of war Rumanian troops flowed over the mountains into Hungarian Transylvania . As it happens the corner of Transylvania nearest Rumanian holds the majority . of the Magyar and Saxon inhabitants of the whole province . With the advances of these Rumanian armies the people of the border cities and towns took flight Hermannstadt , Kronstadt , all the Valley of the Alt was abandoned and there flowed to the north and west precisely the same dismal processions that preceded the arrival of the Germans in Northern France . Before the war was many days old ? this new phase of the war ? Budapest was receiv- page deleted  | several occasions , the appeal of Hungary to Berlin had been promptly heeded . In the year that followed the Battle of the Dunajec the war had moved far away from Hungary , it had gone beyond the Russian boundary and the menace of Serbia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more deadly peril was in plain sight . Not merely was Hungary threatened by invasion , she was threatened with the loss of her fairest province , for the conquest of Transylvania would mean its permanent separation from the Magyar monarchy . The conquest of Galicia had left Hungary cold , for Galicia was a Slav land belonging to Austria and not to Hungary ; and the defeat at Gorizia was too remote to stir Budapest . But Transylvania was an immediate and insistent peril . In the debates in the Hungarian Parliament Count Tisza held his own with great difficulty . He was forced to confess that while the Central Powers had expected the eventual hostility of Rumania , they had been caught off their guard at the moment . He was compelled to admit that still further retirements would be necessary , because of the indefensibility of eastern Transylvania , now that Rumania had gained control of the passes . To the insistent demand of the Hungarian legislators that the Hungarian troops be recalled from other fronts to defend their fatherland he could offer no response , for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not Budapest or Vienna . In this agitation , too , there was revealed the plain possibility that Hungary might resume her freedom of action , her political freedom . Yet there was little to warrant any belief , heard in London , that the Magyars would make a separate peace . On the contrary , they were more likely now to engage with a whole heart in the struggle , because no separate peace would restore them the lost portions of Transylvania or even leave them in possession of what they still had . Rumania had made her bargain in advance , like Italy , and her new allies had guaranteed to her eventual possession of all of the lands that she coveted . But Hungarian pressure upon Germany did raise a new question . It was inconceivable that Hungary , or for that matter Turkey and Bulgaria , would permanently consent to see their territories invaded , their provinces held by the enemy , because Germany was unable both to hold her Russian , French , and Belgian conquests and defend her Hungarian ally . Austria , too , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to lend her armies to hold the long front in Poland and Volhynia , in Macedonia and Bulgaria . Patently a new phase and a new crisis were at hand and the Hungarian disturbance , still continuing as I write , sheds interesting light upon future possibilities . It is an evidence of the difficulties Germany must increasingly face as the pressure upon her allies and upon her own lines continues everywhere steady and everywhere growing . IV . THE CONFERENCE OF BERLIN Bulgarian and Turkish demands were quite as promptly heard and it became necessary for Germany to summon the representatives of her allies to Berlin to discuss the future in one of the most momentous conferences of the war . Thither came Ferdinand of Bulgaria and Enver Pasha of Turkey , while Austria had her own representatives , official or unofficial , and Hungary made her will heard with unmistakable clarity . For Bulgaria the Rumanian decision was of utmost importance . It instantly opened a wide front for attack and it placed Bulgaria between two millstones , the Rumanian in the north , weighted by Russian army corps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becoming more active and threatening . Of her German ally Bulgaria was now in a position to make an immediate demand . She was able to do it because there was still left open to her the chance to change sides . When Bulgaria enlisted she had expected a swift conquest of Macedonia and of Serbia , the expulsion of the Allies from the Balkans , and a prompt return to peace after she had occupied the lands she claimed and coveted . She had acquired the lands , but the decision of the Allies to stay in Salonica ? a decision due solely to the vision and firmness of Briand in the face of more British blundering and vacillation ? had compelled Bulgaria to keep her army in the field , and promised to compel her to fight new campaigns on both fronts ? to fight the Russians and the Rumanians as well as the British , French , Italian , and Serb forces at Salonica . The sole condition of Bulgarian fidelity to her present alignment was the guarantee of effective aid from Berlin . Her enemies could offer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the expense of Turkey about Adrianople , and conceivably at the expense of Greece about Kavala , and Serbia in Macedonia . It was not as a mere  | suppliant that Ferdinand went to Berlin . Should Bulgaria change sides , then the famous bridge connecting Turkey with the Central Powers ? Berlin with - Byzantium ? would be abolished . Turkey would be isolated and condemned to an immediate or lingering death , and the whole German dream of an expansion into the Near East would come to a sudden and dismal termination . But to defend Bulgaria from Rumanian and Russian attack made instant demand upon Germany for new armies : It made a demand for a new Balkan army at the moment that Hungary was demanding another German army for Transylvania . It coincided with the new demands that were being voiced by the generals who were fighting desperately along the Somme to hold up the most serious attack that had been seen in the West since the deadlock came in November , 1914 . It coincided with demands for reinforcements to check Italian progress at the Isonzo and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too , could not be ignored , however Magyar requests were postponed . If the Orient Railroad were ever cut , if Sarrail 's army came north to Nish , if the Russians and Rumanians got south to Sofia or Philippopolis , then there was an end of the life-line binding the two weak to the two strong Central Powers . Sooner or later this would be followed by the surrender of the Turk , by Russian occupation of the Dardanelles and the Bosporus , by the opening of the Straits , which would permit arms and munitions to flow freely into Russia , and thus accelerate the equipment of the millions of Russians behind the front only awaiting guns to join the millions already in the field . We shall , see that Germany heeded this demand instantly . We shall see that with skill and promptness she sent Mackensen to the vital point and won new successes in the Dobrudja , the extent of which is still undisclosed . But it is important now to note the rapid increase in her liabilities , due to Rumania 's decision and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rumanian decision in Athens was startling . It was accompanied by the arrival of an Allied fleet at the Piraeus , it was preceded by the inroad of a Bulgar host in the Kavala-Drama district . In a moment the whole structure of Constantine collapsed . He had sought the ap'TREfl T ? RUMA NIf1 403 proval of his people because he had " kept them out of war . " But now war had broken in upon them . The hated Bulgar had killed Greek troops , as , under German direction , he later kidnapped a whole army corps . Kavala and Drama were lost to the Bulgar ; Italian troops in Salonica and about Valona forecast the loss of Epirus , the extinction of the dream of expansion into Asia Minor . Behind the veil of the censor many exciting things took place . A German submarine was sunk in Greek waters and this supplied the Allies with a reason or a pretext for taking drastic action . German agents in Athens were hunted down , the German minister fled north ; actually Greece passed under the complete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ torn by a revolt , provoked by the acquiescence of the King in Bulgar invasion and occupation of Hellenic territory . Presently the Greek cabinet fell and frantic efforts to find a premier other than Venizelos temporarily failed . Constantine had gambled on German victory ; he had staked the future of his nation , the safety of his kingdom , his own crown , upon this turn , and this turn had not come . He had permitted the Bulgars to invade Macedonia and destroy Serbia without intervention , because he feared the Kaiser and trusted that sovereign 's pledge that Greece should not be disturbed . He had destroyed constitutional government , dissolved the Chamber , forced Venizelos out of power without hesitation , because he felt assured that German victory was inevitable . But the Rumanian decision had proven that in Bucharest German defeat was believed to be assured , while the Bulgar invasion had demonstrated the emptiness of the Kaiser 's pledge . It would be difficult to imagine anything more pitiful than the Greek situation at the moment these lines are written . A year ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minor , together with the islands of the Egean , Cyprus , and northern Epirus , to enter the war on their side . To-day they offer nothing . But unless Greece enters , she will lose not alone her hopes for the future . but not impossibly her northern provinces , for the Allies coolly decline to protect her Kavala district and the Germans and Bulgars have disarmed her troops in that region and have decided to transport them to Germany . About the only hope that remains for Greece is the ' Venizelos will come back to power . He is a greater man than the states- manship of any of the nations in the war has yet produced . Beside him Sir Edward Grey is a pigmy . He is the real maker of Greece , and under his direction the nation has already doubled its area and population . He has the confidence and respect of the Allied statesmen . They can not refuse to him those concessions that Greece will never gain from them while Constantine rules . But Greek intervention has no longer any real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by dissension and it would take a long time to get it back into shape again . Many of its officers have followed the King against the nation , and they would have to be removed . The troops are in bad shape , as a result of the strain that their long stay with the colors has placed upon Greek finance . A year ago the army was in good shape and the needs of the Allies were great . Then Greece could have named her own price . Now there is no offer for her enlistment . But there is stern and prompt punishment of her further leaning toward ' Berlin . Greece has become a side-issue ? a pathetic side-issue . Her King has kept her out of war , and her ruin is only one degree less than that of Serbia . And unlike Serbia she has no assurance of friends in the future . VI . HINDENBURG The first evidence of the appreciation in Berlin of the change in the face of affairs was the fall of the Kaiser 's favorite Falkenhayn , Chief of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meaning . He had paid for his failure at Verdun as his predecessor Moltke had paid for the yet greater failure of the Marne campaign . Not less than 500,000 of the best of German manhood had been killed , wounded , or captured before the Lorraine fortress ; and the defeat there had now become absolute . To replace Falkenhayn the Kaiser summoned Hindenburg from the East . The choice was enormously popular ; it aroused new confidence and new hope in Germany . But there were not a few military observers who pointed out that Hindenburg was a legend rather than a fact ; that his early successes at Tannenberg and the Masurian Lakes had not been followed by equally great triumphs , and that his campaigns for Warsaw had been relative failures , exceedingly expensive in lives . The judgment of the world was that , despite his Verdun failure , Falkenhayn was the greater general , the greater soldier , that his campaign in the East a year ago , planned by him and executed by Mackensen ; his rescue of the German military establishment after the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apart from Joffre , Falkenhayn 's equal had not appeared on any general staff in the war . But the German people trusted Hindenburg ; he had become a legend and an idol . He had saved them in the moment of direct peril ; he had kept watch and ward over the open eastern frontier . Never did a people more insistently demand to be permitted to choose a military commander , and never was their will more completely obeyed . Nor can one mistake the fact that whatever the ultimate military effect of the change of commanders , the moral effect in Germany was instant and unmistakable . But what in the grave crisis that now faced him would Hindenburg do ? The question remains for the most part unanswered . Yet one thing Germany did with great promptness and success . Recognizing the peril in the Balkans , she placed Mackensen in command , and he , gathering up an army with incredible rapidity , attacked the Rumanians between the Black Sea and the Danube on the Dobrudja front , took Tutracan and Silistria , pushed on toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ RussoRumanian attack from this quarter . So great was the immediate success ? and as I write the press reports a message of the Kaiser claiming a decisive victory ? that the rumor began to obtain credence that Rumania had struck too soon and before Russian armies had arrived . Nor was it less plain that the Allied critics believed that Rumania had made a grave mistake in sending her main masses over the boundary into Transylvania before Bulgaria had been disposed of . Mackensen 's thrust had not merely stilled Bulgar doubts and aroused the joy of Sofia by reclaiming the Silistrian districts taken from Bulgaria in the Second Balkan War . It had equally acted to draw away from Transylvania the Rumanian army of invasion . By placing Bucharest in peril it had issued an imperative recall to the Rumanian armies beyond the Transylvanian Alps . And in doing this it had also quieted the protests of the Hungarian patriots , who perceived at once that Germany was acting at top speed and with more than usual efficiency . It is not possible to say now how far  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permanently abolishing all peril from the north . It seems hardly likely that Mackensen could get the numbers for such a blow , even if , as seems likely , he drew upon the Turkish troops before Constantinople . But even if the relief proves to be but temporary , it remains a shining example of the fashion in which German high command rose to one of the gravest perils in its history . As I read this article in proof the Russians and Rumanians are reported to occupy new positions to the south of the Bucharest-Constanza railroad , and covering this bridge , which is of great military importance , because if it is destroyed Rumania will be cut off from her only Black Sea port . Meantime , far down in the south about Salonica there were unmistakable signs of new activity . Russian and Italian troops arrived to join the French , British , and Serb forces . There was a slow but steady pushing out toward Monastir in the west , up the Vardar Valley in the centre , across the Struma in the east . Under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here had been weakened to aid the Mackensen effort in the north . As I write , the despatches assert that the Bulgars are evacuating and the Russians , French , and Serbs approaching Monastir , having heavily defeated the Bulgars about Florina . It remains true that the task of Sarrail 's army is colossal . The districts through which they have to advance are mountainous , the roads few , the obstacles indescribably difficult , and winter is soon to come to the Balkans . If Sarrail has 750,000 men , as is asserted , he could still be held by less than half that number of troops well provided with heavy ammunition . The single problem is whether the Germans and their allies can find men to cover all the new fronts or whether they must weaken one front to save another . If this latter prove the case in the Balkans , then we shall soon see a considerable advance by the Sarrail army and a corresponding advance of the Russo-Rumanian forces when the Germans have to turn their attention to Sarrail . The Balkan situation is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Allied victory here in a brief time . Such a victory is possible , but it is equally possible that Germany , holding the Balkan field to be of prime importance , will make sacrifices either in France or Russia , and in no long time appear in this Balkan field with an army which will suffice to hold up all Allied progress , defend the railroad from Berlin to Constantinople , retain Serbia , and conceivably invade Rumania . It is fair to say , however , that the Balkans have become the most interesting phase of the war again ; and Germany is facing here the patent peril of the rupture of her communication with two allies , with Bulgaria and Turkey . VII . ALSO A CRISIS I THE WEST Turning now to the western field , it is necessary to note that in this portion of the battle-front the Anglo-French armies , fighting along the Somme , have acquired a moral and military ascendancy not before possessed by them since the Battle of the Marne . The recent days have seen a remarkable resumn- tion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made swift advances , capturing towns , trenches , thousands of prisoners . On September 15 the British executed the most successful operation in their portion of the war , stepped forward for almost two miles in places , cleared the last ridges of highland before them , and flowed over the crests and on toward Bapaume . At no time in the trench war have such gains been made after the initial period of an offensive . To-day the French have cut the Arras-Peronne road , have almost encircled Peronne , and , with the British , have pocketed the little town of Combles , which is the last considerable point of support in the German third line . For the first time , too , reports begin to describe something that suggests a piercing of the German lines . Foch , at the moment of his last thrust , saw some of his troops actual maneuvering in the open . Unmistakably German defense is weakening in the West . Not less than 60,000 prisoners , hundreds of cannon ? many of them heavy ? vast numbers of machine-guns , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Practically all of the permanent defenses erected by the Germans in the two years of trench war h a v e been taken ; the new lines , erected since the Somme drive began , seem to resist t h e terrible bombardments less well , and the increasing extent of French and British gains suggest that these new works will not prove comparably difficult obstacles to Allied advance . It is the judgment of most competent military observers , a judgment which I accept unqualifiedly , that the Germans must at no distant date shorten their lines in the West . Personally I believe that this will be done the moment some success in the East or the Balkans serves to cover recession in the West , in the eyes of the German public . It may be that this retirement will be due chiefly to the demand for troops in other fields , that Germany will decide that her Balkan and Polish conquests are of more permanent value than her French and Belgian conquests . This may explain the obvious weakening of her defense in the West . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a great question as to whether the retirement will be general or local . It is plain that the Allied advance of recent days has imperilled the whole of the Noyon salient , and that if the French and British can get east a few miles further the Germans will have to draw out of all the big " elbow " south of Peronne . But such a retirement , on the present evidence , can be restricted to a line drawn from Arras , west of Cambrai and St. Quentin , to the Oise southwest of La Fere , and thence east to the present front before Laon . This is the retreat that is widely expect- ed , and we have been told that on this line Germany long ago erected permanent works . Such a retreat might surrender upwards of a thousand square miles of French territory , but it would not yield any considerable town or any portion of the mineral and industrial regions of Northern France . It would amount to a simple shortening of the line over a wide front . But such a retirement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If Germany is actually short of men , as many observers believe , then she will have , to make a far more considerable sacrifice in the West and go back to the Franco-Belgian frontier , or even stand behind the Meuse from Verdun north to Givet and thence to Antwerp , covering Brussels . More than half of this line would be behind the Meuse , which is a considerable military obstacle . From a quarter to a half a million men might thus be released . But the retreat would involve a grave confession of weakness . Nor should it be forgotten that a retreat of this sort would involve great perils and might end in disaster , for the chances of a successful attack by the French and British would be great and one well-informed critic has written to me to say that he believes that a disaster and the loss of 100,000 prisoners would be well-nigh inevitable . Both the considerable retreat and the disaster may be set down as remote possibilities . But it is plain that some retreat is now almost inevitable , and can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blow in the West which will distract Allied attention , just as the Allied attack at the Somme called German energies away from Verdun . Actually , the German front in the West stands in the most dangerous posture it has been in since the trench war began . The facility with which the Allies have gained in recent weeks has surprised all observers and holds out the promise of some striking developments before long . An advance of two miles a week is something new in trench war and totally unexpected , so long after the defender has been aware of the purpose of his foe and the direction in which the attack is coming . It is worth noting , too , that the recent attack of the British disclosed a progress in training and efficiency which is promising TREAT ? R UMA NIA 407 in the extreme for those who sympathize with the Allies . It is not too much to say that the last big British attack is the best single performance of the British army , and goes a long way to bear out assertions made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sir Douglas Haig 's army is becoming a great modern army . VIII . A FOUR-YEARS ' WAR There have been few developments in Galicia and none in Volhynia . Russian attacks upon Haliscz seem temporarily halted , although there have been frequent rumors that the town has been taken and Petrograd has permitted such reports to be sent out . In the Carpathians , Russian local successes have helped to make the junction between Russian and Rumanian troops in the corner where Transylvania , Rumania , and Bukowina meet more imminent . But nothing of real value has happened here in the last month . As I close this article , the Italians report new attacks and new progress toward Trieste and east of Gorizia . The reports point to a resumption of Italian effort here . This should serve to prevent the diversion of Austrian troops to the Balkans or to Transylvania . It is a good evidence of the fashion in which the foes of Germany are synchronizing their operations in widely separated fields and exerting an even and steady pressure on all fronts . We have , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was on June 4 that Russia struck her first blow in Volhynia . Since that time there has been a steady rise in Allied prospects ; there have been great victories in Galicia ; material advantages scored in Picardy and north of Trieste ; there has been a decline in German stock which can not be mistaken , and an ever-widening conviction that the end of the war will be reached on German soil . But I desire to say here , as I have said elsewhere , that I do not believe that such a victory can be won before the summer of 1918 ; and I think the degree to which Germany is exhausted has been grossly exaggerated in recent weeks . Almost two years lay between Gettysburg and Appomattox , and it seems unlikely that a shorter distance will separate Verdun from the final German surrender .                     