@@493043

Anglo-German Negotiation in 1914 T0 the student of world politics the most puzzling feature in the immediate antecedents of the present great war has been the undeniable fact that the German government completely misjudged the attitude of England . Germany 's gross miscalculation is all the more strange since the ordinary man in the street , though lacking the full knowledge of the interested chancellories , realized at once that considerations of honor and interest would not permit England to remain aloof . The explanation of Wilhelmstrasse 's blunder is apparently to be found in the still only partially disclosed negotiations of 1912 to 1914 for an Anglo-German settlement . Since the opening of the century British foreign policy has been dominated by the German menace , and its primary aim has been to avert a general European war . Realizing the narrow margin by which such a calamity had been escaped during the Morocco crisis of 1911 , the British government sought to prevent a recurrence of the peril by bringing about an understanding with Germany . Lord Haldane 's mission of 1912 to Germany was fruitless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement for the mutual limitation of naval armaments . Subsequent efforts to this effect were equally barren . Nor could any formal general agreement be reached , primarily because the terms suggested by Germany would have meant England 's forsaking her diplomatic friends , France and Russia , and allowing Germany a free hand in Europe . But the assurances given by England that none of her international arrangements contemplated aggressive action against Germany paved the way for comparatively friendly relations , which manifested themselves during the Balkan wars in cooperation for maintaining the peace of Europe . In addition to this there were initiated in 1912 negotiations for a settlement of all the controversies between England and Germany in the colonial sphere . As in the case of the preceding agreements with France and Russia , the British Foreign Office was evidently determined , even if some sacrifice were involved , to dispose of these irritating questions , which in their unsettled state might have consequences entirely disproportionate to their intrinsic importance . As Hans Delbrueck wrote at the time , " It can not be doubted that since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is honestly ready to accord us a large and good place in the sun . " Only scant official information about these negotiations has been divulged , but enough is available to permit a positive statement that they were continued by England in this spirit , and that they had been brought to a definite conclusion in the summer of 1914 , a few weeks before the outbreak of the war . At that time there were outstanding between England and Germany no unsettled questions beyond , as has been tersely said , that of the very existence of the British Empire itself . When , on receipt of England 's ultimatum about Belgium , the German Secretary of State expressed " poignant regret at the crumbling of his entire policy and that of the Chancellor , " he evidently had in mind these concluded agreements . These referred to the two regions where German colonial ambitions conflicted with vital interests of the British Empire , Asiatic Turkey and Africa . In Turkey the disagreement arose from the fact that the construction of an extensive system of railroads under German control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ India , the shorter one by Suez and the longer one by the Cape . Hence for years the exclusively German control of the proposed extension of the unfinished Bagdad railroad to the vicinity of the Persian Gulf had been opposed by England . On June 29 , 1914 , the day after the assassination of the Archduke Franz Ferdinand at Serajevo , Sir Edward Grey gave the House of Commons the main outlines of the settlement of this complex matter . While apparently safeguarding the economic and defensive interests of the British Empire , this arrangement gave Germany practically a free hand in the economic exploitation of this potentially important region . The chief champion of the Bagdad railway scheme hailed the settlement as a great German triumph . In return for a recognition by Turkey of the status quo in the Persian Gulf , England , in addition to other important concessions in Mesopotamia , agreed to a German extension of the Bagdad railway to Basra , a deep-water port on the Shatt-al-Arab , some sixty miles from the Persian Gulf proper . Concurrently an agreement was concluded in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations were apparently irreconcilable . The British plan , frustrated in 1894 by the opposition of Germany and France but still deeply cherished by many , was to link up South Africa with the Soudan and Egypt . Germany 's aim was to join her separated possessions on the eastern and western coasts into one compact mass dominating the entire centre of Africa from the Atlantic to the Pacific . In 1912 , when the negotiations about this African impasse were initiated , Hans Delbrueck stated that a rearrangement of the African map such as would make forever impossible Cecil Rhodes 's scheme of a Cape to Cairo railroad , " would be the strongest proof imaginable that England recognized us as having equal colonial rights with herself . " It is not quite clear that the Liberal government , in its efforts to prevent war , went to this extreme length , but it is unquestionable that important concessions were made . Writing of this agreement , so ardent an expansionist as Paul Rohrbach declared that in Africa English policy had shown itself to a surprising degree accomodating . So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has apparently waived whatever moral advantage might accrue from these now abortive agreements , from fear of arousing disunion within the body politic . L. J. Maxse of the National Review has roundly characterized both the Mesopotamian and the African settlement as a betrayal of British interests , and so undoubtedly would they appear to be to many others of a far less chauvinistic temperament . England 's conciliatory policy was completely misunderstood in Germany . This was the inevitable result of the political doctrines dominant there . According to the German philosophy of force , peace can not be the legitimate goal of policy , and a manifest desire to avert war is necessarily a confession of weakness . Concessions made by one state to another , according to these doctrines , are an infallible indication of the decadence of the state that yields anything of potential value . Thus the more England tried to placate Germany , the more difficult became a permanently durable settlement of the fundamental issue , and the more convinced did the German government become that a spiritless British government would not dare draw the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impending conflict . This raises a nice point in international ethics . To what extent , if any , was the Liberal government responsible for this delusion and thus for bringing on war ? There is of course not the least question or evidence of any conscious purpose to mislead , nor does any moral blame rest upon the British government for its conciliatory policy . Similarly , Sir Edward Grey can not be censured if , in the fateful twelve days preceding the war , the German government refused to heed his solemn warnings and preferred to trust to its own erroneous preconceptions . But if the British government 's hands were absolutely clean , its head was not to the same extent clear , and blunders have at times more dire consequences than have crimes . Some of the members of the Liberal Cabinet , especially Lord Haldane , were intimately acquainted with the Frederickian tradition and might have realized the inflaming effect of unilateral concessions upon minds imbued of ith the idea that the state is power . On the other hand , the course of stiffnecked opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the statements of ultra-pacifists in British public life were a constant encouragement to the aggressive party in Germany . If , as the Kaiser 's confidential adviser on Eastern questions , Professor Schiemann , states , Mr. Charles Trevelyan assured him on February 18 , 1913 , that England would under no circumstances wage war and that a ministry which undertook to make preparations for war would at once be deposed , his is a grave responsibility . As is plain now , the mistake that the British government made in its desire to avert war did not consist in its more than conciliatory policy toward Germany , but in its total lack of adequate military preparations . England had many warnings of Germany 's aggressive intentions , not only in a vast literature designating the British Empire as the barrier to Germany 's legitimate development , but in the government 's unmistakable actions . It showed but little insight into the existing military conditions not to realize that in a European war England would not only have to maintain her naval supremacy , but would have to engage as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British Empire was to survive intact . But the Liberal government confined itself merely to maintaining the relative superiority of the fleet , and treated with scorn all those who demanded adequate army preparations . Upon Lord Roberts 's aged head was heaped constant contumely on account of his warnings as to the urgency of national military service . It is easy to be wise after the event , whereas at the time a correct decision was exceedingly difficult . Adequate military preparations might have been deemed provocative in Germany . But such a conclusion could not legitimately have been drawn if , in the full view of the public eye , a policy of preparedness had been joined to the policy of conciliation . Both elements were necessary to preserve peace on an enduring basis of international goodwill . Preparedness alone might have maintained peace , but the ill-will would have remained . Conciliation without adequate military force could not but defeat its purpose . This failure of English policy to prevent war illustrates admirably the fundamental fallacy of pacifist teaching . According to the current proverb , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that It takes two to keep the peace , for if one is unalterably bent upon exercising his will , the other has no practical alternative but to fight in self-defence . England acted according to the approved pacifist program , but this only made the conflict more probable , since it convinced Germany that England might safely be ignored . To the extent that the Liberal government , despite the best of intentions , failed in time to prepare against Germany 's onslaught on the freedom and liberties of Europe , England must bear a certain degree of negative responsibility for the war . It is a responsibility of an entirely different nature and extent from that of Germany , and may be compared to the culpability of the individual who thoughtlessly subjects those of self-confessed aggressive purposes to temptation . A BARBAROUS custom , you call it . Barbarous it can not be , since it has never prevailed among barbarians and only became established in the oldest and maturest civilization in the world . What you mean is that footbinding is painful , unnatural . It is indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of civilization is pain . Central Africa has no tortures so intense as those endured in New York or London . Footbinding is unnatural , true ; but how much of civilization is natural ? When the medical missionaries first exhibited by X-ray photographs the inside of a bound ' foot I was shocked , I admit . All those little bones distorted , twisted , run together in spongy masses ? ugh ! You would be shocked , too , if you could see X-ray photographs of the inside of some of your own women 's minds . Soon , however , you would recover from the shock as I did . Civilization cares nothing for the inside , so the externals are fair . My lady 's lily foot , your lady 's lily mind : these are altogether lovely , so far as you and I can see . We shall leave it to the specialist to fret over what lies within . A barbarous custom ? Let us look to the real ways of the barbarians as they are recorded in the venerable Ghin texts , over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wild ChO-su tribes roamed over the slopes of Altai . It is written that the ChO-su thought it sacrilege to add to the disabilities that God had imposed upon the female sex . Therefore men and women dressed alike , fared alike , joined equally in the chase , went side by side into battle , shared equally in deliberations and decisions even of greatest import . And sometimes the wife proved more skilful in the chase or more valiant in war than her husband , and often and often a woman 's voice prevailed in the tribal councils . These were true barbarians . Two thousand years ago your own ancestors were barbarians , very like the Clth-su . They too were content with the disabilities imposed upon women by God . But little by little you have become more civilized and have added steadily to the disabilities of woman . She may no longer dress like you , exercise freely like you . You do not let her say and hear many of the things you say and hear ; many things you desire to know you seek to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war , from tribal councils , you exclude her altogether . You do not bind her feet ; not yet . But you are new to civilization and inexpert in science of means and ends . By your clumsy methods you have succeeded in improving a small fraction of your women in the degree appropriate to a high civilization . Bind their feet and you will succeed with all of them .                     