@@430602

 |p847  HENRY DRUMMOND wrote : " If the Natural Laws were run through the Spiritual World , man might see the great lines of religious truth as clearly and simply as the broad lines of science , " and " the final gain would appear in the department of theology . " Is it too much to believe that if some master analyst were to trace the workings of Spiritual Law winding its way down through the centuries , and synthesize the results of that stupendous task , the results would appear in an awakened spirituality throughout the entire civilized world ? a modern renaissance ? What a theme it would be ! The Evolution of Ethics . From patriarch to priest , from priest to hierarch , from hierarch to dogma , from dogma to doubt , from doubt to conflict , from conflict to a new starting point . Or , along the lines of social evolution , first privilege ( materialism ) flatters public opinion through the medium of servile pens and economic parasites ; then through self-interest it coerces that same public opinion until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the flesh pots . Follows that private interests intrench them . selves behind a bulwark of privilege made laws ; laws beget precedents ; materialism becomes seemingly supreme ; justice , entwined by a thousand insignificant threads of precedent , becomes subservient to law . Man 's economic burdens grow ; he awakens ; the spiritual in him revolts at a seeming political equality fronting an apparent economic inequality . He rebels ; he tears down the barriers ; he unmakes privilege-made laws , and incidentally many good laws because they happen to be in bad company . He makes new laws , many of them unfortunately tending to disrupt industry and society ; laws that favor the masses rather than the classes . The pendulum has now reached the other extreme . Spiritual Law , working through human agencies that know little of its import and less of its control , has run its evolutionary orbit . Reaction follows this violent spiritual effort on the part  |p848  of the masses ; they relax their efforts and their vigilance . They sleep . The pendulum now swings back toward the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individualities . And so the thread may be followed , step by step , cycle by cycle ; out of weakness strength , out of error truth , out of darkness light ; the old story of the resurrection , the lesson of the seasons . Life is swallowed up in death , but out of death comes a new life , new hopes , new struggles and new harvests ; the harmonious cooperation of the forces of conservation and transformation working out the destinies of the race . Spiritual Laws governing the evolution of civilization and of personalities ( for personalities are the milestones of civilization ) are unquestionably just as fixed and arbitrary as Natural Laws governing the evolution of animal or plant life . Given certain conditions and the forms of life indigenous to those conditions appear in either case . To give life in the Natural World requires the energizing influence of sunlight , moisture and air . To give life to thought requires the crystallizing influence of personality plus action . The greatest of involved principles attracts but little attention until brought to the front by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which focusses thought upon himself . Let established conditions be unassailed and they are generally accepted as satisfactory ; let them be the object of attack and the very conditions themselves generate their own defenders . Both Spiritual Law and Natural Law provide the means of offence and defence to all their products . The long roots of the oak are its defence against the storms of the centuries . So the eternal principles of right and justice , deep rooted in the public conscience , slumber though they may and ofttimes do , are spirituality 's defence against the power of materialism . Somewhat along these lines are the apparent underlying laws of evolution , whether observed in the Natural World or in the Spiritual World . Designate or classify these laws as you will . Say that sunshine , rain and air cause the plant to grow ; that opportunity makes the man , or vice versa . The fact remains that principles are the product of conditions and that men are the product of principles . In the Spiritual World , even as in the Natural World , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took a Caesar to make a Brutus , a Charles the First to make a Cromwell , a George the Third to make a Washington , a Douglas to make a Lincoln . And so , in our own immediate times , as it took conditions especially favoring speculative economics to produce a Morgan and a Rockefeller , the conditions of moral disintegration following produced the inevitable corrective concomitants in the persons of Roosevelt and Bryan . Yet ever bear in mind that the personalities are but incidental ? the real fact is the involved principle . Viewing history with this larger perspective we see that it is the fate of civilization ever to be balancing between extremes . The pendulum swings from extreme to extreme . The fight has been fought under different watchwords according as the leaders of different epochs have raised their battle cries : plebeian v. patrician , democracy v. aristocracy , freedom v. thraldom , right v. power , poverty v. prosperity , equality v. privilege , justice v. law ; but always with the same underlying note dominating the chorus ? spirituality v. materialism . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilization , and looking back over the long vistas of the past this fact stands out with startling clearness : the greatest and most vital force in the world is spirituality ; that quality or principle which pertains to the immutable moral relations and obligations of man to man and to his maker . Against such a power the struggles of materialism are hopeless , for materialism is but self interest while spirituality is divine law . The great principle of spirituality has for its objective the mental freedom of the race ; not alone nominal equality of political rights but actual equality of legal and economic rights . When we survey the tremendous advances made by man in the arts and sciences , it is difficult to conceive why the realm of evolved ethics , of spirituality , has remained practically untouched , unless it be that dogmatic theology has stood as an armed sentinel at its sacred portals warning all trespassers to beware . That there is a great hiatus between the relative progress made in the mastery of Spiritual Law and that in the laws governing the arts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a long stretch of evolutionary accomplishment between the  |p850  stylus and the perfection press , the ancient caravan and the modern express train , between Isaac Newton and Wilbur Wright , Benjamin Franklin and Guglielmo Marconi . There is a comparatively short stretch of accomplishment between Plato or Aristotle and Herbart or Maeterlinck . Why ? Because achievement in the arts and sciences has been crowded forward by material demands ; has been applauded by a humanity whose material desires have been gratified by a something which could be seen with the eye and touched with the hand . Achievement in the realm of Spiritual Law has never had this tremendous impetus of popular demand in the same sense . It is a fact that the civilized world , and our own country probably more than all others , has been so intent upon material problems pertaining to bodily needs and personal gratifications that the educational world , even as the ecclesiastical world , has been drawn within the dominating sphere of materialism to such an extent and for so long that we think and speak and act in terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men even think of spirituality or of spiritual needs save for the specific purpose of meeting bodily needs . If this be true , and there seems little room for doubt ; if it indeed be true that in the very midst of our boasted civilization there has developed a moral and a spiritual apathy so deeply imbedded in our national consciousness , it is indeed well that we pause and seriously inquire whether the organs of our national spiritual life are giving efficient service in the performance of their most vital functions , viz. : the development and sustainment of a rational spirituality . If not , why not ? The answer , though it may be thought to savor of temerity by many , will appeal to all sincere thinkers , and seekers after truth . It is that we as a nation are toiling under the shadow of a materialism so insidiously cankerous in its operations that it has eaten into the very marrow of our national life , affecting alike the home , the school and the church , which we may reasonably designate as the three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the fact that men do not realize it . They have eaten of the lotos in the land of material prosperity and they have forgotten home .  |p851  Do you seriously question the truth of this statement ? Enter the privacy of your own home and observe the spiritual conditions there . Your boys and girls know that they have bodies that must be fed and clothed ; they know that physical dangers should be avoided ; that physical accidents sometimes occasion physical pains , leave physical scars and make physical cripples . They observe and comment upon these things ; they are the common gossip of daily life ; they are material and can be seen with the eye and touched with the hand . But to what extent do your boys and girls actually realize as a mental concept that they have minds that must be fed and clothed ; that spiritual dangers lurk by the wayside ; that spiritual accidents occasion spiritual pains , leave spiritual scars and make spiritual cripples ? To what extent do you , 0 man of mature years and material possessions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never think upon them . Why should you ? You were never trained or educated to do so , and besides you are too busy making money to bother about such matters , so you dodge the issue by saying that what was good enough for you in the way of early training is good enough for your children . Before entering into any extended discussion of remedies , it is well to recognize the fact that we are attacking an established condition ; a condition which it is easier to tolerate than to remedy ; a condition which is , for lack of serious thought , generally accepted as satisfactory , and which will find its defenders among those who prefer to travel over the beaten path . To that prejudice our answer is that if Franklin had listened to prejudice we should have had no Marconi . The Law of Progress is the Law of Change . No advance was ever made in the history of the world that was not opposed by the " standpatters " of its day , and this rule will hold good until the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to enter into any fine spun discussion of speculative philosophy . Rather that we may , from some of the simpler and more evident spiritual phenomena , deduce or call attention to equally simple interpretations that may be translated into action for the common good . Study the pages of history closely and this fact will be found written thereon in sweat and blood , that when men cease to fight  |p852  for a common principle they then begin to fight for a personal interest . Also that when men begin to fight for personal interest corruption follows , and nowhere is this phenomenon more evident than in a study of democracies . As a principle , however , this applies to the relations of nation with nation equally as it does to the relations of individual with individual . International relations must be founded upon the moral standards of the nations involved , and it is of little avail to hope that a spirit of concord and equity will permeate the whole ideal fabric of a brotherhood of nations before we produce a corresponding spirit of concord and equity among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ element of brotherhood , and brotherhood is a matter of progression beginning with personal family relations and continuing successively through neighborhood , precinct , ward , city , county and state , until we reach the inevitable conclusion that the same principles of moral justice are with equal force applicable and ultimately destined to apply to the brotherhood of nations . With nations as with individuals , therefore , when power secures privilege for some at the expense of others moral prostitution and conflict follow , and disintegration and decay are inevitable . It could not be otherwise , for leaven will work . The leading statesmen of the world declare that international treaties are worth no more than the paper on which they are written unless backed by the power of arms , nor do we require the spectacle of a power-debauched and powder-ridden humanity in the countries of Europe to confirm that claim . It is , indeed , doubtful if the spirit of moral law is so far developed in any city or community of importance in the entire civilized world that the power of conventional civilization would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the strict observance of written law . If then local laws , with their closer ties of community interest , require the presence of authorized force to compel their observance , how much more must it be true in the case of vague and equivocal international laws and treaties , with infinitely greater material interests involved . And this leads to a sweeping deduction , viz. : that the evolution of international comity must eventually lead to a World Federation which shall absolutely control all of the @#  |p853  armament in existence , limiting each individual nation , as such , to the requirements of internal police duties . It means that the manufacture of explosive compounds of all types and descriptions shall ultimately come under the jurisdiction of such a World Federation , just as the manufacture of alcoholic compounds in our own country comes under the jurisdiction of the Federal Government . It means that the interests of civilization will ultimately demand a Supreme Court of the World , a Court of Last Appeal for the nations of the world , whose decisions and verdicts shall be backed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Whether the present unspeakable calamity which has befallen European society will lead to the formation of such a World Federation remains to be seen ; but sooner or later society will speak with the voice of supreme authority , an authority that recognizes no international boundary lines , and the claims of material interest , whether individual or national , shall then be subordinated to the interest of mankind as a whole . The past decade has witnessed a wonderful spiritual awakening in this country . Old political ideas have been shattered , party lines have been broken down , new ideals have been held up before the people , and new lines have been drawn . Great analysts and leaders in political thought have diagnosed the symptoms of the body politic , pointed out its fundamental weaknesses and prescribed remedies . Analysis has been followed by synthesis , thought by action , and the result has been and now is apparent over the length and breadth of the land . Do we not need equally competent spiritual leaders , synthesists as well as analysts , who shall study the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that we may know whether the organs of our spiritual life are performing their functions in an efficient manner ? Do not the very facts of our present social-economic awakening afford ground for questioning whether these organs ( the home , the church and the school ) are in a healthy condition ? Has this revolution , for such it has been , been brought about as a result of or in spite of their influence and effort ? These conditions developed gradually , as a result of economic conditions already suggested , and they produced their own correctives in  |p854  the dominating personalities of Theodore Roosevelt and William Jennings Bryan , who have been the generally recognized champions of the involved principles and whose forceful presentations and appeals have been exploited , disseminated and enlarged upon over the entire country by the public press ? the most potently active educative force extant . Church and school have , to say the least , played very unimportant parts in the matter . We observe the same general phenomena , in smaller spheres , very frequently in our cities , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local economics develop to aggravating proportions , finally resulting in an aroused public consciousness which is ultimately crystallized into public action by the dominating influence of some local personality . We have seen , and we shall see time and again , such phenomena invariably followed by a relaxation of effort as the public interest wanes and sinks back into drowsiness , at which time materialism once more stealthily begins its fight for power . We may observe it in the case of individuals who , moved by some transient moral impulse , make resolutions looking forward to purer , nobler lives , only to fall back into the old rut when the impulse passes away . Also we see it in individual cases where men seek to throw off some yoke of economic or associational bondage , but yield to obstacles and sink lower than before . Why this seeming transitoriness of spiritual effort ? We answer again ? materialism . It is easier to act than to think . Men are accustomed to fight only what they can see with the physical eye . Not until the civilized world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roots , between legislative coercion and spiritual education along the lines of rational character building , shall we attain permanent advancement along moral lines . It is doubtful if coercive legislation on problems involving questions of morals has ever in the entire history of the race achieved more than temporary results . Certainly convention ( that crystallizing of the ideas of the many into a general rule of conduct for all so that it eventually becomes a recognized though unwritten social law ) has had a greater influence than legislation . Such problems are to be settled , not in the halls of legislation , but in the home and the school , with the assistance of the church along lines of spiritual education . Legis/ lation may punish crime and make it hazardous ; convention may make it unpopular and unattractive ; but education alone will prevent it ; and it is infinitely better and far cheaper to prevent crime than to punish it or cure it . And so we arrive at the conclusion that humanity 's hope for a richer spiritual life lies largely in the home and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counsel and assist . It would be foolish to gainsay the tremendous influence of the church in the moulding of racial characteristics , yet we suspect that the church has claimed credit for much that is simply the natural outgrowth of the conventionalities of civilized society . Where Jesus concerned himself with principles and character , the church has concerned itself much with conventional rules and duties . Where Jesus confined himself to spirituality , the church has allowed itself to sink into materialistic views and man-made dogmas . While worshipping at the throne of a common God , the dogma-bred and convention-bound Christian World for centuries pictured the material gates of pearl and streets of gold , and formulated out of great spiritual principles a species of common soul insurance based upon its dogmas . But dogma spells death , for dogma says , " thus far and no farther " and by its inherent qualities and its very nature precludes freedom of growth ; and life can not exist , either physically or spiritually , without growth . As in the Natural World the frailest flower or the mightiest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off and they be precluded from life-giving air and sustenance , so in the Spiritual World the frailest or the mightiest of dogmatisms must , as such , ultimately perish of suffocation and lack of nourishment ; for being artificially enclosed and sealed they are incapable of obtaining sustenance from the sources of spiritual life or exhaling into the world their spiritualizing effusions . Creeds represent but the dogmatic horizons of finite minds ; they are bounded by the shadows of an unknown to-morrow . The humanity of tomorrow passes beyond the darkened limits of to-day 's vision and with its more extended vision , forward and backward , renounces the horizon of yesterday 's creed and looks out over a larger expanse of human progress , human hopes and human complexities . The involved principles are not changed . The change has  |p856  been a matter of vision ? point of view . Man arrogantly assumed to define the limits of truth , but truth waited not on man 's dogmas or opinions . Goodness and justice and purity are not matters of dogma or creed , but of daily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to teach men how to die but how to live , and not until the church fully realizes that fact , as did its great founder and leader , will it attain its rightful place and perform its normal functions in the Spiritual World . Jesus said " Blessed are the pure in heart ; for they shall see God . " Is not the modern church worker inclined to emphasize " Blessed are the pure in body ; for they shall see God " ? Jesus taught temperance , based upon spiritual education ; the modern church teaches prohibition , based upon legislative coercion . The method of Jesus went away beyond any liquor or social problem . It went away down into the very principles of life itself and was infinitely more far reaching . Even so the church must feed the people with spiritual principles rather than with conventional rules if it would perform its mission in the world . But if any hopeful movement is ever to be inaugurated looking toward raising the spiritual standards of mankind it must begin at the cradle , with childhood 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the grave . For once let the individual pass beyond the foundation period of life without recognizing the great and vital place of spirituality in his very existence , and the dominating power of materialism day by day and year by year crowds it out of his thoughts and it thereafter plays a secondary part where it ought to be a guiding principle . Not until pioneers blaze the trails of Spiritual Law for the benefit of an advancing civilization , and not until our children , as children , have breathed the air and moved in the atmosphere of spirituality will they later , as men and women , think and speak and act in terms of spirituality even as men now think and speak and act in terms of materialism . The tendency is to begin at the top rather than at the bottom in spiritual effort and research , and while the few are trying to penetrate the abstract clouds from the mountain tops , the many are groping in the concrete fogs of the valleys . We have at hand , so plainly that he who runs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primer ; but it will be many generations be-  |p857  fore the exegesis is compiled . And so we turn to the schools as the most hopeful field for rational spiritual work . " ' T is education forms the common mind ; Just as the twig is bent , the tree 's inclined . " The ancient idea of education was wisdom ; the modern idea seems to be knowledge . We would not decry the splendid attainment and service of our educational system . It is wonderful , but nevertheless it is representative of a materialistic age . It is not to be expected that we should carry into our public schools a more realistic conception and application of rational spirituality than obtains in the privacy of our homes , for schools are but the expression of and answer to public opinion . It is , however , unquestionably true that no nation or race can ever rise to its full stature of intellectual or moral manhood and womanhood until its boys and girls are specifically trained to regard the spiritual side of life in as actual and comprehensible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; that spiritual muscles are as real as physical muscles ; and that the elements of honor , justice , purity and general orderliness go to make up a spiritual being or character that is just as real as is the physical being made up of our different bodily members , and that it is infinitely more important to our well being . It is not necessary , nor would it be wise , that we cease our efforts toward the training of children along practical lines , but would it not be the part of wisdom to devote some time and effort toward making spirituality more of a reality with them ? Are we not sacrificing being to becoming ? Are we not given to teaching in terms of arithmetic rather than in terms of algebra ; giving material rules with which to meet the specific confronting bread and butter problems of to-day ( arithmetic ) and overlooking the development of broad spiritual character with which to meet and overcome the unforeseen and unnumbered problems of the years to come ( algebra ) ? The greatest teacher the world has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for they shall inherit the earth . " Without underestimating the value or the place of manual or commercial training in modern educational effort , is it too much to assert that the modern tendency is to say , " Blessed are the proud , whose minds are masterful with the facts  |p858  of manufacture and commerce and gain ; for they shall inherit the earth " ? The material demands are such as to leave but little room for the spiritual , and even our educational leaders see with materialistic eyes . For instance , at this time the educational world is advocating sex hygiene for the public schools . Sex hygiene ! What our schools need is not sex hygiene but a spiritual hygiene that shall teach our boys and girls the principles of mental purity . Why attempt to eradicate a great evil by a shameless display of the evil itself , arousing a morbid curiosity in thousands of immature minds ? Why not strike at the very foundation by impressing upon the child 's mind the basic fact that all impure , unfair and disagreeable actions are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? The evil ? sin if you choose to use that term ? is not of the act itself , but lies back of it in the impelling thought , and consists of the failure to control that thought . One of the greatest and most far-reaching burdens that materialism has ever laid upon the race is that it has engraved deeply upon the conventional social conscience the idea that sin is physical ? material . Revolting as it may sound to conventional ears , it is , nevertheless , a fact that there is and can be no such thing as physical sin . A stone lies on the sidewalk . A man approaches . He picks up the stone and hurls it through a window , destroying property and possibly life . Did the stone , the hand , the arm , or the body sin ? or was it the mind back of the action ? Society frowns upon and punishes the material act and overlooks the disordered mentality which impelled the act . Wherein is our legal philosophy better than that of the Spartans who punished their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system , moreover , the innocent probably are made to suffer more than the guilty , for the culprit is cared for , housed and clothed while his dependents are left to shift for themselves . From childhood to old age this form of harmful materialism has for centuries been impressed upon humanity until to-day it amounts practically to an intuitive conception . Adultery is simply an immoral thought put into action ; a painting is simply a beauty-thought put into oil ; music is a beauty-thought put into tone ; an engine is but a mechanical thought done in steel ; murder is but a kill-thought put into action . The great reality back of  |p859  and dominating all these things is the spirituality or mentality that gave them birth . With our crude conception of Spiritual Law this topic is not a subject for text book work in elementary schools , although it is a very pertinent topic for normal and college training . Every teacher should be a student of Spiritual Law and able to guide the child mind into a recognition of the involved principles ; for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home or the church , is the one place above all others where we are equipped to carry on cohesive constructional work along spiritual lines , and the impressionable field of childhood with its freedom from isms and conventionalities affords rich virgin soil ready for spiritual seed . This leads us to a final consideration of whether the basic purpose of education is the individual or society , becoming or being , and it is well that we think seriously upon this point . National life is but the composite expression of its citizenship . If then the oncoming citizenship be taught to look upon life as a geld for individual exploitation , are we not inviting and developing a citizenship whose ambitions will be self-centred , and must we not expect as a specific and natural result that its members will seek individual benefit regardless of common benefit ? Is that not the condition which has provoked the social and economic revolution through which we , in common with the entire civilized world , are now passing ? And under such conditions is it not inevitable that men will prostrate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Is not the money worshipping spirit of our country irrefutable evidence that we are drifting toward the idea that the grandeur of our nation consists of its material wealth rather than the spiritual standards of its citizenship ? Would that it were possible to enact a national law making it a requirement in every high school course throughout the different States that each pupil be required to write an original essay on the subject , " Education for Citizenship . " That would be constructive spiritual work of a high order , and it would cause that once , at least , the attention of each pupil in our high schools should be turned in serious effort and contemplation toward the actual basic purpose of all public school education ? citizenship . And , if the element of competitive effort be included , it would in  |p860  the course of time attain a traditional importance that would serve , in a sense , to put the successful competitors under bonds that linked them to continued and specific effort along the lines of their own study in citizenship . Somewhat along the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when he wrote these words : " Whatsoever things are true , whatsoever things are honest , whatsoever things are just , whatsoever things are pure , whatsoever things are lovely , whatsoever things are of good report ; if there be any virtue , and if there be any praise , think on these things . " Here we find a recognition of the spiritual cry for food and raiment which , in our own day and generation , has largely been overlooked in the passion for material things .                     