@@465573

AN artist of inventive imagination and a versatile craftsman . William Strang has distinguished himself in painting , etching , drawing , and illustration . He is one of that group of Scotsmen who have done so much to refertilize British art , and might have been reckoned in the so-called Glasgow School if circumstances had not determined that he should become and remain a Londoner . For he was born at Dumbarton and spent his boyhood on Clydeside , divided between the two desires of becoming a sailor and an artist . To assist a decision , his father , a builder and contractor , placed him in the office of a Glasgow ship-builder who was also something of an amateur painter . This gentleman , interested in testing the boy 's capacity , set him to copy an etching , and was so well pleased with the drawing that he gave the lad a guinea for it and advised the father to fit him for an artistic career . So at the age of sixteen Strang was sent to London and entered in the Slade School @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and inspiration of Alphonse Legros . Though of French birth and training , Legros has lived in England since 1863 . As a draughtsman and etcher he occupies a unique position in modern art . He has etched landscape subjects , but his most characteristic work has been in studies of the priesthood and Catholic ceremonials and in portraits . For the light elegancies and obvious beauties of life he has shown no taste ; it is the masculine in life as in art that has attracted him . He has treated it in a style that inclines to be ascetic in its intense , unqualified virility , but is touched with high-bred distinction , the result of reverence for both his art and his subject and of a gift of psychological penetration which discovers what is finest in the personality he studies . His etched portraits are unrivalled in modern art and stand the test of comparison with the best of Rembrandt 's . For a young man , during the years when his character was in the forming , to come under such a master was a rare privilege @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarded as Legros 's best pupil . The influence that the younger man derived was indirect . Strang is nobody if not himself , and what he gained from Legros was a profound respect for and reliance upon craftsmanship and a reinforcement of his own . virility . The result has been in his case , as in Legros 's , that he is a stylist . One almost hesitates to use that term , since it has fallen into disrepute with the general public , and it is for the latter I am writing . It is , however , not the true stylists , but the would-be stylists , who are chiefly responsible for the misunderstanding and reproach ; for example , " those impeccably clever technicists of ours who ignore humanity , with their desperate fear of meaning something , their insufferable preciseness of theme . " I wish the words were mine , but honesty compels me to add the marks of quotation , since I copy them from a letter recently received from one of our woman poets who is herself a stylist in the true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who is " meaning something " ; who , in fact , has something to impart of such quality and so sincerely intended that it demands a conscientious care of expression . It is in this true way that Strang is a stylist , particularly in his etchings , which are the expression of deeply felt and moving ideas . The character of the ideas is elemental and , as befits his Scottish origin , romantic and tinged with mysticism . Accordingly the character of his style has nothing of preciosity , no finish or refinement , as these terms are generally understood . His forms , since they represent elemental types , are often uncouth ; the lines in which they are rendered abrupt and qwq One discovers , especially in his etchings , the product of this union . The character of the line-work , the distribution of masses and patterning of light and dark , grow out of the character of the idea involved and at the same time suggest that a delight in particular aspects of the medium 's resourcefulness has colored the idea . Perhaps this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? No. 732. -1 1 5illustrations to some of Kipling 's works . These are not illustrations in the ordinary usage of the word that they give a close representation of the facts of the author 's text . For example , " She rose from her seat and extended her hand with a welcoming smile , " illustrated by a smiling lady in front of a sofa holding out her hand . Such illustrations a very large number of the public find exceedingly jejune looked the facts of life in the face and grappled with them ; has dwelt in no ambient atmosphere of golden glow , but has wrought out its physical and spiritual existence strenuously in heat and cold , wind and storm ; fronting the accidents of life ; the solemnity of its silent dark places , peopled with unseen powers , haunted with unknown terrors ; the awe and majesty of deep woods ; steep snow-clad mountains , thundering torrents , and mysterious trackless seas . To that race , life was a grand romance of contrasts and surprises , and it embodied its spiritual conception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ translated its conception of the power and mystery of life into endless pillared vistas , each leading forward to a suggestion of what is only felt , not seen ; into labyrinths of light and shade wherein sight discovers itself , only to be lost beyond ; borrowing for decoration the beauties of natural forms , of plants and flowers , and from its imagination uncouth grotesqueries as the symbols of invisible forces . It is an embodiment of magnificent audacity seen in its latest development in the modern sky-scraper ; of compressed intense force and of expanding aspiration ; of graciousness and awe , threaded over with a vein of fantastic humor . This design of Straug 's is reminiscent of the spirit and form of Tourer and Holbein . In the impersonation of War it goes back of both of the popular allegories of the old " Moralities " and " Miracle Plays . " It presents a grotesque mixture of lean live form with a death's-head , uncouth and extravagant in gesture . But observe its plastic reality ; it is no patterning of form against a background @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well the staggering braggadocio of its drunken impetus is suggested ! What a fine spot of emptiness the drum presents ? a nucleus for the tumult of lines about it and eloquent of the futility of war . It is noteworthy that even the swirl of the smoke and flames seems to have plastic reality . Like the sky , across which its volume and momentum surge , its natural aspects are interpreted by conventional forms , which are mingled with the realization of natural forms in the true spirit of allegory . The range of Strang 's etched work comprises over five hundred prints , which are singularly free from repetition of motive and style ; the fecundity of his imagination being exhibited not only in his vision of life , but also in the technical resources which he selects to interpret its several phases . Yet , incidentally , this print of War " is representative ; inasmuch as it reveals the deep sincerity of his intention and the vigorous invention of means to realize it . There is nothing petty in his vision ; it grasps the big @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a correspondingly large handling that does not undertake to solve the riddle , but to suggest the profoundness of its significance . This grave regard for what is vitally significant appears in his portrait drawings , which are mostly of the head and bust , executed in black crayon , relieved with sanguine . They reveal a penetrating search for the salient characteristics ; the facial angles , the joining of the head to the neck and of the neck to the shoulders . He applies himself with intense scrutiny to the facts of form in front of him to realize its constructional relations . lie is strictly the naturalist ; for the present not concerned with peering behind the actualities of form for hints of sentiment or psychological suggestion . If here or there we seem to find a glimmer of the subjects 's inner self , it is because a trace of it is marked upon the outer self . The happiest instance of this deeper revelation that I know is the boy portrait of Harold , the son of Fitz Roy Carrington , The little fellow is seated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an inverted cup around his slim neck . On the latter the head is poised with the grace and firmness and inevitable simplicity of a flower upon its stem . Meanwhile , the sensitively featured face is gazing fixedly , as if projecting on to the vacancy outside himself the visions of his own young brain . I do not doubt that he was so employed , for the child is of very subjective temperament and full of fancies . The fact was woven into all the features of the face , and the artist has reckoned with the web of expression as with therest that met his eye . The result is that this is an unusual portrait of a human personality , and withal very tender and gracious . I do not suggest that it has grace and sentiment , an imputation which I suspect the artist would resent . For it is rather distinction that he aims at ; qualities particularly of technical distinction in the character of contour and modelling , expressed with few and choice expedients . In consequence , his portrait drawings may seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in expression , in the rigor of leaving out as in the strict simplicity of what is included . They occasionally lack persuasiveness and again are inadequate as portraits . If you do not know the subject , you may be satisfied with the general evidence of character in the portrait ; but if , knowing the original , you do not recognize the character as adequately his or hers the disappointment is admissible . For in a mature face it is not only the constructional qualities , the physical saliences of the features , that reveal the character , but also and perhaps much more the accidents of expression ; the fugitive traits , the slight differences of value that travel over the numberless subtle touches , impressed upon the face by mental and physical experiences . These are likely to be overlooked in the brief summary which these portraits represent . In his paintings Strang again proves himself an indefatigable experimenter , an observer of life interested in the suggestions it affords for technical problems rather than in its humanity . He has used the oil medium as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ideas . One of these was - " In the Beginning , " a man and woman standing , nude , with arms entwined , fronting the world and the dawn of life , while children play about their feet . It has been criticised for being " prosaic and detailed in naturalism , " just as Ibsen 's prose dramas were criticised . Like the latter , the picture lacked , on the one hand , the " Mediterranean " elegance and ( from the modern realist 's standpoint ) make-believe , and on the other the modern frippery of sentiment and preciosity of technique . Accordingly , it was rejected in 1906 by the Committee of the Royal Academy , which is the High Priesthood in England of the " Mediterranean cult . It proclaimed too loudly and obtrusively for delicate ears the earth-voice of the Northman . Probably Strang had in mind the words of the Bible , " And they were both naked , the man and his wife , and were not ashamed , " and followed the unashamed directness of the central thought . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nudity , rejecting the evasiveness of artistic convention demanded by the prudish dread of life which , since the corrupt days of the Renaissance through three hundred years of varying moral corruption , has been held alike by Catholic and Puritan . Strang was doing what Diirer did ; but taste since the latter'sday , it will be said , has changed . It has and is still in the changing . The northern mind of women and men alike , in its increased sense of the meaning of life , is losing its dread of what life involves . It is studying life for what it is and not through the glamour or evasion of past conventions . It is in process of establishing a truer and wholesomer convention . But while Strang 's picture involved naturalism , its prose was admitted to be set in a composition of " ample and dignified design , bold and successful in color , and in general aspect fresh and invigorating . " In fact , the artist had succeeded in his motive to project this real man and real woman in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abounding promise , bathed in the splendor of the new sun ; an allegory of inspiring stimulus to every modern man and woman in the beginning of their new life together . Another picture rejected on the same occasion was " Evening . " It represents a mother and her baby , a subject hallowed by beautiful memories in life and art and also not seldom travestied by sentimentality . Strang , with his obstinate North way of facing actualities , pleasant or unpleasant , represented the mother as coarse-featured and uncouth , an earth-mother . There are such , and to minds that candivine it , they are part of the elemental poetry of life . But for the expression of this share in the universal harmony and rhythm , eleganeies would be out of place . The form in which the poetry is expressed must be elemental , unshaped , unpolished as a boulder left in some trim New England pasture by the cumbrous momentum of a prehistoric glacier . Another of these elemental allegories is " The Dancers " ? sturdy children and full-blooded women ; rude-limbed forms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and billowing clouds . Oc-casionally Strang dips to the South for an inspiration , as in the " Love Song . " It is based on the example of Giorgione , intro-ducing , as did the Ve-netian , into a land-scape scene the un-draped female form in company with a youth dressed in early sixteenth-century cos-tume . As he strikes his guitar he gazes into vacancy as if lost in the beauty of his own song , while one of the women lies luxuriously on a bank in dreamy ecstasy , and the other , with bowed head and crumpled form , finds the music poignant . This very contrast betrays the Northern imagination . To Giorgione may be due the idea of a " con-versation piece " of this kind , but he omitted the personal human note of in-dividual sentiment . However , in Strang 's picture the sentiment is not emphasized to the extent that it tells a story . Its suggestion is again elemental , figuring three moods of the abstract emotions aroused by music . Moreover , the theme was probably undertaken primarily because of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amplitude . It presents , in fact , another example of what has been already noted , that the conception of the picture in Strang 's mind is so interwoven of idea and craftsmanship that it is difficult and possibly unprofitable to try any conjecture which of the two was the antecedent motive . The artist 's love of music has determined the choice of subject in " The Violinist " and " 1726 , " in both of which , however , the elemental idea is abandoned for an excedingly personal treatment . The latter picture represents a man of powerful frame and forceful head stringing his violin , a Stradivarius of 1726 . The freedom and deliberate decision of his gesture find a foil in the constrained attitude of the lady who stands at the back . In both these pictures the individuality of the several figures is strongly realized , as is the case also in one of the artist 's latest works , A Portrait Group " of himself and family . The older lady is dressed in a dark-green velvet gown , the bodice laced over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brown of her husband 's coat and the drab of the young man 's . The girl stands in a pose of attractive simplicity and frankness in a plum-colored dress and black hat . The arresting quality of the picture is very strong , and it holds its own , gaining by familiarity in impressiveness . It has a quality that is discernible in alI this artist 's work ? an abstraction of feeling . These people are aloof in a seclusion of their own separate personalities . The mind of each is a single kingdom of its own . Here , as in all his work , Strang , while primarily occupied with what his eye confronts , sees it in relation to the wide horizon of an idea . He is , in the true sense , a realist.                     