@@430691

 | No novelty whatever attaches to the de-mands of the railway trainmen in 1916 for a basic eight-hour day and punitive over-time . Nine years earlier the three senior Brotherhoods of Engineers , Firemen , and Conductors first joined hands in a concerted movement therefor , on the railroads west of Chicago . The change has come , not in the nature of the demands but only in the means adjusted to their attainment . Steadily , year by year , improved organization and resources have broadened the territorial scope of each proposal , from local or divisional committees on a single road as at first , to entire roads , to systems comprising several affiliated companies , to the grand territorial groups of Trunk Line , Southern , or Western roads , until at last the range of operations becomes co-extensive with the whole United States . A slow , steady pressure has been kept up , with the inevitable outcome of a threatened nation-wide strike . A crisis has arisen , long anticipated by those in close touch with rail-road affairs ; one which , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dealing with labor disputes in a quasi-public service as is contained in President Wilson 's Congressional program for the coming winter . The trainmen ? 400,000 of them ? had the power to tie up every railroad from Fort Kent to San Diego ; and the people of the United States were as clay in the hands of a potter , in so far as the protection of their paramount interest in an uninterrupted railroad service was concerned . A condition of affairs supervened which ought never to be allowed to occur again . To meet the novel situation thus presented , and to avert a country-wide strike with all its concomitants of industrial stoppage , waste , and warfare , the Congress of the United States , between a Friday and a Sunday early in September , enacted the so-called Eight-Hour Law ? a most revolutionary bit of legislation . In text it is almost as brief as the Sherman Anti-Trust Act ; and it promises to open as novel a chapter in law-making no less momentous in its consequences . Just what are its provisions ? What does it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , A MINIMUM WAGE LAW In the first place , although " eight hours shall , in contracts for labor and service , be deemed a day 's work and the measure or standard of a day 's work for the purpose of reckoning the compensation for services of all employees . . . actually engaged in any capacity in the operation of trains , " this statute assuredly sets no limits to the length of the working day . It bears not the slightest resemblance to the Federal Hours of Service law , which positively fixes a maxi-mum of sixteen hours as a trainman 's daily stint . Every member of the Brotherhoods understands this perfectly . President Gar- retson , of the Order of Railway Conductors , outlined the reason at the Senate Committee hearings : The charge . . that it was impossible to put in a true eight-hour-day on a railway is correct . It can not be done . The trainman can-not stop , because eight hours may find him in a semi-desert country , or find him fifty miles from his home ; therefore he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demands a higher rate of speed . The so-called Eight-Hour Law , then , is a statute fixing wages , with only an incidental bearing upon hours , as will soon appear . The new statute is in effect a minimum wage law for men engaged in a quasi-public employment . We have recently become familiar with such laws for women . Many States have copied the British , French , and Australian legislation , which , however , is applicable to both sexes alike . Such statutes for women only are now before the Supreme Court of the United States to determine their constitutionality . TEN HOURS ' PAY FOR EIGHT HOURS ' WORK But the new Federal Eight-Hour Law provides a minimum not for women but for men . It is not " the first of its kind in the history of the world , " as has been asserted by its opponents . The British Parliament was compelled to enact such a law in 1912 for coal miners , in order to bring to a close a strike which had shut down factories , stopped rail-ways and shipping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No miner in the British Isles may now be paid less than a sum fixed locally by a prescribed administrative machinery . But this new statute of ours not only fixes wages , it positively in-creases them by a substantial amount . For the law prescribes that , pending the report of a special commission instituted to observe the effect of the eight-hour schedule , that is to say , for a possible ten months the compensation of railway employees subject to this act for a standard eight-hour work day , shall not be reduced below the present standard day 's wage , and for all necessary time in excess of eight hours , such employees shall be paid at a rate not less than the pro rata rate . In effect the new law orders ten hours ' pay ? that being roughly the former standard day ? for eight hours ' work , with the remaining two hours at the same rate . The new law fails to fix an , overtime penalty ; it is merely a law to determine wages , and hence is of doubtful constitutionality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it into a statute regulating hours of labor . Such regulation has already been held constitutional even for-men . There are two possible ways in which the railroads may cope with the new conditions and avoid almost a flat increase of wages of twenty-five per cent . One is to speed up the trains . The other is to shorten the runs . By recourse to either expedient , inasmuch as the men are paid according to a dual standard of distance run or of time consumed , it is theoretically possible to condense a day 's performance within the new limits . Some roads , like the Southern Pacific and many in the South , with long through hauls and little local business , already achieve an average speed sufficient to comprehend 100-mile trips within eight , instead of ten hours . But for many others the problem is a most difficult one . Thus a single-track line , if it cuts its trains in two , is confronted with the need of more sidings , and enlarged terminals . Congestion of the main line is a costly business . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ towns can not be bodily shifted to new locations , convenient for operating standard runs of eight hours instead of ten . And , furthermore , to rearrange schedules involves not only more outlay for facilities ; it cuts away the ground from under the prime economy in operation upon which the carriers have come to rely . SLOW , HEAVY TRAINS FAR MORE PROFITABLE Heavy train loads , necessarily slow , have been a prime resource in a pressing time of need . How efficacious , may be illustrated by two companies in the fiscal year of 1915 . Largely by concentration of traffic , , the New York Central carried 2,500,000,000 more tons of freight one mile than the year before , at an actual outlay for conducting transportation ? mainly fuel and wages ? of $3,000 , - 000 less . The Canadian Pacific record is likewise extraordinary . Its ton mileage in-creased 79 per cent. ; while its transportation expense grew by only one-quarter . This was effected by slower movement of freight trains and much heavier car loading . Thus was a surplus for dividends of only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And such a phenomenal showing is typical of what has been accomplished all over the United States . It is due in part to the heavy investments in improved plant since 1909 , now only just completed ; to extraordinary prosperity ; but es- sentially , also , to greatly improved operating technique . It is at this point , however , that one comes to such justification for the new legislation on behalf of the men as may be had ? and it is indisputable that there is a grievance to which the railroads have not paid due attention . COMPLAINTS OF THE MEN The economy of heavy train loads means necessarily slower movement . It means more delays on sidings , more breakdowns , more irregular runs contingent upon obtaining a full rating for locomotives , more hanging about by the men waiting for a telephone call to report for duty , more nights away from home , or sleeping in the caboose instead of " hitting one 's own hay . " But the carriers , hard pressed for revenue , intent upon making both ends meet , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attendant hardships and inconvenience to the men . To be sure , under the rigid seniority rules , a good time later on was bound to come to each , as his term of service lengthened ; until he attained the comfort of short and speedy trips on regular hours for a generous day 's compensation . But the rank and file of trainmen , as of humankind in general , lie nearer the bottom than the top of the pay-roll and the time sheet . And it is their discontent , coupled with the growing sense of power which one success after another has brought to the Brotherhoods since 1910 , which has led up to the present extraordinary performance . HALF THE DEMANDS ABANDONED Unique as the present Eight-Hour Law is , it represents only one-half of the men 's demands . The railroads in their discomfiture to the contrary notwithstanding , the outcome was a compromise . In this sense the President 's intervention may after all in the long run have been an act of statesmanship . Superficially he prejudged the case , and made up his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is not the whole story . Nor is the role of the President in this affair by any means concluded . He may yet be needed to save the carriers from a still worse defeat , not directly but mediately at the hands of the Congress . The demands of the men were two-fold , involving two separate items ; one of principle , one of penalty . They demanded a basic eight-hour day ? not merely an empty declaration of principle , however , but ten hours ' pay for eight hours ' service , as we have seen , as carried on under existing conditions , some of which can be modified , some not . This they achieved . But what they abandoned is of equal importance in their own eyes ; and it is as sure as the rising of the sun that they will come back in due time and demand it of Congress . It is in this sense that the assertion holds good that this problem is only half worked out ; and that the President in his program for next winter relative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the American public as well as by the railroads themselves to the bitter end . PUNITIVE OVERTIME What the men abandoned was the punitive half of their demand ? time and a half for all overtime above a limit set at eight hours if they could get it , if not at the prevailing ten . Superficially this abatement of their proposal halved the cost of the change from an original estimate by the carriers of $100,000,000 to something like one-half that sum . Actually the compromise was more than an even split . For , in the eyes of the law , the addition of a penalty , later on , by transforming the statute from a law fixing wages for men ? of doubtful constitutionality ? to one clearly regulating hours , might be necessary to save the day for it in the courts . Apparently it was immaterial to the men which half came first ? a basic hours ' plan or an overtime penalty ? so closely do the two hang together . Either would have been acceptable . Note what Lee of the Railway Trainmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States said , " I think your claim for time-and-a-half over-time is fair , but your eight-hour day is unfair , " we might have considered it , because the 600 men here knew very well that so long as it does not cost the companies one penny more for working the ten , eleven , twelve , or fifteen hours than it costs them to work these men the first hour , there is really no incentive to stop them or so arrange their business that the eight-hour day will be-come effective . The President happened to seize the di-lemma by one horn . Apparently the rail-roads would have preferred the other ? namely , time-and-a-half overtime for all excess above the prevailing ten-hour limit . Personally I should have done the same , leaving open for future consideration whether the penalty should begin to run at ten , nine , or eight hours . But it would have made little difference in the long run , perhaps , inasmuch as the two propositions are but opposite faces of one and the same shield . They  | stand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had concerning the remaining half of the program , the American public may not rest quiet in its industrial bed . The point can not be too strongly stated ; for upon it hangs the insistency of the President 's program for still further law-making , not as to the substance but as to the method of procedure , when the inevitable controversy arisesonce again . It will be worth while to reveal the en-tire program of the Brotherhoods , while we are about it . President Lee of the Train-men was again explicit : Without that ( time-and-a-half for overtime ) we will probably be against exactly the same condition with the eight-hour or 1272-mile speed basis , that we are to-day against under the 10-mile hour speed basis . And President Garretson of the Conductors ? " arid , loquacious , lean , and tearful " as his opponents call him , but picturesque and highly effective as he undoubtedly is all the same ? frankly avowed at the same Senatorial Hearings that , following their unfailing practice so far as concerned punitive over-time provisions , the Brotherhoods were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a year . " The question for the American people to decide is as to the manner in which this reclamation from the scrap-heap shall receive its due consideration when the time comes round . Shall punitive overtime , or anything else for that matter , be hastily en-acted into law under duress and threat of industrial paralysis , or shall our legislative house be put in order to receive this approaching guest with such dignity and consideration as may befit the circumstances of the case ? Let justice , indeed , be done ; but let it be done decently and in order . OTHER PROPOSITIONS TO BE DEALT WITH The President , at the height of the crisis , in person urged upon the Congress in joint session assembled , " not in haste or merely as a means of meeting the present emergency , but as permanent and necessary additions to the law of the land , " six separate items of legislation . These were , specifically : an enlargement of the Interstate Commerce Commission appropriate to its greatly enhanced responsibilities ; a basic eight-hour day for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the effect of the eight-hour plan ; an explicit recommendation that the Interstate Commerce Commission permit an increase of rates sufficient to meet the extra cost of the change ; amendment of the present mediation and concilation act to prevent a repetition of the recent hold-up ; and authority vested in the President to assume control of train operation and to draft men into service for military purposes . Of these six propositions , two , and two only , were immediately enacted into law as already described . Only those which were demanded by the trainmen were embodied in the statute . But the others must come in due time . Without them , grave injustice to the carriers and im. minent danger to the public interest will assuredly obtain . MEDIATION AND ARBITRATION The fifth proposition , to amend the present Newlands Act providing for Federal mediation and arbitration of railway disputes , is the only one which will be bitterly opposed by the Unions . This law of 1913 ? itself the outcome , by amendment of the so-called Erdman Act , of a threatened train-men 's strike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the constitution of an arbitration board of three or six persons , duly balanced as to representation of each side . But it has failed utterly to meet the needs of the case . Its impartial members were uninitiated into the technique of railroading , entirely inexperienced , and disqualified for renewed service so soon as their record was once established . Piecemeal adjustment ? an unsatisfactory compromise ? rather than a fundamental determination of the merits of the dispute resulted . By asking for about twice what they expected to get , the men usually on the split-even got what they wanted . BROTHERHOODS OPPOSED TO COMPULSORY ARBITRATION There are two possibilities for amendment of the Federal procedure . One is compulsory arbitration by a permanent , or at least an experienced board , as is done in Australasia . Whatever its advantages , the men will have none of it . It may be set down as a political impossibility . What the President proposes is compulsory investigation ? a modification of the De Meaux Canadian Industrial Disputes Investigation Act of 1907 . This , in turn , put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Strike Commission of 1902 , based upon a Massachusetts experience of 1877 with an engineers ' strike on the Boston Sc Maine . It provides for " compulsory inquiry only and an appeal thereon to the reason and sense of right of all concerned . " Its objec- tionable feature , from the trainmen 's point of view , is that it forbids a strike pending the period of investigation . The Brotherhoods and organized labor in general will leave no stone unturned to de-feat the adoption of this principle ; but it must come , nevertheless . I , personally , find much to justify the demand of the trainmen for an abatement of their present time sacrifice under recent operating conditions . But it is impossible to conceive in an orderly community of wise legislation enacted as this Eight-Hour Law was passed , under threat of an instant and total paralysis of the community . This Congressional performance , in fact , flatly reversed the Canadian procedure . It enacted first and investigated thereafter . The proper course to pursue would be to investigate thoroughly and impartially first ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thereupon , in the meantime carefully safeguarding the status quo ; and then leave it to the force of public opinion to bring about a settlement , or , if need be , to legislate . THE PUBLIC SHOULD NOT BE BURDENED WITH COSTS OF INEFFICIENCY One further detail remains to be de-scribed , and it is embodied in two of the President 's proposals . Wages , as perhaps the largest single element in cost of operation , must be duly co-ordinated with the rates charged for service . Therein lies the significance of the enlargement of the Inter-state Commerce Commission ; and the explicit recommendation by Congress that the added burden due to wage increases should be compensated by an allowance of increased freight and passenger charges . No other body than the Interstate Commerce Commission is competent to open up the cost and rate schedules and to bring them properly to an accommodation . But , in the meantime , a careful examination must be made to establish that every known expedient has been utilized to the full to readjust the operating conditions to the new eight-hour plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community 's shoulders , however justifiable it may be to improve the lot of the employees by means of an increased wage . Stockholders , through their chosen managements , should suffer in decreased dividends until a maximum of economy , of efficiency , and of honesty in direction prevails . But , those once assured , it becomes the duty of the community to share in all the rest . The program of Congress this coming winter had long since promised to be heavy laden with matters concerning railroads . A special joint committee on remedial legislation had already been constituted at the President 's suggestion ; and the carriers are al-ready engaged in elaborate preparations to make known their needs . These are certainly urgent and immediate ; and some of them will assuredly be dealt with by law . There will be a battle-royal over the assumption by the Federal Government , to the practical exclusion of the States , of all control over matters of rate-making . But the Supreme Court has pointed the way . Congress must follow . And along with the assumption of rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , also deal authoritatively with the issue of securities . Past abuses have rendered this inevitable and fitting . Whether the carriers will se-cure that relief from the repressive features of the Anti-Trust Law which labor has al-ready attained , is more problematical . They should have it in some degree , especially to the end that they may act cooperatively along pooling lines . And now , on top of this pre-arranged program , the recent wage controversy renders it imperative that Congress should also comprehensively deal with matters of labor . CONGRESS MUST ACT With rates , operation , finance , and wages taken from private control and regulated administratively by the Federal Government , what will remain ? It appears as if a problem of vast and fundamental significance were soon to be completely exposed to view . Private interest seems unable to yield up more . Whether the outcome will necessarily be public ownership , if not operation , of our railroads , will depend upon the order of statesmanship soon to be displayed . Most of our legislation thus far has been necessarily negative and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relief and encouragement is as vital to industrial progress as the prevention or excision of abuses . In all the changes which seem bound to come , it must never be forgotten that an effective transportation system is the very life-blood of our communal well-being . And effectiveness can be had only after great and long-continued capital investment . Unless this is duly protected and encouraged , all other expedients under private ownership will fail to bring relief ; and the transition to public proprietorship will become inevitable . We                     