@@486099

The message which President Taft had such difficulty in getting to Congress last week contained one important section which was printed in full only in the Congressional Record This contained the recommendation that the law should be changed so as to allow members of the Cabinet to have seats , though not votes , in both Senate and House . The President gives succinctly the arguments in favor of the proposal . It should lessen misunderstandings between the executive and . legislative branches of the Government , by bringing them into contact . Time would be saved , through direct question and answer on the floor of Congress , which is now wasted in roundabout inquiry . Moreover , a Secretary who knew that he might any day be called upon in Congress for information concerning his Department would be prompted thereby to new zeal in keeping informed on all that went on in it . President Taft does not mention another consideration , though it is really weighty We mean the heightened interest which the public would be certain to take in Congressional proceedings , when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defend policies . It is obvious also that this would be a means of getting quickly before the country a great deal of information which now comes to the light but slowly and in fragments . There is no need to exaggerate the evils of the present arrangement . The case is not so black as it is often painted Those who hold that every government has in its machinery something roughly equivalent to the devices to be found elsewhere could justify themselves by pointing to many ways in which our Cabinet does , in fact , get its views before Congress . There seems , nevertheless , to be a growing belief that the experiment now definitely proposed by Mr. Taft is one of which we are bound , sooner or later , to make trial . It is well-nigh the universal practice in other countries . It has long been urged here , from the time of Judge Story clown . It is safe to say that every solid objection that could now be made has been anticipated ' in previous discussions . If it be said , forexample @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bore themselves to death by constantly attending the sessions of Congress , the answer is that nothing of the kind is contemplated . There would be stated times for the appearance of the Secretaries Something like the English " question hour " would be established Moreover , the more important questions would be answered only after notice given . All these things are matters of detail which could easily be provided for if once Congress were minded to undertake the central change President Taft 's appointments to the new Commission on Industrial Relations will not , as a whole , give much satisfaction to those who had hoped that out of the investigations of this joint body of capitalists and workingmen there might come data and recommendations of value Several names stand out , of course , as eminently fit  --  like those of Adplph Lewisohn , Frederick A. Delano , and F C Schwedtman , representing capital . On the side of labor Mr. Taft has selected Austin B. Garretson , the head of the Railway Conductors , a worthy choice . But the other two are leaders of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of the McNamara revelations . Thus there is not a single representative of the great bulk of American labor ? the millions who are not in unions , and many of whom could not be persuaded to enter unions under any consideration . Again , there are six millions of women engaged in gainful occupations , and Mr. Taft has not thought it orth while to appoint a single woman to represent this vast army of workers Finally , it is noteworthy that not a single teacher of economics appears upon the Commission . Gov . Bass is another of the weak-kneed who have returned from Armageddon with a disposition to make " deals " and to " dicker " with the enemy . The Progressives hold the balance qwq sale of worthless securities has been ! run down by the Post Office authorities . This comes at the very time when the methods of two other concerns of the kind are being ventilated in a criminal trial In all this exposure , many will doubtless see a powerful new argument for government protection of investors . We.have nothing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exists in Massachusetts , of the issue of stocks and bonds by any corporation , but we would ask what possible statute could safeguard the greedy and gullible people who were caught by these swindlers ? On the face of the enterprises , they were fraudulent . They promised impossible returns . Yet clergymen and college professors were found in abundance ready to snap at the get-rich-quick bait . Now , the most Paternal of governments can not protect ternational obligations , " but also a defiance of sound public policy through the " subsidizing of a monopoly " President Judson , of the University of Chicago , stands alone in expressing the opinion that it is " merely a domestic question , which could not , therefore , concern the Hague Tribunal " ; but it would be interesting to know how he thinks the very question can best be decided , whether a disputed point involved in the interpretation of a treaty is or is not a " merely domestic " point . Is it for the judgment of one party to the treaty or for the decision of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the matter , now that this has been admitted , and admitted to be unjustifiable , by Mr. Taft 's own Secretary of War , it ought to he possible to rally enough men out of both parties in Congress to obtain the outright repeal of the discrimination . One of the strange inconsistencies in the Southern treatment of the negro is revealed by the appearance before Gov . Brown of Georgia of white men to protest against the driving of the negroes out of six counties in that State It seems that there is a sort of Ku Klux at work , posting notices at night which warn all the colored people to leave under threat of terrible punishments . As a result , many of them. - are going , and one of the men who called on the Governor  --  but dared not give his name  --  thus described the consequences of the flight : " If something is not done to check this exodus . . our wives and daughters will soon be put to the necessity of doing the cooking , washing , and performing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffer greatly , for they will be deprived of field hands . " Not one word , of course , about the victims of the outrage , of their loss and suffering in having to abandon homes and property and flee for safety . The sole consideration of importance is that the wives and daughters of prosperous whites may be without servants and the farmers without farm hands Now , we all know that the negro is the worst possible servant and farm-hand. that he is the curse of the South because of his criminal nature and general worthlessness . Ought he , then , not to be driven out at once , in order that Georgia may surely be a white man 's country and . the way be cleared for foreign immigration ? its idiotic children . Unless it locks them up , it can not prevent them from being taken in , when they go about fairly begging to be taken in See to it that the venders of bogus mining stock or of securities of a company to manufacture diamonds can not get at them , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in corner lots in the moon . The replies received by the New York World from college and university presidents in response to its telegraphic inquiry asking for their opinion on the Panama tolls question show an intensity of conviction on this subject . Many of the replies , while clearly expressing the writer 's own opinion that the discrimination in the present law is in violation of our treaty obligations , put still greater emphasis on the nation 's honorable obligation , which ought to be felt as binding even by those of a contrary opinion , to submit the question to arbitration in case we do not voluntarily repeal the discrimination . " One of the two things must certainly be done , " says President Wheeler of the University of California , adding " I should prefer , however , in the interest of the national pride , to have the act amended " The strongest statement is that made by President Butler , of Columbia , who pronounces the discrimination not only a violation of " our legal and moral inIn his annual report the president of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Institute and Harvard . The time for a close physical and administrative union passed with the purchase of the new site for the Institute , if , indeed , it had not passed before But now that these two great institutions are soon to be within a few minutes ' ride of each other , the question of an exchange of facilities and of the use of special equipment possessed by the one or the other is thrust to the front . Mr. Maclaurin discusses it with admirable good sense , suggesting that there is no reason whatever why Technology students should not profit by the inspiration of exceptionally able teachers-at - Harvard , and vice-versa . The beginning of such relations , he thinks , should first be through the interchange of graduate students . In the matter of physical equipment , the case is still plainer . President Maclaurin points out that the Institute may soon build an experimental tank for its department of naval architecture Why should not Harvard have the use of it ? It would surely be a great waste for Harvard to build such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Technology is to have the best mining and metallurgical laboratories in existence . Haryard ought to profit by them precisely as the Technology should he able to use , under proper restrictions , those great university museums at Harvard which could only be duplicated , if at all , by tremendous expenditure . Harvard , we are sure , will be ready to meet the Technology half-way ; and this friendly cooperation ought to be a valuable example to the whole college world . What a tangled web we get into when we set out to find what a word really means . The Manchester Guardian relates the story of two men who made a wager regarding the meaning of " lurid . " One of them had used the word as descriptive of the glare of a night fire which had made the sky intensely red . The other pulled him up with the information that the word meant " pale " and not " deep red . " As several diction . aries agreed , in a manner not custom ary among doctors , in defining the word as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only books and newspapers could be found as authorities for using it in the other sense , the first man reluctantly paid the bet . The Guardian , however , points out that " the latest and greatest English dictionary " gives this definition of " lurid " : Shining with a red glow or glare amid darkness ( said of lightning flashes across dark clouds or flame mingled with smoke ) And it apparently clinches the matter by a quotation from Wordsworth : Save that above a single height Is to be seen a lurid light Above Helm crag  --  a streak halt-dead , A burning of portentous red " Apparently clinches , " however , only , for the learned writer proceeds to demonstrate that Wordsworth had no philological right to use the word in that way . " Lurid , " we are told , began life as a Latin adjective , meaning " pale yellow , " and used chiefly of the complexion . The nearest English word for it is " sallow . " From that , it came to mean something like " ghastly . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " as the English poets compel it to do , there is no authority  --  except , of course , the English poets . And so the puzzle remains , may any one who is not an English poet use " lurid " in any sense but that of " pale " ? That the English plans for celebrating the hundred years of peace with the United States should include the placing of a statue of George Washington either in the Abbey or in Westminster Hall shows again what time can do to efface ancient animosities All intelligent Englishmen have to-day an admiration for Washington 's character and abilities . The man whom their ancestors would have hanged as a traitor , they themselves recognize as one who was in America simply fighting the general English battle for constitutional liberty . Certainly , Washington 's statue in Westminster Hall would not seem so much of a misfit as Cromwell 's in Parliament Yard . Washington resisted the House of Commons , but he did not turn it ignominiously out of doors . If there is any objection to placing an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artistic rather than patriotic . The authorities might well resolve not to add another to the medley of inharmonious statues that deface the Abbey . The " calculated indiscretion " still plays its part in high affairs of state Readers will recall the excitement caused , just about a month ago , by a misinterpreted telegraphic order from the French War Office , as a result of which the reserves in several French communes on the northeastern frontier were summoned to the standards . It was immediately explained that the blunder rested with a subordinate officer , who should be promptly punished for setting the mobilization machine into motion and Europe 's nerves on edge , A recent editorial in the Paris Temps pointed out , however , that the incident was not without its bright side . The alacrity with which the reserves responded to the call  --  the Temps speaks of them as marching to the barracks with cheers and chanting patriotic songs  --  has removed the painful doubts which have been created by the anti-militarist and anti-patriotic agitators of the school of Gustave Hervd . Now we have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French Government has addressed a letter to the Prefect of the Department of Meurthe-et-Meuse asking him to convey to the Mayors of the nine communes of the district of Arracourt the Government 's appreciation of the rapidity with which the local mobilization at Arracourt was carried out . This mobilization , which took place owing to a telegraphic error , was ordered by Brigadier Blion , who has him ' self been complimented by Gen Goetschy , commanding the Twentieth Army Corps , on the promptitude with which he acted No mention is made of the telegrapher who made the regrettable error ; but it Is not imposSible that his name will appear in the New Year appointments to the Legion of Honor . Prince Taro Katsura has now attained the Japanese Premiership for the third time . Japanese political parties are not easy to distinguish , but , broadly speaking , in the person of Katsura the conservative and militarist element in Japan once more comes to the front . The new Premier is certainly to-day the most powerful figure in Japanese public life He enjoys the prestige of liaving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made way in January , 1906 , for a Ministry headed by Marquis Saionji , yielding to the inevitable unpopularity that comes with the settlement of the difficult financial problems after a great war . He replaced Saionji at the head of affairs in July , 1908 , made way for him , once more in August of last year , and again succeeds the statesman who may be regarded as the exponent cf Liberal policies in Japan . Marquis Saionji 's Cabinet went to pieces on the rock of militarist opposition . He was pledged to financial reforms which could not be carried out without serious retrenchment in the army and navy budgets . At the same time , he found the military elements solidly arrayed in behalf of an increase in the army and navy programme . Count Terauchi , who as Governor-General of Korea has pursued a forceful and effective policy of pacification in that country , precipitated the fall of the Saionji Cabinet by threatening to resign his post in Korea . If Katsura , instead of Terauchi , has been called upon to form a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to accentuate the triumph of the militarist party . The new Premier 's position is all the more powerful because he combines in himself the official authority of President of the Cabinet with the unofficial , but still higher , authority exercised as a member of the group of lder Statesmen . As - Grand Chamberlain to the new Mikado and Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal , he is chief counsellor of the young Emperor , his only rival being the aged Prince Yamagata . His foreign policy has been described as one of firmness towards China and this country , and of friendliness to Russia and Great Britain .                     