@@493041

The Age of Iron THE play of motives in war makes a baffling study in psychology . Nothing seemed clearer when this war broke out than that Germany invaded Belgium for purely strategic reasons . Her armies were turning the fortifications of the eastern frontiers of France and seeking an easy though roundabout way to Paris . Her crime was that she had treated a nation as if it were a road ; it was this , and apparently it was not more than this . As the war went on one began to doubt this obvious and relatively charitable explanation . In the first place the military strategy was questionable . The real issue , if one might trust the German Deutschrift , was the future development and security of the German Powers in the East . The stake was the mastery of the Balkans and of Turkey beyond them , and the real enemy was Russia . A strategy appropriate to this political purpose would have sought a prompt and crushing military decision against Russia . France might have been held with relatively small forces on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invaded , and the German armies might have reached the Vistula as rapidly as they reached the Marne . In a war conducted on these lines Great Britain would not have intervened promptly , and had she intervened , the country would have been as sharply divided as it was during the Boer War , though Sir Edward Grey , Mr. Lloyd George and Mr. Churchill would probably have succeeded in the end in creating a coalition party for war . Why was this natural and obvious strategy rejected ? Hitherto the answer usually given among us was that this blundering , brutal , unpolitical strategy was merely what one might expect from a country dominated by its army . We are apt to exaggerate the power of the German military caste . It was not from it but from the industrial and colonial party that the ambition for world Power and colonial expansion sprang . It was this school , with Admiral von Tirpitz at its head , which proposed Calais as the chief objective of the campaign in France , for Calais means the ability to operate in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colonial empire . Through Belgium lay the natural road to Calais . The apparent stupidity involved in the occupation of Belgium vanishes when one realizes that the naval-colonial party was really acquiring a strategic point for a greater world-struggle in the future . But there was another and even simpler reason for the occupation of Belgium , and this was not strategical but economic . Belgium contains a rich coal-field , and the north of France has not only coal-fields but invaluable mines of iron ore . These mineral riches are advanced to-day by German industrialists as a reason why Belgium and the north of France must be permanently annexed . It is probable enough that in the desire to possess these great resources lay the real motive for the march through Belgium . For years the general staff had prepared its projects of invasion . When we ask why none of the middle-class parties in Germany protested during the calm years of peace against these plans as the Socialists did , the answer may very well be that they reckoned coldly on something more permanent than a momentary strategical advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six of the most powerful industrial and agrarian leagues addressed to the German Chancellor last May without harboring this suspicion . The full text as it appeared in L'Humaniti for August birth , 19r s , is a startling self-revelation of the predatory mind . These people , be it remembered , are not soldiers , and their state of mind is not militarism but capitalism . They have pondered maturely on the question ? does conquest pay , and they think they have found the answer . Their program is the annexation of all Belgium ' , the French departments of Calais and the north , and French Lorraine . But that is not all . They insist that all the great industrial undertakings of this large and populous region must pass into the actual ownership of Germans , the railways , canals , mines and even the landed estates . They do not go so far as to suggest that the conquerors should expropriate the present owners without compensation , but they have an ingenious scheme for shifting the burden to the enemy 's shoulders . The compensation must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but by France which loses it . It has always seemed to me that Mr. Norman Angell , in spite of the brilliant illumination which he has thrown on the economics of war and peace , ignored the vast gains which the propertied classes draw from war , imperialism and the armed peace . Their investments in the tropics , their economic tribute from India and Egypt , their exploitation of concession areas and spheres of influence , represent a direct return from the accumulation and use of naval and military power . About one-fourth of the income of the British propertied class is derived from investments overseas , and for these investments our navy is the indispensable insurance . A little war which wins Egypt or Burmah means direct profit to the contractors , the bondholders , the land syndicates and oil trusts which exploit these regions . Mr. Angell is profoundly in the right when he argues that such conquests do not enrich a nation , but undoubtedly they may enrich a nation 's propertied and governing class . In one sphere , however , socialistic critics were not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ myself to argue that his doctrine was absolutely true in its application to any completely developed area with an old civilization . It would not pay to conquer Lancashire or the Rhine district , because they are already fully capitalized . The conqueror could not invest in them and could not exploit them . An imperialistic capitalism turns to undeveloped countries , to cities without banks and routes without railways , partly because they are easier to conquer , but chiefly because they can absorb capital . In the face of this German program we must all revise our theories . If a conquering Germany could expropriate the capitalists of a conquered Belgium and France and take over all their organized industry at the cost of the vanquished , the adventure would be vastly more profitable to the German middle classes than any conceivable expansion in China , Africa , or Turkey . The German masses would have paid the price in blood and taxation , nor would they ever share in the wage-list of the stolen mines . But German capitalists might indeed reckon on " wealth beyond the dreams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point enter certain objections : the military power of Germany is not equal to the accomplishment of such a program ; the world would never tolerate such naked robbery ; France , if she were utterly crushed , would be unable to pay the indemnity ; the cost of holding down this country would more than eat up the profits of exploiting it ; finally , the German government is neither so ruthless nor so unwise as these capitalist leagues , and the Socialists ( not to mention the Delbriick-Dernburg school ) may be trusted to oppose them . All these objections are sound . The program can not be realized , and for my part I am sure that the German Chancellor never entertained it . The fact remains that this project did and does inspire the dreams of the German capitalistic world . This project and others like it have formed their policy , shaped their dreams of world-power , and governed their unflinching support of a policy of great armaments . For a year past the whole English-speaking world has been discussing Prussian militarism and tracing it to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conscious organized force of these capitalistic associations . For them militarism meant business , and they are now demanding the profits on their investment . When Prince Billow challenged the German Socialists tothe direct test of an election on the straight issue of militarism and imperialism , the funds for the electoral operations of his Liberal-Conservative coalition were openly found by the big metallurgical trade organizations ( Cartels ) . They assessed their members so that each employer contributed a mark for every workman he employed . The workman might vote for Bebel , but his master 's shilling balanced his vote . In all this capitalistic organization of German militarism and imperialism it was the industrialists of the metal trades that led . They form the backbone of the National Liberal party , which from the black country of the lower Rhine has dominated German foreign policy from the days of Bismarck downwards . One reason was that their industry made a great profit from armaments , but that was not the only reason . Once before the German iron industry all but involved Europe in war . It wanted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ iron ore ; and here of course the motives of the French colonial party were the same and their morals no better . To-day it demands Belgium as yesterday it demanded Morocco . I do not want to exaggerate . It would be absurd to say that the Kaiser made his declaration of war because the Rhine trusts want French and Belgian coal and iron . But it is the sober truth that on the German side the whole policy which set Europe in two armed camps and so exasperated the struggle for a Balance of Power that it flamed into war , was motived by the expectation of German capitalists that war would bring them concrete gains . Without the support of these National Liberal capitalists von Tirpitz could not have made his navy , and it was only the concessions of the Mannesmann Brothers which kept alive the German interest in Morocco . The driving motive of modern militarism is economic . Ours is the age of iron . Lest it should seem that this article points a one-sided moral , it is necessary to indicate that the capitalistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem , how can victory be made to pay ? The wilder extremists in France have talked of conquering the German Rhine country . Our own imperialists reckon on retaining the German colonies and on acquiring Mesopotamia . But these are small gains . The real answer is to be sought in the various projects for destroying or laming the competition of German industry in the world 's markets . Comprehensive schemes have been published by the Italian review , Nuova Antotogia ; Dr. Dillon and even Mr. Wells have made suggestions . If an ambition to secure coal and iron fields lay beneath German chauvinism and subconsciously prepared the middle-classes for war , the parallel motive in this country and in Russia was trade jealousy . The anti-German feeling in England was in its origins little more than a phase of our protectionist movement . Even in Russia the simple old-world Pan-Slavist motive , which aspires to the domination of the Balkans and the conquest of Constantinople , and the allied Slavophil motive , which sees in Germany the home of Western progress and free-thought , were reinforced by an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russo-German relations were overshadowed last year by the imminence of a great tariff dispute . The commercial treaties fell to be renewed before 1916 , and the small but influential world of Russian industrialism was already agitating for " liberation " from German domination , by which it meant the closing of the frontier to German goods with which the artificial , immature industry of Russia could not compete . The struggle had lasted only a few weeks when M. Bark , the Russian Minister of Finance , proposed in an interview in the Paris Matin that after the peace , all the Allied nations should continue the war against Germany on the economic plane by penal tariffs and international boycotts . War is a merciless revealer of motives . The predatory ambitions and commercial jealousies which cloak themselves during peace find in war their unashamed expression . War brings us our chance to see in its nakedness the world in which we live . European militarism is a savage survival which modern capitalism has adapted to its own purposes . 