@@487184

Mr. Roosevelt , in his latest article in the Metropolitan Magazme , finds the whole world more out of joint than he usually does . But what could he expect , since the one man born to set it right is out of office ? President Wilson is , of course , thoroughly incompetent . If proof of this were lacking , it could ? be found in the fact that he is heartily supported by Mr. Taft . And Mr. Roosevelt can find no hope even in the fact that the President is borrowing ideas from the Colonel  --  though always about a year too late . " Over a year ago I pointed out that it was the duty of the United States to champion the integrity of the neutral rights of Belgium , against the lawless conduct of belligerent Germany . " This statement , which in substance Mr. Roosevelt has made repeatedly , raises an interesting question . Many have asked what Mr. Roosevelt would have done if he had been President in August , 1914 . The answer just made by his old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " in the White House he would have been the leader of the anti-Allies . " This is an inference from the fundamental German sympathies which the professor discovers in the Colonel . And here comes the really interesting question . It is not , what would Roosevelt have done had he been President , but what would he have done if he had been the Kaiser ? In other words , in his violent and iterated condemnation of the German Government for violating the treaty with Belgium , is he not condemning himself ? Have we not evidence , in what he did and in the views which he has expressed , that if he had been in the Kaiser 's place he would have invaded Belgium without scruple , and , instead of apologizing for it half-heartedly , as the German Chancellor did , would have glorified it as an act of the highest international righteousness ? The essence of the charge against Germany Is that she broke her treaty guaranteeing the neutrality of Belgium and the inviolability of her territory . Well , the United States had a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roosevelt broke it without a moment 's hesitation . The treaty of 1846 between Colombia and this country solemnly recited that " as an especial compensation for the said advantages , and for the favors they have acquired by the fourth , fifth , and sixth articles of this treaty , the United States guarantee , positively and efficaciously , the perfect neutrality of the before-mentioned isthmus Panama . . . and the United States also guarantee , in the same manner , the rights of sovereignty and property which New Granada Colombia has and possesses over the said territory . " But we all know what happened . When Roosevelt " took " the isthmus , far from paying any regard to our promise to guarantee Colombian sovereignty over it , he gave orders to prevent Colombia from even attempt . ing to assert her own sovereignty . And as if to leave no doubt in. any one 's mind concerning his notions of international morality , Mr. Roosevelt flatly declared later that if he had not been able to seize the isthmus by means of a fraudulent revolution , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letter to W. R. Thayer , printed in the latter 's Life of John Hay , Vol . II , p. 328 , he wrote : " If they the Panamanians had not revolted , I should have recommended to Congress to take possession of the isthmus by force of arms . " The Kaiser would be hard put to it to beat that . In the same Life of Hay there is another letter by Mr. Roosevelt which indicates how much weight he would have given , had he been Kaiser , to the Prussian treaty of 1839 guaranteeing Belgian neutrality . This letter was written to John Hay himself , at the time of the negotiation of the Hay-Pauncetote Canal treaty , in 1900 . It contains a phrase which might well be thought a Roosevelt variant of Bethmann-Hollweg 's " scrap of paper . " Here it is : As for existing treaties ? I do not admit the " dead hand " of the treaty-making power in the past . Of course , being Mr. Roosevelt , he hedged and went on to speak of the need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can doubt that the sentence we have quoted speaks the instinctive attitude of the Colonel towards a treaty that gets in his way ? By so much , the Harvard psychologist is right in finding a right Prussian quality in the American whom he has so intimately studied . Going back , then , to the question what the Colonel would have done if he had been the Kaiser , we are forced to conclude that he would have struck at France through Belgium with even less reluctance than Wilhelm H displayed . And such talk as he now indulges in about Belgium he would have scorned as merely so much chatter . We do take patriotic pride , however , in the belief that the Colonel would have far outdone the Kaiser in one respect . The latter represented the attack on Belgium as a disagreeable military necessity , and his heart bled over Louvain . But if Mr. Roosevelt had had the job to do , he would have set about it in the blithest spirit , would have put joyous zest into the violation of a treaty , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of holy unction on the exalted regard for righteousness which he had exhibited . GALLIPOLI AND AFTER . What is the " other sphere of operations " to which the British forces from northern and central Gallipoli have been transferred ? This is the outstanding question of the moment . If we knew the correct answer we should know , at least in outline , the Allied plans for winter and spring . And this not only for the Balkans and the Mediterranean but for every theatre of war . It is hard not to associate the withdrawal from Gallipoli with the prolonged conferences among the military authorities of the Allies recently concluded in Paris . The decision must have been framed there . The situation had been thoroughly canvassed . France must have told what troops she could continue to spare for the Balkans . Italy must have made it pretty clear to what extent the Allies could count upon her . Coming after the conquest of Servia and the vanishing of the hope of an . immediate Allied campaign from Salonica , the Paris conferences must once for all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of victory , to the disregard of the loss of prestige involved in this or that confession of defeat . At Paris it was recognized that the Gallipoli campaign was a failure . It was a question where the deadlocked troops could be used with better effect . Was it decided to bring the French forces home , or to send them to Salonica ? And the British troops , have they been taken to Salonica or have they been shipped back to Egypt ? Once the Allies have determined to face the realities of the situation in the Mediterranean , it is not altogether improbable that a retirement from Salonica may follow the retirement from Gallipoli . The immediate purpose of the Allied dash for Salonica , the rescue of Servia , has failed . The secondary purpose , the development of a possible flank attack on the Turks , has also failed , at least for months to come . Confronting the Allies in the Balkans there are now at least 150,000 Austro-Germans , a quarter of a million Bulgarians , and 150,000 Turks released from Gallipoli . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they must bring to bear an equal number of troops . Where are they to come from ? We can not take seriously the story of an Italian army advancing through the Albanian mountains . Just about as much importance attaches to the army Russia is supposed to have been collecting on the Rumanian. frontier . If the Allies are to make another try in the Balkans an . army of half a million men must operate from Salonica . Only then could Rumania be stirred from her present apathy for the Allied cause . Even then it would be an uncertain fight , involving a tremendous effort without corresponding gains . The original hope of aligning the Balkan states solidly against Germany has vanished . Bulgaria is definitely committed , Greece is determined to remain neutral , and Austria 's position is not what it was when the Russians were hammering away at the Carpathians . Only by throwing the necessary half-million men into Salonica , by winning over Greece , by making the chances for victory extremely attractive to Rumania , can the situation be redressed . The thing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be supposed that the Germans will stand still while Salonica is converted Into an impregnable base . It is not impossible that the fortifications north of Salonica are intended to safeguard the withdrawal of the Allied troops from that port . The Balkans having lost their value as a short cut to victory , the Allies may have decided to do what Germany did after the Marne and Ypres  --  stand on the defensive where they can not advance , and try elsewhere . The French , who are now calling out the class of 1917 , could easily use their colonial troops at home . The British could use their Balkan forces for Egypt , definitely assuring the safety of that country , and giving them a free mind for operations in the field where the war must after all be decided , in Flanders and Belgium . With Egypt safe , with the enormous strain of holding the lEgean and feeding its marooned armies relaxed , England would be giving its new commander-in-chief in the west a chance such as Field-Marshal French never had . It is true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Balkans , will develop pressure against Egypt . But the British forces now in the Balkans would have in Egypt an advantage they now lack . And conversely the armies of the Central Powers would be confronted with the serious task of conducting operations in the Aralian desert hundreds of miles away from their base . The Gallipoli campaign has been one of-many surprises . It has taught the world many things . Not the least is the rejuvenation of Turkey upon which so much stress has been laid at Berlin . It would be more proper to speak of the rejuvenation of the Turkish army . The future of the Ottoman Empire is not so rosy when we think of a victorious Bulgaria turning its eyes from Macedonia to Thrace , of the Russians in the Caucasus , of the British in Mesopotamia , in spite of their recent defeats . The Turkish army , on the other hand , fighting on three fronts , has certainly belied the predictions based on its showing in the Balkan wars of three years ago . Yet the transformation has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Balkan states the Turks went to pieces because they were badly organized and led , and greatly outnumbered . The fighting qualities of the Turkish soldier have always been recognized . After 1913 the Turkish army was rebuilt under German supervision . In the present war it has had the advantage of German ammunition and German leadership . COMMANDERS WHO HAVE FAILED . The retirement of Field-Marshal French from the chief command of the British forces on the western front leaves Joffre the only survivor of the generalissimos at the outbreak of the war . Von Moltke is gone , the Grand Duke Nicholas is gone , the Austrian generals Auffenberg and Dank were among the first to go . A war lasting nearly a yeir and a half is bound to make and unmake leaders . A war so full of technical surprises as the present war is bound to facilitate the process . It is only the military genius who lasts through changes and surprises . Men of inferior talent go down and are succeeded by men who need not be of superior talent , but who profit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made their great reputations in the Boer War . But if either of the men had first been in command in South Africa instead of Sir Redvers Buller , it is not impossible that theirs would have been the mistakes . Below the rank of commander-in-chief there has been a drastic weeding out of generals in all the armies . The hand of Joffre has been particularly heavy . He made wholesale changes before the war , on the showing of corps and division commanders in the great manoeuvres . During the first weeks of actual fighting he cut right and left . Of the men at the head of the five French armies which took the field , Dubail , Castelnau , Ruffey , Langle de Cary , and Lanrezac , two were removed as soon as the retreat began to the Marne . Ruff ey , who failed on the Meuse , gaze way to Sarrail , and Lanrezac , who failed on the Sambre , made way for Franchet d'Esperey . It is true that Castelnau failed in the invasion of Lorraine , but his influence was apparently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chance to redeem himself magnificently around Nancy . Since the first week of actual fighting new French armies have been created and new men have come up . The Sixth Army , which D'Amade organized out of territorial forces and new levies in Flanders , was brought to Paris and under Gen. Maunoury won the battle of the Ourcq as part of the battle of the Marne . A Seventh Army , under Gen. Foch , held the centre in that battle , and is believed by many to have decided its outcome . New men have come up since then . At the head of some of the French armies are men like D'ITrbal , who was a general of division at the outbreak of the war ; Maud'huy , who was a general of brigade , and , the most remarkable case of rapid advancement , Petain , who at the beginning of the war was colonel of infantry and who within a year rose through the ranks of brigadier , division commander , and corps commander to his present post . There have been similar failures and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first to go was von Hansen , who led the Saxon . army at the battle of the Marne . " Von Dehnling , who commanded in Alsace , has disappeared from the news . The great von Kluck is now convalescing from what gives every sign of being a diplomatic illness . Of British commanders , Ian . Hamilton failed in Gallipoli . The Russians , Rennenkampf and Sievers are gone , for obvious reasons . Radko Dmitrieff , who felt the brunt of the Teutonic attack in Galicia , is out of the news . Neither is there mention of Brusiloff , who helped to win the battles of Rawarusska and Lemberg . But Gens . Ruszky and Ivanoff have survived , and apparently with credit . We know of no definite changes in the Turkish command , but Instead of Liman von Sanders , who was prominent during the first phase of the fighting in the Dardanelles , we now hear of von der Goltz . Names in the Austrian bulletins are new ? Bothmer , Koevess , Baltm , Pflanzer . Archdukes and Crown Princes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specific reasons in the case of Field-Marshal French , it is hard to speak definitely . The outstanding reason , of course , is his failure to show results commensurate with the present size of the British army . The specific charges are the failure at Neuve Chapelle in March , and the disappointment of Loos in September . The same accusations have been made in both instances  --  lack of preparation by the Staff and unaccountable delay in bringing up reserves . Sir John French confesses to some confusion in part of the operations around Loos . But it would be unjust to overlook the peculiar handicap under which the British army has labored . It has not had the advantage of veteran staff officers and intimate acquaintance with the ground . The British army has had to create its officers as well as its men . Furthermore , it is unjust to speak of the British " failure " around Loos as compared with the French success in Champagne . From the German point of view , both attacks failed . Considering the superior resources Joffre had at his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disproportionate . Nevertheless , the fact remains that in Joffre the French have a man of proved ability . Sir John French 's going emphasizes the changed aspect of the war since last spring . It concerns the question of men and munitions . At the beginning of the war events were decided by leadership and numbers . With the commencement of trench warfare it became a question of munitions , and even now people speak of a war to be won in the armament factories . But it would really appear that the problem of munitions has been solved and that it is once more a question of leadership . At Neuve Chapelle the British ammunition gave out in a short time . It was on this issue that Lord Northcliffe conducted his drive against Lord Kitchener . There was no shortage of ammunition around Loos . Britain first had to find her men . Then she had to find guns and ammunition . Now she must find a great leader . CONGRESS AND THE CONSTITUTION . - WASHINGTON ' , December 13 . ? Congress will be - urged at its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prohibition amendment to the States for ratification . The words we have put in italics convey a false and dangerous view of the duty of Congress in relation to a proposed amendment of the Constitution . When such a proposal is presented to Congress , Its duty is to consider it and pass judgment on its merits ; and only in the event that the proposal is approved by a two-thirds vote of each house does it become a question with which the Legislatures of the several States have anything to do . Their share in the matter is solely in the nature of a check on the decision of Congress . That decision does not become operative until the Legislatures of three-fourths of the States have expressed their approval of it ; but it is the act of Congress , and not the ratification by the Legislatures , that is the fundamental part of the proceeding . All this would be plain enough even if the passage of a constitutional amendment by Congress were effected , like that of an ordinary bill , by a mere majority vote ; but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makes it peculiarly evident . If the main part of the process were the action of the Legislatures  --  if the function of Congress were merely to " submit the question " to these bodies  --  surely a majority vote would be an ample condition to lay down . Obviously , the idea was that no amendment should be made to the Constitution which had not received the emphatic approval of the national Legislature . If the advocates of a bill in Congress , or in a State Legislature , were to urge that body not to pass the bill on its merits but to " submit the question " - to the President , or the Governor , they would be laughed out of court ; everybody recognizes that the veto power is designed as a check upon the judgment of the legislative body and not as a substitute for such judgment . Take , again , the case of the treaty-making power . The President 's power to make treaties Is limited by the necessity of ratification by the Senate ; but would any one dream of asking him to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and simply " submit the question " of its adoption to the Senate ? In all these matters , the primary and fundamental responsibility rests with the body , or the individual , that takes action on the subject in the first instance ; the ratifying power is secondary , designed to provide an additional safeguard against error , and not at all to absolve from responsibility those who are charged with the duty of the primary decision . Not only is this the actual fact in regard to the amendment of the Federal Constitution , but it is manifestly what ought to be the fact . It is only in Congress that the merits of a proposed change in the Constitution of the United States can be discussed on the large lines which are appropriate to such a question , and with a thoroughness commensurate with its importance . It is only when the subject is before Congress that public attention can be adequately centred upon it . The importance of the action then Pending is so plain that the persons opposed to it , the persons in favor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been formed , are alike upon notice to fix their attention on the question . It has a chance of receiving its due share of notice in the press . The various stages of its parliamentary progress are followed with keen interest . As the final test of strength approaches , everybody interested realizes that a decision of crucial importance is about to be made ; and when the vote is taken , it is the outcome of such a contest as befits an issue of fundamental importance . If Congress were to abdicate its function , and regard itself as a mere vehicle for the placing of the question before the State Legislatures , all this would be swept away ; for it is obvious that nothing of the kind would take place in the scattered proceedings of the forty-eight State Legislatures , each charged with but a small share in the responsibility of the decision , and taking it up at odd times , determined perhaps by chance , perhaps by some clever and unnoticed manieuvre . And in addition to these broad considerations there are two circumstances of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the duty of Congress to pronounce its own deliberate judgment on any proposed amendment to the Constitution . One of these turns on the gross inequality with which the population of the country is represented in the count of State Legislatures . Nevada , with 80,000 population , counts for as much as New York with 9,000,000 ; and in fact ( by the Census of 1910 ) the twelve most populous States in the Union have a population of 51,000,000 , ' while the other thirty-six States  --  three-fourths of the whole number  --  have only 41,000,000 . The House of Representatives Is the only place , in the whole process of passing an amendment , where the people are represented even approximately according to their number . The other circumstance is still more important . There appears to be no limit of time for the ratification of an amendment by a State Legislature . It might easily happen that these ratifications would be gradually accumulated at odd times until the requisite three-fourths was obtained , and yet that there would be no one time when three-fourths of the Legislatures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress is to stand aside , the whole question of the adoption of an amendment becomes a haphazard affair , devoid of almost every feature belonging to a real test of public sentiment . If we are to preserve our fundamental law from all sorts of unpredictable danger , we must adhere firmly to that view of . the conditions requisite to effecting a change in it which is prescribed alike by the language of the Constitution and by the plainest considerations of reason and justice . AN UPRIGHT JUDGE . Lord Alverstone , formerly Lord Chief Justice of England , whose death was recorded last week , had several contacts with the United States . He was repeatedly invited to address the American Bar Association , as his predecessors , Russell and Coleridge , had done , but was unable to accept . However , he formed the acquaintance of many American lawyers . Some of them he met at the two great international arbitrations at which he , as Sir Richard Webster , was of British counsel . We refer to the Behring Sea arbitration of 1892 and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this country was due to his unusual and high-minded course when he was himself a member of the arbitration tribunal which , in 1908 , passed upon the Alaska boundary dispute between Great Britain and the United States . The controversy was primarily between our Government and the Canadian , and two of the arbitrators were Canadians . There were three Americans , Messrs . Root , Lodge , and Turner , so that Lord Alverstone 's vote for the American contention was decisive . It was a fact that our Senate was led to ratify the treaty to arbitrate the Alaska boundary question by a rather ignoble argument . We could not possibly lose under it , so it was said , and we might win . Our own arbitrators were certain to stand for the American view , and there was a bare chance that one of the three on the other side might be persuaded of the justice of our cause . So it turned out . But the clever people at Washington could hardly have anticipated the large and noble way in which Lord Alverstone interpreted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quietly given , but so illustrates his high conception of the obligations of a judge , and so clearly points out the unfortunate nature of arbitrations without disinterested third parties taking part in the decision , that it is worth quoting : The papers were very voluminous , and after studying them carefully and hearing all the arguments , I came to the conclusion that I could not support the main contention of Canada as regarded the boundary , and , acting purely in a judicial capacity , I was under the painful necessity of differing from my two Canadian colleagues . I need scarcely say that , as I had appeared for Canada with success in the Behring Sea Arbitration , I only came tit. this decision with the greatest reluctance , and nothing but a sense of my duty to my position influenced me . I mention this because my conduct in giving this decision was the subject of violent and unjust criticism on the part of some Canadians . This feeling lasted for a considerable time , but I am bound to say that I think reflection and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fairer judgment . I have always felt since that arbitration that in any dispute between nations some members of the tribunal dealing with the questions should be of a nationality independent of the two contesting parties . In this case , as I have shown , the United States and Great Britain were both represented by their own nationals , and it puts a great strain on . the members of the tribunal in such cases when they have to decide against the country by which they have been nominated , without having the support of any independent jurists of another nationality . The above citation is from the book , " Recollections of Bar and Bench , " which Lord Alverstone wrote in 1914 . It was published in this country early in 1915 . From its unpretentious record of a great lawyer 's success , one gets a very definite impression of the qualities which enabled Richard Webster to win the highest prizes of the English bar . He was , first of all , a tremendous worker . He had an industry seemingly made of iron . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such humorous exaggerations as that which Frank Lockwood embodied in a whimsical sketch , to the effect that Webster went to bed with his boots on , so as to lose no time . As he rose rapidly in his profession , the amount of business urged upon him was enormous . He notes simply that " for two separate periods of ten months , I had a case every day from October 12th till August 12th . " But in addition to this capacity for severe labor , Sir Richard Webster impressed everybody with the great simplicity and integrity of his character . His action in the Alaska arbitration was of a piece with his whole career . Professional zeal or pride never overcame his desire that justice be done and that the soundest view of the law be established . As Attorney-General he once gave the Privy Council an opinion which it refused to accept . Thereupon , observed Lord Alverstone , " I had the mortification of writing over against my opinion in the Law Officers ' Book , ' This opinion is wrong . See Walker v. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lord Alverstone was merely a law machine . He-touched life humanly in many ways . A University athlete himself , he took great interest in athletic contests , often serving as a judge of them . One of his chapters is headed " Athletics and Music , " indicating his two main recreations . He writes of his membership in different glee clubs , and of his fondness for part-singing , all In a sober way , nowhere alluding to the fact that the Lord Chief Justice could sing a comic song as well as the next man . It was a life of great dignity which has closed , but also one of singular amenity . Lord Alverstone is fully entitled to a place among the worthies of the English bar and bench who not only did a man 's full work in their profession , but warmed both hands at the fire of life .                     