@@465683

self-subsisting , and where it is not beginning to be modified by the novel forces of the new times it produces its own food and drink , its own clothing , and largely intermarries within its limits . This in general terms is what is here intended by the phrase the Normal Social Life . It is still the substantial part of the rural life of all Europe and most of Asia and Africa , and it has been the life of the great majority of human beings for immemorial years . It is the root life . It rests upon the soil , and from that soil below and its reaction to the seasons and the moods of the sky overhead have grown most of the traditions , institutions , sentiments , beliefs , superstitions , and fundamental songs and stories of mankind . But since the very dawn of history at least this Normal Social Life has never been the whole complete life of mankind . Quite apart from the marginal life of the savage hunter , there have been a number of forces and influences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produced abnormal and surplus ways of living , supplemental , additional , and even antagonistic to this normal scheme . And first as to the forces within men and women . Long as it has lasted , almost universal as it has been , the human being has never yet achieved a perfect adaptation to the needs of the Normal Social Life . He has attained nothing of that frictionless fitting to the needs of association one finds in the bee or the ant , Curiosity , deep stirrings to wander , the still more ancient inheritance of the hunter , a recurrent distaste for labor , and resentment against the necessary subjugations of family life , have always been a straining force within the agricultural community . The increase of population during periods of prosperity has led at the touch of bad seasons and adversity to the desperate reliefs of war and the invasion of alien localities . And the nomadic and adventurous spirit of man found reliefs and opportunities more particularly along the shores of great rivers and inland seas . Trade and travel began , at first only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objects and luxuries and slaves . With trade came writing and money ; the inventions of debt and rent , usury and tribute . History finds already in its beginnings a thin network of trading and slaving flung over the world of the Normal Social Life , a network whose strands are the early roads , whose knots are the first towns and the first courts . Indeed , all recorded history is in a sense the history of these surplus and supplemental activities of mankind . The Normal Social Life flowed on in its immemorial fashion , using no letters , needing no records , leaving no history . Then , a little minority , bulking disproportionately in the record , come the trader and sailor , the slave , the landlord and the tax - compeller , the townsman and the king . All written history is the story of a minority and their peculiar and abnormal affairs . Save in so far as it notes great natural catastrophes end tells of the spreading or retrocession of human life through changes of climate and physical conditions , it resolves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modifications and supplements made by excessive and superfluous forces engendered within the community upon the Normal Social Life . The very invention of writing is a part of those modifying developments . The Normal Social Life is essentially illiterate and traditional . The Normal Social Life is as mute as the standing crops ; it is as seasonal and cyclic as Nature herself , and reaches toward the future only an intimation of continual repetitions . New this human over-life may take either beneficent or maleficent or neutral aspects toward the general life of humanity . It may present itself as law and pacification , as a positive addition and superstructure to the Normal Social Life , as roads and markets and cities , as courts and unifying monarchies , as helpful and directing religious organizations , as literature and art and science and philosophy , reflecting back upon the individual in the Normal Social Life from which it arose a gilding and refreshment of new and wider interests and added pleasures and resources . One may define certain phases in the history of various countries when this was the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a healthy family life and a wide distribution of property , animated by roads and towns and unified by a generally intelligible religious belief , lived in a transitory but satisfactory harmony under a sympathetic government . I take it that this i5 the condition to which the minds of such original and vigorous reactionary thinkers as Mr. G. K. Chesterton and Mr. Hilaire Bello% for example , turn , as being the most desirable state of mankind . But the general effect of history is to present these phases as phases of exceptional good luck , and to show the surplus forces of humanity as on the whole antagonistic to any such equilibrium with the Normal Social Life . To open the hook of history haphazard is , most commonly , to open it at a page where the surplus forces appear to be in more or less destructive conflict with the Normal Social Life . One opens at the depopulation of Italy by the aggressive great estates of the Roman Empire , at the impoverishment of the French peasantry by a too centralized monarchy before the Revolution , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of western Europe in the nineteenth century . Or again one opens at destructive wars . One sees these surplus forces over and above the Normal Social Life working toward unstable concentrations of population , to centralizations of government , to migrations and conflicts upon a large scale ; one discovers the process developing into a phase of social fragmentation and destruction , and then , unless the whole country has been wasted down to its very soil , the Normal Social Life returns as the heath and furze and grass return after the burning of a common . But it never returns in precisely its old form . The surplus forces have always produced some traceable change , the rhythm is a little altered . As between the Gallic peasant before the Roman conquest , the peasant of the Gallic province , the Carlovingian peasant , the French peasant of the thirteenth , the seventeenth , and the twentieth centuries , there is , in spite of a general uniformity of life , of a common atmosphere of cows , hens , dung- , toil , plowing , economy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of wider relevancies . And the oscillations of empires and kingdoms , religious movements , wars , invasions , settlements , leave upon the mind an impression that the surplus life of mankind , the less-localized life of mankind , that life of mankind which is not directly connected with the soil , but which has become more or less detached from and independent of it , is becoming proportionately more important in relation to the Normal Social Life . It is as if a different way of living was emerging from the Normal Social Life , and freeing itself from its traditions and limitations . And this is more particularly the effect upon the mind of a review of the history of the past two hundred years . The little speculative activities of the alchemist and natural philosopher , the little economic experiments of the acquisitive and enterprising landed proprietor , favored by unprecedented periods of security and freedom , have passed into a new phase of extraordinary productivity . They have added preposterously and continue to add on a gigantic scale and without any evident limits to the continuation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To the strength of horses and men and slaves has been added the power of machines and the possibility of economies that were once incredible . The Normal Social Life has been overshadowed as it has never been overshadowed before by the concentrations and achievements of the surplus life . Vast new possibilities open to the race ; the traditional life of mankind , its traditional systems of association , are challenged and threatened , and all the social thought , all the political activity of our time , turns in reality upon the conflict of this ancient system whose essentials we have here defined and termed the Normal Social Life with the still vague and formless impulses that seem destined either to involve it and men in a final destruction or to replace it by some new and probably more elaborate method of human association . Because there is the following difference between the action of the surplus forces as we see them to-day and as they appeared before the outbreak of physical science and mechanism . Then it seemed clearly necessary that whatever social and political organization developed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limitations that arise naturally out of the Normal Social Life . They desire a state in which property is widely distributed , a community of independent families , protected by law and an intelligent democratic statecraft from the economic aggressions of large accumulations , and linked by a common religion . Their attitude to the forces of change is necessarily a hostile attitude . They are disposed to regard innovations in. transit and machinery as undesirable , and even mischievous , disturbances of a wholesome equilibrium . They are at least unfriendly to any organization of scientific research , and scornful of the pretensions of science . Criticisms of the methods of logic , skepticism of the more widely diffused human beliefs , they would classify as insanity . Two able English writers , Mr. G. K. Chesterton and Mr. Belloc , have given the clearest expression to this system of ideals , and stated an admirable case for it . They present a conception of vinous , loudly singing , earthy , toiling , custom-ruled , wholesome , and insanitary men ; they are Pagan in the sense that their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Christian in the spirit of the parish priest . There are no other Conservators so clear-headed and consistent . But their teaching is merely the logical expression of an enormous amount of conservative feeling . Vast multitudes of less lucid minds share their hostility to novelty and research , hate , dread , and are eager to despise science , and glow responsive to the warm , familiar expressions of primordial feelings and immemorial prejudices . The rural conservative , the liberal of the allotments and small-holdings t3pe , Mr. Roosevelt ? in his Western-farmer , philoprogenitive phase as distinguished from the phase of his more imperialistic moments ? all present themselves as essentially Conservators , as seekers after and preservers of the Normal Social Life . So . too , do Socialists of the William Morris type . The mind of William Morris was profoundly reactionary . He hated the whole trend of later nineteenth-century modernism with the hatred natural to a man of considerable scholarship and intense esthetic sensibilities . His mind turned , exactly as Mr. Belloc 's turns , to the finished and enriched Normal Social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , unlike Mr. Bello ; he believed that given private ownership of land and the ordinary materials of life , there must necessarily be an aggregatory process , usury , expropriation , the development of an exploiting wealthy class . He believed profit was the devil . His News from Nowhere pictures a communism that amounted , in fact , to little more than a. system of private ownership of farms and trades without money or any buying and selling , in an atmosphere of geniality , generosity , and mutual helpfulness . Mr. Belloc , wills a harder grip upon the realities of life , would have the widest distribution of proprietorship , with an alert democratic government continually legislating against the Protean reappearances of usury and accumulation , and attacking , breaking up , and redistributing any large unanticipated bodies of wealth that appeared . But both men are equally set toward the Normal Social Life , and equally enemies of the New . The so-called " Socialist " land legislation of New Zealand , again , is a tentative toward the realization of the same school of ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ property is to be kept disseminated ; a vast amount of political speaking and writing in America and throughout the world enforces one 's impression of the wide spread and influence of Conservator ideals . Of course it is inevitable that phases of prosperity for the Normal Social Life will lead to phases of over-population and scarcity , there will be occasional famines and occasional pestilences and pIcthoras of vitality leading to the bloodletting of war . I suppose Mr. Chesterton and Mr. Belloc at least have the courage of their opinions , and are prepared to say that such things always have been and always must be ; they are part of the jolly rhythms of the human lot under the sun , and are to be taken with the harvest-home and love-making and the peaceful ending of honored lives as an integral part of the unending drama of mankind . Now opposed to III the Conservators are all those who do not regard contemporary humanity as a final thing , nor the Normal Social Life as the inevitable basis of human continuity . They believe in secular change , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continually more from its past . On the whole , they are prepared for the gradual disentanglement of men from the Normal Social Life altogether , and they look for new ways of living and new methods of human association with a certain adventurous hopefulness . Now this second large Class does not so much admit of subdivision into two as present a great variety of intermediaries between two extremes . I propose to give distinctive names to these extremes , with the very clear proviso that they are not antagonized , and that the great multitude of this second , anti-conservator class , this liberal , more novel class modern conditions has produced , falls between these extremes , and is neither completely one nor the other , but partaking in various degrees of both . On the one hand , then , we have that type of mind which is irritated by and distrustful of all collective proceedings , which is profoundly distrustful of churches and states , which is expressed essentially by Individualism . The Individualist appears to regard the extensive disintegrations of the Normal Social Life which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is ugly or harsh in modern industrialism or in the novel social development of our time he seems to consider as a necessary aspect of a process of selection and survival whose tendencies are , on the whole , inevitably satisfactory . The future welfare of man he believes in effect may be trusted to the spontaneous and planless activities of people of good-will , and nothing but State intervention can effectively impede its attainment . And curiously close to this extreme optimistic school in its moral quality and logical consequences , though contrasting widely in the sinister gloom of its spirit , is the socialism of Karl Marx . He declared the contemporary world to be a great process of financial aggrandizement and general expropriation , of increasing power for the few and of increasing hardship and misery for the many , a process that would go on until at last a crisis of unendurable tension would be reached and innovation as a mere inundation to be met , banked back , defeated , and survived , these more hopeful and adventurous minds would rather regard contemporary change as amounting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up of possible new channels , the violent opportunity of vast , deep , new ways to great , unprecedented human ends , ends that are neither feared nor evaded . Now while the Conservators are continually talking of the " eternal facts " of human life and human nature , and falling back upon a conception of permanence that is continually less true as our perspectives extend , these others are full of the conception of adaptation , of deliberate change in relationship and institution to meet changing needs . I would suggest for them , therefore , as opposed to the Conservators and contrasted with the Planless Progressives , the name of Constructors . They are the extreme right , as it were , while the Planless Progressives are the extreme left of Anti-Conservator thought . T believe that these distinctions I have made cover practically every clear form of contemporary thinking , and arc a better and more helpful classification than any now current . But of course nearly every individual nowadays is at least a little confused , and will be found to wobble in the course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other . This is a separation of opinions rather than of persons . And particularly that word Socialism has become so vague and incoherent that for a man to call himself a Socialist nowadays is to give no indication whatever whether he is a Conservator like William Morris , a Nonconstructive like Karl Marx , or a Constructor of any pf half a dozen . different schools . On the whole , however , modern Socialism tends to fall toward the Constructive wing . So , too , do those various movements in England and Germany and France called , variously , Nationalist and Imperialist , and so do the American civic and social reformers . All these movements are agreed that the world is progressive toward a novel and unprecedented social order and needs guidance thither , however much they differ as to the form that order shall assume . For the greater portion of a century fragmentation . Accordingly it sets up , Socialism has been before the world , and not only against the large private owner it is not perhaps premature to attempt but against owners generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that great of a public proprietor , the State , which movement in the new terms we are here shall hold in the collective interest . But employing . The origins of the Socialist where the earlier Socialisms stopped short idea were complex and multifarious , and where to this day Socialism is vague , never at any time has it succeeded in divided , and unprepared , is upon the separating out a statement of itself that psychological problems involved in that was at once simple , complete , and ac new and largely unprecedented form of ceptable to any large proportion of those proprietorship , and upon the still more who call themselves Socialists . But al subtle problems of its attainment . These ways it has pointed to two or three are vast , and profoundly , widely , and definite things . The first of these is that multitudinously difficult problems , and unlimited freedoms of private property it was natural and inevitable that the with increasing facilities of exchange , earlier Socialists in the first enthusiasm combination , and aggrandizement , be of their idea should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , pretend in the fullness of their man liberty by the expropriation and re faith that partial answers to objections duction to private - wages slavery of were complete answers , and display the larger and larger proportions of the common weaknesses of honest propaganda population . Every school of Socialism the whole world over . Socialism is now states this in some more or less com old enough to know better . Few modern plete form , however divergent the reme Socialists present their faith as a comdial methods suggested by the different plete panacea , and most are now setting schools . And , next , every school of to work in earnest upon these long-Socialism accepts the concentration of shirked preliminary problems of human management and property as necessary , interaction through which the vital and declines to contemplate what is problem of a collective head and brain the typical Conservator remedy , its re- can alone be approached .                     