@@487158

Art " Japanese Flower Arrangement : Bans Applied to Western Needs " ( Lane ) , by Mary Averill , is a prettily printed quarto with numerous outline illustrations . The-author follows not the more abstruse and artificial canon of the school of EnshiuRyu , but the simpler and more informal methods of Koshin-Ryu These are still sufficiently conventional for a Western taste The requirements of a good arrangement are , that it should be clear , tripartite , asymmetrical yet balanced , and that it should suggest , the season and give a sense of growth The arrangement should also be in a definite , proportion to the flower holder All this is different enough from the Western flower lover 's ideal of masses of roses in midwinter The directions are simple and explicit , the diagrams clear and often intrinsically delightful . An especial advantage of the system is that very acceptable arrangements may be made with branches in the absence of flowers . To follow the text and diagrams would be a novel recreation for any flower lover , and as well a disciplinary exercise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latest addition to McClurg 's Little Books on Art ( $1 net ) . The author , C E Hughes , has made a pretty complete list of all English aquarellists born before 1820 , and has clearly analyzed the style of the more prominent The book perforce falls into the form of a condensed critical and biographical chronicle , and is somewhat hard reading As a pocket manual for the tourist collector it has evident advantages . There is a colored frontispiece besides thirty-six other illustrations Although John La Farge had long planned to write on the chief pictorial representations of the Gospel stories , " The Gospel Story in Art " ( Macmillan- $5 net ) was his last work , dictated in invalidism and left in an incomplete condition The story of Christ is followed chronologically , but the pictures are introduced as the occasion suggests Usually Giotto is the starting point and Rembrandt the end , but whenever possible Delacroix is introduced . Holman Hunt 's Light of the World serves as a cover design , but concerning the religious painting of the Pre-Raphaelite there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's important books , yet it is delightful in a rambling way and not without flashes of his rare wisdom One reads it not for systematic information , here it is defective enough , but for a rather casual sort of enlightenment . There are many illustrations , and it should be an acceptable gift to a cultured person There are a good many slips owing to lack of final revision . A few of the more important , waiving contestable or negligible matters of attribution , we subjoin . It would be difficult to find a Doubting Thomas in the work of Giotto or a Christ among the Doctors in that of Botticelli . Bianchi Ferrari ( p 244 ) is - converted into Caudenzio Ferrari ; the doors of Beneventum ( p 251 ) into Bona , ventura The text calls for Tintoretto 's Crucifixion at S. Cassiano , but the Crucifixion of S Rocco is reproduced It would have been a convenience to the reader and a safeguard against such slips if the location of the picture had been given There is scarcely a topic connected with the Nile-land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is Gaston Maspero , the director-general of the Service of Antiquities of Egypt . Hence , when a work is published by him such as " Art in Egypt " ( Scribner ) , one feels assured that the subject has been covered with clearness and thoroughness The book itself , with its five hundred and sixty-five halftone illustrations , convinces one that every facility has been placed at the disposal of the reader . The only criticism that can be offered is that the illustrations are very often separated from the corresponding text by several pages Doubtless this is to be excused on account of the large number of pictures But at the same time the reader may , by taking the pains to examine theillustrations referred to . find almost every statement of the text verified pictorially . Unless this is done one has a sense of being swamped in detail . The historical plan which underlies the treatment is the true one and it serves to tiring out the element of progress and development so often denied to exist in the art of Egypt In fact , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art , and particularly to illustrate it , only within a few years , because it has only been possible to represent its artistic efforts faithfully within a decade or so . The old engravings of the earlier books were almost invariably no more than caricatures of the originals Such reproductions as were given in such monumental works as Lepsius 's " Denkmaler " were highly conventionalized and quite untrue to the varieties and variations of the actual work . Not till the introduction of the halftone was it possible to show the fineness of the execution attained by the Egyptian artist , , - whose low reliefs were characterized by almost infinitesimal gradations of surface level . With this book in hand one scarcely needs to visit the various museums which store the chief treasures of Egyptian art As contrasted with the foregoing , another volume on " Egyptian Art " ( Appleton ) , also by Maspero , has a double value The book is made up of translations of twenty-five magazine articles published at various times , some dated as far back as 1890 , some undated , dealing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Egypt The majority have to do with various pieces of statuary and examples of the goldsmith 's work in Jewelry and plate Each article may be regarded as an excursus upon some topic in the smaller book , while nearly all of the 107 illustrations have a special value on account o- their larger size and greater detail . The second respect in which the book has considerable value is historical . The articles reflect the views entertained during the past quarter of a century or more , while the footnotes call attention to the changes which investigation has made meanwhile There are two points on which the emphasis is laid : first , the proof of the existence of local schools of art at various centres and the absence of that uniformity with which Egyptian art has been charged ; and , secondly , the fact that almost without exception the objects described had to do with the theological views of the makers or owners of them . Comparatively few can be dissociated from the Egyptian belief in the future life The statues were portraits , so that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its place of residence and retreat , the funereal . objects served to secure the possession of the things represented in the land of shades There are repetitions in the articles , as might be expected from the method and order of their original preparation and publication . These have been retained purposely , since they are historically true and also since they serve to record the reiterations which were needed to convince the skeptical of the truth of the positions advanced Censure is due for adherence to the French method of transcription of proper names in an English version , which serves td confuse the layman hopelessly and in many cases almost completely tohide the real identity of the person intended . In " Thomas Jefferson as an Architect and Designer of Landscapes " ( Houghton Mifflin ) a landscape architect of distinction , Mr Warren II Manning , has associated his labors with those of a physician and scholar , Dr. W. A Lambeth , of the University of Virginia . The handsome volume which embodies the result of these labors is a contribution of great importance to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ based throughout on original sources in the archives of the University of Virginia and elsewhere , checked at every point by a careful study of the buildings themselves The outcome of these investigations reveals Jefferson as no mere amateur and dilettante , copying the details of antique or Palladian models and relying upon others , with a more practical training , to work out his ideas , but as a real architect who combined scholarly erudition and a refined taste with a surprising amount of practical experience in the science and business of building The volume is divided into two parts , the first , under Dr Lambeth 's name , treating of Jefferson 's work as an architect , the second , by Mr Manning , of his work as a landscape designer The University of Virginia naturally furnishes the largest share of the work discussed , but Monticello and Jefferson 's hand in the design of Farmington and Bruno ( Virginia estates ) receive proper attention . The many photographic prints are excellent , including facsimiles of manuscripts and sketches by Jefferson , as well as views of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jefferson as a man of wonderful resource in widely varied fields is attractive , and is well supported by the evidence set forth by the authors " Home Furnishing " ( Lane ) , by George Leland Hunter , is a very valuable book of its ind It consists of chats , in a popular vein , about furniture , rugs , carpets , lamps , and other lighting fixtures , wall papers , window shades and draperies , potteries and tapestries The author , who has been connected with a Journal of the upholstery trade and who in recent years has qualified as an expert in tapestries , has the gift of talking very directly ad hommenz or , and this is more important , ad mulberem He knows the foolishness of many amateur home makers and the unscrupulousness of some purveyors to their needs and tastes The story may or may not be apocryphal of the Kansas City woman who entered a New York furniture store to inquire where she should find Mr. Chippendale 's shop and who , when informed that the gentleman had been dead some years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it at least illustrates the kind of public which exists for these books of household art It is a fortunate home maker that gets so good a guide as Mr. Hunter , whose outlook on art is epitomized in this passage Art is a dangerous word The ignorant use it too much , the cultivated use it too little To describe anything as an art product introduces doubt into the mind of the connoisseur , so familiar are we with the art supplements of newspapers and magazines , and with art shops and the art departments of large stores And the manufacturer who makes a bad copy of something good almost- invariably tries to Lift it from fake to fact by means of the prefix , art . The information about present values of antiques sounds authentic even though the figures will soon be antiquated . The author , or proofreader , on page 213 passed the name of Mrs. Maria Longworth Stover , which , of course , should be Storer . George Browne Post , architect , died on Friday at his home in Bernardsville , N J. He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1858 received the degree of civil engineer from the School of Science of New York University He studied architecture with the late Richard M. Hunt . For gallant service in the Civil War he was promoted to the rank of colonel . Some of the buildings designed by Mr. Post are the New York Cotton Exchange , New ' York Produce Exchange , New York Stock Exchange , College of the City of New York , Pulitzer biulding , the building of the Equitable Life Assurance Society that was burned in 1912 , the buildings of the Prudential Life and Mutual Life Insurance Companies , in Newark , N. J , the Wisconsin State Capitol , Cleveland Trust Company building , Cleveland , 0. , and the Manufactures and Liberal Arts buildings at the Chicago Exposition Mr Post was made a Chevalier of the Legion of Honor in 1901 and won great distinction in this country .                     