@@436321

IF by science ' we mean an organized knowledge of the world we live in , adequate to give us some degree of power over that world , and d if by mysticism ' we mean the quintessential part of religion , or our emotional relationship to the world as a whole , the opposition which we usually assume to exist between them is of comparatively modern origin . Amoilg savage peoples such an opposition has no existence . Not only is there no opposition between the ' scientific ' and the ' mystical ' attitude among peoples we may fairly call primitive , but the two attitudes are usually combined in the same person . The ' medicine-man ' is not more a man of science than he is a mystic : he is both equally . He cultivates not only magic but holiness , he achieves the conquest of his own soul , he enters into harmony with the universe ; and in doing this , and partly indeed through doing this , his knowledge is increased , his sensations and power of observation are rendered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge of natural processes , that he can to some extent foresee or even control those processes . lie is the ancestor alike of the hermit following after sanctity and of the inventor crystallizing discoveries into profitable patents . Such is usually the medicine-man wherever we find him , all over the world , around Torres Straits just as much as around Bering 's Straits . Yet we have totally failed to grasp the significance of this fact . It is the business of the shaman , as on the mystical side we may best term the medicine-man , to place himself under the conditions ? and even in primitive life those conditions are varied and subtle ? which bring his will into harmony with the essence of the world , so that he grows one with that essence , that its will becomes his will , and , reversely , that in a sense his will becomes its . Herewith , in this unity with the spirit of the world , the possibilities of magic and the power to control the operations of Nature are introduced into human thought , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absurdity persisting even into advanced civilization . But this harmony with the essence of the universe , this control of Nature through oneness with Nature , is not only . at the heart of religion ; it is also at the heart of science . It is only by the possession of an acquired or inborn temperament attuned to the temperament of Nature that a Faraday or an Edison , that any scientific discoverer or inventor , can achieve his results . And the primitive medicine-man , who on the religious side has attained harmony of the self with the not-self , and by obeying has learned to command , can not fail on the scientific side also , under the special conditions of his isolated life , to acquire an insight into natural methods , a practical power over human activities and over the treatment of disease , such as on the imaginative and emotional side he already possesses . If we are able to see this essential and double attitude of the shaman or medicine-man , if we are able to eliminate all the extraneous absurdities and extravagances which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world , the problem of science and mysticism , their relationship to each other , ceases to have any difficulties for us . Thus the medicine-man 's significance is surely clear . If science and mysticism are alike based on fundamental natural instincts , appearing spontaneously all over the world ; if , moreover , they naturally tend to appear in the same individual in such a way that each impulse would seem to be dependent on the other for its full development , then there can be no ground for accepting any disharmony between them . The course of human evolution may involve a division of labor , a specialization of science and of mysticism along different lines and in separate individuals ; but a fundamental antagonism of the two , it becomes evident , is not to be thought of ; it is unthinkable , even absurd . If at some period in the course of civilization we seriously find that our science and our religion are antagonistic , then there must be something wrong either with our science or with our religion . Perhaps not seldom there may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impulses which normally work best together are separated and specialized in different persons , we may expect to find a concomitant state of atrophy and hypertrophy , both alike morbid . The scientific person will become atrophied on the mystical side , the mystical person will become atrophied on the scientific side . Each will become morbidly hypertrophied on his own side . But the assumption that because there is a lack of harmony between opposing pathological states there must also be a similar lack of harmony under natural conditions , is unreasonable . We must severely put out of count alike the hypertrophied scientific peo. ple with atrophied religious instincts , and the hypertrophied religious people with atrophied scientific instincts . Neither group can help us here ; the only introduce confusion . The fact that at the present moment this is peculiar . ly the case furnishes the reason why we here have to examine the matter critically , to go back to first principles , to take so wide a survey of the phenomena that their seemingly conflicting elements shall fall into harmony . The fact , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religious sense combined with an underdeveloped scientific sense necessarily conflicts with a person in whom the reverse state of affairs exists can not be doubted , nor is the reason of it obscure . It is difficult to conceive a Darwin and . a St. Theresa entering with full and genuine sympathy into each other 's point of view . And that is so by no means because the two attitudes , stripped of all but their essentials , are irreconcilable . If we strip St. Theresa of her atrophied pseudo-science , which in her case was mostly theological science , there was nothing in her attitude which would not have seemed to harmonize with and to exalt that absolute adoration and service to natural truth which inspired Darwin . If se strip Darwin of that atrophied feeling for poetry and the arts which he deplored , and that anaemic secular conception of the universe as a whole which he seems to have accepted without deploring , there was nothing in his attitude which would not have served to fertilize and enrich the spiritual exaltation of Theresa , and even to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slothfulness which all the mystics , who are mystics only , have recognized as their besetting sin , minimised as it was in Theresa by her practical activities . Yet being , as they were , persons of supreme genius developed on opposite sides of their common human nature , an impassable gulf lies between them . It lies equally between much more ordinary people who yet show the same common character of being under-grown on one side , overn on the other . This difficulty is not diminished when the person who is thus hypertrophied on one side and atrophied on the other suddenly wakes up to his one-sided state and hastily attempts to remedy it . The very fact that such a one-sided development has come about , indicates that there has probably been a congenital basis for it , an innate disharmony which must require infinite patience and special personal experience to overcome it . But the heroic and ostentatious manner in which these ill-balanced people hastily attempt the athletic feat of restoring their spiritual balance has frequently aroused the interest , and too often the amusement , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quintessentially scientific person the world has seen , the searcher who has made the most stupendous effort to picture the universe intelligently on its purely intelligible side , realized in old age , when he was indeed approaching senility , that the vast hypertrophy of his faculties on that side had not been compensated by any development on the religious side . He forthwith set himself to the interpretation of the Book of Daniel and puzzled over the prophecies of the Book of Revelation , with the same scientifically serious air that he would have assumed in analyzing the spectrum . In reality he had not reached the sphere of religion at all ; he had merely exchanged good science for bad science . Such senile efforts to pen- etrate , ere yet life is quite over , the mystery of religion , recall , and indeed have a real analogy to , that final effort of the emotionally starved to grasp a love which has been called ' old maids ' insanity ' ; and just as in this aberration the woman who has all her life put love into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eruption of the suppressed emotions and driven to create baseless legends of which she is herself the heroine , so the scientific man who has put religion into the sphere subconscious , and has scarcely known that there is such a thing , may become in the end the victim of an imaginary religion . In our own time we may have witnessed attempts of the scientific mind to become religious , which , without amounting to mental aberration , are yet highly instructive . It would be a double-edged compliment , in this connection , to compare Sir Oliver Lodge with Sir Isaac Newton . But after devoting himself for many years to purely physical research , Lodge also , as he has confessed , found that he had overlooked the religious side of life , and therefore set himself with characteristic energy to the task ? the stages of which are described in a long series of books ? of developing this atrophied side of his nature . Unlike Newton , who was worried about the future , Lodge became worried about the past . Just as Newton found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speculating on the meaning of the books of Daniel and Revelation , so Lodge found a similar satisfaction in speculations concerning the origin of the soul , and in hunting out tags from the poets to support his speculations . So fascinating was this occupation that it seemed to him to constitute a great ' message ' to the world . ' My message is that there is some great truth in the idea of preexistence , not an obvious truth , nor one easy to formulate , ? a truth difficult to express , ? not to be identified with the guesses of reincarnation and transmigration , which may be fanciful . We may not have been individuals before , but we are chips or fragments of a great mass of mind , of spirit , and of life ? drops , as it were , taken out of a germinal reservoir of life , and incubated until incarnate in a material body . ' The genuine mystic would smile if asked to accept as a divine message these phraseological gropings in the darkness , with their culmination in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempt to get at a real fact . But the mystic is not troubled by speculations about the origin of the individual , or theories of preexistence . It is abundantly evident that when the hypertrophied man of science seeks to cultivate his atrophied religious instincts it is with the utmost difficulty that he escapes from science . His conversion to religion merely means , for the most part , that he has exchanged sound science for pseudo-science . Similarly , when the man with hypertrophied religious instincts seeks to cultivate his atrophied scientific instincts , the results are scarcely satisfactory . Here , indeed , we are concerned with a phenomenon that is rarer than the reverse process . The reason may not be far to seek . The instinct of religion develops earlier in the history of a race than the instinct of science ; it is doubtless more fundamental . The man who has found the massive satisfaction of his religious cravings is seldom at any stage conscious of scientific cravings ; he is apt to feel that he already possesses the supreme knowledge . The religious doubters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ science are merely the creatures of creeds , the product of churches ; they are not the genuine mystics . The genuine mystics who have exercised their scientific instincts have generally found scope for such exercise within an enlarged theological scheme which they regarded as part of their religion . So it was that St. Augustine found scope for his full and vivid , if capricious , intellectual impulses ; so also Aquinas , in whom there was doubtless less of the mystic and more of the scientist , found scope for the rational and orderly development of a keen intelligence which has made him an authority , and even a pioneer , for many who are absolutely indifferent to his theology . Again , we see that to understand the real relations between science and mysticism , we must return to ages when , on neither side , had any accumulated mass of dead traditions effected an artificial divorce between two great natural instincts . It has already been pointed out that if we go outside civilization , the divorce is not found ; the savage mystic is also the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are one . It is so also for the most part in barbarism , among the ancient Hebrews , for instance , and not only among their priests but even among their prophets . It appears that the most common Hebrew word for what we term prophet ' signified ' one who bursts forth , ' presumably into the utterance of spiritual verities , and the less usual words signify ' seer . ' That is to say , the prophet was primarily a man of religion , secondarily a man of science . And that predictive element in the prophet 's function , which to persons lacking in religious instinct seems the whole of his function , has no relationship at all to religion ; it is a function of science . It is an insight into cause and effect , a conception of sequences based on extended observa- tion , and enabling the ' prophet ' to assert that certain lines of action will probably lead to the degeneration of a stock , or to the decay of a nation . It is a sort of applied history . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than have the forecasts of the Meteorological Bureau , which also are a kind of applied science in earlier ages associated with religion . If , keeping within the sphere of civilization , we go back as far as we can , the conclusion we reach is not greatly different . The earliest of the great mystics in historical times is Lao-tze . He lived six hundred years earlier than Jesus , a hundred years earlier than Sakya-Muni , and he was more quintessentially a mystic than either . He was , moreover , incomparably nearer than either to the point of view of science . Even his occupation in life was , in relation to his age and land , such as we may regard as of a typically scientific character : he was , if we may trust uncertain tradition , keeper of the archives . In the substance of his work this harmony of religion and science is throughout unmistakable ; the very word Tao , which to Lao-tze is the symbol of all that to which religion may mystically unite us , is susceptible of being translated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meaning . There are no theological or metaphysical speculations here concerning God ( the very word only occurs once and may be a later interpolation ) , the soul , or immortality . The delicate and profound art of Lao-tze largely lies in the skill with which he expresses spiritual verities in the form of natural truths . His affirmations not only go to the core of religion , but they express the essential methods of science . This man has the mystic 's heart , but he has also the physicist 's touch and the biologist 's eye . He moves in a sphere in which religion and science are one . If we pass to more modern times and to the little European corner of the world , around the Mediterranean shores , which is the cradle of our latter-day civilization , again and again we find traces of this fundamental unity of mysticism and science . It may well be that we never again find it in quite so pure a form as in Lao-tze , quite so free from all admixture alike of bad religion and bad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the restless acquisitiveness , ? already manifested in the sphere of ideas and traditions before it led to the production of millionaires , ? soon became an ever-growing impediment to such unity of spiritual impulses . Among the supple and versatile Greeks , indeed , exuberance and recklessness seem always to have stood in the way of approach to the essential terms of this problem . We see far more of it in Lucretius than we can divine in Epicurus . It was only when the Greeks began to absorb oriental influences that they became genuine mystics , and as they approached mysticism they left science behind . If Lucretius is the first of moderns in this identification of mysticism and science , he has been followed by many , even though it may be , one sometimes thinks , with an ever increasing difficulty , a drooping of the wings of mystical aspiration , a limping of the feet of scientific progress . Leonardo and Giordano Bruno and Spinoza and Goethe , each with a little imperfection on one side or the other , if not on both sides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of religion are felt to spring from the same centre as the impulses of science . If we can not altogether include such men as Swedenborg and Faraday in the same group , it is because we can not feel that in them the two impulses , however highly developed , really spring from the same centre or really make a true harmony . We suspect that these men and their like kept their mysticism in a science-proof compartment of their minds , and their science in a mysticism-proof compartment ; we tremble for the explosive result , should the wall of partition ever be broken down . The difficulty , we see again , has been that on each hand there has been a growth of non-essential traditions around the pure and vital impulse , and the obvious disharmony of these two sets of accretions conceals the underlying harmony of the impulses themselves . The possibility of reaching the natural harmony is thus not necessarily by virtue of any rare degree of intellectual attainment , nor by any rare gift of inborn spiritual temperament , ? though either of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the happy chance that the burden of tradition on each side has fallen , and that the mystical impulse is free to play without a dead metaphysical theology , the scientific impulse without a dead metaphysical formalism . It is a happy chance that may befall the simple more easily than the wise and learned . II The foregoing considerations have perhaps cleared the way to a realization of the fact that when we look broadly at the matter , when we clear away all the accumulated superstitions , the unreasoned prepossessions on either side , and so reach firm ground , not only is there no opposition between science and mysticism , but in their essence , and at the outset , they are essentially related . The seeming divorce between them is due to a false and unbalanced development on either side , if not on both sides . Yet all such considerations as these can not suffice to realize for us this unity of apparent opposites . There is , indeed , it has often seemed to me , a certain futility in all discussion of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter which , in the last resort , lies beyond the sphere of argument . It not only depends on a man 's entire psychic equipment , brought with him at birth and never to be fundamentally changed , but it is the outcome of his own vital experience during life . It can not be profitably discussed because it is experiential . It seems to me , therefore , that , haying gone so far , and stated what I consider to be the relations of mysticism and science as revealed in human history , I am bound to go further and to state what are my personal grounds for believing that the harmonious satisfaction alike of the religious impulse and of the scientific impulse may be attained to-day by an ordinarily balanced person in whom both impulses crave for satisfaction . There is indeed a serious difficulty . To set forth a personal religious experience for the first time requires considerable resolution , and not least to one who is inclined to suspect that the experiences usually so set forth can be of no profound or significant nature ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be brought to the surface and put into words their vital motive power is gone . Even the fact that more than thirty years have passed since the experience took place , scarcely suffices to make the confession of it easy . But I recall to mind that the first original book I ever planned ( and in fact partly wrote ) was a book , impersonal though suggested by personal experience , on the foundations of religion . ' I put it aside , saying to myself that I would complete it in old age , because it seemed to me that the problem of religion would always be fresh , while there were other problems more pressingly in need of speedy investigation . Now , it may be , I begin to feel that the time has come to carry that early project a stage further . Like many of the generation to which I belonged , I was brought up far from the Sunday-school atmosphere of conventional religiosity . I received little religious instruction outside the home , but there I was made to feel , from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and personal matter with which the world and the fashion of it had nothing to do . To that teaching , while still a child , I responded in a wholehearted way . Necessarily , the exercises of this early impulse followed the paths prescribed for it by my environment . I accepted the creed set before me ; I privately studied the New Testament for my own satisfaction ; I honestly endeavored , strictly in private , to mould my actions and impulses on what seemed to be Christian lines . There was no obtrusive outward evidence of this ; outside the home , moreover , I moved in a world which might be indifferent but was not actively hostile to my inner aspirations , and if the need for any external affirmation had become absolutely inevitable I should , I am fairly certain , have invoked other than religious grounds for my protest . Religion , as I instinctively felt then , and as I consciously believe now , is a private matter , as love is . This was my mental state at the age of twelve . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the scientific and critical instincts began to germinate . These were completely spontaneous , and not stimulated by any influences of the environment . To inquire , to question , to investigate the qualities of the things around us and to search out their causes , is surely as native an impulse as the religious impulse would be found to be if only we would refrain from exciting it artificially . In the first place , this scientific impulse was not greatly concerned with the traditional body of beliefs which were then inextricably entwined in my mind with the exercise of the religious instinct . In so far indeed as it touched them it took up their defense . Thus I read Renan 's Life of Jesus , and the facile sentiment of this book , the attitude of artistic reconstruction , aroused a criticism which led me to ignore any underlying sounder qualities . Yet , all the time , the inquiring and critical impulse was a slowly permeating and invading influence , and its application to religion was , now and again , stimulated by books , although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social environment . When , too , I came to read Swinburne 's Songs before Sunrise , ? although the book made no very personal appeal to me , ? I realized that it was possible to present in an attractively modern , emotional light , religious beliefs which were incompatible with Christianity , and even actively hostile to its creed . The process of disintegration took place in slow stages that were not perceived until the process was complete . Then at last I realized that I no longer possessed any religious faith . All the Christian dogmas I had been brought up to accept unquestioned had slipped away , and they had dragged with them what I had experienced of religion , for I could not then so far analyze all that is roughly lumped together as ' religion ' as to disentangle the essential from the accidental . Such analysis , to be effectively convincing , demanded personal experiences I was not possessed of . I was now seventeen years of age . The loss of religious faith had produced no change in conduct , save that religious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dropped , so far as they might be without hurting the feelings of others . The revolution was so gradual and so natural that even inwardly the shock was not great , while various activities , the growth of mental aptitudes , sufficiently served to occupy the mind . It was only during periods of depression that the absence of faith as a satisfaction of the religious impulse became at all acutely felt . Possibly it might have been felt less acutely if I could have realized that there was even a real benefit in the cutting down and clearing away of traditional and non-vital beliefs . Not only was it a wholesome and strenuous effort to obey at all costs the call of what was felt as ' truth , ' having in it , therefore , a spirit of religion even though directed against religion , but it was evidently favorable to the training of intelligence . The man who has never wrestled with , and overcome , his early faith , the faith that he was brought up with and that yet is not his own , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The absence of that discipline may mark a man for life and render all his work in the world ineffective . He has missed a training in criticism , in analysis , in open-mindedness , in the resolutely impersonal treatment of personal problems , which no other training can compensate . He is , for the most part , condemned to live in a mental jungle where his arm will soon be too feeble to clear away the growths that enclose him and his eyes too weak to find the light . While , however , I had adopted without knowing it , the best course to steel the power of thinking and to render possible a patient , humble , self-forgetful attitude toward Nature , there were times when I became painfully , almost despairingly , conscious of the unsatisfied cravings of the religious impulse . These moods tended to be . come more rather than less acute . They were emphasized even by the books I read , which argued that religion , in the only sense in which I understood religion , was unnecessary and that science , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we need to ask in this direction . I well remember the painful feelings with which I read at this time D. F. Strauss 's The Old Faith and the A ; ov . It is a scientific creed set down in old age , with much comfortable complacency , by a man who found considerable satisfaction in the evening of life in the enjoyment of Haydn 's quartettes and Munich brown beer . They are both excellent things , as I am now willing to grant , but they are a sorry source of inspiration when one is seventeen and consumed by a thirst for impossibly remote ideals . Moreover , the philosophic horizon of this man was as limited and as prosaic as the aesthetic atmosphere in which he lived . I had to acknowledge to myself that the scientific principles of the universe , as Strauss laid them down , presented , so far as I knew , the utmost scope in which the human spirit could move . But what a poor scope ! I had the feeling that the universe was a sort of factory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flying shuttles , in a deafening din . That , it seemed , was the world as the most competent scientific authorities declared it to be made . It was a world I was prepared to accept , and yet a world in which , I felt , I could only wander restlessly , an ignorant and homeless child . Sometimes , no doubt , there were other visions of the universe a little less disheartening , such as that presented by Herbert Spencer 's First Principles , but the dominant feeling always was that while the scientific outlook , the outlook of Darwin and Huxley , commended itself to me as presenting a sound view of the world , on the emotional side I was a stranger to that world , if indeed I would not , with Omar , shatter it to bits . ' At the same time , it must be noted , there was no fault to find with the general trend of my life and activities . I was fully occupied , with daily duties as well as with the actively interested contemplation of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case at the age of nineteen , three years after all vestiges of religious faith had disappeared from the psychic surface . I was still interested in religious and philosophic questions , and it so chanced that at this time I reread the Life in Nature of James Hinton , who had already attracted my attention as a genuine man of science with yet a very original and personal grasp of religion . I had read the book six months before and it had not greatly impressed me . Now , I no longer know why , I read it again , and the effect was very different . Evidently by this time my mind had reached a stage of saturated solution which needed , by the shock of the right contact , to recrystallize in forms that were a revelation to me . Here evidently the right contact was applied . Hinton in this book showed himself a scientific biologist who carried the mechanistic explanations of life even further than was then usual . But he was a man of a highly passionate type of intellect , and what might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emotion . Thus , while he saw the world as an orderly mechanism , he was not content , like Strauss , to stop there and see nothing else . As he viewed it , the mechanism was not the mechanism of a factory , it was vital , with all the glow and warmth and beauty of life ; it was , therefore , something which not only the intellect might accept , but the heart might cling to . The bearing of this conception on my state of mind is obvious . It acted with the swiftness of an electric contact ; the dull aching tension was removed ; the two opposing psychic tendencies were fused in delicious harmony , and my whole attitude toward the universe was changed . It was no longer an attitude of hostility and dread , but of confidence and love . My self was one with the not-self ; my will , one with the universal will . I seemed to walk in light ; my feet scarcely touched the ground ; I had entered a new world . The effect of that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moment or two of wavering , and the primary exaltation soon subsided into an attitude of calm serenity toward all those questions that had once seemed so torturing . In regard to all these matters I had become permanently satisfied and at rest , yet absolutely unfettered and free . I was not troubled about the origin of the soul , or about the destiny of the soul ; I was entirely prepared to accept any analysis of the soul which might commend itself as reasonable . Neither was I troubled about the existence of any superior being or beings , and I was ready to see that all the words and forms by which men try to picture to themselves spiritual realities are mere metaphors and images of an inward experience . There was not a single clause in my religious creed , because I held no creed . I had found that all dogmas were ? not as I had once imagined , true , not as I had afterwards supposed , false ? but the mere empty shadows of intimate personal experiences . I had become indifferent to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what I counted dearest at the call of what seemed to be Truth , and now I was repaid a thousand-fold . Henceforth I could face life with confidence and joy , for my heart was at one with the world , and whatever might prove to be in harmony with the world could not be out of harmony with me . Yet , as the acute reader can not fail to observe , nothing whatever had happened , and I had not gained one single definite belief that could be expressed in a scientific formula or hardened into a religious creed . That , indeed , is the essence of such a process . A ' conversion ' is not , as is often assumed , a turning toward a belief . More strictly , it is a turning round , a revolution ; it has no primary reference to any external object . To put the matter a little more precisely , the change is fundamentally a readjustment of psychic elements to each other , enabling the whole machine to work harmoniously . There is no necessary introduction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a casting out of dead ideas which have clogged the vital process . The soul had not been in harmony with itself ; now it is revolving truly on its own axis , and in doing so it simultaneously finds its true orbit in the cosmic system . In becoming one with itself it becomes one with the universe . ' Thus may be explained what may seem to some the curious fact that I never for a moment thought of accepting as a gospel the book which had brought me a stimulus of such inesti- mable value . The person in whom ' conversion ' takes place is usually told that the process is connected in some magical manner with a supernatural influence of some kind , a book , a creed , a church , or what not . I had read this book before , and it had left me unmoved ; I knew that the change had its source in me , and not in the book . I never looked into the book again ; I can not tell when or how my copy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accomplished its mission , it was drawn up again to Heaven in a sheet . As regards James Hinton , I was interested in him before the date of the episode here narrated ; I am interested in him still . It may further be noted that this process of ' conversion ' can not be regarded as the outcome of despair . The unfortunate individual , we sometimes imagine , who is bereft of religious faith , sinks deeper and deeper into despondency , until finally he unconsciously seeks relief from his woes by plunging into an abyss of emotions , thereby committing intellectual suicide . On the contrary , the period in which this event occurred was far from a period of dejection , either mental or physical . I was fully occupied ; I lived a healthy , open-air life , in a fine climate , amid beautiful scenery ; I was reveling in new studies and the growing consciousness of new powers . Instead of being the ultimate stage in a process of descent , my psychic revolution might much more fittingly be regarded as the climax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a point on Which I would insist , ? nothing had here taken place which by any effort of imagination could be described as intellectual suicide . On the intellectual side no change had taken place . No new creed or dogma had been adopted ; it might rather be said that , on the contrary , some prepossessions , hitherto unconscious , had been realized and cast out . The operations of reason , so far from being fettered , could be effected with greater freedom and on a larger scale . The religious process , we may observe again , had throughout directly contributed to strengthen the scientific attitude . The mere fact that one is impelled by the sincerity of one 's religious faith to question , to analyze , and finally to destroy one 's religious creed , is itself an incomparable training for the intelligence . In this task reason is submitted to the hardest tests ; it has every temptation to allow itself to be lulled into sleepy repose or cajoled into specious reconciliations . If it is true to itself here it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no other task can ever demand so complete a self-sacrifice at the call of Truth . Indeed the final restoration of the religious impulse on a higher plane may itself be said to reinforce the scientific impulse , for it removes that sense of psychic disharmony which is a subconscious fetter on the rational activity . The new inward harmony , proceeding from a psychic centre that is at one alike with itself and with the not-self , imparts confidence to every operation of the intellect . All the metaphysical images of faith in the unseen ? too familiar in the mystical experiences of men of all religions to need specification ? are now on the side of science . For he who is thus held in his path can pursue that path with serenity and trust , however daring its course may sometimes seem . It appears to me , therefore , on the basis of personal experience , that the process thus outlined is a natural process . The harmony of the religious impulse with the scientific impulse is not merely a conclusion to be deduced from the history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However obscured it may be in many cases , the process lies in human nature and is still open to all to experience . III If the development of the religious instinct and the development of the scientific instinct are alike natural , and if the possibility of the harmony of the two instincts is a verifiable fact of experience , how is it , one may ask , that there has ever been any dispute on the matter ? Why has not this natural experience been the experience of all ? Various considerations may help to make clear to us how it has happened that a process which might reasonably be supposed to be intimate and sacred should have become so obscured and so deformed that it has been fiercely bandied about by opposing factions . At the outset , as we have seen , among comparatively primitive peoples , it really is a simple and natural process carried out harmoniously with no sense of conflict . A man , it would seem , was not then overburdened by the still unwritten traditions of the race . He was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chains forged out of the dead impulses of those who had gone before him . It is the same still among uncultivated persons of our own race in civilization . I well remember how once during a long ride through the Australian bush with a settler , a quiet uncommunicative man with whom I had long been acquainted , he suddenly told me how at times he would ascend to the top of a hill and become lost to himself and to everything as he stood in contemplation of the scene around him . Those moments of ecstasy , of self-forgetful union with the Divine beauty of Nature , were entirely compatible with the rational outlook of a simple , hardworking man who , at such moments , had in his own humble way , like Moses , met God in a mountain . There can be no doubt that such an experience is not uncommon among simple folk unencumbered by tradition , even when of civilized race . The burden of written traditions , of formalized conventions , of stereotyped castes , has too often proved fatal alike to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is unnecessary to point out how easily this happens in the case of the religious impulse . It is only too familiar to us how , when the impulse of religion first germinates in the young soul , the ghouls of the Church rush out of their caverns , seize on the unhappy victim of the divine effluence and proceed to assure him that his rapture is not a natural manifestation as free as the sunlight and as gracious as the unfolding of a rose , but the manifest sign that he has been branded by a supernatural force and fettered for ever to a dead theological creed . Too often he is thus caught by the bait of his own rapture ; the hook is firmly fixed in his jaw and he is drawn whither his blind guides will ; his wings droop and fall away ; so far as the finer issues of life are concerned he is done for and damned . But the process is not so very different on the scientific side , though here it is more subtly concealed . The youth in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the spontaneous movement of his intelligence toward Nature and Truth is anthill , ' for the one thing needful is that he shall be put to discipline , and trained in the scientific traditions of the ages , The desirability of such training for the effective questioning of Nature is so clear that both teacher and pupil are apt to overlook the fact that it involves much that is not science at all : all sorts of dead traditions , unrealized fragments of ancient metaphysical systerns , prepossessions and limitations , conscious or unconscious , the obedience to arbitrary authorities . So that the actual outcome may be that the finally accomplished man of science has as little of the scientific impulse as the fully fledged religious man need ha ; e of the religious impulse ; he becomes the victim of another kind of ecclesiastical sectarianism . There is one special piece of ancient metaphysics which , until recently , scientific and religious sects have alike combined to support : the conception of ' matter . ' This conception has been of primary importance in distorting the scientific spirit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All sorts of antique metaphysical peculiarities were attributed to matter , ' and they were mostly of a bad character ; all the good qualities were attributed to spirit ' ; ' matter ' played the Devil 's part to the more divine spirit . ' Thus it was that ' materialistic ' came to be a term signifying all that is most heavy , opaque , depressing , soul-destroying and diabolical in the universe . The party of traditionalized religion fostered this conception and the party of traditionalized science frequently adopted it , cheerily proposing to find infinite potentialities in this despised metaphysical substance . Yet matter ' ? as psychologically minded philosophers at last began to point out ? is merely a substance we have ourselves invented to account for our sensations . We see , we touch , we hear , we smell , and by a brilliant synthetic effort of intelligence we put together all these sensations and picture to ourselves matter ' as being the source of them . It is a useful working hypothesis ; it is nothing more . Science itself is slowly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' matter , ' the nature of which Dr. Johnson , as Boswell tells us , thought he had settled by ' striking his foot with mighty force against a large stone , ' is coming to be looked upon as merely an electrical emanation . We now accept even that transmutation of the elements of which the alchemists once dreamed . It is true that gravitation is still a mysterious puzzle , and that we still think of ' matter ' as having weight . But so cautious a physicist as Sir Joseph Thomson has lately only felt able to say that weight is an ' apparently invariable property of matter . ' Evidently we are approaching a time when ' matter ' will be regarded as almost as ' ethereal ' as ' spirit . ' The spontaneous affirmation of the mystic that he lives in the spiritual world here and now , will then be , in other words , merely the same affirmation which the man of science has more laboriously reached . The man , therefore , who is terrified by ' materialism ' has reached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ person who places his own hand before his eyes and cries out in horror , ' The Universe has disappeared ! ' We have not only to realize how our own prepossessions and the metaphysical figments of our own creation have obscured the simple realities of religion and science alike ; we have also to see that our timid dread lest religion should kill our science , or science kill our religion , is equally fatal here . He who would gain his life must be willing to lose it , and it is by being honest to one 's self and to the facts , by applying courageously the measuring-rod of Truth , that in the end salvation is found . He , e , indeed , the Pragmatist smilingly comes up and assures us that by adopting such a method we shall thereby merely put ourselves in the wrong and endure much unnecessary suffering . There is no such thing as ' Truth , ' he declares , regarded as an objective impersonal reality ; we do not discover ' truth , we invent it . Therefore it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the needs of our nature and aid our efficiency in practical life . Certainly the philosophers , and notably Nietzsche , have of late years loved to analyze the idea of truth ' and to show that it by no means signifies what we used to suppose it signified . But to show that truth is fluid is by no means to show that we can at will play fast and loose with it to suit our own convenience . If we do we merely find ourselves , at the end , in a pool where we must tramp round and round in intellectual slush out of which there is no issue . One may well doubt whether the Pragmatist himself has ever invented his truth that way . He would be in the same position with a man who , having convinced himself that all actions are determined , and not the outcome of free will , were on that account to drift effortlessly along the course of self-indulgence . In that connection , practically the best result is attained by the man who acts as though free will were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter , also , practically , in the end , the best result is attained by assuming that truth is an objective reality which we must patiently seek , and in accordance with which we must discipline our own wayward impulses . No doubt it might be said , from the pragmatic point of view , that if the use of the measuring-rod of truth as an objective standard produces the best practical results , that use is pragmatically justified . But if so , we are in exactly the same position as before the Pragmatist arrived ; we can get on as well without him , if not better , for we run the risk that he may confuse the issues for us . It may be said , without paradox , that the real value of the Pragmatist lies , not in the pragmatic but in the theoretic field . It is not only the Pragmatist 's well-meant efforts to find an easy reconciliation of belief and practice , and indirectly the concord of religion and science , that come to grief because he has not realized that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much expenditure of treasure , with blood and sweat , that he can not glide luxuriously to Heaven in his motor-car . We are also met by the Intuitionist . It is no accident that the Intuitionist so often walks hand in hand with the Pragmatist ; they are engaged in the same tasks . Plotinus in the third century invented intuition ; Bergson has skillfully rejuvenated it in our own day . A sound foundation certainly exists for the brilliant Bergsonian edifice . There is , we have seen , the impulse of science which must work through intelligence ; there is , also , the impulse of religion in the satisfaction of which intelligence can only take a very humble place in the ante-chamber of the sanctuary . To admit , therefore , that reason can not extend into the religious sphere is absolutely sound so long as we realize that reason has a coordinate right to lay down the rules of intelligence . But in men of the metaphysical type , in thinkers like Plotinus and like Bergson , two tendencies are alike so deeply implanted that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to go beyond intelligence , but they are also impelled to carry intelligence with them outside its sphere . The sphere of intelligence is limited , says Bergson , and he is right . the soul has other impulses besides that of intelligence , and life needs more than knowledge for its complete satisfaction . But in Bergson 's metaphysical hands the faculty of intuition which is to supplant that of intelligence itself results in a product which is called ' knoll-ledge , ' and so spuriously bears the hallmark which belongs to the product of intelligence . In the skill by which that change is effected we witness the fine sleight of hand which has long made Bergson so supreme a conjurer in the metaphysical world . But the result is disastrous . Not only is an illegitimate confusion introduced , but by attributing to the impulse of religion a character which it is neither entitled to nor in need of , Ite merely discredit it in the eyes of intelligence . Bergson , even in denying intelligence , is himself so predominantly and pervadingly intelligent that in entering what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in an atmosphere of rarified intelligence . He is further from the Kingdom of Heaven than the simple man who is quite incapable of understanding the Bergsonian theory of duration , but yet may be able to follow his own religious impulse without foisting into it an intellectual content , For even the simple man may be one with the great mystics , who all declare that the unspeakable quality they have acquired , as Eckhart puts it , hath no image . ' It is not in the sphere of intelligence , it brings no knowledge , although it supplements knowledge and may inspire it or be inspired by it ; it is the outcome of the natural instinct of the individual soul . No doubt there really are people in whom the instincts of religion and of science alike are developed in so rudimentary a degree , if developed at all , that they never become conscious . Even the instinct of sex , which is much more fundamental than either of these , is not absolutely essential . A very little bundle of instincts and impulses is indispensable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life to a peaceful and humble grave . A man 's equipment of tendencies , on the lowest plane , needs to be more complex and diverse than an oyster 's , yet not so very much more . The equipment of the higher animals , moreover , is needed less for the good of the individual than for the good of the race . We need not , therefore , be surprised if the persons in whom the superfluous instincts are rudimentary fail to understand them , confusing them and overlaying them with each other and with much that is outside both . The wonder would be if it were otherwise . When all deduction has been made of the mental and emotional confusions which have obscured men 's vision , we can not fail to conclude , it seems to me , that Science and Mysticism are far nearer to each other than some would have us believe . At the beginning of human culture , far from being opposed , they may even be said to be identical . From time to time , in later ages , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instincts in a high degree and have even fused the two together ; while among the humble in spirit and the lowly in intellect it is probable that in all ages innumerable men have by instinct harmonized their religion with their intelligence . But as the accumulated experiences of civilization have been preserved and handed on from generation to generation , the free and vital play of the instincts has been largely paralyzed . On each side fossilized traditions have accumulated so thickly , the garments of dead metaphysics have been wrapped so closely around every manifestation alike of the religious instinct and the scientific instinct , that not many persons can succeed in revealing one of these instincts in its naked beauty , and very few in thus revealing both instincts . Hence a perpetual antagonism . It may be , however , that we are beginning to realize that there are no metaphysical formula to suit all men , but that every man must find his own philosophy . Thus it is becoming easier than it was before to liberate ourselves from a dead metaphysics , and so to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientific instinct . A man must not swallow more beliefs than he can digest ; no man can absorb all the traditions of the past ; what he fills himself with will only be a poison to work to his own auto-intoxication . Along all these lines we see more clearly than before the real harmony between Mysticism and Science . We see , also , that all arguments are meaningless until we gain personal experience . One must win one 's own place in the spiritual world , painfully and alone . There is no other way of salvation . The Promised Land always lies on the other side of a wilderness .                     