@@486766

The Campaign of Chancellorsvale : A Strategic and Tactical Study . By John Bigelow , jr . New Haven : Yale University Press . $10 net . This work by an experienced soldier , who later became known as the teacher of military science in the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , and as the author of works on campaigns in Europe and America , is a notable contribution to strategic literature We think that no campaign of our civil war has been more accurately , elaborately , or ably described than is Chancellors-vine in these pages , and soldiers in every land will thank the author for a technical study so satisfactory . No important detail of the eventful story from Hooker 's assuming command at the end of January , 1863 , to the retire . ment of the Army of the Potomac across the Rappahannock at the beginning of May , is omitted . The author does not restrict himself severely to the military record . Lincoln 's unpleasant quarter of an hour with " Mother , " after submitting himself to be kissed by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Princess Salm-Salm  --  that , with the Joke through which Lincoln got out of the breakers , has a place in the narrative as well as the impact of the cannon ball which stretched Hooker senseless on the porch of the Chancellor house . Such occasional particulars , though irrelevant to the purpose of the hook , serve at any rate to enliven . We confess to some surprise at the author 's selection of Chancelloisville as the campaign of the civil war most fruitful in lessons . He says that he chose it " because it presented a greater variety of military problems and experiences than any other in which an army of the United States had taken part . In no other was there so rapid a succession of critical operations . Moreover , no other one approaching it in importance has been so imperfectly apprehended and described . " This assertion will not pass unchallenged . The reasons given for selecting Chancellorsville apply much better , we believe , to Gettysburg . The Gettysburg story bristles with problems over which the authorities continue to dispute . To mention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might better , perhaps , have used his interior lines and reinforced Bragg in east Tennessee ; then , assuming command himself , he could have thrown his mass , by forced marches , upon Cincinnati . Such operations in May and June might have caused Grant to let go his grip on Vicksburg ; indeed , a concentration Like this of Southern power against the greatly depressed North might have made it possible to penetrate far into Ohio , and to the east from the west . Whether or not. , Lee erred here is a point not settled , the study of which is full of instruction to the soldier . Did the Confederate right delay its attack unduly on July 2 and on July 3 was Pickett 's charge a reckless enterprise ? Or had Lee good warrant for his rush at the Federal centre ? On the side of the North , should Sickles be condemned for occupying , on July 2 , the Emmitsbnrg road , or is the contrary view to be accepted  --  held , we believe , by Sheridan and Gen. H. J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first was untenable , and that it was only prudent to occupy the higher ground in advance ? Again , as to the ending of the battle , should there have been a counterstroke at once upon the repulsed Confederates , as Lincoln thought and as perhaps the world in general has come to feel , or was Meade wise in not risking further battle ? - We submit that in comparison with such problems as these the campaign of Chancellorsvjlle offers little indeed . There is almost no difference of opinion as regards any important movement . Hooker taking command- of a dispirited army restored promptly - its morale and discipline . He struck at an opportune moment when Longstreet had been detached to southeastern Virginia with two divisions . He had two men to Lee 's one , and more . His cavalry served him not in the best manner ; but keeping Lee in doubt as to his plans by good maneuvres , he succeeded in crossing the Rappahannock and placing his army in excellent position on Lee 's left flank . So far his work was admirable . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , while his lieutenants stood amazed and protesting , retired to a position much inferior where he awaited attack . Lee was not slow to seize the offensive which Hooker had abandoned . Leaving a strong detachment to guard Fredericksburg , Lee pressed close upon the retiring Federals . He weighed correctly Hooker 's incapacity , and with extraordinary audacity dispatched still another detachment , this time of half the force that remained to him , under Stonewall Jackson , to march across the front of the Federal army and turn the right . The movement was no secret ; the march was plain to the Federals , but utterly misinterpreted . Hooker , with his vast preponderance , watched the advancing column , making only futile efforts to harass its progress , and awaking to his danger only at sunset , when the crushing blow fell upon the Eleventh Corps . His right was destroyed , but he still stood , more than two to one , compactly arrayed , close at hand to Lee 's army , now divided into three well-separated fragments . But Hooker 's efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under Reynolds and Meade , probably his best subordinates , were scarcely employed at all : the corps that fought were misdirected . Sedgwick , advancing from the east , stormed Marye 's Heights , and tried hard at Salem Church to fall on the Confederate rear . While his tactics may have been sometimes faulty , his promptness and resolution were in general admirable . But Hooker , out of his huddled thousands , sent him no help , though Lee from his handful strengthened the opposing line abundantly . A contusion quite disabled Hooker for a time , and perhaps affected his powers until the close of the battle . But there was no transference of command . The Army of the Potomac virtually had no head . To a large extent his corps had not been engaged . It was flung back in deep humiliation across the river which it had so proudly passed , and occupied its old camps with a bitter sense of complete and quite unnecessary failure . Such are the main features of the story of Chancellorsville , a story , we believe , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in controversy ; nor does Major Bigelow in his narrative present any point in a different way . So far from abounding in problems and situations in controversy , the case as to all the main incidents is remarkably clear . With Major Bigelow 's treatment of his theme , after once selecting it , we have almost no fault to find . The presentation is always clear , the maps numerous and careful . To note a small thing , we think undue liberty is sometimes taken in spelling proper names . The author speaks of the difficulty here : he has to do with a large number of unimportant localities and humble individuals whose names in an unlettered country are often of most uncertain orthography . In the effort for correctness he sometimes goes too far For instance , one of the most important points on the Chancellorsville terrain is " Tally 's , " a farm with a log cabin , where Stonewall Jackson first struck the Federal right . In the text this name always appears as " Taylor 's " ; so also in the maps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after " Taylor 's . " Heretofore the locality has always had the name " Tally 's " It was so known on the battle-day and has been since . In 1904 , the present writer visited the spot , enjoying a talk with old " Tally , " a patriarchal figure who had interesting things to say about the bearing of Stonewall Jackson . The farmer walked at Jackson 's stirrup as his guide , while the last dispositions were made for the attack . We have insisted that in dealing with Chancellorsville the student has very plain sailing . Among the few things that are debatable perhaps no one is mo , e interesting than why Hooker behaved as he did . Our author cites here some graphic testimony . Two months later Doubleday , Hooker 's close friend , said : " Hooker , what was the matter with you at Chancellorsville ? Some say you were injured by a shell , some say you were drunk . How was it ? " Hooker answered good-naturedly : " Doubleday , I was not hurt by a shell and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that is all there is to it . " Major Bigelow appears to adapt this explanation : Hooker failed through irresolution , which , of course , springs from a lack of confidence . Probably the explanation is correct ; but there will always be a suspicion that Hooker 's well-known drinking habit affected him here . Couch and others , who were in close contact with him , declare that he took no liquor , but there may be something in the allegation , mentioned by Bigelow but not endorsed , that abstinence from his customary draughts left him not at his best when his faculties should have been most alert . We feel like saying a word on the ideas prevalent as regards the vast literature of the civil war . In the general mind it is becoming classed under three heads . There are , first , the official records , which are coming to be held as the Bible , so to speak , infallible , or at any rate possessing a trustworthiness approaching perfection . Then we have an Apocrypha , containing the less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and such papers as have been gathered in the " Battles and Leaders of the Civil War , " documents less valuable than the canon , to be followed with caution , and yet instructive . Lastly , we have the multifarious Profane Literature , the accounts of humble participants , and obscure observers and commentators , which , though often interesting , are of worth far inferior , and not to be taken as sources of truth without careful scrutiny . To men inclined to take this view , the exclamation of that good soldier , Gen. George H. Gordon , in one of his books , ought to be disturbing : " God help the history that is based on official records ! " He was outraged at the report of his corps commander . In the records themselves one may find a statement of Graham , a brigadier of the Third Corps , denounging as utter falsehood the report of one of his colonels as to the achievements of his " Zouaves " on a certain field . These out of many . The fact is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formal . There is the natural desire of every man to put the best face on things for himself as he sets his case before the government and the world : subordinates must be let off leniently ; you must live with them , and it impairs comfort to have them sullen . To make a statement unpleasant to a superior might be construed as insubordination . The public welfare makes it imperative to tell a flattering tale . The temptation is constant to tell not quite the whole truth and nothing but the truth . There are important suppressions of fact in the official records , none more so , perhaps , than as regards Chancellorsville . Hooker 's report was never published ; our author says " he never made it . " Still more : other reports were held back till Hooker should speak , among them so capital a piece of testimony as that of Carl Schurz ; for what this admirably qualified witness saw and felt at Chancellorsville we must go , not to the official records , but to Carl Schuss 's " Reminiscences . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of many a catastrophe becomes in the official records as mild as the piping of a sucking dove . We should be sorry to be thought to minimize unduly the value of the official records . Unquestionably they form by far the most important body of evidence as to the period , but they require constantly to be checked and supplemented by other evidence . The memoirs of the leaders , written in after years , though they must be read with discrimination , are most informing . The compendium known as the " Battles and Leaders of the Civil War " is declared by Henderson , the best English critic of the struggle , to be " one of the most important military authorities ever published " ; nor will the student enter fully into the crush and agony of the time who neglects such stories as that of Haskell , who , as an aide of Gibbon , was in the heart of things at Gettysburg , or the diary of the humble " war clerk " at Richmond , or that of Mrs. Chesnut , kept amid the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say thus much as to the weight properly due to the various classes of evidence relating to our civil war , because men here sometimes judge wrongly . We think that so great an historian as Rhodes falls to some extent into error , and we observe signs in this book that Major Bigelow is not entirely free . Speaking in his preface of his sources , our author has much to say of the high value of the official records , and very little as to testimony of any other kind . We are bound , however , to declare that in the citations in the text there is no neglect ? of testimony of any kind . The home-letters of the rank and file , newspaper waifs , the gossip of camps and cities , are utilized judiciously to throw light . Altogether , Major Bigelow 's book is masterly . We know of no more satisfactory scientific treatment of a military topic by any American writer . Shall we be thought trifling if we say that the book , while very handsome , is also very heavy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foot square . Says Major Bigelow : ' Whoever expects to follow a campaign reclining in an easy-chair , with a book in one hand and a cigar in the other , is doomed to disappointment . " We should say so . Some of our young soldiers are said to need exercise , and it will perhaps be a good thing if , while perfecting themselves in their art , they can at the same time enjoy a strenuous gymnastic ; but what of the discomfort of the old-timers during the many hours necessary to a proper perusal ?                     