@@466092

the account given by the Venerable Bede of the deliberations of the King of Northumber-land and his counselors , whether the mission-aries of Pope Gregory should be allowed to present to their peo-ple the Christian faith , a simple incident is related that in quite a pathetic way voices the perennial longing of the hu-man heart . It was the recalling by a gray-haired chieftain of the feeling which had come over him on seeing a little bird pass through , on fluttering wing , the warm , bright dining-hall , while wind and wintry storm were raging without . The moment of its passage was full of sweet-ness for the bird ; but the interval was brief . The bird came out from the dark-ness and passed again into the darkness , and in the twinkling of an eye vanished . None knew whence it came nor whither it went . " Like this , " said the veteran chief , " is human life . We come , and our wise men can not tell us whence . We go , and they can not teli @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that can teach us more about it ? in God 's name let us hear him ! " In the human heart , in this twentieth century , the cry is the same . In spite of the wonderful advance of modern knowledge , the veil that hangs over man 's destiny is as impenetrable as ever . The question , " After death ? what ? " is the enigma of enigmas . Theology , to be sure , long ago gave her solemn assurances . There are millions of happy men and women who accept the authority of their special Church and ask no other proof than this , that the familiar affirmations of a future life for man are really divine revelations . Other millions , however , want better evidence . To the modern mind , as Agas-siz said . " a physical fact is as sacred as a moral principle . " The only satisfactory authority for truth is to be found hi nature 's laws and the reasonable probabilities of human experience . The theory or the dogma must be capable of the same evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Can such scientific evidence for the persistence of human personality be found ? It is only such rational arguments that avail to-day to strengthen faith in life after death , and it is only to such laws and facts as modern science accepts that I would appeal . What are the scientific objections ? Briefly , they are these : All phenomena of the mind are inseparable from the peculiar colloidal plasmic bodies and carbon compounds of which they are products , and are dependent upon their organic integrity . If the special cerebral centers in the brain are removed by surgery or ruined by disease , then their corresponding psychic activities cease . The development.of the mind is correspondent to , and absolutely dependent on , the development of nerve and brain . When at death the cells which are the seats of feeling and thought cease their physiological activities , the plasmic substance must dissolve ; the atoms of brain and nerve separate and drop down into lower unconscious states , and all those peculiar composite activities and motions that constitute the life and mind of the body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the aggregate of these mind-sides of the atoms . It has no more reality or persistent unity and capacity than the spectrum colors that constitute a summer rainbow . This is , indeed , a powerful argument . A generation ago , when Professor Haeckel and the men of science who shared his mechanistic view of life and mind first presented it , it seemed almost overwhelming in its onslaught . But within the last twenty-five years scientific investigators have themselves discovered phenomena that have made the argument far from conclusive . The mysterious qualities discovered in the electric constituents of the atoms , in the cosmic ether filling the inter-atomic spaces , in the telepathic , mental therapeutic , and other astonishing human states ? these have combined to produce what may , without exaggeration , he called a scientific revolution . In the light of the new knowledge it is found that many of the chief laws of nature strongly oppose the view that " death ends all . " First and foremost is that of " The Conservation and Correlation of Energy . " The fundamental law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is " the persistence of force . " Science shows us how the cosmic econ-omy never drops out of existence a volt of electricity , a thermic tension , or a chemic force . While they may change their forms , the sum-total of energy remains the same , and no drop into the void of nothingness ever takes place . Mental energy must , on scientific principles , observe the same law of indestructibility . The scientific monists indeed explain that termination of the soul which they affirm as a downward transformation into lower physical forces . But , as a matter of fact , no such reappearance of mind-force in correlated amounts of these lower energies which the scientific materialists suppose to constitute and create consciousness has ever been observed at the hour of death , and it is the emphatic affirmation of such eminent scientihc authorities as Sir Oliver Lodge and the late John Fiske that such a transformation of mental energies into physical energies , to add to the physical chain and total , would flatly violate the physical law of the conservation of energy . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contention , is the well-known discontinuity of matter . The scientific objectors to life after death claim that the dissolution of the nerve-cells and atoms , when death comes , necessarily terminates the soul life which is only the inner aspect or mind-side of the atoms . But the wellestablishedgaps between the atoms , even in living tissues , show that even while a man lives and breathes he is ( as far as his brain-cells are concerned ) already in dissolution , and yet he lives on . The very cerebral atoms , supposed by materialism to produce and maintain thought and feeling by the aggregation of their mind-sides , do not stand in close touch . Their so-called contacts are only reboundings or attractions at some distance , due to the " spheres of energy " of the ever-whirling or vibrating units of matter . The interspaces between atoms are so preponderant that out of the cubic contents of a brain only a few hundredths consist of material particles . On the theory of materialistic monism ( that the consciousness is only an aggregate of the rudimentary mind-sides of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the thousands of speechless atoms in a brain ( so widely separated , relatively , from one another , and destitute as they are of sense-organs , telephones , letter-carriers , or other mechanisms of mental communication ) to be able to unite thought with thought , to compare sensations , to link premises with conclusions , to recall the experiences of long-departed fellowmolecules , or concentrate their isolated rudimentary sensations in some magical chemical retort into a full and true consciousness ? This is quite as much open to the charge of " bringing the soul out of fairyland " as is the belief of any oldfashioned believer in the soul . Again , the great laws and characteristic facts cl psychology require us to believe that the conscious self is a unity and persistent reality , not to he ended by mortal , physical dissolution . For if the soul be only such a composite material aggregate that at death the mind-sides of the brain-atoms can no longer continue their personal consciousness , then , on this theory we should ( on every morning that we wake out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many atoms have passed out of the brain and so many new ones have come in that they must form a different consciousness . That is the logical conclusion , admitted by such monists as the French philosopher , H. Taine , in his great work On Intelligence . But somehow men do remember what they did yesterday and none of them can be persuaded that it was not himself , but another self , that experienced it , in spite of the change of the atoms . Similarly for the comparison of two successive and diverse sensations , such as a sound and a color ; or for an act of reasoning in which two premises are united by the judgment in a conclusion . So , likewise , for the production of a thought , for a general concept obtained by induction from a number of perceptions ; in fact , for any clear idea , consciousness , or memory , it is necessary that the mind must be regarded as something more unitary and continuous than a mere aggregation of the mind-sides of a multitude of isolated atoms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation , we put a group of snails together , as close as you please . Suppose that into the mouth of one we put a bit of apple . We make the next snail touch the apple , the third snail smell it , and the fourth see the rind ; and then we conclude that this group of snails have the full perception and idea of the apple . That would indeed be an absurd inference ; but it is no more absurd than to suppose ( with the sup-porters of the mechanistic theory of the mind ) that the elements of feeling and intelligence , in the dimly sentient mindsides of certain atoms , each isolated by surrounding voids , and each belonging to different and distant sense-centers , somehow combine into a complete thought , perception , or judgment . Even the commonest associations of ideas and perceptions and the daily retention and comparison of sensations require in the human brain something more subtle , persistent , and continuousthan those disconnected atoms and their attendant isolated mind-sides whose dissolution at death is supposed to cause an absolute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objects the scientific monist ) to adopt the discredited theory of dualism and groundlessly suppose that there is in the living body , miraculously injected there from some mystic external source , that quite unscientific entity , an immaterial substance ? I reply that on well-established sci-entific grounds every well-informed thinker must be a dualist . He can vindicate monism only by reinterpreting the atoms as derived forms of something im-material . Every modern physicist knows that in the human body there is something more subtle than matter ; andwithout this " something more " he could not see , nor feel heat or pressure , nor be aware of an electric current . There is something in every human being that occupies far more space than all its corporeal particles ; something which forms a continuous substance , imponderable , invisible , active , and , in its chief qualities , quite opposite to matter ; and which , therefore , is peculiarly fitted to serve as the seat of continued life . What is this ? Is not the description just given almost a definition of that inter-atomic ether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? This ether is now recognized as a universal cosmic undulatory medium , implied by the waves of the chief natural energies . It occupies not only what are called the inter-stellar voids , transmitting from sun to planet and irom star to star the solar energies , but it pervades every organic body . It is , in fact , the medium by which electric , actinic , and thermal currents pass through the body , and by which chemical affinities attract and repel . Even more than this . It has been discovered that the supposed solid and indivisible atoms are neither wholly nor primarily material . They are discontinuous clusters , chiefly composed of swarms of revolving components , called electrons . These electrons are supposed to be centers of electric charge , vortical motion , or etheric foci of condensation . The electric experts say that the diameter of a negative electron is only about onehundred-thousandth part as large as that of a hydrogen atom , and that the electrons in this atom are no nearer together than ( to use Sir Oliver Lodge 's graphic illustration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scattered about in a church . " Of the cubic contents of a human form , ninety-nine parts out of a hundred are occupied by etheric or immaterial substance , intermeshed with which are myriad currents and swirls of subtle imponderable energies , accompanied at considerable intervals by the atomic dots that supply the illusion of solidity . In accordance with the line of reasoning that led physicists to affirm a luminiferous ether in interstellar space , we are justified in inferring similarly that the " something in man " which Professor McDougall of Oxford has shown is needed to hold the states of consciousness together and explain their interaction is a " mentiferous ether , " a spiritual , imponderable substratum . The logical reasoner may then conclude , as a distinguished American man of science has , that " conscious states are modes of motion of the ether or such as affect the ether . " The exceptional fitness of a psychic ether to transmit messages across the omnipresent material voids ; the spontaneous activity and selective power of the will as contrasted with the absolute determination which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-identity of memory through the changes of the atoms ; the many marked differences between the laws and processes of thought and those of material substance ? all characterize the mind as an immaterial substance . A " mentiferous ether " is specially suited to be the substratum of the spiritual powers and the needed bond or intermediary between flesh and pure thought . This supposition relieves the conception of the human spirit from the familiar objection i that it is an unsubstantial entity . It introduces an element which , by its diffusion through the organism , puts the soul into relation with all the material parts . It relieves the opponent of materialism from supposing a miraculous origin for the soul , by a divine creation out of non-reality . For this mentiferous ether-organism , which is the immaterial substratum of the soul , may reasonably be inferred to be a normal specialization of the cosmic ether-ocean that fills astronomic space and which is the ultimate source of mundane energy ? forming , indeed , what may he called the body of the universal spirit . This is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or thought in the human mind when the nerve impression stimulates consciousness . In this psychic ether-organism within the material organism there is present already during life a soul-body , a nonatomic substance , an active , coherent , continuous , and constructive energy not liable to be destroyed or rendered powerless by the decomposition of the material body . When the earthly end comes to the body , this psychic etheric organism may betake itself to some more favorable environment and may again clothe itself with a new physical body . If this theory seem a bold one , let me state that the inference is one accepted as reasonable by noted scientific authorities , such as Professors Edward D. Cope , Elliott Coues , George Henslow , and Stanley Jevons . As the latter truly says : " For all science knows there may be a psychical body disengaged when the physical body dissolves and decays. here may be in the interstellar spaces the scene of an intelligent activity such as we have never dreamed of on earth . " As a further confirmation of the heart 's intuition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that daily the men of science more and more find the permanent realities and sources of power not in the visible , material things , but in the invisible energies beneath . In life and mental phenomena , as Herbert Spencer long ago admitted , it is not structure that evolves the function , but vice versa . Just as electric cur- rents give symmetric forms to detached iron filings on a disk , or the viewless ether-waves give intelligible shapes to the loose metal parts i in the receivers of i wireless messages , so it is the imponderable and intangible forces ? etheric , electric , vital , and mental ? that move and arrange so intelligently the disconnected atoms which surround or are interspersed in the immaterial substance of our real personality . The many notable phenomena established in recent years by psychotherapy have shown the overruling power of thought and emotion over the animal body ? how they alter the secretions and muscular power , and make chemic substances within the living body act in a way radically different from their behavior in the laboratory . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many new auditory fibers in a pianist 's ear . It is the psychic race-memories , according to George Darwin and Professor Hering , that mold the instincts of the embryo , shape the characteristic organs of the species , and reproduce the ancestral type . Besides this building power , the vital principle has a power of repair impossible to a machine . Even when brain centers of speech or motion are lost by disuse or the surgeon 's knife , they have been known to grow again through the vital principle , or through other ganglia having been used in their place . With good reason , then , Professor Henderson ( whose authority on this subject is well known ) has recently affirmed that he does not know of a biological chemist to whom the mechanistic origin of a living cell is scientifically imaginable . Is it credible , then , that in that crucial struggle of the spiritual master with the dumb atoms which from birth onward to that tragic hour of death have been molded by his will , the master-soul at length is not simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left is a mere unconscious , worthless heap of former atomic building materials ? Is it not far more probable that , as the life principle in the beginning constructed the corporeal organism , so , at the time when the body , after a long series of dissolutions and replacements , is for some reason no longer able sufficiently to repair it , then this architectonic psychic body , present within , is ri supeor to the action of the discontinu-ous atoms and is merely released by their dissolution . In the growth of the human embryo there are four membranous envelopes that successively are put about it and discarded ; namely , the amnion , the allantois , the serolemma , and the placenta . Each of these , one after another , develops about the prenatal form ; then it is absorbed or disrupted to promote . a higher and better organism within . Why should the inclosing organism of the babe he supposed the final one any more than the earlier envelopes ? If each was provisional to a higher organism within , why may not the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process turned inward , improving and elaborating the mind and spirit instead of the animal body . Simultaneously with this , may not the vital i formative power have turned its course toward preparing within an invisible etheric organism for i the next onward i metamorphosis ? As it is illogical to infer from the unconsciousness of sleep the i cessation of the soul overnight , so it is CXXVIII. ? No. 7118. - 118 equally illogical to infer from the unconsciousness of death that the soul has then reached an absolute end . The belief of cautious men draws back from the thought of persistent soullife i because it seems too wonderful and in-comprehensible. it But it should be re-membered that t is no more wonderful than the conception of life . It is no more incomprehensible than the atoms , the electrons , the ether , or the enveloping space in which we live . Every one of these basic beliefs and accepted facts of science is rank and bristling with con-fusing incomprehensibilities . Science , as Professor Jevons has said , " does nothing to reduce the number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ significandy adds : " Every step I have advanced in science has removed the diffi- culties i of believing in life after death , by disclosing to me the infinite possibilities of nature . " . If the difficulty in harmonizing the conception of life after death with scientific principles be good ground for reject-ing it , it is a still greater objection to that end of life which is the alternative , viz. , nothingness , or a miserable collapse into disintegrated , unconscious , and valueless dust . That great law of modern science , evolution , emphatically protests against this , for it would rob the cosmic evolution of all meaning and reduce its grand triumphs to an irra-tional conclusion . Modern science discloses humanity as the latest and highest embodiment of the cosmic energy , in whom is summed up all the infinite experiments and timeless activities of the Supreme Power and Worker of the universe . In man , the life - spirit of the universe adequately manifested itself for the first time in a self-conscious embodiment . In the human personality , thought turned in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phenomena , and came to know the realities of existence from the inside . Thus the spirit in man became capable of independent and indefinite progress , through the elastic potencies of the growing personality , without that need of being cleared from the path of progress that lower organisms have . Our planet , say the scientific experts , will inevitably , at a date already calculable , become a frozen and waterless waste and the earthly succession of men and living creatures cease . Unless there is a con-tinued life after death for souls the vital evolution upon our globe will have been a senseless fiasco . To suppose that the only net result of its age-long development , reaching its consummation in priceless galaxies of wonderful thinkers , noble heroes , and beneficent saints , is to have turned a host of living bodies into corpses , leaving no memory nor permanent good behind them ? this is to make the grand evolutional progress appear to be what in a man would be called a lunatic proceeding ; one only to be likened to that of the crazy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of toil a magnificent masterpiece , broke it into fragments . It is an incredible anticlimax . Equally great , finally , are the mental discords and moral perplexities to which disbelief in a hereafter brings a thinker when he recalls the sacredness . that the i best of our race feel in veracity , integrity , and duty . If there be no continued life , what a strange aspect is cast thereby on the obligation that an honest man feels to tell the truth at all costs ! How foolish seems the honesty of a bankrupt whom a lie might have kept rich ! What a mistake is the voluntary death for another 's sake of the seaman or patriot who might have saved himself , or the martyr 's death at the stake , in order to be loyal to truth , faith , or conscience ! If a true man has no deathless claims on the eternal , then neither his honor nor his duty would demand any such acts of self-sacrifice . Jesus and Paul , Savonarola and Huss and Lincoln ? what were they , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hallucination of duty , squandered the one life granted to our poor forms of clay ? Unless we are ready to accept as the models of wise and true men those who brazenly throw overboard all inconvenient scruples about integrity , justice , patriotism , and self-denying mercy , we must accept these great commanding ideals as pointing to a realm above sense and beyond the veil of death ; a real world whose steady gravitation it is that draws the human heart , at whatever fleshly cost , to obey its laws . The divine power that has expanded the human heart with such generous emotions of love and uncalculating devotion to truth and righteousness can not be imagined thus nobly to have endowed man only to humiliate him and with such stinging irony repudiate the implied promises and sacred expectations that it has fostered . But , after all , I shall probably be asked : Where is the verification ? Does all this amount to more than a reasoned probability ? I admit it . But I recall that it is only on reasoned probability that all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the discovery of the planet Neptune , Leverrier by reasoned probability affirmed it and pointed out where to look for it . So quite recently , Professor Ramsay , the chemist , announced to the British Association the existence of a new gas , whose chief peculiarity was that it had never yet been discerned by any sense . But as the scientific world believed in Neptune and in neon before they discovered them , and eventually discovered both the planet and the gas , because they acted on their belief , so , on the same ground of reasoned probability , may the explorer of human nature 's higher and more mysterious qualities believe and affirm the existence of that spiritual realm and continued life necessary to explain the perturbations of human life . One day , if not in the flesh , then out of and above the flesh , we shall discover and know these invisible and eternal realities .                     