@@486697

It is a disappointing form which President Taft has given his annual message to Congress . In the first place , it is inordinately long . It can be neither generally read , nor even printed . But the second criticism which must be made of the message is more serious . It is not inspiring ; it gives no positive lead . This will be the more depressing to the President 's party , because in the hour of defeat and in a time of great confusion , it would have welcomed a vigorous initiative , would have hailed a new watch-word . But instead of issuing a call to action , Mr. Taft has written a tedious judicial review . There are excellent positions taken in it , and many sound principles are laid down ; but it is not the production of a born leader , scanning the political field and seeing where broken ranks can be formed again and fresh heart put into discouraged men . Republicans were looking to the President to give them an inspiriting ode in time of hesitation . Instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the mass of the President 's recommendations and discussions the matters on which attention ought to be fixed , we note with pleasure that Mr. Taft persists in his efforts to bring about a thoroughly businesslike and economical administration of public affairs What he has done and proposes to do to eliminate waste , cut off extravagance , and heighten efficiency deserves nothing but praise and support We hope the President will keep hammering away at this , despite the inevitable obstacles he will encounter and the temporary setbacks he will meet . It has often been said that the Government should be a " model employer , " meaning thereby a too good-natured and lavish employer . The time has come when Uncle Sam , who is calling upon the railways and other corporations to be saving and to cut down their cost of production , should make his deeds square with his words . The President naturally links with what he has to say about making the public service less extrdvagant and more energetic , recommendations to remove it further from politics . What he urges in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free the post office and the consular service and other branches of government activity from political taint , will gratify civil-service reformers and confirm the belief that Mr. Taft sincerely desires to leave the national administration better than he found it . There has been much curiosity about what the President would say of the tariff . The note he strikes is very different from that he sounded last year in his unlucky Winona speech . He remarks that the schedules of the Payne bill have " been subjected to a great deal of criticism . " All will admit that . But Mr. Taft also admits that some of this criticism has been " just . " Certani rates of duty , he virtually concedes , were left too high . But the only hope of lowering them which he holds out is through the investigations and recommendations of the Tariff Board , and it is not yet ready to make a report on a single schedule . By the opening of the next Congress  --  that is , a year from now ? Mr. Taft expects to be able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schedules ; but , meanwhile , he is ready to have the Tariff Board enlarged and made permanent and endowed with further powers , if Congress sees fit . We doubt very much , however , if the Democrats in Congress ? especially when they begin the next session with their large majority  --  will be content to wait indefinitely for he Tariff Board to make up its mind . There are seine changes which even Mr. Taft admits should be made in the tariff , and which are certainly not beyond the unaided " wisdom of Congress " On the subject of conservation , the President reaffirms the views to which he gave utterance in his St. Paul Speech last September . He is none too urgent in dwelling upon the need that Congress should speedily pass the new legislation necessary if the coal deposits and phosphate lands and waterpower rights are to be both safeguarddd and made available . This is the one great subject demanding Congressional action at an early date , yet it is more than doubtful if the laws desired can be enacted in the crowded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amendments of the Interstate Commerce act , the President advises a pause . This does not mean that the enforcement of existing laws is to be suspended  --  in fact , the Department of Justice is putting them vigorously in force ? but only that ' it would not be wise to press forward with fresh statutes until we have got from the Supreme Court a full and final interpretation of the meaning and scope of the statutes we now have . This position is only in line with what Mr. Taft has repeatedly said , and seems to us the only sensible one to take . Regarding other recommendations of the President , he can hardly hope that this Congress will take action . He suavely urges some form of ship-subsidy bill , but such a measure is admitted by old Congressional hands to be wholly out of the question . He appeals for money to fortify the Panama Canal , but Congress shows a disposition to be very slow about that . So with the parcels post and the proposed rates on second-class mail , the chances are that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ WILSON ON THE GOVERNORSHIP . Woodrow Wilson 's address before the Governors at Frankfort last week is both delightful and stimulating reading . It is long since we have had a public man able to clothe his thoughts in such an elevated and felicitous style . And Dr. Wilson also has the thoughts to clothe . His estimate of the aims and functions of this annual meeting of the Governors was happy and just . It is not , and is not to become , a new branch of government , but simply a place for counsel and stimulus and suggestion , a device for better expressing and directing the abounding life of the nation . It was , too , with a strong grasp on realities and a refusal to be misled by phrases that the speaker traced the broad outlines of necessary Federal power , while he opposed the needless " invention " of new powers . But the chief object of his speech was to point out the unused powers of the States , and to insist that the time had come for their fuller and more fruitful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in connection with the great opportunities and appealing duties of the Governors of the States What has been dimly in the minds of many he set forth with as ' much clearness as force , and marked out a programme which , if he is able as Governor of New Jersey even partially to carry out , will prove to be something like an epoch in the history of our government . In magnifying the office of Governor , Mr. Wilson seized , first upon the unquestioned fact that a democracy is - always looking for leadership . For some years past , indeed , the People in the ; States have been hungering and thirsting for leaders . The extraordinary way in which Gov . Hughes rose in the admiration and confidence of the citizens - of New York was not only due to the - qualities of the man , and the causes - for which he fought , but was also a : proof of the strong popular desire that -a Governor should stand out before the people as their direct representative and - champion . Now , it is this general attitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ model , but with some differences and enlargements . He would have the Governor make himself the interpreter and organ of the popular will , both in the way of formulating - policies and of continually discussing them , reporting on how they fare in the Legislature , and rallying public sentiment in their support . The passages - of his address in which Dr. Wilson elaborated these ideas have a freshness of - attack upon old problems and reveal an ingenuity of resource , combined with : perfect frankness and a shrewd insight into human nature and the actual facts - of our political life , which mark him - out as an original force in public af'fairs . We will only single out here the admirable directness and play of humor with which Woodrow Wilson goes - straight to the essentials , brushing aside - all merely formal objections , and showing exactly how the Governor as leader would go to work . It is not a question - of usurpation of power that does not belong to him , but of the vigorous use - of the power that is unquestionably his . The warrant for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in constitutions and statutes so much - as in the individual qualities of the men themselves . Mr. Wilson leaves no - doubt upon this point . He is not talking about a Governor who will get the - things done that he wants by the use of . patronage ; that method is as wrong as - it is stupid and futile . It is not any Bind of official influence , as such , that he would have the Governor exert . The whole thing rests upon personal influence . As he conceives the case , it - comes down to this : A man who has sufficient weight of character and ity so to impress the people of the State - that they elect him Governor , ought not to sink his individual qualities the moment after he takes office . If he could lead before , he can lead afterwards . If he could go before the citizens and debate the most important public questions prior to his election , he can do so subsequently . And this leadership in free public discussion , in keeping the voters informed , and inducing them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acts of all their public servants , is the kind of leadership that Woodrow Wilson urges upon the Governor . He does this both as a political philosopher and as a keen man of business . We may be sure that when he undertakes to carry out in New Jersey his own prescriptions , he will do it with a kindly wit and a bonhomie that will disarm his . opponents while compelling them and the people of the entire State to attend to his arguments . What chance would a machine politician , or a group of bosses , have against a Governor who goes out disclaiming anything Iike an attempt at coercion , renouncing legal power , and appealing only to sound reason and fair play in the open forum of public debate ? There is absolutely nothing to be said against the way in which Dr. Wilson puts the case for the Governors : Their real power over a Legislature is their ability to convince the people . If they can carry an opinion through the constituencies , they can carry it through the Legislature . No Legislature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of putting public questions upon a footing of open and frank debate The field is free  --  as free for those who oppose the Governor as for the Governor himself The best arguments , the handsomest motives , the most valid and straightforward purpose , the most defensible programme wins It is too late , moreover , to be jealous of that method of control . The people are ready for it , wait for it , demand it , expect all who hope to serve them to accept the ordeal . No real man who speaks his real convictions need be afraid . It is this definition and crystallizing of what the people in the States have been vaguely groping after that make Woodrow Wilson 's address so noteworthy . It will heighten his reputation as a man fit for leadership because he has ideas and the ability to expound and enforce them . As he soon enters upon executive duties , it is certain that not only his State but the nation will follow his career with the deepest interest . Whatever else he may be , we may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " practical man " who , in Disraeli 's phrase , is " one who practises the blunders of his predecessors . " THE PROTECTIONIST PANACEA . The time was bound to come , and to come soon , when the latest formulation of the protectionist creed would be tackled fully and squarely on its merits ; and it is a pleasure to find that at this formative stage in the situation that task has been performed in the most admirable manner by Professor Taussig in the December number of the Atlantic . The force of his exposition is enhanced by the circumstance that Professor Taussig , as writer and teacher , is eminently cautious in his statements and judicial in his expressions of opinion ; so that when , near the beginning of his article , he says of the **31;788;TOOLONG that " as a ' solution ' of the tariff question this much-paraded true principle ' is worthless , " many persons will take notice who might otherwise stop their ears . And that the principle , as a principle , is literally worthless , Professor Taussag has no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unbiassed reader . Even from the high-protection standpoint , it would be difficult to find anybody willing to follow this principle out to its logical conclusions , and it will be utterly impossible to offer a tariff strictly based upon those conclusions with the faintest chance of acceptance . Applied unflinchingly , it means , as Professor Taussig says , that " the production of any and every thing is to be encouraged  --  not only encouraged , but enabled to hold its own . . . . If the article is tea in South Carolina , for example , ascertain how much more expensive it is to grow the trees and prepare the leaves than it is in Ceylon , and put on h duty high enough to offset . " This principle , to be sure , is already acted upon in our existing tariff ; for on this basis the duties on lemons and prunes were raised in the Payne-Aldrich act ; but it is one thing to apply the principle irregularly by the use of pressure in particular cases , and quite another to establish it as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claim . The attempt actually to do that in good faith , so far from saving protectionism , would prove to be just that last straw which would break its back . Nor does it lie in the mouths of the gentlemen who have been acclaiming this great principle as a tariff panacea to plead that the principle is to be applied only within reasonable limits . In. the first place , it has already , in the judgment of the vast majority of the American people , been applied far beyond reasonable limits . No better illustration of this can be given than the tariff on wool ; recognized as an outrageous burden on the whole people of the United States , it is looked upon by the woolgrowers as the simplest of rights . The naive letter from " the owner of a flock of sheep " which appears in our columns to-day , is absolutely typical of the attitude which has been maintained by the wool-growing interest for half a century . The idea that any demand on the part of the mere consumer can be reasonable if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Government , does not enter this honest gentleman 's head . A second argument against it is furnished by such a declaration as that quoted by Professor Taussig from a speech by Senator Aldrich in the tariff debate of 1909 : If it costs ten cents to produce a razor in Germany and twenty cents in the United States , it will require 100 per cent duty to equalize the conditions in the two countries . As far as I am concerned , I shall have no hesitancy in voting for a duty which will equalize conditions . . If it was necessary to equalize the conditions.and to give the American producer a fair chance for competition , other things being equal of course , I would vote for 300 per cent as cheerfully as I would for 50 . When the high priest declares the meaning of the creed , of what avail is the mere common worshipper 's interpretation ? But there is a third argument even more fatal : if the principle is subject to the limitation of reasonableness , all the fat is in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the great panacea had been discovered . However , it need not ba denied , and Professor Taussig does not deny , that much good may come from the investigations of the tariff commission into the differences in costs of production between the United States and foreign countries . On the contrary , these investigations may , in a large number of cases , show that existing duties go far beyond what the principle - would call for , and thus be made an effective basis for needed reforms ; and in general , the light that they will throw on conditions of production at home and abroad should be of very great value to those desiring to deal fairly and intelligently with the situation as it stands . Professor Taussig thinks the investigations will be of especial advantage in two direc tions , " as to undue gains in monopolistic or quasi-monopolistic industries , and as to the extent to which there are vested interests which must be respected in a future settlement of the tariff . " In connection with the discussion of both these phases of the subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Taussig takes occasion to illuminate the tariff question in its fundamental aspects . As for the attitude of the Democratic party on the subject , it strikes us that this happy thought of the Republicans might easily be turned into a weapon of offence against them . Designed as a protectionist solution of the tariff problem , it is demonstrably incapable of playing that part . But in the hands of tariff reformers , it may , with one essential modification , be made to do good work . As a demand of right , a duty equal to the difference in cost of production should be dismissed as absurd ; as a maximum which shall in no instance be surpassed , that difference may well be appealed to as decisive . In cutting down the tariff in the interest of the whole people , all reasonable persons will pay regard to the claims that may legitimately be put forward by those already engaged in industries that have been built up under the stimulus of protection ; just what those claims are must be Judged in each case according to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in cost of production  --  a difference , too , measured by American production in favorable , not unfavorable , circumstances  --  is extortion . The abolition of such palpable and undeniable extortion is not to be , as the new Republican dogma would have it , the measure of tariff reform ; but as an irreducible minimum of such reform in every instance it may have its use . HRS . EDDY 'S CAREER . No sensible man will deny that the life of Mary Baker Eddy , with the wide-spread cult identified with her name , challenges explanation . The rough-and-ready way of either dismissing the whole of Christian Science as im-posture and knavery , or hailing it as divine , will no longer suffice . No more delicate task  --  yet none more imperative  --  can be laid upon men who seek to think dispassionately and ac-curately , than that of distilling out observingly the soul of goodness in things evil , detaching truth from its encompassing medium of falsehood , and passing judgment upon great movements like Christian Science in a way at once comprehensive , fair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truth even if it be disagreeable and give offence . In the entire process we have to guard the right of private judgment and individual liberty  --  as Prof. William James did when he appeared before a committee of the Massachusetts Legislature to protest against a law forbidding all persons to consult " mind healers . " Few question to-day the physical benefits which some invalids have derived from the teachings and practices of Christian Science . Nervous conditions-which set drugs at defiance may often be successfully outflanked , as it were , by approach from the side of the imagination and the will . Every open-minded physician admits this ; and would often give a great deal if he could manage to impress certain patients with the sense of mysterious inner powers able ? to front and conquer disease . Indeed , . the truth which lies in Christian Science healing has had wide recognition and application in schools of medicine entirely ignorant of Mrs. Eddy . The ways of attacking and removing persistent hallucinations and obsessions and deep nervous impressions , now common with advanced psychiatrists , have their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " even though these practitioners may never have read Mrs. Eddy 's " last revised edition " of that work . Admitting , then , that there has been something in the doctrines of Mrs. Eddy and her followers which attaches , itself to forces and possibilities " deep-seated in our mystic frame , " and not denying-that thousands of good people have found their religious natures stirred by the services of Christian Science churches , what are we to say of the-rest of it ? What is to be our Judgment of the philosophy of the matter , put forward by Mrs. Eddy and her expounders -- a philosophy at once crude , and fantastic ? How are we to account for the fact tha , t not merely the doctrines , but the commonplaces and banalities , o and Health " should have been accepted by thousands of excellent people as not only divinely inspired but clothed in language worthy of divine inspiration ? To begin with , it has to be borne in mind that the raw material for the rise of such cults as Christian Science has always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simply that we have a great many credulous people . The very nature and flux of our population , the constitution of our political society , with its emphasis upon individualism , have always made it easy to " found " sects in this country . There was an enormous number of them in the early days of the settlement of Ohio , most of which , including the group worshipping the " Leatherwood God , " have disappeared . But Americans of the middle and lower classes still lead the world , we believe , in a readiness to run after religious novelties , and to take up with some high-sounding new faith . Sunday 's news informed us , incidentally , of the existence of a religious body in the United States known as " The Pillar of Fire . " That light has not blazed high enough to attract general notice , and probably will be quenched ere long ; but it typifies the fertility of Americans in that sort of queer religious belief and organization . Mrs. Eddy was merely more successful than other founders in utilizing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conquests were made among those who were already , at least nominally , Christians . The reason for this is pretty obvious . The Christian churches have the Bible , which they declare to be the Word of God , and most of them believe , or profess to believe , that it is verbally inspired . In practice , of course , they ignore or depart from any given literal meaning which is inconvenient ; but Mrs. Eddy came forward with those ' passages of the Bible in her hand which seem to teach the miraculous healing of diseases , and insisted that they should be taken as implicitly as the passages teaching virtue and sanctity . In other words , she had a great initial advantage in the argument . You say you accept this book as the supernaturally-given guide . Very well , then , why to you not let it guide you to perfect health without the use of medicines and doctors ? This was a powerful appeal , ex concessis , and it is no wonder that so many simple-minded members of Christian churches were unable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addition , the evidence of their senses that real cures were wrought by Chris tian Science , and suffering men and women wonderfully were buoyed up by the reinforcement of their wills , it is not strange that the new cult made rapid headway , and that Christian Science " temples " are now to be found in so many cities . It might seem out of place to dwell at present upon the harm which has been done by Mrs. Eddy 's doctrines . This we will only say has been , in our opinion , very great , and has involved both needless physical suffering and mental and moral injury . But institutions grow and thrive by their good qualities , not their bad . Christianity itself was called an exttiabilts superstitto at first ; and it would be almost as great a mistake to call Christian Science nothing but a superstition . Its ultimate fate , however , now that its founder is gone , is problematic . A part of its membership will doubtless be re-absorbed into the Christian churches , which are themselves now doing something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Other Christian Scientists will fall away , for one reason or another , and the impetus of the cult , which there is some reason to believe has already been checked , will probably drop off with the years . Yet whatever may become of this singular association , its founding by a woman like Mrs Eddy , and its long and seemingly inexplicable dominance by her , will remain a problem to try the wits of students of religious vagaries . THE WAY OF WORDS . Those who habitually can not find words to express their feelings will be chagrined to learn from latest statistics that there are above 400,000 at their disposal , exclusive of foreign languages . While the returns of the census during the past months have been causing various excitements , it has escaped general notice that the little denizens of the dictionary have been multiplying , too . Mr. P. W. Long of Cambridge has collected figures that tell a startling tale . The first English dictionary in any real sense was not published until 1604 . It contained 3,000 " hard usual English words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ladies , gentle women , or any ether unskilful persons " Then came , to mention only Significant works , the Bailey dictionary , which was as popular in the eighteenth century as was Webster 's in the nineteenth ; and a little later that by Dr. Johnson , which in Todd 's famous edition of 1818 had only 58,000 words . Webster , in 1828 , printed 70,000 ; Worcester , in 1846 , 85,000 . Webster 's International , issued this year , has more than 400,000 , and what will be the total of the Oxford Dictionary when completed one can only giddily infer from the recent statement by Sir James Murray that he has 5,000,000 illustrative quotations stored in an iron room in his garden . Like the great influx into the cities from the country , the new words that have rushed into the dictionary start an impulsive cheer , but in a thoughtful mind also the lagging doubt that they may have deserted a more desirable abode . Back three centuries Shakespeare carried about in his head five times as many words as the dictionary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for every one that a good writer will use . Clearly , there 's a moral here , even though not quite so obvious as it has been made to seem . The great gains in the number of words recorded within the last fifty years have , of course , come from a minute raking over of all accessible English documents and from special branches of human labor , particularly the sciences in which changing conditions have made neces : sary a host of new terms . In arranging , explaining , and labelling all these the lexicographers have achieved splendidly , and it behooves no one lightly to blame them And yet for the nonce we could cry out with the late Professor Shaler , " Avaunt with your grubbing ! There 's too much knowledge in the world already . " The dictionary men might well drill us in the words that we have before giving us any more . For it is plain that , for some reason or other , the attitude of the educated public toward words , along with its attitude toward knowledge , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a learned man but not a trained scholar , attempted almost single-handed " to fix our language , and put a stop to those alterations which time and chance have been suffered to make in it . " This proprietary right in the native tongue was shared in less degree by intelligent people generally ; and even to argue an etymology was no proof of the pedant or specialist Errors of detail sometimes went easily by , but with all their blundering men had a sure sense for words them an agreeable excitement . To this the state of the language lent itself also . With structures still visible in more instances than to-day , words kept attention alert to their central thrusts while showing at the same time their seasoning . Especially true was this in the earlier day of Shakespeare , who took for granted even in the pit some glimpse into verbal destinies ; otherwise he could never have ventured upon the amazing jugglery of Touchstone 's humor . Now , in reality , we do not urge this as a faint-hearted regret for an age that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem which confronts us . The fact is that words , the most important medium of exchange , are passing into the hands of the favored few . It is the same problem as that presented today by wealth and by knowledge . With every chance , apparently , to reach them , the number of words is so great and their science has become so minute and complicated that only your genius dares to grapple with them in any large way . Presumably , the chief of a dictionary still sees wondrous vistas up and down the paths that words have trod ; for most of us this is net the case , and it is not needful , of course , that it should be . But between the specialist in words and the insensitive babbler is a point of vantage which must in some way be won back by any one who has ideas worthy of fit expression . It is a question which our educators might well consider . Nor ought it to be too difficult to solve . If not swamped by the half-million words or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this subject , from the jingle-loving child up . The history of words and their combat with ideas can be made absorb-mg . It is not a return to the quixotic methods of Max Muller that is desirable . Lincoln acquired the instinct for words more simply by studying the Bible and a few other great books . Once let one get the sense of words in typical operation , as so often happens there , with their economy of effort in catching and crystallizing elusive meanings , and one will not willingly lose it . It is not for us here to suggest a more practicable means than Lincoln 's ; and yet we hope , too , that when the Oxford Dictionary is completed Sir James Murray , or some one with his enthusiasm , will , either by book or by lectures , place the results before the popular imagination than can its mere totality . 