@@493032

IN an interesting letter published in another column of this issue , Mr. Robert Herrick states as the first and presumably the most important lesson of the present war that the " one sure way to precipitate war is to prepare for it . " The inference from this assertion is that the best way to avoid war is not to prepare for it . American history does not encourage us to accept this inference . The United States was absurdly unprepared for war in 1812 , but its unpreparedness did not prevent it from going to war with a light heart . It was relatively still more unprepared when President Cleveland challenged England in 1896 , but every one who remembers the public sentiment of that time knows that the overwhelming inferiority of effective naval force would not have prevented this country from fighting . We were saved from war by the forbearance of England , not by the pacifism of unpreparedness . Finally , we went to war with Spain about two years later without having made any previous preparation , and consequently a great many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avoid war by preparing for war , but neither do they avoid war by being unprepared for war . Lack of preparation means merely that when war comes the disarmed nation is either more likely to be beaten , or , if successful , is successful at a heavier cost . The way to avoid war is not to disarm , but to adopt any means which are necessary to eradicate the causes of unrighteous war . What the present convulsion does demonstrate is , as ex-President Eliot of Harvard says , the impotence towards permanent peace of international law without sanctions , of pious wishes , of economic and biological predictions , and of public opinion unless expressed through an agreement behind which stands an international force . The conclusion is , as Mr. Eliot also says , that " when that international force has been permanently established , it will be time to consider what proportionate reductions in national armaments can be prudently recommended . " T HIS is a bad time for propaganda . Propaganda lives by the assertion that its particular goal at the moment is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reform can argue with any effect that what he wishes to see realized is of tenth-rate significance , yet that is just about where most movements find themselves in these days . How to restore peace and how to relieve immediate want are absorbing most of the energy of reform ; unless a particular reform can demonstrate some close relation to these two problems , it will fail to attract much attention . Yet good causes can not afford to close up shop . They must bid against each other for remnants of public enthusiasm , attach themselves as best they can to the larger passions of the war . The suffragists , perhaps , have the best chance to do this . They can promise with perfect sincerity that political power for women will introduce into government a finer sense of human values , and confront the reckless diplomacy of men with a personal recognition of its costs . F all words in the vocabulary of politics none is so easily used as economy ; it may mean anything from sheer niggardliness to the intelligent spending of money , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making effec-tive the public revenue . In criticism of the Federal Government the word economy must mean not a reduction of public services , but a more concen-trated , deliberately planned use of the money to be spent . This of course implies something more than a general paring down of the estimates amidst the barking of Treasury watch-dogs . As Mr. Taft pointed out the other day in his speech before the Lawyers ' Club in New York , economy implies the development of a system by which the responsibility for the year 's expenditure can be centered in the President . For until the executive department is permitted to present a budget to Congress , until the executive is given the leadership in financial policy , economy in politics will mean either a brick to hit your opponent with or a panic-stricken attempt to pander to the taxpayer . The country owes a good deal to Mr. Taft for having made so clear the only course by which wise economy can be effected . By putting his finger upon the lack of financial leadership in the government , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be log-rolled out of the local interests of men who do not have to spend the money , Mr. Taft has diagnosed the essential weakness of our administrative system . T is significant that a Democratic Postmaster ' General , like his Republican predecessor , brings forward a plan to nationalize our telegraph and telephone systems . Such a proposal from such a source indicates that our states ' rights doctrine is dying of old age , and will not much longer form a serious obstacle to a policy of nationalization . But it is doubtful if the present time is propitious for such a taking over of the telegraph and telephone . Our telephone system is still in a period of rapid experimentation , where private initiative , under effective government regulation both of services and rates , is more likely to be fruitful than government ownership . As for the telegraph , which in recent decades has developed so slowly and at present faces a growing competition from the telephone , we should be ill-advised to invest in an industry with so dubious a future . F OR @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leave it occasionally have been complaining about the way this great nation houses its diplomatic representatives abroad . Judging from these critics , the directions for finding our ambassador in a European capital are something like this : Walk until you reach that magnificent edifice which represents imperial Roumania , thence three blocks east to the bird store and ask the boy ; on the fourth floor rear you will find the United States embassy but not the ambassador , because he is probably out on a bicycle delivering diplomatic notes . This issue , somehow , never burned very brightly . It was the prevailing American opinion that one did not require a large space to be diplomatic in ? at least diplomatic enough for mere foreigners . We admitted that we were not supporting our representatives in the style to which they were accustomed , but we were singularly unexcited about it . When the international crisis came , those roomy European embassies seemed fairly congested with inefficiency . If we may credit recent reports , many a foreign ambassador whose place of business looks like the Pennsylvania Terminal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undiplomatic fields . On the other hand , our Whitlocks , van Dykes and Pages , once confronted with real tasks , lifted the cat out of the office chair and performed them amid admiration that was not confined to their own countrymen . Now ? such is the interesting construction of the American mind ? having disproved the efficacy of large establishments , we shall no doubt proceed to build some . S O many subjects were given honorable mention in the President 's message and in the administration program that it was rather surprising to find unemployment ignored . Many people are asking the reason . Certainly no more acute problem is immediately before the country . In human importance it far outweighs for the moment either the conservation of water power or the proposed shipping bill . It is the evil above all others from which wretchedness and despair are flowing , about which every person who looks ahead is now troubled , and about which even the least sensitive will be disturbed when the unemployed begin to clash with the police . Unemployment , moreover , can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essential machinery even for a beginning is a national organization of the labor market . A proposal looking towards this is before Congress in the Murdock Bill . In view of all this , how can an administration claim to be meeting the country 's emergency when it is silent upon its most urgent need ? Is it simply that the Democrats are too busy , or is it that they are afraid for political reasons to face the fact that bad times are upon us ? If they tell us that their program is too full , they will have to admit that they themselves have filled it ; they seem prepared , for example , to rush into a somewhat offhand reversal of our immigration policy . If , however , they simply do not wish to confess that business can be bad under Democratic rule , they will only make it worse by this policy of averted eyes . W E are coming to recognize in this country that the real cure for corruption and ineptitude in politics is not to seek out abstractly honest men , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tradition and public imagination . Such men have a revolutionary effect on the ordinary small change of politics . The little personal bargainings and clan loyalties , the windings of old habits and formalisms , do not impede the thinking of men who have a genuine technical sense of what it means to face facts and carry out a job . The spirit of the engineer , his pride in himself as a representative of a new way of dealing with issues , is the most effective answer to the dreary , unkempt lounging of the political " war-horse . " How significant is the change can be felt by anyone who will compare the qualities of the old-fashioned officeholder with the qualities manifest in an address such as that made by Morris Cooke , Director of Public Works in Philadelphia , at the annual meeting of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers . The simplicity and directness of tone are in themselves effective , but what is most important perhaps is the awareness of the relation between the layman and the expert . " It is one of our duties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show to the public the difference between those problems of policy and public interest that are properly settled by public opinion and those scientific problems which are improperly settled unless they are settled according to the facts . " Further on Mr. Cooke overthrows the greatest danger of the expert , that picture of him as the keeper of esoteric mysteries . " I admit , " he says , " that as a part of my work as a public official I put in a great deal of thought on what may be quite properly called advertising . " T HE annual report of Postmaster-General Burleson again raises the question whether the magazines of the country should receive a cone cealed subsidy from the Post Office and how large that subsidy should be . In the fiscal year just ended , over one billion pounds of newspapers and periodicals were carried at the flat rate of one cent per pound , although , according to the Congressional Commission created in 1911 , the cost of carrying this second class matter was six cents a pound , and the total loss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now proposes that the rate for magazines be increased to two cents , while the rate for newspapers remain one cent . We see no excuse for this exception in favor of newspapers . Nor do we see any reason why the higher rate , two cents per pound , should not be made applicable to magazines . It may be desirable in the interest of the dissemination of news to carry magazines and newspapers at a rate lower than cost , but there are limits to such a policy of subsidy . The legitimate interests of newspapers and periodicals would not be destroyed by the adoption of a flat rate of two cents . W HAT is there about certain American con- trivances that makes them the victim of popular jocularity ? For a long time it was the railroads that came in for most of this chaff . There was a famous ballad about the B. &; 0. , which could either be sung straight or accompanied by a sort of sea-lion flip-flop , highly ornamental . It began with the disingenuous statement : " The B. &; 0 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ verse ended with a plain advertisement : " Reaching Kokomo in two directions , via Peoria and Pe-ru . " Another ballad averred that the poet did " really believe that Adamand Eve built the Erie . " This was sung without a dance , to the funeral march . The new butt is the automobile , with humor centering on one of the cheaper cars . They say that a man recently tried in vain to dispose of one of these cars after two months ' use , but although he advertised it at a very low figure he did not receive a single answer . The car got on his nerves and he finally decided to get rid of it by advertising that he would leave it unprotected all night on his front lawn . When he pulled up the blind in the morning it was still there , with four others of the same make . A VALIANT fly dipped his six legs in pure color and started to crawl over the fly-paper which protects a dozing world from needless buzzing . The paper was sticky and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found all the broken pieces of a young world . He plastered them joyfully into a brilliant mosiac . But the cracks were wider than his vision . This is post-impressionism . A child was given a birthday gift . He began to build a new world with many brand new blocks . This is cubism . A young man rushed toward the future . The future , like a friendly giant , intending an embrace , hit him clean between the eyes . This is futurism . A Chinese god stretched his bronze limbs and flew over many deserts for a night 's chat with the sphinx . They smiled over an ancient secret . And that was art . " N OBODY but men stop to rubber at this . " " This " is a comely maiden in a drug-store on Broadway who sits in the window by the hour , folding and unfolding a convertible pocketbook . For all the crowd cares , it is a padded fly-trap the girl is demonstrating , invented by the anti-cruelty society in advance of next June . They would stop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plant , convertible into a greenhouse or a musical conservatory . It is the prettiness of the large-eyed girl that rivets them to the window , and holds them as she lifts those eyes and lets them fall . A clever advertisement , do you think ? Clever indeed . And will the proprietor be willing to put his wife there next week , and his young daughter the week after ? Broadway would " rubber " all the more eagerly if a sign hung behind the smiling woman : " Look her over , boys . She 's my wife . " A PORTRAIT of the pig , by M. Paul Claude , offered without animus in an earlier number of this publication , has been taken very unkindly by the Kansas City Times . Stigmatizing this restrained picture as " injustice to the hog , " our contemporary rushes temerariously to the defense of that animal . For ourselves we frown upon such heat . We are not insensible to the virtues of the hog . We like the hog . We like him broiled best , but we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like his head , his hams , his chops and his trotters . It is , however , . as an animate fellow-creature that our contemporary would thrust him upon us , and this we resist . M. Claudel remarks of the hog that " his tastes do not run to the transient perfumes of flowers . " Our Western friend asks querulously , how does he know , how does anybody know ? In the same way , we answer , in which we know and deprecate the musical insensitiveness of the snail . It is true , mayhap , that a hog is not all gluttonous , that he can not be induced to eat a pawpaw . But is this refusal really a sign of " potential refinement " ? Do not the inhabitants of Kansas eat pawpaws , and are they not potentially refined ? We admit that in depicting a wallowing hog M. Claudel ignored the genteel modern hog moping on a concrete foundation . But while this effete type exists , it is our opinion that only a pure optimist would credit to the hog @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ referendum or recall , on a model farm . We assert that on this delicate subject M. Claudel was perspicacious , sedate , admirably free from hysteria ; and we affirm a melancholy belief that there is a profound if marble-hearted wisdom in the paradox that the only way to cure a hog is , first of all , to kill him . ARE we not prone , in view of the unexpected efficiency of the submarines , to exaggerate the role which these boats are likely to play in maritime warfare ? Already men are opposing the construction of all new battleships , and are suggesting that the only secure place for a dreadnought is a safe-deposit vault . The increase in cruising range and in general effectiveness of the under-water boat can not of course be denied , but in the great naval battles of the war we have heard nothing at all from the submarine . While it may continue to succeed in naval sniping , in picking off an occasional battleship , it is probable that when finally the German and British fleets engage , if they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the submarine than upon the dreadnought and super-dreadnought . MOVING pictures taken in Belgium by the Chicago Tribune and now being shown make evident one absurdity of modern fighting . It is happening on streets where anyone might live , along country roads where anyone might go bicycling . That men should be wrecking towns in the midst of trolley-cars and restaurants and bookshops and policemen makes war look more like the Baltimore fire than anything else . One contribution to documentary history , however , is made by these pictures , the sight of Belgian soldiers in the belfry of Antwerp Cathedral using it as a lookout.                     