@@465871

is our American boast that our government is one of laws and not of men , of policies rather than of personalities . The object of our vast educational system , we say , is principally the development of an intelligent citizenship ; our perennial political campaigns we are pleased to call campaigns of education ; the justification of our muckraking investigations , of our scandalmongering public hearings , whether municipal , State , or national , is always their alleged educational value . The tumultuousness of our educational activities has bred in us a myopic confidence in our civic enlightenment , our mastery of governmental principles , our capacity for self-government . But how we have been betrayed by our self-complacency ! Before January , 1912 , no one , not even the President himself , knew , or had any means of knowing , precisely what the Federal government was . Up to that time not so much as a study had ever been made of the vast Federal agglomeration as a whole . Its properties and multifarious activities had never so much as been listed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through which these activities were hypothetically performed . Tn January , 1912 , Congress published a survey of the Federal government ? the first fruit of the voyage of discovery made by the Commission on Economy and Efficiency into the hitherto uncharted seas of the Federal administrative domain . The facts of this survey would be incredible from any but the highest authority . " Never before , " said the President , in transmitting the survey to Congress , " have the foundations been laid for a thorough consideration of the relation of all the government 's parts . No comprehensive effort has hitherto been made to list its multifarious activities or to group them in such a way as to present a clear picture of what . the government is doing . Never has a complete description been given of the agencies through which these activities are performed . At no time has the attempt been made to study all these activities and agencies with a view to the assignment of each activity to the agency best fitted for its performance , to the avoidance of duplication of work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the government into a unified organization for the most effective and economical despatch of public business . Administrative officials have been called upon to discharge their duties without that full knowledge of the machinery under their direction which is so necessary to effective control , much less have they had information regarding agencies in other services that might be made use of . Under such circumstances , each service has been compelled to rely upon itself , to build up its own organization , and to provide its own facilities regardless of those in existence elsewhere . " After a hundred years of self-government , it required a special investigation of a special commission to reveal even to the officers of government precisely what the Federal government was While our schools and colleges learnedly expounded the Declaration of Independence and the tripartite division of Federal authority under the Constitution , while our newspapers entertained their readers with cockpit gossip of inter-departmental scandals and the personal foibles of candidates and busses , the complacent voter went to the polls and took merit to himself for dropping a scratched paper into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might just as well have been the lid of a furnace . If our government is in confusion , our pu'ilie business shot through and overgrown with inefficiency , corruption , and graft , who is responsible but the complacent . self-satisfied citizen and his public-school system and his newspaper and magazine press , which , in response to his demand , purveys rumor and gossip instead of facts ? We are a business people . We glory in our commercial triumphs . We make no secret of the fact that we regard ourselves as resourceful at a business transaction as the Connecticut Yankee at King Arthur 's Court . The phrase a billion-dollar Congress " we like to roll upon our tongues , and our complacency purrs when foreign observers declare that such lavishness in public expenditure would bankrupt a less opulent nation . We are a business people ; but how far do we apply our business intelligence to that most vast of all our business establishments , the Federal government ? In May , 1912 , the sub-committee of the House Committee on Appropriations held public hearings to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Commission on Economy and Efficiency . What follows is a characteristic fragment of the evidence : Mr. Cleveland ( chairman of the Commission on Economy and Efficiency ) : " The only information that can be obtained about the current liabilities of the United States government is the amount of Treasury drafts and checks on depositories outstanding , and shortterm loans and the matured debt . There are millions of dollars of obligations outstanding that nobody knows anything about , and as to whether the amount is $100,000,000 or $50,000,000 no one can even guess . With this situation in mind , we claim it is impossible for the Secretary of the Treasury to inform himself , or the President , or Congress , or anybody else about what is the current financial condition of the government of the United States . . . " Mr. Fitzgerald ( chairman of House sub-committee ) : " How does it happen that these are not rendered in the Treas-ury ? " Mr. Cleveland : " The account in the Treasury is for money advanced . Those accounts do not show what obligations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the record of payments is from three months to a year and a half behind . There are from $200,000,000 to $100,000 , 000 of unaudited payments not on the books . That is as close as you can get to the obligations of the government of the United States from the books of the Treasury . " What a commentary upon the civic purblindness of the American people ! In May , 1912 , not even the Secretary of the Treasury could come within fifty millions of guessing the actual financial condition of the Federal government . And as for business methods , the Federal government still remains an almost unexplored kitchen-midden of obsolete practices . In a vague way we have known that the government employed in the neighborhood of four hundred thousand men and women , that it transacted a business as varied as that of the entire commercial world , and that it spent more than a billion dollars annually ; and yet an investigation shows that the government is neither coherent as a business organization nor efficient as an instrument of public welfare . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sprawling mushroom town . Through lack of co-ordination and planning , its services are in a perennial state of partial demoralization ; departments , divisions , bureaus , that should be bound together by a common purpose and a conscious spirit of cooperation in the public interest , are scattered , mutually ignorant of one another 's activities and equipment , often hostile therefore and at cross-purposes . And because of this vest planlessness , millions of public money run to waste . Let the Treasury Department again serve as an illustration . There , of all places , the Commission on Economy and Efficiency found eighteen distinct bookkeeping bureaus , operating eighteen distinct systems of accounting , running alI the way from casual memoranda in pencil on loose slips of paper to a bewilderingly complicated scheme of records grown like a coral reef by planless grafting of process on process . The same incoherence riddles the entire administrative agglomeration . No attempt is made to relate Federal expenditure to income , or income to proposed expenditure ; no means is provided for testing the efficiency of expenditures by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past eighty years Congress has found it necessary to conduct more than a hundred special investigations to discover facts concerning service activities which , under any reasonable system of record and reporting , should have been currently available . And unhappily even these investigations have , practically without exception , been piecemeal and flash- in - the - pan affairs . They have never been undertaken with a view to a carefully considered plan of administrative reorganization . Too often , as in the recent poking about into the affairs of the Bureau of Chemistry in the Department of Agriculture , they have grown out of internal dissensions and scandals , and have been abandoned when spectacular publicity had exhausted public interest . Their general effect has been to muddle the public mind with irrelevancies and to overcast the darkness of an already benighted citizenship . How in a nation of individuals priding themselves on their business acumen and their capacity for self-government could such a state of affairs come about ? For the answer one must look into the history of our business development . Since our great " Revolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all centralized government in contempt . For upward of a century our Federal government has been valued only in so far as it fostered private enterprise ; it has been regarded in part as the crowd regards the umpire at a baseball game , but principally as a medium for making public property available for private use . The theory has been that what advantaged the individual was , by that fact , of public advantage . Individual success has been the inspiration of our national life , and to what better use might the public wealth be put than the encouragement of individual enterprise ? So we threw open our public lands that the hardy might scramble for their possession ; we held out the gold and coal of our mines as a bait to the adventurous ; and as with lands and mines , so with franchises and all manner of special privileges . The national domain became a grab-bag at a country fair , and each man 's worth was measured by what he could snatch for himself . " The country must be developed ! " we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exploitation . Did we not need railroads , for example ? Then why not stimulate individual initiative to build and possess them ? Had we not the lands of a continent with which to encourage hustling entrepreneurs ? So , through Federal aid , we dispensed more than a hundred and fifty-eight million acres , of which , up to June , 1907 , the railroads had established title to a hundred and eight million . More than one railroad , it is true , justified the observation of a prospecting English capitalist who in 1856 examined the Illinois Central . " This is not a railway company , " he wrote home ; " it is a land company . " But what of that ? Were we not contriving the greatest and most costly railroad system in the world ? And so the pork-barrel philosophy of government got itself established as a first aid to American civilization . The dignity and power of the central government were recklessly subordinated to the promotion of business . And once the public had acquiesced in the theory that a principal function of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public property , it became the part of simple wisdom to compete for public grants , whether of land or franchises or other special privileges , in an organized and systematic way . Out of this wisdom grew the lobby , patronage , and the spoils system , and the organized control of elections . Governmental places of all kinds ? as , conspicuously , in the postal service ? came to be assigned not for technical fitness , but for ability to line up the local vote behind the representative of a particular faction or lobby . The lobbies assumed the reins of government , and since the strength of each lobby in particular and of all lobbies in common depended upon the number of places available for distribution , the Federal pay-roll grew even as the morning-glory . The annual Rivers and Harbors bill is a perfect monument to the efficiency of the pork-barrel philosophy of government . In a sprightly essay , now unhappily out of print , Professor Albert Bushnell Hart has celebrated the wonder of it . " Was the bill of general utility ? " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from no lack of effort to cover the whole area Bay and San Francisco , is myopically confident of his self - governing status as long as the savor of the pork-barrel sweetens the breath of his nostrils . While the government is regarded as primarily a dispenser of gifts , the first consideration must be that jobs shall multiply , that contracts shall be abundant , that as many voters and herders of voters as possible shall feed from the public trencher . So long as this point of view prevails , how can exact knowledge of the ramifications of the govern-merit , its properties and prujects , the number of places on the pay-roll , or the administrative , necessity of those places , be anything more than an embarrassment and hindrance to the creation of more jobs and places ? Such traffic flourishes best in darkness . While it survives , governmental efficiency in a modern social sense must remain impossible . " It is an accepted fact , " says Mr. Cleveland , " that the local offices of the government are largely controlled for political patronage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the internal-revenue service , the land offices , and other field services of the government , there is duplication and waste . Wherever the spoils system is still in vogue , inefficiency must continue ? the motive of a man must necessarily be pull rather than push . " Why , for example , should the lighthouse and life-saving services maintain separate organizations ? ' Both have stations along the coast in close proximity , both have practically the same administrative problems to meet , and yet they are operated as if they owed allegiance to entirely separate governments , at an annual cost at least a hundred thousand dollars in excess of what would be necessary if they were united , as they might readily be , in a single service . Why Should the revenue-cutter service maintain a Lilliputian flotilla to do the work that could better be done by a branch of our leisured navy ? Why should the government printing-office cart its tons of documents the length of Pennsylvania Avenue to the District post-office , and the District post-office then cart them back again to the railway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Why ? but the questions of this character raised by the Commission 's survey fill many closely printed volumes . And always the answer amounts to the same thing ! to make places , to multiply gifts from the public treasury . There is something pathetically comic in the perennial outcries of our people against the oppression of their rulers . As if the captains of our lobbies were not the product of our national attitude toward government I If they were not smitten with civic myopia , the people would see that the evils of which they complain lie at their own doors . If we are indeed to be a self - governing people , we must meet the responsibilities of selfgovernment . We must know what our government is . We must formulate and understand public policies . We must be alert and constant in the supervision of the instrumentalities through which those policies must either be frustrated or put into efficient operation . To enable the people to see what their government is , the Commission on Economy and Efficiency has prepared a survey from which whoever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , what its activities , what the departments , bureaus , and operating units for the performance of these activities , and the organic relation of these properties and activities one to another . And as a means of simplifying the formulation and grasp of policies and the public control of their execution , the Commission has proposed an animal national budget , supplemented by a system of reports through which the uses of annual appropriations may become subject . to current publicity . To replace the darkness and confusion of the pork-barrel system of government , the Commission proposes that the President and his Cabinet , as the responsible heads of the administration elected by the people , shall each year prepare a budgetary programme for the ensuing year ; that this programme shall take the form of a detailed statement of proposed expenditures so arranged that Congress may approve or reject them item by item ; that it shall be made the subject of public hearings and public discussion before being acted upon by Congress ; that Congress shall not add items to those submitted for legislative consideration by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been publicly discussed , financed by Congress , and certified by the Executive , it shall be unlawful for any head of a department or other governmental employee to use the appropriations for any other purposes than those for which they were specifically granted . Furthermore , the Commission proposes a system of current record and regular and timely report through which the work of each service may be currently revealed to the people . In other words . it recommends the adoption of what is fundamentally the English budgetary plan , under which the Executive branch , acting for the people , is made responsible for the formulation of a working programme of public business , and the legislature , acting as a board of control , is made responsible for deciding whether the budgetary proposals are in harmony with the public will , and for determining what funds shall be raised and appropriated for putting the programme into effect . The adoption of this recommendation would , indeed , involve a complete reversal of our present governmental procedure , under which Congress not only controls the public purse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At the same time , however , it would mean a return to what was apparently the intention of the founders of the republic . The original duties of the Secretary of the Treasury , modeled after the English practice , were " to prepare and report estimates of public revenue and public expenditures " ; in other words , it was evidently contemplated by the authors of the government that the Secretary of the Treasury , acting as finance minister of the administration , should submit to Congress a budget as a definite administrative proposal . But this intention came to nothing because of the hostility that grew up between Congress and the Executive . The fear of the monarch , even an elected one , was strong in the land . The Executive , walking in slippery ways , forbore to exercise his constitutional right to prepare a budget , and evaded the responsibility of submitting it through his finance minister . After the time of Alexander Hamilton , the originally contemplated powers of the Secretary of the Treasury were whittied away by a series of restrictive statutes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a working programme were taken away from him ; his dignity was gradually reduced from that of the President 's finance minister to that of an editorial clerk without discretion beyond that of seeing that the departmental heads ? to whom the duty of preparing estimates was shifted ? submitted their requests for money in the form prescribed by Congress . Congress , dominated by the pork-barrel philosophy of government , prescribed forms of darkness rather than forms of light . To-day the heads of departments as often as not leave the preparation of the estimates to their subordinates ; there is no legal requirement that they shall give them their personal supervision . These subordinates , ungoverned by any Federal or departmental policy , place their estimates as high as seems discreet , and then depend upon lobbying and wire-pulling to get as much for themselves as they can . Factional rivalry within the departments has resulted from this practice , which , since the Secretary of the Treasury has no power of review over the departmental estimates , destroys the possibility of a unified Federal programme . The estimates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instead of a single coherent plan of public work . For when Congress destroyed the budgetary function of the Executive and his finance minister , it carefully avoided assuming those functions itself . Instead of creating a budgetary committee out of its own membership to foruiulate a working programme for the government as a whole , to establish a system of accurate record and current publicity , to establish standards of efficiency , and to relate expenditure to revenue and revenue to proposed expenditure , it placed the whole business of Federal finance on the plum-tree basis , of which Professor Hart 's biography of the Rivers and Harbors bill is a perfect illustration . There are ten appropriation committees in Congress ; and although ? with the exception of the Committee on Agriculture ? no one of these committees has complete charge of the estimates of any one department , they rarely come together for the purpose of getting a bird'seye view of the needs of the individual departments under their divided jurisdiction , they never confer with the object of seeing the needs of all the services in Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1912 , shows that in no single instance is a member of a committee having jurisdiction of the appropriations to a given department also a member of the committee having jurisdiction over the expenditures of the same department . Under these conditions , one is not surprised to read in a Presidential message of June , 1912 , that " notwithstanding the magnitude and complexity of the business which is each year conducted by the Executive and financed by Congress , and the vital relation which each government activity bears to the welfare of the people , there is at present no provision for reporting revenues , expenditures , and estimates for appropriations in such manner that the Executive , before submitting estimates , and each member of Congress , and the people , after estimates have been submitted , may know what has been done by the government , or what the government proposes to do ! " This is the situation which the Commission believes can be remedied only by a national budget --  " the only effective means whereby the Executive may be made responsible for getting before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ programme of public business with respect to which the legislature must assume responsibility to the people either for action or inaction . " Without such an instrument conscientiously used by the Executive , the people of the country must remain hopelessly in the dark as to " what has been done by the government , or what the government proposes to do . " Civic myopia must remain a pervasive national disease . But even with a budget ? a definitely predetermined plan of work to be done ? how can the Executive be expected to put it efficiently into force while positions in the government service continue to be assigned to spoilsmen instead of to non-political technical experts ? What have a man 's partisan affiliations to do with his ability to design a building , to operate a system of cost accounting , or to make and report meteorological observations ? How can the government ever be made an efficient instrument of public work so long as the working staff is subject to the caprice of shifting partisan control ? It is right and natural that the President 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mo ? entarily ascendant popular majority , and that they should determine the policy of the administration just as they should control the policy behind the movements of the army and navy . But why should the expert civil staff be changed and disorganized with each shift in administrative policy , any more than the technical staff of the army and navy ? If permanence and cumulative experience arc good for the military branches , why are they not equally good for the civil branches ? In the interest of efficiency , the Commission believes that all technical positions whatsoever should be filled , upon due test of qualification , by the President alone ; that such appointments should be without term ; that removal should follow only upon proof of incompetence . In other words , that the entire civil staff should be reorganized with a view to efficient service to the entire nation rather than with a view to efficient service to lobbies or partisan political groups . The spirit of these proposals is typified in the Commission 's recommendation that there should be in each department one permanent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manager of the department , through whom the experience of the department would be made immediately available to each incoming secretary . It is recognized that the assistant secretaries are , as a rule , merely adjuncts to the secretaries themselves ; that , like the secretaries , they are channels through which the policy of the administration is transmitted to the working staff ; that they are rightly political in character ; and that it is therefore proper that they should change with the administration . The recommendation that one assistant secretary should . be permanent is intended to keep the working staff intact and to protect it against the demoralization which comestoday during the fumbling period when a new administration is attempting to acquaint itself with its tools . But the object of these recommendations is not a government by experts , but a government of the people through experts . Unless the budget ? the working programme ? is formulated in harmony with the public will , unless it is financed and carried out with conscientious regard for the public interest , it will not accomplish the salutary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , behind the administration and Congress , must be enlightened , alert , inspired by clear social ideals . So long as the pork-barrel spirit prevails among the people , it will survive in the government ; so long as the people remain ignorant of the methods and current activities of the civil service , government must inevitably remain . the tool of lobbies and factions rather than the servant of the nation as a whole . In cities where the budgetary method has been adopted ? in Philadelphia , and in New York , through the energy of the New York Bureau of Municipal Research ; in Milwaukee and Schenectady , under the Socialist administrations ? the budget has been made the center of a new system of civic education . These communities have adopted the practice of holding annual budget exhibits , in which , by means of charts and diagrams and attractive pictorial devices , the record of the preceding year 's work is made manifest to the people ; each division and bureau strives to justify its request for renewed appropriations by a showing of work accomplished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drawn from within and without the public service . The financial authorities hold public hearings at which all citizens are invited to criticize work done and projected . Every effort is made to induce the people to share in the formulation of public policies and in the control of the services charged with the execution of these policies . In Milwaukee , under the administration of Mayor Seidel , every project contemplated by the administration was made the subject of advanced publicity through the official Bureau of Economy and Efficiency . Bulletins and news-letters were prepared on the milk-supply , plumbing and housedrain inspection , garbage collection , refuse incineration , educational work and publications of the health department , water-wastes survey , free legal aid , the newsboys of Milwaukee , etc . The theory underlying this practice is that government must be the day-by-day concern of the citizens , and that it can not serve the people satisfactorily or efficiently unless it makes itself , and is made , currently subject to enlightened public supervision . Precisely this programme is recommended by the President 's Commission on Economy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? as a cure for civic myopia . If the recommendations of the Commission should be adopted , as much money would be spent in exhibiting the current work of the government as is now spent upon the accumulation of fossil remains and historical curios in the Smithsonian Institution and the National Museum . A non - partisan publicity staff would be organized to prepare facts about the current activities of the government for the use of newspapers and magazines , and for direct circulation in readable form among the people through the postoffice . " For lack of exact data , " says Mr. Cleveland , chairman of the Commission , " Z the will of the people ' is likely to-day to be nothing more than an emotional reaction controlled by a ' Committee on Rumor . ' This is the kind of public opinion that to-day surrounds both citizens and public servants . This is the background for Executive action . The Committee on Rumor is in turn controlled by the selfish group of spoilsmen who dominate our institutions , our policies , and polities , and will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and prompt information is not made available in a form which can readily be assimilated by the layman . Waste and inefficiency in government naturally result from the inability of the citizens and of the officers of government to see the problem of government in perspective , and their consequent inability to think intelligently about questions presented for expression of opinion and for action . At the present time no means is provided for VOL . CXXVI. ? No. 753. - 59presenting such information in such a way that it may be considered in perspective by Congress , the Executive , or the people . The American people to-day are in the dark , and the public is laboring under the handicap which can be overcome only by making exact knowledge currently available as a basis for judgment . " The common objection to such a programme is that the ordinary busy citizen can not be expected to keep himself currently informed of governmental activities , that the details of public administration are too difficult for his layman 's comprehension . The answer is that these matters cease to be difficult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that when he fails in this interest he repudiates his primary responsibility as a member of the democracy . Men do not find the daily financial reports of banks and corporations and stock-exchange transactions difficult when they have money invested or on deposit . Hundreds of thousands of men and women take delight in mastering the intricacies of baseball records , even to the minutest biographical details of pitchers and fielders and the men on the bench . The State College of Agriculture at Cornell University has just distributed one of its monthly Announcers . These announcers are published , the university explains , for the purpose of acquainting the people of the State with the kinds of work which are in progress at the State College of Agriculture , and " of which the public should have knowledge . " They deal with scientific investigations , extension enterprises on farms and among the people , forthcoming bulletins , reading courses , local school facilities , and kindred matters . Such work is being done by colleges and experiment stations in all parts of the country . It is admirable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as important ? The President 's Commission on Economy and Efficiency has wrought out a corrective for our eivio , myopia . Until the people see to it that the Commission 's projected programme of civic education is put into effect , efficient government will remain impossible and self-government a fiction .                     