@@486774

TO THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : ? SIR : Students of the Elizabethan drama owe a considerable debt to V. E Albright 's monograph on " The Shakespearean Stage " ( Columbia University Studies in English , 1909 ) . It will hardly be thought derogatory of his admirable work to mention a detail in which his sketches of the " typical Shakespearean stage " seem likely to convey misapprehension Mr Albright 's plates represent a stage not square , but converging to a relatively sharp point - in front . The only authority for this conception is found in a rough sketch of a stage of some kind , printed on the title page of " The Tragedy of Messallina , " in 1640 . It is by no means clear that this can be relied upon as a faithful picture of conditions in the public theatres of that day . It is certainly vague and not improbably fanciful . Moreover , it bears a very strong resemblance to the stage portrayed on the title-page of the Latin play of " Roxana " ( 1632 ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cambridge , and by reason of its language and general academic chiracter can not ever have been produced in the London popular theatres . " Messallina " itself , acted by the company of the King 's Revels , is not precisely a popular play ; and it is possible that the stage portrayed in both dramas is meant to be that of the academic hall rather than of the public theatre . The employment of the word " Theater , " quoted by Mr. Albright on pp. 44 , 45 , does not contradict such an assumption . In any case , however , a comparison of the " Roxana " and " Messallina " sketches ( reproduced in Prof. Baker 's " Development of Shakespeare as a Dramatist , " p. 270 ) , with Mr. Albright 's ideal drawing , will show that the side lines of the stage converge relatively very little in the two former . It seems to me even doubtful whether any convergence at all was intended . The shortening of the front line may be merely the device of an awkward draughtsman , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ front view , the two side lines of the stage , which naturally would be invisible if allowed to remain entirely parallel to each other and to the line of vision . Even if we admit , however , that the " Messallina " picture proves at least one English public stage in 1640 to have been somewhat narrower in front than at the back , no such assumption concerning the Shakespearean stage of a half century earlier seems allowable . The well-known De Witt drawing of the Swan Theatre , dated 1596 , shows a perfectly square stage ; and De Witt 's : picture , untrustworthy though it may be in details , is certainly better authority for sixteenth-century practice in regard to so fundamental a matter than the equally vague and much later frontispiece to " lVfessallina . " Fortunately , it is not necessary to depend altogether for one 's decision upon the balancing of these rough and contradictory sketches The question seems to be settled , as far as the procedure of 1600 is concerned , by the details given in Henslowe 's contract for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1600 . Many of the features in the construction of this building , it should be remembered , were avowedly copied from Shakespeare 's Globe ; and here a rectangular stage , virtually square , is certainly described . In length it is to be forty-three feet ; in breadth , it is to extend to the middle of the " yarde , " or pit ; i. e. , forty feet , since the entire width of the house is named as eighty . In one place , indeed , Mr. Albright admits incidentally that the " outer stage may have been square in its earlier history , and converging in its later " ( p 78 ) . Since we have good evidence that it was square in Shakespeare 's time , and only the most dubious reason to believe that it may have been converging forty years later , is it not a mistake to represent " the , typical Shakespearean stage " as converging to such a degree that it is almost triangular ? The matter seems one of decided importance , because several features of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stage which Mr. Albright depicts . A ruling principle in the construction of Elizabethan theatres was always , apparently , the provision of generous stage room . The For tune of Henslowe and Alleyn , previously mentioned , allotted more than one-fourth of the entire ground area to stage and tiring-house . Performers on Mr. Albright 's stage would , however , be excessively cramped , and there would be no place at all tenable by the spectators , who , as we know , frequently occupied stools on the stage . The narrow front portion would be quite useless for real action , and all the exciting scenes would have to be presented toward the extreme rear of the outer platform or on the inner stage under the balcony  --  a very obvious disadvantage for the audience . Moreover , a glance at Mr. Albright 's sketch will show how entirely unsuited this useless forward point would be for the seating of auditors Half a dozen gallants and citizens , stationed as the stage directions in the prologue to " The Knight of the Burning Pestle " indicate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pit . On the other hand , auditors placed farther back on Mr. Albright 's stage must be put either between the inner and outer stages  --  an impossible position  --  or else directly in the way of the doors by which actors entered and left the outer stage . It seems clear , therefore , that the Shakespearean stage must have been square , or even more probably , as in the case of the Fortune , rectangular , with the longer side abutting upon the pit . Only under such conditions could a large number of actors and a group of spectators have been accommodated simultaneously without occasioning the unendurable discomfort of the rest of the audience . C. F. TUCKER BROOKE . Yale University . December 6 . " SCIENTIFIC MANAGEMENT " FOR RAIL-WAYS . TO THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : Many railroad officers have attempted to show that the public interest requires a marked improvement in railroad credit , and that to accomplish such improvement there must be substantial increases in net revenue However , some who concede these propositions assert that such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increases in rates , but through increased efficiency of operation in accordance with the theories recently advanced by witnesses before the Interstate Commerce Commission The support of this view rests largely upon the claims of Mr. Harrington Emerson , one of the witnesses before the commission . Mr. Emerson made it plain that his criticism of inefficiency related not merely to the railroads , but , generally speaking , to all industrial activity , much of which he declared was " disgracefully " inefficient . When asked about the difference between railroads and other industries , Mr. Emerson stated that the railroads " are fully up to , if not ahead of , the average ability , and probably ahead of what they were some years ago . " I believe that any impartial investigation will show a higher average efficiency on the part of railroads as a whole than on the part of other industries as a whole . Bearing in mind that the improvement of railroad credit is a matter of vital interest to the public , it would seem contrary to the public 's own interest for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protection of railroad cc edit , merely because the railroads have not yet realized an ideal standard of efficiency far beyond that realized by well-managed industries in general . Moreover , the supporters of the theories urged upon the commission made it very clear that those theories would revolutionize existing industrial methods . It is apparent that such a revolution would be a matter of time even in a single shop , and probably would be a matter of years or decades with respect to any extended industry . But the Protection of railroad credit is of vital , immediate interest to the public and can not be postponed indefinitely to await the success of an industrial revolution ; it is a question which demands favorable attention now according to the general conditions and standards which prevail . The theories of these experts involve the plan of securing greater efficiency from the individual laborer by means of a bonus system , and this is a system to which union labor is understood to be very much opposed , For example , one railroad company attempted to apply this bonus system to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Locomotive Engineers , one of the most intelligent labor unions in the country , protested with such effect that the attempt was given up . Apparently trade unionism must be revolutionized before its cooperation can be secured in putting any such theories into general effect . The fullest discussion of the question of industrial efficiency is to be welcomed and will tend to improve efficiency in all enterprises , both railroad and non-railroad , and perhaps will promote cooperation on the part of union labor . But the present situation can not properly await the future working out of these problems . There is an imperative public necessity that the railroads should have adequate credit , and this credit is on the point of being seriously impaired unless additional net revenue can be had without delay . Under such conditions the protection of the public 's interests ought not to be postponed for an indefinite period to await the revolutionizing of industrial methods or trade-union principles either as to the railroads or as to enterprises generally WALKER D. HINES , New York , December 9 LIFE AT THE SORBONNE . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from an American college entering the Sorbonne discovers immediately a difference in methods , even in the formalities of registration , which indicates that the notions of education held in Paris are not those of Harvard or Princeton . Having in mind the infinite precautions taken by the American college to insure his doing a little work from time to time , he is surprised to find that the French authorities take it for granted that he will work of his own accord , and that , in fact , he has come to the Sorbonne for that express purpose . He can follow twenty courses , if he likes ; or  --  amusing as it sounds  --  none at all . Absolutely nothing is officially required of him beyond the production of a diploma of secondary , or , if he prefers , of higher , instruction . Entrance examinations do not exist . If he wishes to take a degree , he may present himself for final examinations after a period of years which varies according to the degree . On the other hand , after receiving his card @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stately court and dome of the Sorbonne , and then depart forever . He will not be pursued by summonses from the dean , nor will his parents be notified of his " undue absence from university exercises . " Hearing of such a situation , a certain number of American undergraduates will inevitably exclaim " What a cinch ! " and immediately begin to think seriously of transferring the seat of their education to Paris But they would find the institution less agreeable than they had expected . For there exists at the Sorbonne no trace of the varied social activity which is the real attraction at American colleges . There being no dormitories or commons , the students live where they please , or where they can . The university is not concerned with them outside the lecture rooms . There is a total lack of the patriarchal spirit which manifests itself , at times so painfully for the undergraduate , through the American " committee on discipline . " And what makes this attitude possible is precisely the complete absence of the clubs , fraternities , " proms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's days . In France they would never believe that we pay athletic coaches higher salaries than full professors , nor that the coaches sometimes lodge complaints when " university work " is allowed to encroach on time consecrated to football practice . Whatever may be the motives which send an American boy to college , the chances are against their being connected with the inside of ' Cooks . Custom , fashion , desire for amusement , a hundred various ambitions , petty but absorbing , all may nave something to do with it . But in France the situation is much simpler ; there is no use in going to a university for anything but study , because study is the only thing to be had there . Of course , there are numbers of young men from the provinces who come to the University of Paris , and especially to the faculties of law and medicine , solely for the sake of a few years in the metropolis . But Just because of the extreme liberty allowed them , they do not trouble the professors by attending any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the schools as any of the other thousands of sightseers in Paris who never heard of Robert Sorbon . It may be objected that the social side of American universities has its importance , and that a boy brought up in a sort of scholastic monastery would be a difficult type to live with . But the French are a proof of the fact that the social element may be neglected in universities without its being affected outside . They have both kinds of education , social and intellectual . They simply do not attempt to impose both of them on the university . That institution they consider as intended solely for intellectual training . The rest comes naturally , in the course of everyday life . And it is just this singleness of purpose , together with the higher regard accorded to things of the mind by the people in general , which gives the French university its air of seriousness , of efficiency , of accomplishment . This air is bound to strike the American as one of violent contrast with the institutions of his own land , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roaring years of college life . HERBERT JONES . Paris , November 10 PORTSMOUTH NAVY YARD . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : In the Nation of November 24 appears in an editorial on " Navy Yard Reform " the following statement concerning the Portsmouth Navy Yard . " The waterway to the yard is so bad that no battleship is docked there , and even a gunboat approaches it with great caution . " As a reader of the Nation who puts great faith in its statements of fact , I beg leave to correct this extraordinary misstatement . Such battleships as the Maine , Wisconsin , and New Hampshire have repeatedly come up to the Portsmouth Yard under their own steam The Maine and Wisconsin are lying at the yard piers at the present time . The armored cruisers Tennessee and Montana ( 502 feet long ) were at the yard a few weeks ago , and the North Carolina , of the same class , was docked last Monday . One of the officers of the North Carolina told me that she came up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her own steam and without the yard pilot . It would be possible to give further facts showing how the Portsmouth Navy Yard is now entirely and easily accessible to the largest men-of-war . ALFRED GOODING Portsmouth , N H , December 6 . Our information was taken from an apparently uncontradicted statement made In Congress by a member of the House Naval Committee in an appeal to Congress to vote no more money for the Portsmouth and other yards. ? ED . THE NATION. 