@@493052

C ONGRESS during its coming session will be called upon to consider three plans for mili ? tary preparation or lack of preparation . There will be the plan which Mr. Bryan advocates so eloquently of doing nothing to increase the army of the United States in numbers or to improve it in organization and equipment . There will be the plan of the administration which increases the regu ? lar army by about 30,000 men , which seeks to cre ? ate a new volunteer national militia of 400,000 men , and which remedies at least the most palpa ? ble deficiences in equipment , officers and general organization . Finally , there is the plan supported in general by Colonel Roosevelt , but which really originates with the army War College in Washing ? ton . The administration has not allowed its details to be published , but the newspapers have indicated Its general scope . The regular army is increased to 225,000 men , who serve two years with the colors and four in the reserve , the expectation being that at the end of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first line of defence a body of fully trained troops amounting to at least 500,000 . In addition , a second line of 1,000,000 is provided , who will have received the rudiments of military train ? ing and could , after a few weeks in camp , be moulded into effective soldiers . Of course very complete arrangements are proposed for the equipment , the , officers , the supplying and the staff work of the ex ? panded army . All of these plans will be vigorously advocated in Congress , and that body in its action or lack of action will have to choose among them . N what grounds should the choice be made ? In trying to answer this question Congress men will not receive very much assistance from the supporters of the several plans . Our existing arma ment , the increase proposed by the administration , and that proposed by the War College , are all advo cated as adequate means of self-defense . But no one can possibly tell what really adequate means of self defense are . It all depends upon how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not apprehensive . He refuses to believe that any foreign Power wishes to attack the United States , and he is quite content to wait until one does before making preparation . At the other end of the scale are men so appre hensive that they wish the country to prepare against an attack from a combination of Powers ; and , mani festly , the country can not be absolutely secure unless it is prepared to fight a navy and an army as large as the military and naval force which Great Britain and France are free to detach for service on this side of the Atlantic . A program based merely on self-defense brings with it no standard from which to estimate the amount of preparation necessary to secure the country from attack . The present army and navy would not make the country secure in case of a war with any first-class Power . The arma ments proposed by the administration should be sufficient to secure the country against attack by any one Power except Great Britain . The armament // proposed by the War College is apparently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong military Powers . But why not more than two ? In planning for self-defense a country must always substitute diplomatic for military instruments at some stage in the work . It must always decide to trust at least some of its neighbors and associates . No plan can be adopted which would not imply a specific attitude towards the international relation ? ship and responsibilities of the United States . N OT that we expect the plan of preparedness will be determined by a specific attitude towards the international relationships and responsi ? bilities of the United States . The amount of pre ? paredness finally authorized will depend upon the pressure of public opinion . But this public opinion will be moulded in part by the reasons advanced , and during the coming session the great object of those who believe in preparing intelligently should be that of establishing associations in the popular mind between the amount of preparedness and its object . The existing army and navy have been based on the assumptions that we were practically secure from at ? tack , and that no other nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aspects of our foreign policy . The demand for a larger army and navy implies not merely that our territory is not secure from attack , but that our policy may not be re ? garded as inoffensive by other nations , and that we must find out which among the foreign Powers are more likely to be our friends than our enemies . We have criticized Mr. Wilson for avoiding the dis ? cussion of these questions , but the advocates of less and more armament are just as much at fault as he . They are all evading the problem of defining the foreign policy and ties of the country , and conse ? quently their propaganda of preparedness or unpre ? paredness fails in a most essential aspect : in its ef ? fect on public opinion their work is miseducative rather than educative . H IGH ocean freight rates are constituting a serious handicap to our export trade . There is a market in Spain for hundreds of thousands of tons of American coal at prices that seem fabulous here , but with freight charges ranging from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market is practically as distant as the moon . Wheat and meat move in spite of high freights , and the same thing is true of a wide range of manufactures . They would move in vastly greater volume if ocean freights were offered at normal rates and in ade ? quate supply . Supply of shipping , however , is the crux of the problem . Even at present rates there are not ships enough to carry the goods piling up in the terminals . This situation would not have been affected in any way if the administration had succeeded in its project of purchasing ships and entering upon the transatlantic carrying trade . Some favored shippers might have enjoyed lower freights , but the terminal congestion would have become as serious . Nor would conditions have been better if the government had undertaken to build ships . All the shipbuilding yards are working up to capacity , and governmental orders would merely displace private orders . There is , in our opinion , a place for government-owned lines , but this place is not created by the exceptional conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be worth establishing on routes necessary for the development of our trade , but only when private lines can not operate without subsidy . Not else ? where . T HERE is the greatest diversity of opinion among business men as to the commercial situation that will arise when peace is reestablished . According to one view , the industry of our European competitors will emerge from the war so badly shattered that our manufacturers will have nothing to fear from it . This view has a certain plausi ? bility . Capital will be dear in Europe , taxes will be high , labor , if cheap , will be more or less de ? moralized . Millions of men are unlearning their industrial habits in the trenches , and these habits constitute the part of the national capital that is hardest to restore . According to another view , peace will mean a desperate effort on the part of the European nations to regain the trade which they have lost . Universal poverty will goad on the pro ? ducers to force open the neutral markets , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon European exports . This view , which is that of the protectionist reaction in this country , is also more or less plausible . The truth seems to be that in some branches of trade we shall have nothing to fear from foreign competition after the war , while in other branches our producers may suffer severely . We ought to create at once an expert tariff commission that will collect system ? atically all information that may bear upon the probable commercial effects of the return of Europe to peace . In this way we might determine rationally what tariff schedules may need to be raised and 10 what measure . If we persist in doing nothing we shall find ourselves overwhelmed by a movement for increasing duties all around , and to a level not at all warranted by the international competitive situation . We shall either revise the tariff intelligently , with due regard to the legitimate interests of our manu ? facturers , or they will secure a popular mandate to take tariff-making into their own hands and write such schedules as their cupidity may direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has se ? ceded from the United States . The Cham ? ber of Commerce , the Mayor , and the Chief of Po ? lice among them have abrogated the Constitution , and have decided that they will use force to pre ? vent Miss Elizabeth Gurley Flynn from addressing the mill workers . " You may have the right , but we have the power , " is the candid way in which these official ruffians proclaim their policy , and the only people who seem in the least concerned are a few brave women and a few scattered editors . Yet here is an issue which goes to the roots of our liberties . The rulers of Paterson are about the most dangerous citizens this country harbors , and we should like to suggest to all those concerned about the lawlessness of Germany in Belgium , that Paterson is worthy of their immediate attention and utmost energy . As between von Bissing in Brus ? sels and Bimson in Paterson , Bimson is perhaps the greater enemy of civilization . The Germans never pretended to believe in democracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A QUARTER of a century ago a rich woman noticed that the salesgirls in a department store were compelled to stand up all day behind the counter . She rebelled . She said she would withdraw her account unless the management pro ? vided seats , and the threat worked . A woman had hit upon economic coercion as a weapon of goodwill . So the Consumers ' League idea was born , and now the public is celebrating its twenty-fifth anniversary . The League has travelled far since those early days . It has discovered that the boycott is only one of the devices by which the consumer can make himself felt in the industrial world . It has used publicity with extraordinary skill . And it has used legislation . For years it has struggled to enact and enforce labor laws , fighting its way from state legis ? lators to the Supreme Court . The greatest case with which it has ever been connected is now be ? fore that court . When we know about the con ? stitutionality of the minimum wage we shall know what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ T HE campaign against the Seamen 's law , which has been gathering momentum ever since the bill was signed by the President , seems now to have overshot its mark . Two weeks ago the press tri ? umphantly heralded dispatches picturing the Seamen themselves as clamoring for its repeal . Yet a few days later , at the instance of the Seamen 's delegate , the law was unanimously endorsed by the American Federation at its annual meeting . A few months ago the notion was assiduously circulated that the law was not to be enforced against foreign vessels . It now appears from the published rulings of the Department of Commerce that , excepting Section 14 relating to the equipment and manning of life ? boats , all the most drastic features of the law , in ? cluding the language test , the requirement of a stated percentage of able seamen , and the removal of some of the restraints on desertion , apply to for ? eign as well as American vessels . By a very doubtful holding of the Department of Commerce that the navigation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our own even after the passage of the Sea ? men 's law , Section 14 will not be enforced against these ten nations . Against this ruling the American Federation of Labor has lodged a justifiable protest . T HE loud and not over-scrupulous opposition to the Seamen 's law has served to draw at ? tention away from a very real defect in the law ? the failure to provide adequate machinery for its enforcement . The law has added greatly to the complexity of our rules of navigation , and it has increased many times the number of ships which must be inspected by federal officials . Yet it has neither added to the personnel nor improved the ad ? ministration of the inspection service . Even be ? fore the Seamen 's law took effect the service could not cope with its task , as was shown by the investiga ? tions which followed the Eastland disaster . It must soon undertake new duties with respect to the safe de ? signing and sound construction at least of passenger vessels . If the Seamen 's law is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all nations , the inspection service must be increased , reorganized , and made a bureau in the expert mari ? time commission which shipowners and shippers alike are urging Congress to establish . W HAT kind of rural-credit legislation we ought to have is largely a matter of the end we are striving to attain . In creating the Land ? schaft , so greatly admired by Mr. Herrick and other rural-credit writers of recent authority , the Prus ? sian government sought successfully to preserve the landed aristocracy from ruin . A similar plan here might contribute materially to the prosperity of our present landholders , especially those with large holdings . It would give cheaper capital for im ? provement , and hence conduce to increased produc ? tion . It would raise the value of land , and create a new category of sound investments for the worried classes . Such ends , desirable as they may be , are essentially of private concern , and can make no valid claim upon direct public aid . They should be at ? tained through cooperation , and all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place no obstacles in their way . It is possible , however , to conceive an agra ? rian policy with quite other ends . Assume that the interests of democracy are best subserved by the one family freehold system . There may be excellent reason for governmental subsidies to rural-credit in ? stitutions working definitely to realize this end . Such institutions would offer cheap capital to the tenant striving to become an owner , but would re ? fuse aid to men striving to lay field to field in an at ? tempt to found landed estates . They would neces ? sarily be under the supervision of agricultural ex ? perts who would direct the flow of funds , not with a view to technical financial principles alone but to agricultural improvement as well . Rank pater ? nalism , cry the dogmatic adherents of the Land ? schaft principle . The whole mass of labor legisla ? tion is still often described as rank paternalism . It does not matter what you call it , so long as it is necessary to the preservation of a democracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Special Relief Society , organized in New York by a group of wealthy and fashionable women . If America is to have a war , this society is already organized to clasp aching heroes to its bosom in the manner ordained by the best English country houses . In the name of liberty , peace and honor , these ladies have listed their summer homes for emergency hospitals , have prepared specimen kits for the volunteer army and for convalescents , and are making lists of Sister Susie clubs to sew shirts for soldiers . It is all quite sincere and above reproach on the grounds of patriotism . But it is a little lacking in imagination . If the Special Relief Society really wants to help America , why wait for a war ? There are plenty of invalids lying around now on whom they could practise . There are thou ? sands of convalescents turned off too soon by the public hospitals who would love to spend the winter in the empty houses at Lenox , Bar Harbor and Newport . There are innumerable babies , not war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these good women were doing their full share to relieve the horrors of peace they would not need a Special So ? ciety to relieve the horrors of war . O N the face of the figures it would appear that our government shipyards can construct dreadnoughts at a cost lower than the most favor ? able bid offered by any private concern . This is gratifying , yet gratification is likely to be tempered with uncertainty as to what the government cost figures fail to include . They do not include any item to cover interest on investment in plant , and there is probably no item for depreciation . Various overhead items are also ignored . The American people will meet all these items of expenditure , but under other bookkeeping heads . Until we reform our system of accounting in public enterprises , we shall be unable to form a just estimate as to therelative financial advantages of private contracts and direct governmental construction . Very likely we shall lose money on the two dreadnoughts if we build them in government yards , while apparently making important savings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would not be conclusive against gov ? ernment construction . We can not afford to rely ex ? clusively upon private plants to build our warships . They would combine and extort monopoly charges in the end . It is better to lose a little money on pub ? lic construction than to build up an armament ring to thrive on war-scares . O F late there has been some talk of organizing a government industry to control the whole ar ? mament business , from the mining of the ore and coal to the completion of guns and armored ships . The object would be to circumvent private interests in any attempt to extort monopoly prices on interme ? diate products . Unquestionably the producers of steel billets and castings will make government ar ? mament plants pay good prices if they can . What is more , they will expect the government to be lenient in its requirements as to time of delivery . This is one of the chief grounds for the unsatis ? factory results of government construction . But the establishment of complete industrial independence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expensive for the disease . It is improbable that the armament industries of the United States will ever be of sufficient magnitude to require the whole output , year in , year out , of a fully equipped steel plant , and intermittent operation is too costly to be considered . After all , the government does not need to pay very excessive prices for steel pri ? vately produced unless it chooses to do so . Private companies will not find their profit in forcing the government to make use of its sovereign power of price regulation . 