@@486948

state Commerce Commission , mist have managed to instil a somewhat Delphic quality into his speech to the Railway Business Association last week . Thus , one of the newspaper headlines the next morning read : " Knapp Flouts Ohr Railroad Laws " ; another , " For Raifway Competition " ; a third , " Fears ' Competition More Than Monopoly " ; a fourth , " Head of Commission Favors ' Higher Rates . " As a matter of tact , no one of ? these captions describes at all Carrectly the actual burden of Mr. Knapp 's marks , which derived such importance as they possess largely from the offdial position of the speaker and frbin the , ' Oc ; . casion on which he uttered them . ? We must confess to a ? little doubt on our own part , however , as to the full scope intended by Mr. Knapp for some of his observations , and to ' a , ' good " deal of doubt regarding the propriety , tinder existing circumstances , of just 8116 a public discussion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions on which the speaker touOhed , such as railway competition , railway combination , and railway ' revenue and dividends , are topics which largely ' underlie the rate controversy now pending before the Interstate CoMmerce Commission . Whether Mr. Knapp 's views on these subjects were correct or not -- 7-and much of what he said was entirely sound  --  the uttering of them , ' ea Officio , by the chairman of the CoMmissierl'ignored the fact that the inquiry ? how , pending is of a quasi-judicial character . The speech can hardly be ' called a fortunate precedent . We also feel compelled to criticise Mr. . Knapp 's remarks for a cm- tain obscurity in his dealing with some highly portant questions , which ' may be explained , but would hardly be excused , by the fact that the speaker realized on what delicate ground he was treading . For instance , we find it somewhat difficult to understand what the . Commissioner meant by " the system of unbridled competition which it IS still our policy to enforce " ? " a mistaken policy.If he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed tai cats that he was  --  then tit fail to see the basis for his statement . Enforce- ; 7ient by the Government ? of unbridled ) competition among the railways is about as far as we can imagine from a correct ; description of the present status ; ' on the contrary ; the whole crux of the presant ' rate discussion lies in the fact , admitted by both sides , that competition has Virtually ceased to exist in the functibn of railway rate-making , and that therefore restriction and supervision over the making of rates must be undertaken by the Government . If , ' on the other hand , Mr. Knapp intended ' ? o set forth a view that competition is an obsolete means of progress in the ' field of industry at large , then he was ' taking upon his shOulders a pretty heavY burden of proof . We are quite await that ' auch a view has found wide acceptance , even in certain economic Circles ; ' bitt the digurnent , ? so far as it has been sanely and intelligently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself against ? what , in the earlier chapters of our industrial history , used to be- known as " Cut-throat competition . " Even the more plausible of the arguments on that basis have encountered some difficulty in escaping the inference that monopoly , or if not monopoly then State ownership , would be the logical desideratum . But both these alternatives Mr. Knapp expressly rejected . Exactly what Mr. Knapp means by the remark that " the error and futility of our efforts to make stationary rates I believe has been fully demonstrated , " we find it difficult to understand . It is not conceivable that he applied this description to ? the power , newly granted ' to the Interstate Commerce Commission , ' of rettiewing  --  and in its judgment vetoing an advance in rates . That policy has never been asserted by the Government as a-policy for stationary rates ; and , in fact , the argument for a stationary price for anything that is sold has been made ' most persistently , not by the public authorities nor by the travelling and consuming public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position as the Chairman of the United States Steel Corporation . From his views on the ' policy of Stationary rates , Mr. Knapp draws the conclusion that railway freight and Passenger associations should be legally sanctioned . This is a conclusion at which very many thoughtful minds had already arrived ; but scarcely , we imagine , through the process , of deduction adopted by Mr. Knapp . ' We have dwelt at some length on this speech , especially in its references to competition , because it seems to us to ' embody a good deal of the hasty and sweeping generalization which has of late become too familiar . All of us know the argument which begins with the assertion that " we have outgrown competition , " and most of us , after tening awhile , have carried away the lurking suspicion that the presumption fairly launched the argument on the way to socialism . Mr. Knapp , for instance , correctly finds in old-time railway competition the root of the evils of discriminating rates , and therefore concludes that competition itself belongs to a bygone age @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ competition has done for railway service , and for Mr. Knapp 's idea as to whether that service , at its best , would or would not have been achieved , and would or would not be likely to be perpetuated , without the stimulus of competition , and without the knowledge that unfit service would mean failure in the race , and consequent loss of that return on investments in the railway which Mr. Knapp would apparently somehow guarantee . THE DISSOLUTION OF PARLIAMENT . Events in England have marched with unexampled swiftness . Scarcely had we heard of the failure of the Conference when it was given us to understand that another general election was imminent ; and now we have the actual dissolution of a Parliament not yet a year old , with writs issued , the voting to begin immediately , and the new House of Commons to be chosen before Christmas . Such speed is almost unprecedented , and the whole procedure finds no parallel in the Constitutional text-books . It is the more important , therefore , to give close heed to what the leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Let us first look at the Conservative position . This was stated by Mr. Balfour in his speech at Nottingham , and again in his reply to the Prime Minister in the Commons , as also by Lord Lansdowne in his statement in the House of Lords . It is , in brief , that , in the first place , there is no Constitutional warrant or political ? necessity for the abrupt procedure of the Ministry ; and , furthermore , that the end avowed  --  namely , a reconstitution of the House of Lords , and a readjustment of its relations to the House of Commons  --  could be reached by fair discussion and mutual concessions in the existing Parliament . There is undeniable force in the first point . The Government has not met with a defeat . No measure was pending on which it was desirable to take the opinion of the country . No Government bill had been rejected by the House of Lords . Here was a Parliament only ten months old , with an overwhelming coalition majority in the House of Commons ; yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is sought ; but a dissolution is rudely announced . On the other hand , if the object aimed at is to make over the House of Lords , here are the Lords themselves undertaking their own reform and passing the Rosebery resolutions , which , if not entirely satisfactory , at least furnish a basis for debate and for settlement within the Parliament . Under these circumstances , what could be more arbitrary , what more precipitate , than rushing into a general election on a stale register and at a time most disturbing to trade ? To this Conservative argument , which we have stated as strongly as possible , the Liberals make a vigorous reply . Mr. Asquith declares that he is facing , not forms , but realities . Technically , it may be true that the Ministry has not been blocked by the Lords , but , in actual fact , it has been . The veto resolutions which passed the Commons in April by large majorities , were certain of contemptuous rejection in the Lords . Mr. Balfour openly conceded this . Indeed , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " an election could not be deferred for more than a relatively small number of weeks or months . " That was on the safe assumption that the Lords would not agree to the plan of the Commons . Well , then , says Mr. Asquith , why delay the inevitable issue ? The whole thing has got to be decided by the people , and they may as well do it at once as to wait . According to the implications of Mr. Balfour , there would have to be a general election every year  --  that is , every time the Lords threw out a Liberal measure . They threw out the budget last year , and were forced by the electors to accept it , If the Government should again send up the Education Act of 1906 , or the Plural-Voting bill , they would throw them out again , and on each one force an appeal to the country . That sort of thing can not go on . The general procedure behind particular bills must be fixed once for all . The . Liberal party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which , as Mr. Balfour once incautiously boasted , the Conservative party " would control , whether in power or whether in Opposition , the destinies of this great Empire . " This Liberal policy of Thorough is dialectically strong , beyond alI question , but the doubt remains whether , in practical result , it will much advance matters . It is possible , though not probl able , that Mr. Asquith will come back with such a greatly increased majority that the Lords will scuttle before him . But it is not at all likely that the country will give so clear a voice on the main question that the Government can proceed triumphantly to demand that the Lords shall accept the veto resolutions without altering a word . Even if they did , the infinitely difficult matters of detailed legislation would have to be threshed out in Parliament , and would almost infallibly lead to another Conference  --  or to another general election . Indeed , it is broadly hinted that what the King now hopes for , or even expects , is that the election will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessitate a second Conference which shall not fail like the first . In that event , all the throes of the general election would have done little but put the affair back where it was before . At present , of course , Mr. Asquith is taking a high hand . He describes himself as going out to consult the will of the people , and declares that the Lords will have to submit themselves to it . This raises the question of the " guarantees " which he may have received from the King . On that point , he would not speak in the Commons , urging that the King must be kept out of party warfare . But Mr. Asquith 's statement of last April is recalled , when he said , speaking of such a crisis as has since arisen , that a dissolution of Parliament would , " in no case , " be resorted to , " except under such conditions as will secure that in the new Parliament the judgment of the people as expressed at the election will be carried into law . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the King to create enough Peers to force the veto resolutions through the House of Lords ; and the inference is that Mr. Asquith - has obtained such a pledge from King George . But that monarch may have agreed simply to use the influence of the Crown in other ways : by persuading the Lords to desist ; or by insisting upon another Conference which shall not break up without ending the controversy . In any event , the country is facing the general election with many misgivings , in which such sober Liberals as Lord Courtney plainly share , not knowing what secure harbor lies beyond the troubled seas . THE NEGRO AND THE UNIONS . Mr. Gompers , in a telegram to the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , made haste to deny that in his recent speech before the Federation of Labor Convention he had said " anything derogatory to the negro race or proposed to read the negro out of the labor movement . " As reported , he had conveyed the impression that he wanted all negroes eliminated from unions because we could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to tear down , to understand the fundamental philosophy of human rights ; this is not a theory but a condition with which we have to deal . " Not unnaturally from Booker Washington down there have been protests . If the labor-union movement has any justification , it is because it intends or was originally intended to aid those classes least able to help themselves , the classes beset by ignorance and prejudice and exploited by greed and cunning . It is precisely for these reasons and the inability of the working women to vote that the movement to organize women workers in unions has been making headway in New York city . If to become a philosopher first is essential to the acquirement of a union card , it is obvious that many cards would have to be revoked . Labor unions that draw the color-line or refuse admission to Italians or other nationalities give the lie to the union assertion that theirs is a movement for true economic equality and genuine democracy . But if Mr. Gompers denies that he attacked the negro race and wished to exclude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utterances at St. Louis or elsewhere which we have seen that indicates an earnest desire to enroll many negroes among his supporters or to give them a real welcome . He dwells upon the difficulties of handling the colored workers ; he does not seem to declare that these are precisely the difficulties the union movement likes to grapple with and meet . As a matter of fact , his attitude reflects , in the main , that of the unions throughout the country . Few welcome the negro with open arms , though there are some that do so , notably in the mining districts of Alabama . Some , like the engineers ' union on the Central of Georgia Railway , would confine him to the lowest grade of engine-labor , while others , particularly in the North , are sullenly indifferent , or admit only a few men of coldr , if any . Take the situation in New York city . According to Miss Mary White Ovington , who has given years to investigation , there were , in 1906 , one hundred and two trades or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Miss Ovington feels , is due to the fact that there are few skilled negroes in the labor market , and that the union , " endeavoring to maintain a high standard of living for its members , may decide for a time to adopt a policy of restriction of membership , " by means determine where economic motive ends and race or caste discrimination begins . " Men in plenty are debarred solely because of their color ; have not the locomotive engineers put the word white into their constitution ? So far as the American Federation of Labor is concerned , it originally took the position that it would admit no union which discriminated in its charter against the colored man . But that high ground has been abandoned . In 1902 , it recognized the legality of excluding negroes from local unions , central labor bodies , or federal labor unions ; national unions which expressly exclude negroeb are now affiliated with the Federation and , in 1902 , the Stationary Engineers altered their by-laws so as to exclude negroes . At the Atlanta University conference on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of forty-four of the most important unions , several with a membership of over 30,000 , which have not a single negro member . Obviously , in view of this drift in his organization , it is highly significant that while Mr. Gompers denies having advocated the putting out of negroes from unions , he does not deny having advocated their not being admitted . To those who do not believe in the unionization of all laboring men , who , while admitting the benefits gained by organization , feel that there ought always to be a large body of free labor to offset the evils of the unions , this attitude of the Federation and its leader will give some satisfaction . Excluding the negroes means that there will be a steadily growing body of skilled and unskilled laborers available for those who wish to employ non-union labor . For Mr. Gompers and his workmen , in the long run , the proper policy is to admit negroes and to ask for them the education which , in many sections , is virtually denied them . But even should a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growth and slow increase , or even decrease , in rural population . New York is no exception to the rule . The total population of the State , by the census of 1910 , is 9,113,279 , an increase of 1,844,385 above the figures of ten years ago . The rate of increase is 25.4 per cent . for the decade ; a result the more striking in that it marks the fifth consecutive decade showing a percentage of increase greater than that of its predecessor . The Civil War decade , naturally enough , showed only 12.9 per cent . increase , which was by far the lowest in the history of the State ; but 1870-80 gave only 16 per cent. , and 1880-90 only 18 per cent . The decade preceding the one now closing showed an increase of 21.1 per cent. , and now we have 25.4 per cent. , which is on a par with the decade of 1860-60 , and which has not been materially exseeded since the early years of our history . In 1820-30 the rate of increase was 39.8 per cent. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the highest rate recorded . But while the State as a whole shows this rapid growth of population , there are no less than twenty-four out of its sixty-one counties which have either actually declined or been virtually stationary in numbers . There are fifteen counties that have less population now than they had ten years ago , and there are nine others in which the rate of increase in the decade has been less than 2 per cent . These are , of course , rural counties . And how largely the list of this class of counties would have to be increased if the urban population in counties mainly agricultural did not come to the rescue , only a careful examination could disclose . Of course , the later publications of the census , dealing with the occupations of the people , will give information bearing directly on the degree in which the farming population is failing to hold its own , either relatively or absolutely ; but even without this , interesting conclusions might be drawn from a detailed examination of the data . The causes of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in old England  --  are too deep-seated to encourage the expectation that any great change will take place , in the near future at all events . The most fundamental cause is the enormous extension and cheapening of facilities for transportation and communication . And this operates with two-fold efficacy , in that it affects both the economic and the more strictly human aspect of the situation with about equal force . On the one hand , we have the most fertile land , or the land most easily worked on a great scale , in any part of the country brought into direct competition with the land that may have been occupied and tilled a century ago , when the advantage of a hundred miles , or two or three hundred miles , in proximity to a market was decisive ; such a thing as a special local market for staples can hardly be said to exist nowadays . And , on the other hand , the railway and the telegraph and the cheap magazine and the one-cent daily paper have made the idea of going to the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibility of doing so within his easy reach . The fore-es making against the maintenance of the population of outlying farming districts are such as can not be gainsaid . There is one element in the case which perhaps has not received the attention to which it is entitled . In spite of all the talk that there has been in various quarters about the rich getting richer and the poor poorer , and about modern inventions and discoveries having done nothing to lighten the burdens of the working people , the fact is that the past half-century has witnessed an enormous rise in the material standard of living of the masses . Physical discomforts which were regarded as matters of course a generation or two ago , except for the favored few , are now thought of as almost intolerable hardships ; and the long hours of unrelieved toil in the fields which the grandfathers of the young men of to-day looked upon as part of the order of nature offer anything but a satisfactory prospect to the minds of the youths of the present generation . There may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ competition of Iowa and Kansas , the farmer in central or western New York might make the two ends meet as his father or grandfather did , were he content to work as unremittingly as they did , and to get on with as little of the comforts and luxuries of life . In connection with this e.spect of the matter , it is to be remembered that the rise in the prices of agricultural produce  --  a rise not merely absolute , but also relative in comparison with other things  --  is a very recent thing . If it should be maintained , it is by no means impossible that it will have a marked effect in encouraging the maintenance and growth of our rural population , a thing devoutly to be wished . Both the New York and the Ohio census may serve as a reminder of the large share which the big States of the Union have in the composition of the House of RepresentativeS . New York 's share of the total population of the country has more than held its own ; Ohio 's has nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater percentage of increase during this decade than in the preceding ; the rate from 1900 to 1910 was 14.7 per cent. , as against 13.2 per cent . from 1890 to 1900 . The equal , representation of the States in the United States Senate gives rise to some anomalies , and there may possibly lurk in Its certain amount .91 - danger ; at the time of the silver agi tation , the fact that a little group of thinly settled Rocky Mountain States had a power in the Senate vastly disproportioned to their population was a real grievance . But on the whole , the arrangement works well enough . It is desirable , in a polity like ours , that something else should have weight besides a mere count of heads ; the individuality of some of the small States has always been a source of national vitality , and it is well that their importance should be maintained at a point above that marked out by size of population alone . That there are evils , actual or potential , connected with the extreme disproportion that exists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not likely that they will ever be very serious . In the House of Representatives , a few large and wealthy States have together a commanding position . Thus , in the present Congress , out of 391 members of the House , there fall to New York 39 , to Pennsylvania 34 , to Illinois 27 , to Ohio 23 , to Massachusetts 16 ; so that 139 members , or more than one-third of the whole membership of the House , come from these five States . GOOD RECORD OF THE PHILIPPINE ASSEMBLY . As throwing an important light upon the capacity of the Filipinos for self-government , we have seen nothing of late to compare in interest with the examination in , the current Political Science Review of the recent extraordinary session of the Philippine Legislature . This article is from the pen of Mr. James A. Robertson , the librarian of the Philippines Library , and is written in an unbiassed and scientific spirit characteristic of the journal in which it appears . Mr. Robertson is an American familiar with American legislative customs and procedure . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ session of the Philippine Legislature , which met on March 28 last and adjourned on April 19 , " marks an epoch in the history of the Philippine Islands . " This statement , Mr. Robertson declares , " is no idle panegyric , " but is based upon his personal attendance at many sessions and his acquaintance with various members of the Assembly . The session as a whole he declares to have been remarkable in these respects : For the discipline exercised by the Speak- , er ; for the earnestness displayed by the Representatives in general ; for their dig nity of bearing ; and for their freedom from jingoism ; and , outwardly at least , - from party passion  --  outwardly , I say , because considerable party passion and personal feeling did at times creep into committee and secret meetings . In general , it may be said that this Assembly in its quietness and dignity of action , has established a precedent that can well be taken as a form for future sessions . That the Speaker 's discipline was due to caciqueism , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charged in Manila , and he thinks that there may be , some truth in the charge , precisely as the warmest defenders ' of Speaker Cannon have admitted that he bosses the House , but declare that he bosses it well . The Philippine Cannon , Senor Osmena , is also charged with having been too subservient to the Philippine Commission which forms the upper house of the Legislature , and to the Governor-General ; but the Assembly 's refusal for a second time to pass the Government 's irrigation bill ( for which Mr. Forbes has just appealed anew to the October session ) shows pretty plainly that the Assembly is not altogether dominated by the Palace . Of course , Mr. Robertson does not suggest that all the legislation proposed was wise or judicious ; " sometimes , indeed , it bordered on the ridiculous . " But of what American Legislature could this not be said ? One humorist desired to put the famous Constabulary Band up at auction ; and there was a movement in committee - seriously to cripple the civil service ; but the matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Coercion by party leaders and a sheepish cleaving to party lines were also to be observed in Manila . Much of the work was naturally done in committee , and here Mr. Robertson thinks there was a lack of smoothness as well as a tendency to waste time over details which he thinks will disappear as the legislators become more experienced . On the whole , however , the delegates were " men of relatively superior intelligence , alert , and anxious " for the welfare of the Philippines . Mr. Robertson was struck by the fact that , while elected to represent certain localities , the delegates were keenly conscious that they represented also the whole of the archipelago . There was considerable sectionalism , but the growth of a larger feeling of nationaliSm was quite apparent ; as ' racial ' antagonism among the Filipinos ' dies ' out ' there will come " a feeling ' of solidarity and homogeneity . " As for the parties , the Nacionalistas , under Speaker Osmena , supported the Government , although pledged to independence ; the Progresistas , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were the Opposition . Nothing reflects more credit upon both parties , in our observer 's opinion , than their refusal to seat Dr. Dominador Gomez , the labor agitator with-a prison record , whose case was , by a vote of 44 to 29 , referred to a committee that brought in a remarkably clear and able report , absolutely disqualifying Dr. Gomez . All in all , seventy bills were reported and discussed , many of them passed , but some defeated . Agriculture and allied industries received especial consideration , and so did matters of sanitation . In accordande with the Governor-General 's desire , a " calamity fund " for use in possible emergencies was established by the Assembly . The organic law of the city of Manila was amended so as to confer upon it the right to grant certain franchises ; the period during which timber and stone may be taken from public lands without fees , when used for necessary fuel or building purposes and not for commerce , was extended to ten years . The general appropriation bill , the failure to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was also voted . In this bill the various estimates of several departments , endorsed by the Government , were not accepted . In the exercise of an intelligent judgment the Assembly cut some of these and increased still others . The important irrigation bill was debated for five or six days , only to be laid upon the table until the October session . When the first regular session-of the second Philippine Legislature opened in Manila last month , Mr. Forbes had comparatively little to recommend . He reported that the loss in customs receipts due to the Payne-Aldrich tariff was more than offset by increase in miscellaneous and internal revenue receipts , and he asserted that under the new tariff there had been a quickening of trade throughout the islands . Beyond the irrigation bill , which Mr. Forbes earnestly urges anew , he recommends pensions for civil servants of long service , betterments in the lowest courts , a law to prohibit slavery or involuntary servitude , an increased penalty for cattle-stealing and forging public documents , and a fund to fight the locust pest . Altogether , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vexing public problems requiring legislative action , and , secondly , that the success of the Philippine Assembly is not only far beyond what might have been expected , . but ground for the early award of other opportunities for self-government . SWISS NOTES . ZURICH , November 10 . Plans for the new university buildings at Zurich have been completed and adopted , and their eXecution will be begun at once . The site is the old one which commands a fine view of the town and of the lake . The cost of the new buildings will be five and a half million francs . Of this , a considerable part will be spent on the Biological Institute . An additional sum of a million francs will be devoted to the construction and installation of an Institute of Hygiene . Even as in the United States , great attention is being paid to this subject at the Swiss universities . Not many weeks ago , the Institute of Hygiene and Bacteriology at the University of Berne was inaugurated in the presence of the entire faculty and many foreign visitors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dean of the medical faculty . Germany was represented on this occasion by Gaffky of Berlin , who is Koch 's successor , and France by Vidal of Paris . The Berne Institute is thoroughly modern ; and special attention will be given to the study of contagious diseases . The magnificent collections in the National Museum at Zurich have been somewhat damaged by smoke . The building is close to the central railway station . There was not room enough to enclose all the fine objects in glass . The result has been that some of the ancient textiles , such as vestments , altar-cloths , and handkerchiefs became blackened . It was found necessary to have them cleaned with great care . For the present , many of them have been stowed away for their preservation . Among those thus concealed from the visitor 's view are the collection of the " MOdeliplatz , " and the famous baptismal couverture brought from Fribourg . It is proposed to build a new wing for the museum , or else to transfer these frail treasures to the neighborhood of the Polytechnicum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anniversaries recalled the fact that the Italian patriot was half-Swiss . His mother was the cultivated Mademoiselle Adige de Sellon of Geneva , whose sisters made brilliant marriages among the French nobility . For many years Cavour made frequent visits to Geneva , and had always close affiliations with Swiss statesmen and men of letters. ? He wrote for the Bibliotheque Universelle ; and it is not improbable thathis ideas of freedom and democracy , if not derived from his acquaintance with the Federation , were at least encouraged by his Geneva associations . From Turin he wrote : " If- Geneva was not separated from Turin by Mont Cenis , 1 would have come tip ' ask your hospitality , for I know no intellectual ' atmo'sl phere more healthful than that , which one breathes in Switzerland . " At Berne there has appeared an infer : esting although fragmentary book , , of travel . It is an account of the explorations of- Dr. Walter Volz , who tflreiii Years ago met a tragic death ' in Dual sania . This volume contains . his Mpg , raphy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Many of these are memoirs and letters written on the spot ; during his sojourn in eastern Asia , Polynesia , and East Africa . The adventurous and energetic character of the author , as well as the valuable information which he collected , make this a graphic picture of the regions with which he was so familiar . During the recent meeting at Bale of the Swiss ' Association for the Investigation of Nature , Professor Ostwald delivered an interesting lecture before the " Ido " Universal Language Society . After referring to the progress towards unity and organization in the world , he said that the introduction of the aeroplane had quite changed man 's place in nature . Man is a tri-dimensional being ; but hitherto his life has been only bi-dimensional . Now , thanks to flying machines , the scope of his activity has been extended ; and , moreover , the boundaries formerly separating nations are likely to become less defined . With this increasing cosmopolitanism and unification , there is more than ever a demand for a universal speech . At present , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is taken up in teaching modern languages . This great waste should not continue . He suggested that some civilized state should take the lead and insist upon the acquisition and employment of a world-language within its territory . It seemed to him that Switzerland with its central position in Europe , and its somewhat international population , was destined to adopt this course . He added that , should such a language be adopted , a central academic authority would be necessary to preserve the purity of the new tongue , and check the development of dialects . A. A. 