@@434699

THE Atlantic Monthly has asked me to analyze the present international situation . I shall do so with absolute frankness . It has always been my conviction that , first and last , the greatest service is done by telling the truth . Since 1808 I have worked tirelessly to tear the veil from the Pan-German scheme , which my investigations in all parts of the world have enabled me to unearth . In spite of the positive and abundant proofs of its existence which I have been publishing for nineteen years , I was unable to persuade the responsible authorities in France , Russia , or England , that a formidable peril was swiftly and more swiftly drawing near . Paris and London were steeped in blind pacifist delusions . As for Petrograd , the sinister Teutonic influences which , until only yesterday , were at work on the highest personages , prevented the great Russian people from knowing the real nature of Germany 's projects . If the Europeans most directly interested in knowing the truth were , until the very outbreak of hostilities , completely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is only natural that Americans should take some time to realize the staggering facts concerning the fantastic and odious plan of world-domination so toilsomely built up by the government at Berlin . In peace times , too , the affairs of old Europe , especially the intricate tangle of Aust ? o-Hungarian and Balkan politics , had no practical interest for so vast and remote a nation as the United States . This was particularly true of her Western citizens . To-day , however , Americans as well as French , British , Russians , and Italians , are faced with the obligation of mastering the problems of Central European affairs ; for , without exaggeration , it is on the proper solution of these problems that the independent existence of the United States depends . As events have justified the views I have held for a score of years , I trust my American readers will hold this fact in my favor . If I should seem to run counter to the ideas they now hold , they should realize that I do so deliberately , in order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The present situation in Europe is due to two factors : first , the almost complete fulfillment by the Germans of a plan which they had long been preparing with the utmost care ; second , the repeated mistakes of the Allies in their carrying on of the war ? mistakes which alone have permitted the Germans to consummate their plan almost without opposition . The Pan-Germanist programme of 11 ) 11 called for the establishment . of Prussian hegemony over a territory of nearly 4,015,000 square kilometres ? in other words , besides actual conquest in the East and West , it meant the indirect , yet effective seizure of Austria-Hungary , the Ihdkan States , and Turkey . At the beginning of 1917  - -  before the capture of Bagdad by the English and the strategic retreat of the German troops in the West ? the programme had been realized to the extent of 3,600,000 square kilometres ? that is , in nine-tenths of its entirety . The basic explanation of this achievement lies partly in the fact that , if the Germans are outlaws they are very intelligent outlaws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on which they have set their hearts ; partly in the fact that the leaders of the Allies , intelligent and animated by the best intentions though they arc , have been quite unenlightened as to the multiple realities of the European tangle , a thoroughgoing knowledge of which is absolutely necessary for the conduct of the terrible war in progress . The proof of this ignorance lies in the recognized truth that the heads of the European states now in league against Germany were , without exception , taken by surprise when war broke out . Posterity will look on this fact with amazement . The governments of the Allies were no better prepared to direct the war intellectually than were their generals to carry it on materially . Now , the intellectual prosecution of this war presents unprecedented difficulties : it calls uncompromisingly for a detailed knowledge , not only of matters military and naval , but of geographic , ethnographic , economic , and political questions which , by reason of the scale of the present conflict , react profoundlyon all military operations of general scope . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the world-conflict is not , as many people still believe , a purely military struggle , in which the mere machinery of war plays a decisive role . In spite of appearances , mind ? that is , the intellectual element ? dominates the material element which , though indispensable , can attain full effectiveness only when it is employed in furtherance of a definite plan of action , backed by clear thinking ; and such a plan can never be formulated unless the ethnographic , psychological , economic , and geographic factors capable of affecting every great movement of a general strategic nature are calculated as carefully as the purely military factors . By reason of the potency of these many factors invisible , but very real and powerful ? it may be said : ' This war is not a mere war of armaments ? it is a war of political science . ' It is because the strategists of Berlin have long recognized this conception of modern warfare ; it is because they have at their fingers ' ends a documentation of political science , slowly accumulated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position to meet endless problems as they present themselves , and to achieve successes against the Allies which , on the surface , appear incomprehensible . As for the leaders of the Allies , it seems as if many of them are not alive to the element of political science in the war , even at the present moment . The reason is simple . Those same men who ignored the realities of Pan-Germanism before the war are , naturally enough , unable to grasp the politico-scientific , geographic , economic , ethnographic , and psychological realities of all Europe now that the conflict has burst on us . In the realm of the intellectual there can be no improvisation . // To toaster the politico-scientific elements necessary for the prosecution of this war , there is need of minds trained by the unremitting application of fifteen or twenty years . Among the leaders of the Entente no man is to be found who has bent his will to such intellectual effort ; and the pressing problems brought forth by each clay give no time for minute , deliberate study by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since war began . 11 The capital mistakes in the prosecution of the war committed by the Entente proceed directly from the defective equipment of its leaders which I have just pointed out . They explain the difference in the results obtained by the two groups of belligerents , although the courage and self-sacrifice of the Allies ' soldiers are as great as those of the Germans . They explain , too , why the three hundred millions of the Allies ? this takes no account of their colonial resources or of the support drawn from transoceanic neutrals ? have not yet succeeded in defeating Germany , which entered the war with a population of sixty-eight millions and one ally , Austria-Hungary , of whose thirty million people three quarters were directly antagonistic to Berlin . These capital mistakes made by the Allies are as follows . They believed that a friendly agreement with Bulgaria was possible , although that country was treaty-bound to Berlin and Constantinople long before the war . They cherished illusions concerning King Constantine , who , above all else , was brother-in-law of the Kaiser . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been attempted . Even if this operation had been judged technically feasible , its futility would have been apparent if the Allieshad realized ? and it was their arch-error not to realize  --  that the strategic key to the whole European war was the Danube . The mere occupation by the Allies of the territory stretching from Montenegro through Serbia to Roumania , would have resolved all the essential problems of the conflict . Cut oft from the Central Empires , Bulgaria and Turkey , whose arsenals were depleted by the Balkan disturbances of 1912-1913 , would have found it impossible to make a strong stand against the Allies . Turkey , who had been imprudent enough to defy them , would have been obliged to open the Straits within a very short time , for sheer lack of munitions to defend them . This opening of the Straits would have been effected by it strong pressure by the Allies on the south of Hungary . Moreover , by the same action the Central Empires would have been barred from reinforcements and supplies from the Orient . Germany , finding herself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blockaded by sea in the North , would have been obliged to come to terms . Unhappily , the general staffs of the Allies in the West were not prepared to grasp the politico-scientific ; character of the war , especially the cardinal importance of the economic factor . This ignorance remained unenlightened until Roumania was crushed in 1910 . As a result , for twenty-seven months the Balkans were looked on by the leaders in the West as being of only secondary military importance . During these twenty-seven months the Allies were obsessed by the idea that they would vanquish Germany on the Western front by a war of attrition . This conviction delayed the Salonika-Belgrade expedition , and when it was finally undertaken , it was on too small a scale to insure success . Such a grave error would never have been committed by the Allied strategists if they bad fully realized that the principal objective of the Pan-German scheme , for the attainment of which Germany was primarily fighting , was the seizure of the Orient . This point of view , however , was for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made by a few to demonstrate its vital importance . The Austro-Germans , profiting by this basic mistake of the civil and military chiefs of the Entente , were able in October-November , 1915 , to join hands with Bulgaria and Turkey over the corpse of Serbia . From that time on , the General Staff at Berlin has been profiting by this situation , improving it and consolidating it by seizing half of Roumania toward the close of 1916 . The direct result of the mistakes of the Allies , coupled with the methodical procedure of Berlin , has been the realization of nine tenths of Pan-Germany . This Pan-Germany is composed of two elements . First , the great occupied territories taken by Germany from Belgium , France , Russia , Serbia , and Roumania . Second , t he practical seizure effected by her at the expense of her own allies : Austria-Hungary , Bulgaria , and Turkey ; for , as a neat ter of fact , the Quadruple Alliance is nothing but a great illusion carefully fostered by the Kaiser for the purpose of concealing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If one wishes to see things as they are , one must realize that Austria-Hungary , Bulgaria , and Turkey are /tot the Allies ? that is , the equals ? of Germany . These three states are practically the vassals of Berlin , in whose sight they scarcely count for more than Saxony or Bavaria . The principal proof of this state of affairs lies in the fact that the Kaiser wields an uncontested supremacy from Hamburg to the British front at Bagdad . Since the beginning of hostilities there has been a formidable extension of Prussian militarism . At first , it held in its grasp only the sixty-eight million people of the German Empire . By April , 1 ! ) 15 , it had extended and organized its influence among the thirty millions of Austro-Hungarians , who until that time had taken orders from their own independent military chiefs . After October-November , 1915 , ? the date of Serbia 's downfall , ? the Prussian system reached out to Bulgaria and Turkey . By taking account of these extensions and adding together he populations of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infatuated allies , one finds that to-day ? April , 1917 ? Prussian militarism no longer controls sixty-eight million souls , as in the beginning of the war , but about one hundred and seventy-six million European and Ottoman subjects . This is the brutal , overwhelming fact which Americans must face if they wish to learn the sole solution of the war which will assure to them , as well as to the rest of the world , a durable peace . The following figures will show how the three groups of the population of Pan-Germany are divided at the beginning of 1917 : ? To sum up , seventy-three million Germans rule over twenty-one million vassals and eighty-two million slaves ,  - -   - -   Latin , Slavic , Semitic , belonging to thirteen different nationalities , ? who are hearing the most cruel and unjustifiable yoke that the world has ever known . It is undeniable , moreover , that each extension of Prussian militarism over a new territory has enabled Germany to prolong the struggle by obtaining new supplies of food , new reinforcements to press into her service and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is made use of even in works of a military nature . Asa result , the technical problem now confronting the Allies in Europe is , through the mistakes of t heir former leaders , infinitely more complicated than at the outbreak of hostilities . To-day Berlin , by means of Prussian terrorism methodically and pitilessly etnployed , disposes of the military and economic resources of one hundred and seventy-six million people , occupying a strategic position in the centre of Europe which is all to her profit . It is this very state of things , founded on the slavery of eighty-two millions of human beings , which is intolerable . III Many times , and rightly , the Allies have declared that it was not their object to exterminate the German people and bring about their political extinction . On the other hand , it is just and essential to proclaim that . Pan-Germany must be destroyed . On this depends the liberty , not only of Europe , but of the whole world . This is the point of view which , in the crisis of to-day , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Suppose that Pan-Germany were able to maintain itself in its present position . It can not be denied that its territory contains considerable latent military mid economic resources , as well as strategic positionsof world-significance , like the Dardanelles . If these resources were freely exploited and developed to their highest , pitch by the relentless organizing spirit of Berlin , Prussianized Pan-Germany , dividing Europe in two , would dominate the Continent , u neon test ably and indefinitely , by means of her crushing strength . France , Russia , England , Italy , ceasing to exist as great powers , could only submit to Germany 's will . And Berlin , mistress of Europe , would soon realize , not merely the Hamburg-Bagdad and Antwerp-Bagdad railways , but the Brest-Bagdad line as well ; for Brest has long been coveted secretly by the Pan-Germanists , who would make of it the great military and commercial transatlantic port of Prussianized Europe . Moreover , if Germany achieved the ruin of the Allies , it is entirely probable that the General Stall ' of William II would launch a formidable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to allow her no time to organize herself against the Prussian tyranny hypothetically dominating Europe . Even if Berlin felt it necessary to defer this step , Americans would none the less be forced to prepare for the inevitable struggle and to serve an apprenticeship to militarism which would be odious to them . If Americans , then , see things as t hey really are , and perceive the dangers to which they are pledging their future , they will be convinced that they , quite as much as Europeans , have a vital interest in the annihilation of Pan-Germanism . In a word , it is clear that any peril accruing to the United States from Europe can arise only front so formidable a power as Pan-Germany , and not from a Germany kept within her legitimate frontiers , and forced to behave herself , by the balance of other powers . We must also realize that the moral 726 THE UNITED STATES AND PAN-GERMANISM considerations at stake are a matter of the liveliest interest to the United States . Can republican America allow the feudal spirit which kindled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? This spirit is made up of the following elements : the feudalism of the Prussian Junkers , chief prop and stay of the Hohenzollerns ; the feudalism of the great Austrian land-owners ; the feudalism of the Magyar grandees , whose caste-spirit is precisely the same as that of the Prussian lordlings ; and the Turkish feudalism of Enver Bey and his friends . In other words , this four-ply feudal spirit which is the basis of Pan-Germany is in radical and absolute opposition to the democratic spirit of the modern world . Granting for a moment that Germany were victorious , Russia , after a frightful reign of anarchy , would be forced to submit once more to the yoke of autocracy . As for the peoples of Western Europe , reduced to worse than slavery , they could only renounce their dearest ideals ? the ideals for which they have shed their blowd for centuries . The present war , then , is manifestly a struggle a entrance between democracy and feudalism . To Americans as well as to Europeans falls the task , not only of preserving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This can be accomplished only by the destruction of Pan-Germanism . It is plain that Berlin , failing so far to crush the Allies completely , is bending every effort to maintaining Pan-Germany in its present position , so that , after peace is declared , it may crystallize and swiftly develop its full power . When , in December , 1916 , President Wilson requested the belligerents to make known the causes for which they were fighting , the government of Berlin issued no definite statement . The reason for this attitude isplain . If Berlin still hopes to enforce her outrageous pretensions by her immense military power , she can not possibly put down her terms in black and white , in a document subject to general perusal , without instantly calling down on her head the blazing reprobation of the civilized world . The Allies , on the contrary , replied to Mr. Wilson 's question easily and with precision . The universal attention drawn to this reply has entailed advantages and disadvantages . By the very nature of things , the Allies definitely announced that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be set free , thus implying a radical opposition to the Hamburg-Persian Gulf idea . This has enabled Berlin , for one thing , to bind her accomplices at Vienna , Budapest , Sofia , and Constantinople more closely , if possible , to her cause , and also to galvanize for a still longer period the forces of the German people , who are resolved to endure the bitterest suffering in order to assure for themselves , after peace comes , the immense advantages accruing from the fait accompli of Pan-Germanism . By way of compensation for this , the publicity given the reply of the Allies has accomplished two excellent ends . First of all , it has permitted every one to see that the common purpose of the Allies is to solve the Central European problem , which , as a matter of fact , is not only of European , but of universal interest , since such a solution puts a quietus on German dreams of world-domination . This publicity , too , has made it possible to compare the principles invoked by the Allies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his message to the Senate on January 22 , 1917 , and to establish the fact that these principles are identical . STATES AND PAN-GERMANISM 7 ' 27 cially after the magnificent revolution in Russia , which , up to the present moment , has avoided all pitfalls ? after Bagdad fell and a fraction of the invaded French territory was won back , the spirit of the Allies was all that could be desired . But even while recognizing the excellence of this moral strength and its potentialities of success , we must first of all consider the general strategic situation . The events of this war have plainly shown that , unfortunately , brute force in the service of the lowest passions can prevail over the holiest rights , the purest aspirations . Since August , 1914 , incontestable rights have been violated , and noble nations martyrized . Let us face the cruel truth and say : the Allies may yet be completely vanquished if certain developments conic about , or if new strategic mistakes are added to those portentous ones which nearly lost them the fight , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immense , if badly employed , latent resources . If we wish , then , really to understand the crisis of to-day and the mighty peril which still menaces the world 's liberty , we insist not shrink from meeting the realities of the military situation . We must be ready to face the most serious developments which can be conceived . Such an attitude implies , not pessimism , but that readiness for the worst which lies at the root of military wisdom . Let us now accept the following facts . The troops of France are beginning to lie exhausted . The iniquitous administration of the Czar has seriously compromised the provisioning of the Russian army with food and munitions . In that vast country , it is possible that idealistic extremists may guide the revolution toward pacifism or anarchy . The swarming agents of Germany are working there without respite . If their efforts succeed , the 728 THE UNITE1 ) STATES strength of Russia will swiftly dissolve . This would practically insure a German victory , for , with the Russian armies demoralized , all the forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moreover , if , from the moral standpoint , the Berlin government is universally to be despised , the same can not be said about her general technical military ability , whose elements are as follows . Berlin is incontestably mistress of Pan-Germany ? that is , she has absolute disposal of vast , resources in men and in the manifold products of a great territory with a population of one hundred and seventy-six millions . The Kaiser 's Great General Staff , whose intellectual resourcefulness can not be questioned , is quick to make the most of every lesson taught by the war . The annual levies of men from the various territories of Pan-Germany certainly outnumber the losses sustained each year by her troops . It is therefore , in my opinion , a grave error to assume , as the Allies have done , that the Germans can be beaten by mere attrition of their forces . By organizing under one uniform system the soldiery furnished by the many different countries of Pan-Germany , Prussian militarism has unquestionably given its troops a cohesion and a unity which was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This state of affairs has undoubtedly added to the military effectiveness of the vast armies which take their orders from Berlin . The German military authorities most advantageously employed the respites given them by the strategic errors of the Allies . Never have the broad lines of trenches , the far-flung battle frontiers , been more powerfully guarded than now . Never have the Germans had more abundant stores of munitions . Never has the network of railways covering the length and AND PAN-GERMANISM breadth of Pan-Germany been so complete . Never has the Great General Staff , making full use of its central position , been better able to concentrate on any front with lightning speed . For these reasons , it is my opinion that we may safely say that never before has the Berlin government , from a military point of view , been so strong . The various statistics which justify such a conclusion are , I think , to be relied on . Even supposing them to be exaggerated , it is much better to run the risk of overestimating the enemy 's strength than to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from neglect of this axiom . Let us now attempt to forecast the German military plans for 1917 . For some weeks persistent reports have been telling of their tremendous preparations for hurling an offensive against the Russian front . As for the Franco-British front in the West , it was stated that the General Staff at Berlin would be glad to hold things stationary on that side until , after winning the victory on which they count in the East , they are free to devote their attentions to the occidental theatre . This project , of course , can not be confirmed ; but the voluntary shortening of the western line by the Germans would lend color to its probability . Moreover , such a plan would coincide perfectly with the present interests of Berlin , with the habitual methods of the Kaiser 's General Staff , with the broad Pan-Germanist scheme , and with the personal preferences of Marshal von Hindenburg . It is also natural that the Germans should avail themselves of the sinister and undeniable effects of the Russian imperial administration on the army and civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ PAN-GERMANISM : 7 ' 20 new government at Petrograd has time to repair the all-too-abundant harm that has been wrought . We must cherish no illusions . As long as it can dispose of the vast resources of Pan-Germany , which , to my thinking , are still taken too lightly by the Allies ; while the results of the RusSian revolution are still uncertain ; while the reorganization of the Muscovite armies still remains uncompleted , the government at Berlin , in spite of its serious problems connected with the food-supply , is still convinced that it can win a decisive military victory by dealing one by one with its adversaries . And so we should foresee that the German General Staff will meet its problems in succession . It seems probable , then , that it will follow the basic principles of warfare and concentrate all the forces at its disposal against the weakest front . This , without question , is the RoumanoRussian line . Its great extent , together with the formidable development of the German railway system ( infinitely superior to that of the Russians ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which is of capital importance for swift , decisive victory . The Russians , too , are certainly less well provided with munitions of war than the Franco-British troops ; and the Germans have succeeded in further weakening them by means of the terrible explosions recently engineered by their spies at Archangel . As a result of the execrable administration of the former government , the food situation in Russia is most critical , while the revolutionists are not yet sure of the reorganization of the military forces . The Germans , therefore , have an unquestionable interest in profiting without delay by this state of affairs . A vigorous offensive on the Eastern front is also in harmony with the PanGermanist plan , which for twenty-five years has looked forward to the , . , eizure by Germany of Piga , Little Russia , and Odessa . And a German success in the south of Russia would be big with economic , naval , military , and moral consequences of world-import . The Germans would become masters of the rich and boundless wheat-lands of Lit tle Russia which , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with greedy eyes . The capture of Odessa and the complete conquest of the Black Sea , by means of transports ( sent in large numbers down the Danube , thus permitting surprise attacks at vital points ) , would end in the loss of the Crimea and , probably , the fall of the Caucasus into the hands of the Turco-Germans . The British , then , could no longer hold out at Bagdad . Freed by such successes from all immediate fear of Russia , the Germans could t hen turn in enormous strength against the Balkan front of the Allies . Under these hypothetical conditions , one may assume that the Allied army north of Salonika , demoralized by the Russian reverses , would be taken prisoners or driven into the sea . These various operations in the East vigorously taken in hand , as the General Stall ' at Berlin knows so well how to do , would require four or five months for their execution . This interval of time , combined with the depressing moral effect brought about by the supposed German victories , would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the final Teutonic offensive on the Western front . It must be remembered that during these four or five months the submarine warfare , pursued more and more ruthlessly , would considerably impede neutral navigation and decimate the tonnage of the Franco-British merchant marine . The food problems and the war expenditure of the Allies would he enormously increased . Even if their pressure has forced the Kaiser to evacuate a considerable portion of France and Belgium , the importance of this retreat would be only relative , for it would be temporary . Following our hypohesis , then , if Russia were beaten , the army of Salonika driven into the sea , and the food crisis in the West . intensified , the moral depression and discouragement among the soldiers and civilians of France would be most profound . Under the given material and psychological conditions , the concentration of all the Pan-German forces on the Western front would probably permit them to break through . This would spell ruin for France and for England as well , and assure that decisive German victory which would mean the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to he accomplished in 1017 , however , the general technical situation in Europe must remain much as it stands at present . No new power capable of making itself felt on the battle-field must come to the support of the Allies . It is necessary , then , that the scheme be carried out in 1917 , before the Russian revolution , which is essentially favorable to the Allies , has time to repair the damage done by the former regime , and before the United States , realizing that it is to their vital interest to take part directly and without delay in the war on the continent , are ready to do so effectively . The tactics of Berlin , after being forced to a diplomatic rupture with Washington , consist in doing everything to avoid actual blows with the United States , while keeping up a vigorous submarine campaign , and in making frantic efforts to effect a miscarriage of American military preparation ? especially as regards sending reinforcements to Europe . In pursuance of this scheme , Berlin instructed Vienna to send Washington a dilatory answer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ break and thus gain time . This procedure was specifically intended to make America believe that Austria-Hungary can act independently of Germany . And so , by virtue of this delusion , William II veils the existence of that Pan-Germany whose reality , for the sake of his plans , must not be revealed until the latest possible moment . VI If the programme for 1917 , which we have good reason to attribute to the Germans , were substantially carried out ( and , after all , this is not impossible ) , in six to eight months the United States would find themselves face to face with a Germany controlling the resources , not only of the present-clay Pan-Germany , but of all Europe . And , Americans , do not think your turn would be long in coming . Do not take it for granted that the German people , worn out by the endless horrors of war , would cry to their masters , ' Peace at any price ! ' The German people , as I know them , filled with enthusiasm by a victory that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , maddened by incalculable plunder , would follow the lead of their Emperor more blindly than ever . The pride and ambition of the Kaiser and his General Staff are so prodigious that , unless all signs fail , they would give the United States no chance to organize against a Prussianized Europe . In eight or ten months , after new advances had been made to Japan , who would be isolated by the defeat of her Allies in Europe , and with the aid of the German-Mexicans and German-Americans whose mission , as every one knows , is to paralyze by every possible means the military organization of the United States , it would be possible to look for ruthless // action against America by the Pan-Germanized forces of Europe . The prediction of such extraordinary eventualities will no doubt seem fantastic and 0nprobable to many of my American readers . I beg them , nevertheless , to consider them seriously . As a matter of fact , if we consider what has been achieved by the Germans since August , 1914 , the events which I have forecast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1901 , when , in my book L'Europe et la Question d'Autrielte net Scull die X X e Sieele , I unmasked the Pan-German plot , which was then looked on as a mere phantasmagoria  --  although as a matter of fact it was so real that it now stands almost completely fulfilled . You Americans , then , should learn your lesson from the past . Your own best interest lays on you the obligation to face facts which may at present seem improbable , and to prepare yourselves without losing a clay for meeting the gravest perils . As the situation now stands , a delay in making a decision may involve disastrous results . For instance , the three weeks of parleying indulged in by the Allies before deciding to send troops to Serbia were of the utmost significance . Those three lost weeks simply prevented the Allies from achieving victory , and resulted in an unthinkable prolongation of the war . The surest , the most economical way for Americans to avoid excessive risks is to prepare at once for the severest kind of struggle , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Everything favors concerted action by the United States and the Allies . Their material and moral interests are identical , and , in doing away with autocracy , Russia removed the well-justified distrust felt in the United States for the land of the Czars . As we have seen , a German victory over Russia , involving the fall of Salonika and , later , thebreaking of the Western front , would be unquestionably the most dangerous eventuality imaginable for the future security of the United States . American interest , therefore , demands not only that support should be given France and Great Britain , but that the United States should hasten to help the Russians , who will probably be called on first to meet the onslaught . On reflection , perhaps , Americans may even find it worth while to give further thought to an idea which , a few months ago , would have seemed preposterous to them . Since President Wilson cherishes the ideal of the brothe ? hood of nations ,  --  a noble conception , but one which can be realized only after Prussian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Hohenzollerns have gone the way of the Romanoffs , ? why should not this world-crisis provide an mu fort u nity for intimate cooperation between the United States and Japan ? Even if Americans were to admit the necessity of so doing , it will be long before they are in the position to throw into the European conflict those reinforcements which , by exercising a decisive influence , would hasten the end of the mad slaughter . At the present moment Japan alone , outside of Europe , has at her disposal a t rained army capable of taking the field at once . Everything considered , President Wilson might well decide that the interests of humanity called for the intervention of Japan in Europe . If he succeeded in convincing Tokyo of this , he would stand out as the great , decisive figure of the war . From the technical point of view , it is certain that victory for the Allies calls for a simultaneous concentric attack on all the fronts of Pan-Germany . For that reason , Japanese troops on the Russian line , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Eastern positions of the Allies 73q A FATHER TO HIS GRADUATE GIRL with the supplementary strength that they need to achieve decisive results and so hasten the end of the whole war . By way of conclusion , let me again urge my point dart the line of action morally and materially most profitable to the United States is that which , by achieving the total destruction of Pan-Germany and Prussian militarism , will terminate the horrible carnage once for all . This is the moral pointed by the past . If the Allies had undertaken the Salonika-Belgrade expedition in , he beginning of 1915 , the war would have ended a year ago . If you , Americans , had cast your lot with us a year ago , it would be ending about now . If you act to-day , with all your energies , and especially if you compass the Japanese intervention , you will save the lives of millions of men who , without your military and diplomatic support , will surely be sacrificed . The real problem for America is clearly to discern Pan-Germany lurking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to decide to strike this Pan-Germany quick and hard . This is the one and only way to foil the odious Prussian militarism which threatens the liberty of the world . 