@@430771

 | It is not given to many generations to witness the passing of an epoch . But every well informed adult now alive knows that the past several years have brought transformations almost too vast to be comprehended . This year seems scarcely akin to 1913 , and the next few years seem to offer insuperable difficulties to any attempt to fathom them . If you wish to get an impression of the changes now in process try to recall your point of view three years ago . Better still , examine the files of the daily and weekly press of that time . You will find yourself in another world with strange questions , a vast ignorance , and petty quarrels . You will find it hard to convince yourself that the same persons who are living in these heroic years expressed themselves in that paltry language . I know of only one other time in modern history that , in this respect , can be compared with our own , namely , the early years of the French Revolution . The newspapers , the contemporary memoirs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time bear testimony that those who produced them were conscious that their day , like our own , marked the end of one epoch and the beginning of another . They were not clear as to the character of the past or as to what the future was likely to bring forth , but they were convinced that , at any rate , the future would be different . Since this is a time of transition and heart searching it would seem to be appropriate to recall some of the characteristics of the epoch introduced by the French Revolution , which now seems to be passing , and to see whether it is possible to look with any degree of plausibility into the future . We shall probably agree that the nineteenth century as an epoch in history got fairly under way in 1814 on the fall of Napoleon and culminated in the outbreak of the present war . If there were time to delve further into the past we might observe that by a curious coincidence there was also precisely  | an hundred years between the Congresses of Utrecht and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characteristics of the century introduced by the latter congress . The first characteristic which attracts our attention is connoted by a word now never long absent from the lips of a student of history . The nineteenth century was pre-eminently the time of the growth of nations with a unity of feeling and institutions . There is no need to call the roll of the countries that passed through that experience . It would be easier to name those that did not . But if the nineteenth century was a time when the nations grew up from dynastic infancy to self-conscious political life , it was also a time when the doctrine of individual liberty as a political ideal received widespread acceptance . In some of the countries the struggle for liberty and for national unity went hand and hand . Cavour , for example , cherished a desire to introduce into his own beloved land both of these ideals , which had been inspired in him while he resided in the country that was the mother of nations and the fountain of liberty . And if liberty was finally defeated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because it lacked champions , as witness the migration of German liberals to this country after their defeat at home . Trained in the old school , as most of us are , we have no difficulty in reconciling these two ideals with all that seems desirable in social life . It is when we meet the third characteristic in the development of the nineteenth century that our troubles begin . Excuse it as we may , the fact is that this century of exuberant national life and zealous pursuit of liberty was likewise the century in which the strong men of the nations were most successful in exploiting the weak and in accumulating and managing in their own interest the fruits of the labor of the less fortunate . This fact is no less evident if we admit that under the regime of these strong men has occurred more rapid advancement toward that vague goal we call civilization than in any other interval of comparable length in human history . At any rate , in no other century were the strong men able to work so effectively or to accomplish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the weak , despite  | their individual liberty , made more utterly dependent on the strong . Very little reflection will serve to make it clear that a community which is striving toward individual liberty as an ideal is laboring to make it easier for the strong to exploit the weaker . It was the mistress of the seas , a natio i already head and shoulders above her rivals in industry and commerce , that threw down the gauntlet in the nineteenth century and challenged the world to adopt a policy of liberty in trade . And the battle for individual liberty in the past several centuries was largely fought at the instigation of the strong men of the growing nations , who were anxious to throw off the fetters imposed on their activities by the outworn forms and petty tyrannies of a past age . The nation itself was largely a by-product c f this struggle of the strong men for an opportunity to exert their strength . In one sense England got rid of the Stuarts and France the Bourbons in order to give the strong men control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of other families that had lost power or office or both , formed a partnership with the strong men of the nation , and co-operated with them in the task of exploiting the weak . Thus , that which the strong men of the liberty loving nations did as a right those of Germany did as a privilege . The result was similar in many respects , the chief difference being that Germany never became a home of liberty . A little study of the nation makes it clear that , with the average level of education and general intelligence what it was in the nineteenth century , it would have been difficult to invent a contrivance better adapted to serve the purposes of the strong men . The inhabitants were merged into a fictitious personality , were provided with proper shibboleths , and were taught to recognize a code of national honor similar in many respects to the code prevalent among gentlemen when duelling was in fashion . Their former loyalty to their clan or to their leader was transformed into an enthusiasm for this complex unity of which they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them to the merits of the question . If they reached a point where it seemed to be theirs to reason why ,  | they but repeated parrot like arguments made ready for the occasion by the strong men or the employees of the strong men who constituted- the brains of the fictitious person . If they did now and then decide questions by their votes , they were questions made ready by some group of these same strong men who also supplied the reasons for voting one way or another . By this ; arrangement a member of the multitude came to feel it a greater obligation than before to spend himself in support of the honor of this nation of which he felt that he was a member . It is not remarkable , therefore , that Napoleon , with nation at his call , could accomplish greater things than Louis XIV , who after all was but a dynastic monarch . Nor is it remarkable that the nations now at war are striving in a combat which beggars description and which makes all former wars insignificant by contrast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they seem to me to betoken something of the future . If I have read history aright , the ideal of liberty and the conception of a nation which gradually emerged in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries , and which , in the nineteenth , gave the strong men an opportunity never before afforded to them , is now in a process of transition to another stage in the evolution of human society . As the nineteenth century may be regarded as the century o nationalism and liberty , so , it now seems likely , the twentieth may come to be known as the epoch of democracy and justice . If this be the true view , the comparatively small groups of strong men who , under a regime of liberty , were able to build nations and to shape national policies to their own advantage will yield to a social system dominated by the mass of the r eople largely in their own interest . It is tolerably clear that such a change would tend to curtail the liberty of individuals . Nothing is more familiar to thoughtful persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the terms have been so frequently married in the loose phraseology of our public discussions that the less careful think of them as almost complementary , and a word of emphasis on the distinction is not out of place . The point is that the more completely the mass of the people come into a realization of their real potency in producing the wealth  | and fighting the battles of the world the less inclined they are to abide by the old doctrine of laisser faire . Of course , even those eighteenth and nineteenth century enthusiasts who thought the least governed people to be the best governed were far from believing in absolute liberty , but they were convinced that it would be for the advantage of society to give a wide latitude to individual activity . The democrats , on the other hand , know that if liberty is in vogue to this extent particularly in the economic world , the strong men will it crease their strength , too frequently at the expense of the weal : . And so it is a natural tendency of the more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to organize themselves for the purpose of bidding defiance to the strong , even though it is necessary to give up somewhat of their liberty in so doing . This clash of democracy and liberty is apparent in the opposition to child labor legislation , compulsory school laws , factory legislation , and the like . Whether one agrees with the supporters of these measures or not , they are manifestly , at bottom , attempts of the mass of the people , the democracy , to place restrictions on the liberty of strong men to profit at the expense of the weak . The ideal which the democracy must necessarily offer as a standard by which to measure proposals of this sort is justice . Not perhaps the justice of the schools of law with its element of precedent and preconceived notions based on former practices , but a justice which aims to comply with the demands of a humanitarian generation that everybody be given a square deal . And when this demand for a greater opportunity to enjoy the products of their labor shall come from the mass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the demand be for higher wages , shorter hours , or other better standards of living , the demand will ultimately prevail as far as it is practically possible . In consequence , the dominancy of the strong men which we have witnessed under the regime of liberty will tend to give way to a democratic rule , in which the first great task will be to curb the strong and make them helpers in the task of raising the general standards of living . It : s not necessary to be blind to the difficulties of this undertaking or even to believe that it will ultimately succeed to see that in the nature of things it must be attempted .  | Admitting these premises , however , is it probable that the present war will introduce an era of democracy ? Surely a time when national feeling has reached the height of its fervor , when vaster multitudes than ever before are making supreme sacrifices in the service of their nations for the sake of causes formulated by strong men , in many cases in the interest of strong men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have given such amazing evidences of their power . Perhaps not , and yet when a political pendulum has swung far in one direction there is the greater reason to expect a swing backward . But there are other more tangible reasons for concluding that this war may operate to place limitations on the liberty of both individuals and nations , and likewise that it may hasten the coming ) f the time when democracy and justice will be more prevalent . There were three patent factors which , among others , in the past tended to preserve the existing order without radical change . In the first place there was the innate conservatism of the mass of the people . The two classes of people most difficult to convince that change is necessary are those who dominate the existing order and profit by it and those with untrained minds who go to make up the mass of those who are thus dominated . From the point of view of this latter class , II he existing system , providing for a large measure of liberty it amassing and controlling wealth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would , and naturally those who were profiting by the existing order did not try to convince them . Accordingly , they learned to endure hardships , preferring to bear the ills they had rather than experiment with others of which they had no certain knowledge . Again , in spite of many hardships suffered by a considerable portion of the population under the regime of liberty , for a majority of people life has been tolerable . Laborers have received a sufficient share of the products of their toil to enable them to exist in some comfort . Consequently they have not had an irresistible impulse born of necessitous conditions to induce them to seek a change . There have been , it is true , signs of what is coming , but with no more pinch than past conditions caused we might very well have gone on for a con- siderable time using that useful device of the regime of liberty , collective bargaining . Finally , as a result of their traditional habit of : submitting to the guidance of stronger men and their lack of nclination for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not been made fully aware of their powers when acting collectively . When they have made intermittent attempts to remedy one condition or another , they have been outmanoeuvered by the stronger men and again brought into subjection , with the result that they came to distrust the existence of their strength itself . Now , the remarkable thing is that this war , which exemplifies as no other has the docility of the mass of the people in the service of strong leaders , is tending rapidly to eradicate the very causes which in the past prevented the democracy from coming into power and shaping public policies in its own interest . Think , for example , of the blows struck with bewildering rapidity and astonishing success at our time-honored notions of individual rights in private property . We were wont formerly to tell the advocates of community control of the instruments of production and distribution that these things cou d be more efficently managed under a system of private ownership . In fact , our traditional feeling was that the strong me l who had somehow amassed wealth of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much as they pleased . Just recently , one of our reviews , discussing the demands of certain laborers for a greater share of the incomes of our most important instruments of distribution , referred to " the down trodden investors in railroad securities . " But it is doubtful whether tie mass of the people in the warring countries will give much weight to these arguments when they return to their homes and undertake to rebuild that which they are now seeking : o destroy . Who will have the assurance to tell them that private ownership and management of great industries is more e ficient and that it is dangerous to meddle with private property in these forms of wealth in the face of the short shrift given by the governments to the owners of these properties in the time of the nation 's need ? There can never again exist , n England for example , the same timidity and fear of government interference in business that existed before the war . The captains  | of industry , if they hold their positions , must find arguments different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this traditional conservatism be shattered by the evidence of inescapeable facts , the men who are now in the trenches , in munitions factories , in mines , and in other forms of vital industrial employment will also come out of the war with they knowledge that they were the dependence of their governments in the time of need and that they were repeatedly able to corn ) el the strong men in charge of the affairs of the nation to stand and deliver when they demanded higher wages , pensions for their families , and the like . Will men thus made aware of their power return home when the struggle is over and supinely take up where they left off the task of piling up wealth for the nation , for the strong men to manage , content if they are given a sufficient share to provide sustenance for themselves and their families ? A third factor makes it unlikely that the transition from war to peace can be accomplished in this easy fashion by a settlement fiat has any of the elements of permanence . The vast increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nations at war and of other nations affected by the war have operated to raise the level of prices of almost all commodities . When peace is made , there will 3f course be a lessening of the demand for some materials used in warfare . But the task of reconstructing that which is now undergoing destruction and of replenishing the storehouses now being emptied as well as of bearing the ) urdens of taxation necessary to meet the interest on obligations now being incurred and then necessary will tend almost inevitably to make money still cheaper and to raise the general level of prices even higher . In consequence , laborers will be able to purchase less for their wages and will demand an increase . It is improbable that the employers of labor , even though they are obliged by the governments to keep peace by raising wages while the war is in progress , will submit to further demands at its end without a struggle . In this way an occasion may arise , giving the democracy a chance for exerting its strength while it is keenly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arise before the radical  | methods of the governments in using private property for public purposes had been forgotten . It is from a struggle of this kind , which it seems difficult finally to avoid , that the twentieth century will probably take its tone . That being so there is every reason to assume that the final compromise reached will be much more concerned with the welfare of men and women in general than with the liberty of the strong to get avid retain . The same reasoning makes it apparent that the nation will be a less influential factor in the history of the twentieth century than it has been in the nineteenth . It is not necessary to look far beneath the surface to see that the interests End ideals which are clashing in the titanic struggle now going on are largely the interests and ideals of the groups of strong men who have builded and dominated the nations . The se strong men have taught the members of the democracy how to be loyal to a nation without forgetting their obligations to the family or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feeling to consciousness of a common interest with all humankind . It is true that the war came in spite of the dream of social democrats of an international democratic alliance which should force European governments to keep the peace . The national feeling so long instilled in the people of the European nations was strong enough to overshadow the untried theori s of enthusiasts , and , on the outbreak of the war , the democrats went willingly to fill up the ranks of the national armies , giving the nation a new lease of life . But after all , from the point of view of the candid moralist , there is no good reason why men should support the ration of which they are inhabitants unless that nation is seek ng to do justice and to accomplish the right . And it is doubtful whether German agricultural and industrial laborers , if left to themselves , would have many serious grievances against the French and British laborers whom they are now seeking to slay in such large numbers . It is indeed questionable whether the soldiers in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if uninfluenced by the current doctrines of the ruling classes in their several countries , would be interested in fighting to crush one nation or to increase the influence and prestige of another .  | Of course , however , they are influenced by the doctrines of the strong men who have , perhaps unwittingly , brought on this war . And it is not unlikely that these doctrines will play a part in the determination of the terms of peace . It would be surprising if they did not . But that probability is not an argument against the interpretation of the future here set forth . You will recall that the stupid statesmen at Vienna a century ago in a like manner ignored the nation and sought to compass the destruction of liberalism in their vain attempt to create a stable regime and make a permanent peace .                     