@@430640

 | THAT the smash-up of the Ottoman empire would not be accomplished without bringing on a general European war had been a standing prophecy for more than a half century . But when at the beginning of 1914 the war clouds cleared away from the Balkans the world breathed more freely , for it felt relieved of the ominous outlook . During the two years of conflict involving seven nations , the Great Powers had held aloof , impotent indeed but pacific , like the gods of Lucretius . Africa and almost all of Europe had been by degrees amputated from the Ottoman empire . The operations were successful and the surgeons survived . There remained still the most delicate question of all , the disposition of Constantinople and the partition of Asia Minor , but there was reason to hope that these could be settled by diplomatic arrangement , as England and France had settled their dispute over central Africa , and England and Russia had settled theirs over central Asia . But just when it was thought that the danger was over a young Serbian assassin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This was done ostensibly out of revenge for the Austrian annexation of Bosnia and Herzegovina six years before . The act of annexation was merely a paper change , for the two provinces had been virtually consigned to the Austro-Hungarian monarchy by the Congress of Berlin in 1878 . But the Serbs saw in the formal annexation the deathblow to their hopes of expanding toward the north . So they set about devising means to expand toward the south regardless of the fact that the region they coveted in this direction was mostly inhabited by alien and hostile races . Bulgaria and Greece also coveted Macedonian and Albanian territory , so this aspiration served as a bond of union between the three Balkan states as it was later the cause of their falling out . The formation of the Balkan League was chiefly the work of two men , Premier Venizelos of Greece and James Bouchier , ex-school teacher and journalist , a red-headed Irishman and one of those born politicians who find in foreign lands a field for their talents which is denied them at home . He , acting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talks all the languages of the peninsula , achieved what the official diplomatists regarded as impossible , a union of the four Balkan states which held together long enough to drive the Turk from Europe , tho it broke up when it came to the division of the spoils . Albania , which Greece , Serbia and Montenegro hoped to divide between themselves , was taken away from them by the powers at the instigation of Italy and Austria and was made an independent principality with a Prussian on the throne . To compensate themselves for this loss , Serbia and Greece combined to take from Bulgaria part of what they had promised her , while at the same time Rumania picked her pocket on the other side of Danubian territory . Each party accused the other of treachery and atrocity and , what is worse , proved their charges to the satisfaction of neutral nations . So , sullen , resentful and exhausted , the Balkan states , with the exception of Serbia and Montenegro , remained at peace while the rest of the world has been at war , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Serbia , like those of Belgium , are not due to the malevolence of man or the malignity of Fate but to geography . Serbia , like Belgium , lies in the road and in all wars she has been trampled on . The easiest way thru the Balkans is up the Morava and down the Vardar . This is where the railroad runs between Belgrade and Salonika , connecting the Danube with the IEgean . By this route successive hordes of barbarians swept down upon ancient Greece and medieval Byzantium , and by this route the Turks invaded Europe . The Austrians have long hoped to go thru Serbia to the sea . Twice during the past year they have attempted it , but have been beaten back . Now they have massed their forces against Belgrade for another southward drive . But this time the Austrians will meet with more opposition than before . The Serbs are not alone . We know that there are British forces in Serbia . There may be more of them than is commonly supposed . If Allied forces have not yet been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the only way to get reinforcements into Serbia is from the Aegean . It is impossible for troops or supplies in quantity to reach Serbia from the Adriatic because there are no railroads and few roads of any kind leading thru the mountains of Albania and Montenegro . But if Greece joins the Allies the back door of Serbia will be opened to them . Venizelos , dismissed from the premiership because of his war policy , has come back with such strength in the new Greek parliament that he may be able to withstand his King , or even his Queen . It is she who is held responsible for keeping Greece from entering the war a few months ago , but as to whether she did it by sticking a knife into her husband 's ribs or by threatening to leave him and go back to Germany , or by the use of less dramatic measures of domestic control , there is a difference of opinion on the part of those journalists who profess to know all that goes on in the cabinets of kings . From equally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Greece , whatever it was , was instigated by a telegram from her brother , the Kaiser , couched in language that sounds biblical , : " Wo to him who dares to draw the sword against me , " and more recently another reading : My destructive sword has crushed the Russians . They will need six months to recover . My brave soldiers have shown themselves invincible in battle against nearly the whole world . The war drama is now coming to its close . But Constantine , King of the Hellenes , has recovered from his indisposition , whatever it was , and now seems inclined to strike a bargain with the Allies even tho he may have to sacrifice some Macedonian territory to Bulgaria and may have to relinquish his dream of sitting on the throne of his ancestors as Constantine of Constantinople . The fact that his father was a Dane and his mother a Russian does not of course interfere with the dynastic tradition . He has a rival in Ferdinand , Czar of Bulgaria , who is said to have had his robes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sophia , in 1912 when his armies were pursuing the fleeing Turks into Constantinople . But they were mysteriously stopped at the Chatalja lines and the regalia , if it ever existed , is presumably packed away with other lost hopes , for there are more imposing candidates in the field for the throne of Constantine , which , it is well to remember , the Sultan has not yet been persuaded to vacate . The custom of drawing upon the petty royalty of Germany for wives and for rulers of new principalities has disadvantages in time of war . Greece is not the only Balkan state embarrassed by it . The King of Rumania , Ferdinand I , is a Hohenzollern . The Queen of Rumania belongs , like the King of Bulgaria and the King of the Belgians , to the SaxeCoburg family . The Queen Dowager of Rumania , known to the reading world as " Carmen Sylva , " is the Princess Elizabeth of Wied . Her nephew , William of Wied , was made ruler of Albania by the powers in  | 1913 , but during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the battleship which brought him to Durazzo and now he is back in his regiment of the Prussian Guards . The King and Queen of Bulgaria are both German , altho on his mother 's side he is a grandson of Louis Philippe , who served one term as King of France . In his youth Ferdinand was an officer in the Austrian army and has always been in close touch with the Austro-Hungarian Government . A few months ago Bulgaria accepted a loan from Germany and this was assumed to commit her to the Teutonic cause . But the Bulgarian Premier , Dr. Radoslavoff , announced in a recent interview that Bulgaria is still open to higher bids from the other side . He said : The Quadruple Entente can obtain our assistance if it secures from Serbia the restitution to us of that part of Macedonia which is our land and our property , which is the flesh of our flesh and the blood of our blood , and thus close the open wound in our side . But Bulgaria , not unnaturally considering her experience with Serbian contracts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so far decline to consider any cession of territory , so Bulgaria continues to flirt with Turkey and Germany . Rumania , on the contrary , has taken the " King 's shilling , " that is to say accepted a British loan , but still hesitates to enter the war so long as Bulgaria 's attitude is uncertain . Her grain crop is held up because the Dardanelles are closed . She can not sell to Russia , for Russia also has more grain than she can dispose of . Germany and Austria are the only possible purchasers for Rumania 's crop and altho they are very anxious for it they refuse to buy unless Rumania will allow the passage of munitions to Constantinople . So Rumania has to choose between financial loss or the German cause . Even if the Teutonic Powers should succeed in winning over Bulgaria this would not suffice to connect them with their Ottoman ally , for the borders of Serbia and Rumania meet and so shut off Bulgaria from the Danube by a barrier thirtyfive miles wide . The efforts of the Austrians to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the resistance of these indomitable peasants . Now weakened by three wars and wasted by the pestilence they can not be expected to withstand unaided another invasion , especially since the Austrians- have been reinforced and reanimated by the Germans . That is why it is necessary to the Allies to gain over Greece so as to open to them the road from Salonika to Belgrade . But Greece asks for more money than the Allies are willing to give and she also declines to accede to the wishes of the Allies and conciliate Bulgaria by surrendering the port of Kavala , which might be made a rival of her most precious acquisition , Salonika . In the first Balkan war the Bulgars captured Kavala from the Turks about the same time that the Greeks captured Salonika , seventy miles west , but in the second Balkan war the Greeks took possession of Kavala . This disappointed Serbia as well as Bulgaria , for when Serbia found her hopes of gaining a port on the Adriatic had been frustrated by Austria and Italy she looked to the Aegean for an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no consideration to Austria 's wishes , but Italy , upon whom they are relying for help both in France and Gallipoli must not be offended . Probably the project of the powers of making an independent state of Albania will now be abandoned . The Albanians are reputed to be unconquerable ; they certainly seem uncombinable . The partition of Albania can not , however , be accomplished without causing disaffection even with Austria , the chief claimant , out of the way . Serbia wants the northern part ; Greece wants the southern ; Italy wants the whole coast . The port of Avlona , which lies on the Albanian coast nearest Italy , less than fifty miles away from it , has already been seized by the Italians , altho it is in the section which Greece earnestly desires . Serbia , on the other hand , will not consent to give up her Macedonian territory to Bulgaria unless she can get a port on either the Adriatic or Aegean . The Balkan blockade is psychological as well as economic and geographic . That is why it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will show how ingeniously the Balkan states have been interlocked so neither can move without disturbing the others , like a pile of jackstraws . This has not come by chance . The Balkan puzzle-map is the joint work of generations of European diplomats skilled in the art of preserving the balance of power and blocking each other 's moves . What will happen to the delicate structure when the first breach is made in it by the sword , the Lord only knows now , but we are all likely soon to find out .                     