@@466077

DEEDS , not words , " is a platitude ? a flat state- ment which reduces the facts of the case to an average , and calls that truth . It is absurd to imply , as does this old truism , that we may never judge a man by his words . Words are often the most convenient indices of education , of cultivation , and of intellectual power . And what is more , a man 's speech , a man 's writing , when properly interpreted , may sometimes measure the potentialities of the mind more thoroughly , more accurately than the deeds which environment , opportunity , luck permit . It is hard enough to take the intellectual measure even of the makers of history by their acts , so rapidly does the apparent value of their accomplishments vary with changing conceptions of what is and what is not worth doing . It is infinitely more difficult to judge in advance of youths just going out into the world by what they do . Their words , which reveal what they are thinking , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vision of their minds ; and " by their words ye shall know them " becomes not a perversion , but an adaptation of the old text . Would you judge of a boy just graduated entirely by the acts he had performed in college ? IF you did . you would make some profound and illuminating mistakes . This explains , I think , why parents , and teachers , and college presidents , and even undergraduates , are exercised over the study of writing English ? which is , after all , just the study of the proper putting together of words . They may believe , all of them , that their concern is merely for the results of the power to write well ; the ability to compose a good letter , to speak forcibly on occasion , to offer the amount of literacy required for most " jobs . " But 1 won-der if the quite surprising keenness of their interest is not due to another cause . I wonder if they do not feel perhaps unconsciously ? that words indicate the man ; that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if not its profundity , at least the stage of its development . We fasten on the defects of the letters written by undergraduates , on their faltering speeches , on their confused examination papers , as something significant , ominous , worthy even of comment in the press . And we are , I believe , perfectly right . Speech and writing , if you get them in fair samples , indicate the extent and the value of a college education far better than a degree . It is this conviction which , pressing upon the schools and colleges , has caused such a flood of courses and text-books , such an expenditure of time , energy , and money in the teaching of composition , so many ardent hopes of accomplishment , so much bitter disappointment at relative failure . I do not know how many are directly or indirectly teaching the writing of English in America ? perhaps some tens of thousands ; the imagination falters at the thought of how many are trying to learn it . Thus the parent , conscious of this enormous endeavor and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hear the critics without the colleges maintaining that we are not teaching good writing , and the critics within protesting that good writing can not be taught ! It is with the teachers , the administrators , the theorists on education , but most of all the teachers , that the responsibility for the alleged failure of this great project to endow the college graduate with adequate powers of expression ? must be sought . But these guardians of expression are divided , like the German Reichstag , into many groups , of which four are chief . There is first the great party of the Know-Nothings , who plan and teach with no opinion whatsoever as to the ends of their teaching . Under the conditions of human nature and current financial rewards for the work , this party is inevitably large ; but it counts for nothing except inertia . There is next the respectable and efficient cohort of the Do-Nothings , who believe that good writing and speaking are natural emanations from culture , as health from exercise , or clouds from the sea . They would cultivate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ care of itself . They do not believe in teaching English Composition . Next are the Formalists , who hold up a dictionary in one hand , the rules of rhetoric in another , and say , learn these , and good writing and good speaking shall be added unto you . The Formalists have weakened in late years . There have been desertions to the Do-Nothings , for the work of grinding rules into unwilling minds is hard , and it is far easier to adopt a policy of laissez-faire . But there have been far more desertions into a party which I shall call , for want of a better name , the Optimists . The Optimists believe that in teaching to write and speak the American college is accepting its most significant if not its greatest duty . They believe that we must understand what causes good writing , in order to teach it ; and that for the average undergraduate writing must be taught . The best way to approach this grand battle-ground of educational policies is by the very practical fashion of pretending ( if pretense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a daughter ) ready for college . What does he need , what must he have in a writing way , in a speaking way , when he has passed through all the education you see fit to give him ? What should he possess of such ability to satisfy the world and himself ? Facts , ideas , and imagination , to put it roughly , make up the substance of expression . Facts he must be able to present clearly and faithfully ; ideas he must he able to present clearly and comprehensively ; his imagination he will need to express when his nature demands it . And for all these needs he must be able to use knowingly the words which study and VOL . CXX.VIII. - NO. 767. - 97experience will feed to him . He must be able to combine these words effectively in order to express the thoughts of which he is capable . And these thoughts he must work out along lines of logical , reasonable development , so that what he says or writes will have an end and attain it . in addition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he should know the color and fire of words , the power of rhythm and harmony over the emotions , the qualities of speech whose secret will enable him to mold language to his personality and perhaps achieve a style . This he should know ; the other powers he must have , or stop short of his full efficiency . Alas , we all know that the undergraduate , in the mass , fails often to attain even to the power of logical , accurate statement , whether of facts or ideas . It is true that most of the charges against him are to a greater or less degree irrelevant . Weighty indictments of his powers of expression are based upon bad spelling : a sign , it is true , of slovenliness , an indication of a lack of thoroughness which goes deeper than the misplacing of letters , but not in itself a proof of inability to express . Great writers have often misspelled ; and the letters our capable business men write when the stenographer fails to come back after lunch are by no means impeccable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? due to the fact that the American undergraduate is often a child intellectually rather than to any defects in composition per se . But it is a waste of time to deny that he writes , if not badly , at least not so clearly , so correctly , so intelligently as we expect . The question is , why ? It would be a comfort to blame it all on the schools ; and indeed they must take some blame , not only because they deserve it , but also to enlighten those critics of the college who never consider the kind of grain which comes into our hoppers . The readers of college entrance papers could tell a mournful story of how the candidates for our freshmen classes write . Here , for an instance , is a paragraph intended to prove that the writer had a command of simple English , correct in sentence structure , spelling , capitalization , and punctuation . The subject is " The Value of Organized Athletics in Schools " ; not an abstruse one , or too academic : If fellows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a certain time every-day ; These fellows are in good health and allert in their lessons . while those who take no exercise are logy and soft . Orginized athletics in a school bring the former , while if a school has no athletics every-thing goes more or less slipshod , and the fellows are more liable to get into trouble , because they are nervious from having nothing to do . This is a little below the average of the papers rejected for entrance to college . It is not a fair sample of what the schools can do ; but it is a very fair sample of what they often do not do . It was not written by a foreigner , nor , I judge , by a son of illiterate parents , since it came from an expensive Eastern preparatory school . The reader , marking with some heat a failure for the essay from which this paragraph is extracted , would not complain of the writer 's paucity of ideas . His ideas are not below the average of his age . He would keep his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spelling , the lack ( which would appear in the whole composition ) of even a rudimentary construction to carry the thought . Spelling , the fundamentals of punctuation , and the compacting of a sentence must be taught in the schools , or it is too late . It is too late to cure diseases of these members in college . They can be abated ; but again and again they will break out . It is the school 's business to teach them ; and the weary reader sees in this unhappy specimen but a dark and definite manifestation of a widespread slovenliness in secondary education ; a lack of thoroughness which appears not only in the failures , but also , though in less measure , among the better writers , whose work is too good in other respects not to be reluctantly passed . Again , it would be easy to blame much of the slipshod writing of the undergraduate upon the standards set by the grown-ups outside the colleges . Editors can tell of the endless editing which contributions , even from writers supposed to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sentence as the following slips through , and begins an article in a well-known , highly respectable magazine , we can only say , " If gold rust , what will iron do " : Yes the Rot ? and with a very big R ? in sport : for that , thanks to an overdone and too belauded a Professionalism by a large section of the pandering press , is what it has got ' to . Again , any business man could produce from his files a collection of letters full of phrasing so vague and inconsequential that only his business instincts and knowledge of the situation enabled him to interpret it . Any lawyer could give instances instances where an inability to write clear and simple English has caused litigation without end . Indeed , the bar is largely supported by errors in English composition ! And as for conversation conducted ? I will not say with pedantical correctness , for that is not an ideal , but with accuracy and transparency of thought ? listen to the talk about you ! However , it is the business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is not easy to develop in youth virtues which are more admired than practised by maturity , let us assume that they should succeed in turning out writers of satisfactory ability , even with these handicaps , and look deeper for the cause of their relative failure . The chief cause of the prevalent inadequacy of expression among our undergraduates is patent , and its effects are by no means limited to America , as complaints from , France and from Eng- land prove . I he mob the many-headed , the many-mouthed , figured in the past by poets as dumb , or , at best , an incoherent thing of brutish noises sig- nifying speech ? is acquiring education and learning how to express it . Hundreds of thousands whose ancestors never read , and seldom talked except of the simpler needs of life , are doing the talking and the writing which their large share in the transaction of the world 's business demands . Indeed , democracy requires not only that the illiterate shall learn to read and write in the narrower sense of the words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their growing intellectuality a more perfect power of expression . And it is precisely from the classes only relatively literate ? those for whom in the past there has been no opportunity , and no need , to become highly educated ? that the bulk of our college students to-day are coming , the bulk of the students in the institutions nstitutions of the East as well as in the newer State universities of the West . The typical undergraduate is no longer the son of a lawyer or a clergyman , with an intellectual background behind him . There is plenty of grumbling among college faculties , and in certain newspapers , over this state of affairs . In reality , of course , it is the opportunity of the American colleges . Let the motives be what they may , the simple fact that so many American parents wish to give their children more education than they themselves were blessed with is a condition so favorable for those who believe that in the long run only intelligence can keep our civilization on the path of real progress , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ college campuses . Nevertheless , we pay for our opportunity , and we must expect to pay . The thousands of intellectual immi-grants , ill-supplied with means of progress , indefinite of aim , unaware of their opportunities , who land every September at the college gates , constitute a weighty burden , a terrible responsibility . And the burden rests upon no one with more crushing weight than upon the unfortunate teacher of composition . That these entering immigrants can not write well is a symptom of their mental rawness . It is to be expected . But thanks to the methods of slipshod , ambitious America , the schools have passed them on still shaky in the first steps of accurate writing ? spelling , punctuation , sentence structure , and the use of words . Thanks to the failure of America to demand thoroughness in anything but athletics and business , they are blind to the need of thoroughness in expression . And thanks to the inescapable difficulty of accurate writing , they resist the attempt to make them thorough , with the youthful mind 's instinctive rebellion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must learn if they are to become educated in any practical and efficient sense ; the immigrants especially must learn , since they come from environments where accurate expression has not been practised ? often has not been needed ? and go to a future where it will be required of them . Not even the Do-Nothing school denies the necessity that the undergraduate should learn to write well . But how ? The Know-Nothing school proposes no ultimate solution , and knows none , unless faithfully teaching what they are told to teach , and accepting the sweat and burden of the day , with few of its rewards , be not in its blind way a better solution than to dodge the responsibility altogether . The Formalists labor over precept and principle ? disciplining , commanding , threatening ? feeling more grief over one letter lost , or one comma mishandled , than joy over the most spirited of incorrect effusions . They turn out sulky youths who nevertheless have learned something . The Do-Nothings propose a solution which is engaging , logical ? and insufficient . They are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , what the Formalists miss , that he who thinks well will in the long run write as he should . Their especial horror is of the compulsory theme , extracted from unwilling and idealess minds . Their remedy for all ills of speech and pen is : teach , not writing and speaking , but thinking ; give , not rules and principles , but materials for thought . And above all , do not force college students to study composition . The Do-Nothing school has almost enough truth on its side to be right . It has more truth , in fact , than its principles permit it to make use of . The umpire in this contest ? who is the parent with a son ready for college ? should note , however , two pervading fallacies in this laissez-faire theory of writing English . The first belongs to the party of the right among the DoNothings ? the older teachers who come from the generation which sent only picked men to college ; the second to the party of the left ? the younger men who are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which accompany so much work in composition . The older men attack the attempt to teach boys to make literature . Their hatred of the cheap , the banal , and the false in literature which has been machine-made by men who have learned to express finely what is not worth expressing at all , leads them to distrust the teaching of English composition . They condemn , however , a method of teaching which long since withered under their scorn . The aim of the college course in composition to-day is not the making of literature , but writing ; not the production of imaginative master- . pieces , but the orderly arrangement of thought in words . Through no foresight of our own , but thanks to the pressure of our immigrants upon us , we have ceased teaching " eloquence " and " rhetoric , " and have taken upon ourselves the humbler task of helping the thinking mind to find words and a form of expression as quickly , as easily , above all as simply , as possible . The old teacher of rhetoric aspired to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are content if our students become the masters rather than the servants of their prose . The party of the left presents a more frontal attack upon the teaching of the writing of English . Show the undergraduate how to think , they say ; fill his mind with knowledge , and his pen will find the way . Ah , but there is the fallacy ! Why not help him to find the way ? as in Latin , or surveying , or English literature . The way in composition can be taught , as in these other subjects . Writing , like skating , or sailing a ship , has its especial methods , its especial technique , even as it has its especial medium , words , and the larger unities of expression . The laws which govern it are simple . They are always in intimate connection with the thought behind , and worthless without it , but they can be taught . Ask any effective teacher of composition to show you what he has done time and again for the freshmen whose sprawling thought he has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not be deceived by analogies drawn from our colleges of the mid-nineteenth century , where composition was not taught , and men wrote well ; or from the English universities , where the same conditions are said ( withdissenting voices ) to exist . In the first place , they had no immigrant problem in the mid-century , nor have in Oxford and Cambridge . In the second , the rigorous translation back and forward between the classics and the mother-tongue , now obsolete in America , but still a requisite for an English university training , provides a drill in accuracy of language whose efficiency is not to be despised . The student must express his intellectual gains even as he absorbs them , or the crystallization of knowledge into personal thought will be checked at the beginning . The boy must be able to say what he knows , or write what he knows , or he does not know it . And it is as important to help him express as to help him absorb . The teachers in other departments must aid in this task or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expression keep pace with thought and with life is given to them , they will be forced either to overload , or to neglect all but the little arcs which bound their subjects . And since they are specialists in other fields , and so neglect that technique of writing which in itself is a special study , their task when they accept it , is hard , and their labor , when it is forced upon them , too often ineffective . Composition must be taught where college education proceeds ? that is the truth of the matter ; and if not taught directly , then indirectly , with pain and with waste . The school of the Optimists approaches this question of writing English with self-criticism and with a full realization of the difficulties , and of the tentative nature of the methods now in use , but with confidence as to the possibility of ultimate success . In order to be an Optimist in composition you must have some stirrings of democracy in your veins . You must be interested in the need of the average man to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his purposes , whether in the ministry or the soap business . This is the utilitarian end of writing English . And you must be interested in developing his powers of self-expression , even when convinced that no great soul is longing for utterance , but only a commonplace human mind ? like your own ? which will be eased by powers of writing and of speech . It is here that composition is of service to the imagination , and incidentally to culture ; and I should speak more largely of this service if there were space in this essay to bring forward all the aspects of college composition . It is the personal end of writing English . If the average man turns out to be a superman with mighty purposes ahead , or he has a great soul seeking utterance , he will have far less need of your assistance ; but you can aid him , nevertheless , and your aid will count as never before , and will be your greatest personal reward , though no greater service to the community than the count-less hours spent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be an Optimist it is still more important for you to understand that writing English well depends first upon intellectual grasp , and second upon technical skill , and always upon both . As for the first , your boy , if you are the parent of an undergraduate , i is under-going a curious experience in college . Against his head a dozen teachers are discharging round after round of information . Sometimes they miss ; sometimes the shots glance off ; sometimes the charge sinks in . And his brain is undergoing less obvious assaults . He is like the core of soft iron in an electromagnet upon which invisible influences are constantly beating . His teachers are harassing his mind with methods of thinking : the historical method ; the experimental method of science ; the interpretative method of literature . Unfortunately , the charges of information too often lodge higgledy-piggledy , like i bird-shot in a sign-board ; and the waves of influences make an impression which is too often incoherent and confused . If the historians really taught the youth to think historically from the beginning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the beginning , and he could apply his new methods of thought to the expression of his own emotions , experiences , life , then the teacher of composition might confine himself to the second of his duties , and teach only that technique which makes writing to uncoil itself as easily and as vividly as a necklace of matched and harmonious stones . In the University of Utopia we shall leave the organization of thought to the other departments , and have plenty left to do ; but we are not vet in Utopia . At present , the teacher of composition stands like a sentry at the gates of knowledge , challenging all who come out speaking random words and thoughts ; asking , " Have you thought it out ? " " Have you thought it our clearly ? " " Can you put your conclusions into adequate words ? " And if the answers are unsatisfactory , he must proceed to teach that orderly , logical development of thought from cause to effect which underlies all provinces of knowledge , and reaches well into the unmapped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must remain the testing-ground of education , though we shall hope for more satisfactory answers to our challenges . And even in Utopia , where the undergraduate perfects his thinking while acquiring his facts , it will be the duty of the teacher of writing to help him to apply his intellectual powers to his experiences , his emotions , his imagination , in short , to self-expression . And there will still remain the technique of writing . Theoretically , when the undergraduate has assembled his thoughts he is ready and competent to write them , but practically he is neither entirely ready nor usually entirely competent . It is one thing to assemble an automobile ; it is another thing to run it . The technique of writing is not nearly so interesting as the subject and the thought of writing ; just as the method of riding a horse is not nearly so interesting as the ride itself . And yet when you consider it as a means to an end , as a subtle , elastic , and infinitely useful craft , the method of writing is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and not to teach it . The technique of composition has to do with words . We are most of us inapt with words ; even when ideas begin to come plentifully they too often remain vague , shapeless , ineffective for want of words to name them . And words can be taught ; not merely the words themselves , but their power , their suggestiveness , their rightness or wrongness for the meanings sought . The technique of writing has to do with sentences . Good thinking makes good sentences , but the sentence must be flexible if it is to ease the thought . We can learn its elasticity , we can practise the flow of clauses , until the wooden declaration which leaves half unexpressed gives place to a fluent and accurate transcript of the mind , form fitting substance as the vase the water within it . This technique has to do with paragraphs . The critic knows how few even among our professional writers master their paragraphs . It is not a dead , fixed form that is to be sought . It is rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eye until the thought is opened with vigor and with truth . It is interesting to search in the paragraph of an ineffective editorial , or article , or theme , for the sentence which embodies the thought ; to find it dropped like a turkey 's egg where the first opportunity offers , or hidden by the rank growth of comment and reflection about it . Such research is illuminating for those who do not believe in the teaching of composition ; and if it begins at home , so much the better . And finally , the technique of writing has to do with the whole , whether sonnet , or business letter , or report to a board of directors . How to lead one thought into another ; how to exclude the irrelevant ; how to weigh upon that which is important ; how to hold together the whole structure so that the subject , all the subject , and nothing but the subject , shall he laid before the reader : this requires good thinking , but good thinking without technical skill is like a strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ programme I have outlined is simpler in theory than in practice . In practice , it is easier to discover the disorder than the thought which it confuses ; in practice , technical skill must be forced upon undergraduates unaccustomed to thoroughness , in a country that in no department of life , except perhaps business , has hitherto been compelled to value technique . Even the optimist grows pessimistic sometimes in teaching composition . And yet in the teaching of English the results are perhaps more evident than elsewhere in the whole range of college work . It is wonderful to see what can be accomplished by an enthusiast in the sport of transmuting brain into words . When the teacher seeks for his material in the active interests of the student ? whether athletics or engineering or literature or catching trout ? when he stirs on the finer interests , drawing off , as it were , the cream into words , the results are convincing . Writing is one of the most fascinating , most engaging of pursuits for the man with a craving to grasp the reality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the undergraduate , whose imagination is just developing , and whose brain protests against logical thought , it can be made as interesting as it is useful . ? The teaching of English Composition in this country is a vast industry in which thousands of workmen are employed , and in which a million or so young minds are invested . I do not wish to take it too seriously . There are many accomplishments more important for the welfare of the race . And yet , if I it be true that maturity of intellect is never attained without that clearness and accuracy of thinking which can be made to show itself in good writing , then the failure of the undergraduate to write well is serious , and the struggle to make him write better worthy of the attention of those who have children to be educated . I do not think that success in this struggle will come through the policy of laissez - faire . All undergraduates profit by organized help in their writing ; many require it . I do not think that success will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regard to the sense . Squeezing unwilling words from indifferent minds may be discipline ; it certainly is not teaching . I think that success will come only to the reacher who is a middleman between thought and expression , valuing both . When we succeed in making the bulk of our undergraduates really think ; when we can inspire them with a modicum of that passion for truth in words which is the moving force of the good writer ; when the schools help us and the outside world demands and supports efficiency in diction ; then we shall carry through the programme of the Optimists. 