@@444505

IN spite of the fact that most nations , at most times , are at peace , war is one of the permanent institutions of most free communities , just as Parliament is one of our permanent institutions in spite of the fact that it is not always sitting . It is war as a permanent institution that I wish to consider : why men tolerate it , what hope there is of their coming not to tolerate it , and how they could abolish it if they wished to do so . War is a conflict between two groups of men , each of which attempts to kill and maim as many as possible of the other group , in order to achieve some object which it desires . The object is generally either power or wealth . It is a pleasure to exercise authority over other men , and it is a pleasure to live on the produce of other men 's labor . The victor in war can enjoy more of these pleasures than : : he vanquished . But war , like all other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end which it has in view as by an impulse to the activity itself . Very often men desire an end , not on its own account , but because their nature demands the actions which will lead to the end . And so it is in this case : the ends to be achieved by war appear , in prospect , far more important than they will appear when they are realized , because war itself is a fulfillment of one side of our nature . If men 's actions sprang from desires for what would in fact bring happiness , the purely rational arguments against war would have long ago put an end to it . What makes war difficult to suppress is that it springs from an impulse rather than from a calculation of the advantages to be derived from war . War differs from the employment of force by the police through the fact that the actions of the police are ordered by a neutral authority , whereas in war it is the parties to the dispute themselves who set force in motion . This distinction is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neutral in internal disturbances . When strikers are shot down , the state is taking the side of the rich . When opinions adverse to the existing state are punished , the state is obviously one of the parties to the dispute . And from the sup= pression of individual opinion up to civil war , all gradations are possible . But , broadly speaking , force employed according to laws previously laid down by the community as a whole may be distinguished from force employed by one community against another on occasions of which the one community is the sole judge . I have dwelt upon this difference , because I do not think that the use of force by the police can be wholly eliminated , and I think that a similar use of force in international affairs offers the best hope of permanent peace . At present , international affairs are regulated by the principle that a nation must not intervene unless its interests are involved : diplomatic usage forbids intervention for the mere maintenance of inter , ational law . America may protest when American citizens are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no American citizens are involved . The case would be analogous in internal affairs if the police would only interfere with murder when it happened that a policeman had been killed . So long as this principle prevails in the relations of states , the power of neutrals can not be effectively employed to prevent war . In every civilized country two forces cooperate to produce war . Only educated men are likely to be warlike at ordinary times , since they alone are vividly aware of other countries or of the part which their own nation might play in the affairs of the world . But it is only their knowledge , not their nature , that distinguishes them from their more ignorant compatriots . To take the most obvious example , German policy , in recent years before the war , was not averse from war , and not friendly to England . It is worth while to try to understand the state of mind from which this policy sprang . ? The men who direct German policy are , to begin with , patriotic to an extent which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France and England . The interests of Germany appear to them unquestionably the only interests they need consider . What injury may , in pursuing those interests , be done to other nations , what destruction may be brought upon populations and cities , what irreparable damage may be done to civilization , it is not for them to consider . If they can confer what they consider benefits upon Germany , everything else is of no account . The second noteworthy point about German policy is , that its conception of national welfare is purely competitive . It is not the intrinsic wealth of Germany , whether materially or mentally , that the rulers of Germany consider important : it is the comparative wealth , in the competition with other civilized countries . For this reason , the destruction of good things abroad ap . pears to them exactly as desirable as the creation of good things in Germany , In most parts of the world , the French are regarded as the most civilized of nations : their art and their literature and their way of life have an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The English have developed political liberty , and the art of maintaining an empire with a minimum of coercion , in ways for which Germany , hitherto , has shown no aptitude . These are grounds for envy , and envy wishes to destroy what is good in other countries . The Germans , quite rightly , judged that what was best in France and England would probably be destroyed by a great war , even if France and England were not in the end defeated in the actual fighting , I have sten a list of young French writers killed on the battlefield ; probably the German authorities have also seen it , and have reflected with joy that another year of such losses will destroy French literature for a generation ? perhaps , through loss of tradition , forever . Every outburst against liberty in our more bellicose newspapers , every incitement to persecution of defense . less Germans , every mark of growing ferocity in our attitude , must be read with delight by German patriots , as proving their success in robbing us of our best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prussia . But what the rulers of Germany have envied Great Britain most was power and wealth ? the power derived from command of the seas and the straits , the wealth derived from a century of industrial supremacy . In both these respects , they feel that their deserts are higher than ours . They have devoted far more thought and skill to military and industrial organization . Their average of intelligence and knowledge is far superior to ours . Their capacity for pursuing an attainable end , unitedly and with forethought , is infinitely greater than ours . Yet we , merely ( as thev think ) because we had a start in the*race , have achieved a vastly larger empire than they have , and an enormously greater control of capital . All this is unbearable ; and nothing but a great war can alter it . Besides all these feelings , there is in many Germans , especially in those who know us best , a hot hatred on account of our pride . Farinata degli Uberti surveyed Hell come avesse lo inferno in gran dispitto . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prisoners look round them among their captors ? holding aloof , as though the enemy were noxious unclean creatures , toads or slugs or centipedes , which a man does not touch willingly , and shakes off with loathing if he is forced to touch them for a moment . It is easy to imagine how the devils hated Farinata , and inflicted greater pains upon him than upon his neighbors , hoping to win recognition by some slight wincing on his part , driven to frenzy by his continuing to behave as if they did not exist . In just the same way the Germans are maddened by our spiritual immobility . At bottom , we have regarded the Germans as one regards flies on a hot day ? they are a nuisance , one has to brush them off , but it would not occur to one to he turned aside by them . Now that the initial certarity of victory has faded , we begin to be affected inwardly by the Germans . In time , if we continue to fail in our military enterprises , we shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tiresome circumstance . Then perhaps we shall hate them with a hatred which they will have no reason to resent . And from such a hatred it will be only a short journey to a genuine rapprochement . The problem which must be solved , if the future of the world is to be less terrible than its present , is the problem of preventing nations from getting into the moods of England and Germany at the outbreak of the war . These two nations , as they were at that moment , might be taken as almost mythical representatives of pride and envy ? of cold pride and hot envy . Germany declaimed passionately , ' You , England , swollen and decrepit , overshadow my whole growth ? your rotting branches keep the sun from shining upon me and the rain from nourishing me . Your spreading foliage must be lopped , your symmetrical beauty must be destroyed , that I too may have freedom to grow , that my young vigor may no longer be impeded by your decaying mass . ' England , bored and aloof , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to sweep away the upstart disturber of meditation ; but the upstart was not swept away , and remains so far with every prospect of making good his claim . The claim and the resistance to it are alike folly . Germany had no good ground for envy ; we had no good ground for resisting whatever in Germany 's demands was compatible with our continued existence . Is there any method of averting such reciprocal folly in the future ? I think that if either the English or the Germans were capable of thinking in terms of individual welfare rather than national pride , they would have seen that , at every moment during the war , the wisest course would have been to conclude peace at once , on the best terms that could have been obtained . This course , I am convinced , would have been the wisest for each separate nation as well as for civilization in general . The utmost evil that the enemy could inflict through an unfavorable peace would be a trifle compared to the evil which all the nations inflict upon themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this obvious fact is pride , the pride which can not bear to admit defeat . The mood in which Germany embarked upon the war was abominable , but it was a mood fostered by the habitual mood of England . If we had realized the futility of empire , if we had shown a willingness to yield colonies to Germany without waiting for the threat of force , we might have been in a position to persuade the Germans that their ambitions were foolish , and that the respect of the world was not to be won on imperialist lines . But by our resistance we showed that we shared their standards . We , being in possession , became enamored of the status quo . The Germans were willing to make war to upset the status quo ; we were willing to make war to prevent its being upset in Germany 's favor . So convinced were we of the sacredness of the status quo that we never realized how advantageous it was to us , or how , by insisting upon it , we shared the responsibility for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decay , where forces change and populations become cramped , it is not possible or desirable to maintain the status quo forever . If peace is to be preserved , nations must learn to accept unfavorable alterations of the map without feeling that they must first be defeated in war , or that in yielding they incur a humiliation . It is the insistence of legalists and friends of peace upon the maintenance of the status quo that has driven Germany into militarism . Germany had as good a right to an empire as any other great power , but could only acquire an empire through war . Love of peace has been too much associated with a static conception of interna tional relations . In economic disputes , we all know that whatever is vigorous in the wage-earning classes is opposed to industrial peace , ' because the existing distribution of wealth is felt to be unfair . Those who enjoy a privileged position endeavor to bolster up their claims by appealing to the desire for peace , and decrying those who promote strife between the classes . It never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether or not they are just , the capitalists share the responsibility for the class-war . And in exactly the same way , England shares the responsibility for Germany 's war . If actual war is ever to cease , there will have to be political methods of achieving the results which now can be achieved only by successful fighting , and nations will have to admit voluntarily adverse claims which appear just in the judgment of neutrals . It is only by some such admission , embodying itself in a parliament of the nations with full power to alter the distribution of territory , that militarism can be permanently overcome . It may be that the present war will bring , in the western nations , a change of mood and outlook sufficient to make such an institution possible . It may be that more wars and more destruction will he necessary before the majority of civil . ized men rebel against the brutality and futile destruction of modern war . But unless our standards of civilization and our powers of constructive thought are to be permanently lowered , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will conquer the blind impulses which now lead nations into war . And if a majority of the great powers had a firm determination that peace should be preserved , there would be no difficulty in devising diplomatic machinery for the settlement of disputes , and educational systems which would implant in the minds of the young an invincible and ineradicable horror of the futile slaughter which the defenseless children are now taught to admire . But besides the conscious and deliberate forces leading to war , there are the inarticulate feelings of common men , which , in most civilized countries , are always ready to burst into war-fever at the bidding of statesmen . If peace is to be secured , the readiness to catch war-fever must be somehow diminished . Whoever wishes to succeed in this must first understand what war-fever is and why it arises . The men who have an important influence in the world , whether for good or evil , are dominated as a rule by a threefold desire : they desire , first , an activity which calls fully into play the faculties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sense of successfully overcoming resistance ; thirdly , the respect of others on account of their success . The same desires , usually in a less marked degree , exist in men who have no exceptional talents . But such men can not achieve anything very difficult by their individual efforts ; to them , as units , it is impossible to acquire the sense of greatness or the triumph of strong resistance overcome . Their separate lives are unadventurous and dull . In the morning they go to the office or the plough ; in the evening they return , tired and silent , to the sober monotony of wife and children . Believing that security is the supreme good , they have insured against sickness and death , and have found an employment where they have little fear of dismissal and no hope of any great rise . But security , once achieved , brings a nemesis of ennui . Adventure , imagination , risk , also have their claims ; but how can these claims be satisfied by the ordinary wage-earner ? Even if it were possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have priority and must not be , neglected . To this victim of order and good organization , the realization comes , in some moment of sudden crisis , that he belongs to a nation , that his nation may take risks , may engage in difficult enterprises , enjoy the hot passion of doubtful combat , stimulate adventure and imagination by military expeditions to Mount Sinai and the Garden of Eden . What his nation does , in some sense he does ; what his nation suffers , he suffers . The long years of private caution are avenged by a wild plunge into public madness . All the horrid duties of thrift and order and care , whicWhe has learned to fulfill in private , are thought not to apply to public affairs : it is patriotic and noble to be reckless for the nation , though it would be wicked to be reckless for one 's self . The old primitive passions , which civilization has denied , surge up , all the stronger for repression . In a moment , imagination and instinct travel back through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the mental prison in which he has been confined . This is the deeper part of the psychology of the war-fever . But besides the irrational and instinctive element in the war-fever , there is always also , if only as a liberator of primitive impulse , a certain amount of quasi-rational calculation and what is euphemistically called thought . ' The war-fever very seldom seizes a nation unless it believes that it will be victorious . Undoubtedly , under the influence of excitement , men overestimate their chances of success ; but there is some proportion between what is hoped and what a rational man would expect . Holland , though quite as humane as England , had no impulse to go to war on behalf of Belgium , because the likelihood of disaster was so obviously overwhelming . The London populace , if they had known how the war was going to develop , would not have rejoiced as they did on that August Bank Holiday long ago . A nation which has had a recent experience of war , and has come to know that a war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be at the outset , becomes much less liable to war-fever , until a new generation grows up . The element of rationality in war-fever is recognized by governments and journalists who desire war , as may be seen by their invariably minimizing the perils of a war which they wish to provoke . At the beginning of the South African War , Sir William Butler was dismissed for suggesting ( so I understand ) that 60,000 men and three months might not suffice to subdue the Boer republics . And when the war proved long and difficult , the nation turned against those who had made it . We may assume , I think , without attributing too great a share to reason in human affairs , that a nation would not suffer from war-fever in a case where every sane man could see that defeat was very probable . The importance of this lies in the fact that it would make aggressive war very unlikely if its chances of success were very small . The economic and political forces which make for war could be easily curbed , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But so long as the populations are liable to war-fever , all work for peace must be precarious ; and if war-fever could not be aroused , political and economic forces would be powerless to produce any long or very destructive war . The fundamental problem for the pacifist is to prevent the impulse toward war which seizes whole communities from time to time . And this can be done only by far-reaching changes in education , in the economic structure of society , and in the moral code by which public opinion controls the lives of men and women . A great many of the impulses which lead nations to go to war are in them . selves essential to any vigorous or progressive life . Without imagination and love of adventure , a society soon he . comes stagnant and begins to decay , Conflict , provided it is not destructive and brutal , is necessary in order to stimulate men 's activities , and to se. cure the victory of what is living over what is dead or merely traditional . The wish for the triumph of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bodies of men , are not things which a wise elan will wish to destroy . It is only the outcome in death and destruction and hatred that is evil . The problem is , to keep these impulses , without making war the outlet for them . All Utopias that have hitherto been constructed are intolerably dull . Any man with any force in him would rather live in this world , with all its ghastly horrors , than in Plato 's Republic or among Swift 's Houyhnhnms . The men who make Utopias proceed upon a radically false assumption as to what constitutes a good life . They conceive that it is possible to imagine a certain state of society and a certain way of life which should be once for all recognized as good , and should then continue forever and ever . They do not realize that much the greater part of a man 's happiness depends upon activity , and only a very small remnant consists in passive enjoyment . Even the pleasures which do consist in enjoyment are satisfactory , to most men , only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reformers , like inventors of Utopias , are apt to forget this very obvious fact of human nature . It would , of course , be easy to pro . duce peace if there were no vigor in the world . Pacifism , if it is to be both victorious and beneficent , must find an outlet , compatible with humane feeling , for the vigor which now leads nations into war and destruction . This problem was considered by William James , in an admirable address on ' The Moral Equivalent of War , ' delivered to a congress of pacifists during the Spanish-American War of 1898 . His statement of the problem could not be bettered ; and , so far as I know , he is the only writer who has faced the problem adequately . But his solution is not adequate ; perhaps no adequate solution is possible . The problem , however , is one of degree : every additional peaceful outlet for men 's energies diminishes the force which urges nations toward war , and makes war less frequent and less fierce . And as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or less partial solutions . Every vigorous man needs some kind of contest , some sense of resistance overcome , in order to feel that he is exercising his faculties . Under the influence of economics , a theory has grown up that what men desire is wealth ; this theory has tended to verify itself , because people 's actions are more often determined by what they think they desire than by what they really desire . For this reason , public opinion has a great influence in directing the activities of vigorous men . In America , a millionaire is more respected than a great artist ; this leads men who might have become either the one or the other to choose to become millionaires . In Renaissance Italy , great artists were more respected than millionaires , and the result was the opposite of what it is in America . Some pacifists and all militarists deprecate social and political conflicts . In this the militarists are in the right , from their point of view ; but the pacifists seem to me mistaken . Conflicts of party politics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those conflicts of principle which do not involve war , serve many useful purposes , and do very little harm . They increase men 's interest in public affairs , they afford a comparatively innocent outlet for the love of contest , and they help to alter laws and institutions when changing conditions or greater knowledge create the wish for an alteration . Everything that intensifies political life tends to bring a peaceful interest of the same kind as the interest which leads to desire for war . And in a democratic community , political questions give to every voter a sense of initiative and power and responsibility which relieves his life of something of its narrow unadventurousness . The object of the pacifist should be to give men more and more political control over their own lives , and in particular to introduce democracy into the management of industry , as the syndicalists advise . The problem for the reflective pacifist is twofold : how to keep his own country at peace , and how to preserve the peace of the world . It is impossible that the peace of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mood in which Germany entered upon the war unless , indeed , one nation were so obviously stronger than all others combined as to make war unnecessary for that one and hopeless for all the others . As this war has dragged on its weary length , many people must have asked themselves whether national independence is worth the price that has to be paid for it . There is a degree of interference with liberty which is fatal to many forms of national life ? for example , Italy in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries was crushed by the supremacy of Spain and Austria . If the Germans were actually to annex French provinces , as they did in 1871 , they would probably inflict a serious injury upon those provinces , and make them less fruitful for civilization in general . For such reasons , national liberty is a matter of real importance , and a Europe actually governed by Germany would probably be very dead and unproductive . But if hegemony ' merely means increased weight in diplomatic questions , more coaling stations and possessions in Africa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it can hardly be supposed that it would do any vital damage to other nations ; certainly it would not do so much damage as the present war is doing . I can not doubt that , before the war , a hegemony of this kind would have abundantly satisfied the Germans . But the effect of the war , so far , has been to increase immeasurably all the dangers which it was intended to avert . We have now only the choice between the certain exhaustion of Europe in fighting Germany and possible damage to the national life of France by German tyranny . Stated in terms of civilization and human welfare , not in terms of national prestige , that is now in fact the issue . Assuming that war is not ended by one state conquering all the others , the only way in which it can be permanently ended is by a world-federation . So long as there are many sovereign states , each with its own army , there can be no security that there will not be war . There will have to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there will be any reason to think that wars have ceased . This means that , so far as the military functions of the state are concerned , there will be only one state , which will be world-wide . The civil functions of the state ? legislative , administrative , and judicial ? have no very essential connection with the military functions ; and there is no reason why both kinds of functions should normally be exer cised by the same state . There is , in fact , every reason why the civil state and the military state should be differ . ent . The greater modern states are al- ready too large for most civil purposes , but for military purposes they are not large enough , since they are not world- wide . This difference as to the desir. perplexity able area for the two kinds of state introduces a certain and hesitation when it is not realized that the two functions have little necessary connection : one set of considerations points toward small states , the other toward continually larger states . Of course , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to be some international authority to set them in motion . But this authority need never concern itself with any of the internal concerns of national states : it need only declare the rules which should regulate their relations , and pronounce judicially when those rules have been so infringed as to call for the intervention of the international force , How easily the limits of the international authority could be fixed , may be seen by many actual examples . The civil and the military state are often different , in practice , for many purposes . The states of America are sovereign except in certain respects , but they do not have separate armies and navies . The South American republics are sovereign for all purposes except their relations with Europe , in regard to which they are subject to the United States : in dealings with Europe , the army and navy of the United States are their army and navy . The self-governing dominions of Great Britain depend for their defense , not upon their own forces , but upon our navy . Most governments , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country which they wish to incurporate , but only at a protectorate ; that is , civil autonomy subject to military control . Such autonomy is , of course , in practice incomplete , because it does not enable the ' protected ' country to adopt measures which are vetoed by the power in military control . But it may be very nearly complete , as in the case of our self-governing dominions . At the other extreme , it may become a mere farce , as in Egypt . In the case of an alliance , there is complete autonomy of the separate allied countries , together with what is practically a combination of their military forces into one single force . The great advantage of a large military state is that it increases the area over which internal war is not possible except , by revolution . If England and Canada have a disagreement , it is taken as a matter of course that a settlement will be arrived at by discussion , not by force . Still more is this the case if Manchester and Liverpool have a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ autonomous for many local purposes . No one would have thought it reasonable that Liverpool should go to war to prevent the construction of the Manchester Ship Canal , although almost any two great powers would have gone to war over an issue of the same relative importance . England and Russia would probably have gone to war over Persia if they had not been allies ; as it is , they arrived by diplomacy at much the same iniquitous result as they would otherwise have reached by fighting . Australia and Japan would probably fight if they were both completely independent ; but both depend for their liberties upon the British navy , and therefore they have to adjust their differences peaceably . The chief disadvantage of a large military state is that , when external war occurs , the area affected is greater . The Quadruple Entente forms , for the present , one military state ; the result is that , because of a dispute between Austria and Serbia , Belgium is devastated and Australians are killed in the Dardanelles . Another disadvantage is that it facilitates oppression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small state , and can impose its will , as England and Russia did in Persia . It is impossible to make sure of avoiding oppression by any purely mechanical guarantees ; only a liberal and humane spirit can afford a real protection . It has been perfectly possible for England to oppress Ireland in the past , in spite of democracy and the presence of Irish members at Westminster . Nor has the presence of Poles in the Reichstag prevented the oppression of Prussian Poland . But democracy and representative government undoubtedly make oppression less probable : they afford a means by which those who might be oppressed can make their wishes and grievances publicly known ; they make it certain that only a minority can be oppressed , and then only if the majority are nearly unanimous in wishing to oppress them . Also the practice of oppression affords much more pleasure to the governing classes , who actually carry it out , than to the mass of the population . For this reason , the mass of the population , where it has power , is likely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In order to prevent war and at the same time to preserve liberty , it is necessary that there should be only one military state in the world , but that it should act , in different countries , according to the wishes of the civil government of those countries , except when disputes between different countries are involved , which should be decided by some central authority . This is what would naturally result from a federation of the world , if such a thing ever came about . But the prospect is remote , and it is worth while to consider why it is so remote . The unity of a nation is produced by similar habits , instinctive liking , a com mon history , and a common pride . The unity of a nation is partly due to intrinsic affinities between its citizens , but partly also to the pressure and contrast of the outside world : if a nation were isolated , it would not have the same cohesion or the same fervor of patriotism . When we come to alliances of nations , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and America , to some extent , are drawn together by the same causes which often make national unity : a ( more or less ) common language , similar political institutions , similar aims in international politics . But England , France , and Russia were drawn together solely by fear of Germany : if Germany had been annihilated by a natural cataclysm , they would at once have begun to hate one another , as they did before Germany was strong . For this reason , the possibility of cooperation in the present alliance against Germany affords no ground whatever for hoping that all the nations of the world might cooperate permanently in a peaceful alliance . The present motive for cohesion , namely , a common fear , would be gone , and could not be replaced by any other motive unless men 's thoughts and purposes were very different from what they are now . The ultimate fact from which war results is not economic or political , and does not rest upon any mechanical difficulty of inventing means for the peaceful settlement of international disputes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a large proportion of mankind have an impulse to conflict rather than harmony , and can be brought to cooperate with others only in resisting or attacking a common enemy . This is the case in private life as well as in the relations of states . Most men , when they feel themselves suffi sufficiently strong , set to work to make themselves feared rather than loved : the wish to obtain the good opinion of others is confined , as a rule , to those who have not yet acquired secure pow. er . The impulse to quarreling and self-assertion , the pleasure of getting one 's own way in spite of opposition , is native to most men . It is this impulse , rather than any motive of calculated self-interest , which produces war , and makes the difficulty of bringing about a world-state . And this impulse is not confined to one nation : it exists , in varying degrees , in all the vigorous nations of the world . But although this impulse is strong , there is no reason why it should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same impulse which led to dueling ; yet now civilized men conduct their private quarrels without bloodshed . If political contest within a world-state were substituted for war , men 's imaginations would soon accustom themselves to the new situation , as they have accustomed themselves to absence of dueling . Through the influence of institutions and habits , without any fundamental change in human nature , men would learn to look back upon war as we look upon the burning of heretics or upon human sacrifice to heathen deities . If I were to buy a revolver costing several pounds , in order to shoot my friend with a view to stealing sixpence out of his pocket , I should be thought neither very wise nor very virtuous . But if I can get sixty-five million accomplices to join me in this criminal absurdity , I become one of a great and glorious nation , nobly sacrificing the cost of my revolver , perhaps even my life , in order to secure the sixpence for the honor of my country . Historians , who are almost invaribly sycophants , will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and say that we are worthy successors of the heroes who overthrew the might of Rome . But if my opponents are viemrions , if their sixpences are defended at the cost of many pounds each and the lives of a large proportion of the population , then historians will call me a brigand ( as I am ) , and praise the spirit and self-sacrifice of those who have resisted me . War is surrounded with glamour by tradition , by Homer and the Old Testament , by early education , by elaborate myths as to the importance of the issues involved , by the heroism and self-sacrifice which these myths call out . Jephthah sacrificing his daughter is a heroic figure , but he would have let her live if he had not been deceived by a myth . Mothers sending their sons to the battlefield are heroic , but they are as much deceived as Jephthah . And , in both cases alike , the heroism which issues in cruelty would be dispelled if there were not some strain of barbarism in the imaginative outlook from which myths @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sacrifice of an innocent girl could be worshiped only by men to whom the thought of receiving such a sacrifice is not wholly abhorrent . A nation whose welfare can be secured only by suffering and inflicting hundreds of thousands of equally horrible sacrifices is a nation which has no very spiritual conception of its own welfare . It would be better a hundredfold to forego material comfort , power , pomp , and outward glory , than to kill and be killed , to hate and be hated , to throw away in a mad moment of fury the bright heritage of the ages . Men have learned gradually to free their God from the savagery with which the primitive Israelites endowed him : few now believe that it is his pleasure to torture most of the human race in an eternity of hell-fire . But they have not yet learned to free their national ideals from the ancient taint . Devotion to the nation is perhaps the deepest and most widespread religion of the present age . Like the ancient religions , it demands its persecutions , its holocausts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is noble , primitive , brutal , and mad . Now , as in the past , religion , lagging behind private consciences through the weight of tradition , steels the hearts of men against mercy and their minds against truth . If the world is to be saved , men must learn to be noble without being cruel , to be filled with faith and yet open to truth , to be inspired by great purposes without hating those who try to thwart them . But before this can happen , men must first face the terrible realization that the gods before whom they have bowed down were false gods , and the sacrifices they have made were vain .                     