@@430709

 | In endeavoring to discover what the attitude of any country ? especially an enlightened democracy ? is toward any other country , or upon any given question , one must take care to differentiate sharply between official and popular sentiment . between the sentiment of the Government and the sentiment of the people . Official sentiment is of the head , and almost invariably the outgrowth of expediency . Popular sentiment is of the heart , and compact of sympathy , affection , admiration . Needless to say , the latter is the truer index of a nation 's feelings . In such an autocracy as Germany official and popular sentiment come pretty near to coinciding on most questions , especially in times like the present . That is to say . the people believe what they are told to believe and feel what they are told to feel . The order goes out to ? Strafe England ' " and forthwith England is : : strafed " to the Kaiser 's taste . In the same way , intimations that it will be in order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pliant tractability . In England , on the other hand , where the Government has made no effort whatever to influence the feelings of the people in their attitude toward allies , enemies , or neutrals , popular sentiment was a thing of gradual and spontaneous development , and began to crystallize definitely only after many months of the war had gone by . To-day , however , it exhibits distinct lines of cleavage , and one who takes the trouble to note what lies between these lines will have gained a fairly comprehensive idea of what the people of England think about the war . But here more than in any other of the belligerent countries must one differentiate carefully between official and popular sentiment , for in a number of instances he will find them following divergent courses . This is well illustrated by the attitude of the British people , on the one hand , and the British Government , on the other , in the controversy with the United States over the detention of American ships and goods under the Orders in Council of last year . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Office , realizing , first , the legal strength of the salient American contentions , and , second , the fact that it might be highly convenient for Great Britain , as a neutral of the future , to be able to take the same stand that the United States does to-day , is content to let the matter drift in the hope that the end of the war may relieve it of the necessity of pressing it , i la outraizce . The English people , however , knowing little of the intricate legal complexities of the question , but fully aware that huge quantities of American goods of a character to be of the greatest use to Germany in waging the war have been reaching that country all along from Holland and the Scandinavian countries , were quick to resent the policy of a Government that appeared to be protesting just as strongly against the doubtfully illegal disturbance of its commerce as against the unquestionably illegal and inexpressibly brutal destruction of the lives of its citizens . The average Englishman is ready instantly to acknowledge the material benefit his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America for munitions , food , and money , but he believes that the Allies have paid high , if not extortionate , prices for most of their purchases in the United States , and the term dollar neutrality " conveys a pretty accurate idea of how , in his own mind , he defines our position . As regards English feeling toward the various nations with which their country is allied , there is no such divergence between official and popular sentiment as in the case of the United States , and this is notably true of France , Russia , and Belgium . The novelty of a political alliance with England 's traditional enemy had worn off within a year or two of the time it was entered into , and the decade of the entente cordiale previous to the war had been marked by a steadily increasing growth in esteem and affection between the two peoples , who , though so different in blood and temperament , had long embraced similar political , social , and spiritual ideals . From the outset England and the English never doubted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gallantry from the first ; and when , invaded and sore stricken , the  | English saw France turn and strike back at the Marne , and then set her teeth in the enemy 's flank and begin to hold on at the Aisne , their cup of admiration was overflowing . Indeed , it was when the French poodle turned bulldog and displayed an unguessed ability to hang on as well as to snap that the heart of the British public was won entirely and their normally repressed affection went out to their gallant ally without reserve . It was the Englishman 's affection for . even more than his trust in , France that tided over so well those first chaotic eight or ten months of the war when England was " finding herself . " France , fighting with an almost holy crosecration , saw England , torn with strikes and political dissensions as in peace times . apparently adopting as her motto that popular but unfortunate catch-phrase , " Business as usual , " ? and was tempted to doubt at times , not the faithfulness , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Is England really going to fritter away her energies in internal bickerings while we bleed to death ? " Frenchmen who did not know the ways of incomprehensible Angleterre asked each other and " Can it be that there is really point in the German sneer that ? England will fight to the last nian ? the last Russian and Frenchman ' I " The English people knew what the French were saying about them ; certain of their papers which were forwarding an awakening movement " made a point , so far as the Censor would permit , of seeing that they did know . But English affection for the French was great enough to grant them their doubts , and their right to doubt , until such time as the causes of these doubts should be removed . Then that paradoxical brute , the British bulldog , who seems never to use his teeth so well as when his legs are tangled in his own chain , began settling down to business , and the whole-hearted confidence of the French and English in each other soon became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without seeing evidence of the warmth of the feeling of the English people for their gallant ally across the Channel . In street and window decorations the tricolor strikes the eye almost as often as does the Union Jack . and the " Marseillaise , " played by anything from a barrel organ to a symphony orchestra , will cause its hearers to stand and uncover as readily as do the strains of ; : God Save the Ding . " On the screens at the moving-picture theaters and music halls ? best barometers of all of popular sentiment ? Poincare and Joffre and Castlenau and Foch are always applauded to the echo : indeed , especially since the Germans have been attacking so heavily at Verdun and other points in the west , I have repeatedly heard pictures of Joffre ' more enthusiastically applauded in London than those of even such consistently popular British leaders as Kitchener and Douglas Haig . Joffre , in fact , seems rapidly winning the same place in English hearts that he has so long occupied in those of his own people , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rolling cinematic waddle on , the screen of a London theater is often accompanied by a lusty cheer or two . and not infrequently by fervent exclamations of affection . The recent appearance of Sarah Bernhardt at the Coliseum in London furnished illuminative instances of the warmth of the affection of the English for the French . The great Coliseum audience , numbering five or six thousand , is generally conceded to exhibit the most representative cross-section of English society that is regularly gathered under one roof , for here ' Any " and " ' Arriet , " admitted to the gallery for sixpence , nightly look down on celebrities of fashion , politics , finance , and industry , whose stalls or box seats have cost them twenty to thirty times that price . In the higher-priced seats possibly one in a hundred understand French : in the low-priced ones certainly not one in five hundred . In spite of this fact , on three occasions I saw one of these great mixed Coliseum audiences , palpably bored by the unintelligibility and lack of action in : ; Les @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to over ninety-nine per cent of them the tedious half-hour of the performance , to come to their feet at the end of it for ten minutes of spontaneous , wholehearted applause . Partly , of course , it was Bernhardt the woman . Bernhardt the actress , that they cheered , for the " Divine Sarah " has been an idol of the English for many years : but mostly the tribute was paid to the Bernhardt who , silhouetted against the lurid lights that played upon ruined Rheims , meant to those ordinarily unemotional English the incarnation of the spirit of gallant France . " You 'd never think from the way she stands that she had lost a leg . " I heard a girl in the stall next to mine say to the young officer at her side . " Just like her country , ' was the reply .  | " France never publishes her losses . only keeps her head erect and fights on . " Perhaps I can give no better idea of the extent of the confidence of the English people in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during which I have traveled in many parts of Great Britain and been thrown in contact with all classes of people . I have never heard a single complaint or criticism regarding the attitude , the policy , or even the failures of La Belle France . " Official England and informed England have understood thoroughly the reasons for the entry of their country into the Entente with Russia , but the " man on the street , " knowing little of political exigency. was slow to forget the distrust engendered in his school-days. when the glacial advance of the " Great White Bear " on India was rated as the most serious menace to the integrity of the British Empire . He knew in a general way that , under the new political alignment , the traditional menace had been minimized , and that it was the swoop of the German Eagle rather than a blow from the Bear 's paw that was being fended against . Still . to the average Englishman Russia continued to be Russia ? Russia , the bulwark of Czardom ; Russia , the oppressor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Russia , the instigator of Jewish massacres . With the outbreak of the war these things were readily forgotten in England , especially after vodka prohibition and other reform measures began to appear as forerunning signs that the Russian people were at last to come into their own . These quondam prejudices were replaced in the popular mind by a certain pride in having an ally of such great potential strength , and during the progress of those first smashing campaigns into East Prussia and Galicia Russian fighting prowess was highly acclaimed throughout England . It was the English , indeed , who coined the phrase , " the Russian steam-roller . " At this stage , however , it was only the martial ardor of the English that had been stirred by the Russians ; there was nothing of the sympathy and affection which , from the first , had been extended to France and Belgium . Evidences of these more intimate feelings , indeed , were hardly apparent until the muchvaunted " steam-roller " had ceased to roll ; until the Russians , disastrously defeated in East Prussia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their retreat across Poland and Courland during the summer of UTLOOK 21 June 1915 . Then it was that adversity brought out what victory had failed to awaken ; then it was that the British heart was touched by the grim , silent , uncomplaining heroism of the Russian defense , and a warmer vein of sentiment was evidenced in the attitude of the English toward their sore-beset ally of the north . The fallacy of the " steam-roller " theory was exposed , but in its place was born a belief in the steadfastness of Russia which has developed into something closely akin to the bond of confidence which unites England and France . The solemn , hymn-like strains of the Russian national anthem are almost as well known in London to-day as is the challenge of the " Marseillaise , " and the towering figure of the Grand Duke Nicholas upon the cinema screen is applauded scarcely less heartily than Joffre and Kitchener . The increasingly active part the Czar has taken in the direction of his armies has also met with warm popular approval in England . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in an English theater than that which greeted a little incident portrayed on a reel of Russian war film exhibited not long after the Czar took over the field command of the Russian armies . The Czar and some of his staff officers were shown descending a rough bit of hillside trail , up which were toiling at the same time twos and threes of apparently played-out soldiers . One of these , limping from a wound or a blister , stumbled upon a root in stepping aside to make way for the Czar 's party and went down in a heap at the monarch 's feet . Instantly the Czar stooped , helped the fallen man to arise , and then turned and walked beside him for a halfdozen steps , with a steadying hand at the dazed fellow 's elbow . With a parting pat of encouragement on the shoulder and a friendly smile , he sped the man on his painful way , and then rejoined his staff as unconcernedly as though helping tired soldiers was all a part of the royal day 's work . The simple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's " palpably spontaneous act struck a responsive chord in the heart of the big audience , and the theater rocked with applause long after the Czar and his party had flickered out and given way to Cossack cavalry maneuvers . Italy and England had enjoyed a friendship of long standing prior to the outbreak of the war , and the entry of the former on the side of the Entente was greeted with a  | good deal of enthusiasm in the British Isles . Italy 's prestige in England , indeed , was probably at high-water mark at this time . It is highly probable that the course that country has pursued since then is thoroughly understood and approved of by official England , and even by those who have taken the trouble to read the very comprehensive explanations of Italy 's position published in the British reviews . The man on the street . " however , does not try to conceal the fact that he is at a loss to understand why Italy is not at war with Germany , and why Italy , the most favorably situated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lend more than perfunctory aid in the Balkan campaign . Moreover , Italy , fighting to win a better frontier on the northeast and to acquire ultimate mastery of the Adriatic , does not awaken the same enthusiasm in his breast as does the thought of France and Russia fighting to expel the invader , or that of his own country lending military and financial aid to all of its allies . Until , then , the mainspring of Italian motive is better understood in England the average Englishman will hardly accord to his country 's Mediterranean ally the same confidence and affection which he has given France from the first and which he is rapidly extending to Russia . Although the Englishman of England has never regarded the Anglo-Japanese alliance with anything like the same distrust and aversion as has the Englishman of the Far East , it has still never been popular with him . Nor has there been anything in the part that Japan has played as an ally in this war to make him change his attitude . Japan , he will tell you , came into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? because she could profit by it . It is generally believed in England that Japan has already succeeded to the political hegemony of the Far East , and that she aspires to use it to attain the commercial supremacy as well . Under the circumstances , therefore , it is not strange that the Japanese flag and the picture of the Mikado are greeted with only perfunctory attention when shown in England , and that the tendency is to regard Japan as a sort of 66 ally of expediency " who has not yet won her right to inclusion in the inner brotherhood of blood which unites Russia . France , and Great Britain . England 's friendship for Belgium has had to stand the rather trying test of close personal contact , and in harboring a large and somewhat nondescript army of refugees from the stricken Kingdom the English have had to learn that a heroic nation is not necessarily a nation made up entirely of heroes . The Belgian refugees to whom England , in common with Holland and France , suddenly extended her hospitality were probably , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equal number of Englishmen or Americans or Frenchmen expelled from their countries under similar conditions would prove . They were just average human beings , and the hailing of them as heroes simply because their King and country had taken a heroic decision and they had helped to pay the price was a mistake , though a charitable one . The very large majority of the Belgians accepted the freely proffered hospitality of the English with all due gratitude , paid for such things as they were able to pay for . and worked when work was found for them . But among them were a few chronic paupers and malingerers , and now and then a petty criminal ? probably no more and no less than would have been found among similarly gathered refugees from any other country ? and these , as might have been expected . occasionally abused their privileges . It was , of course , disillusioning , to say the least , for some old county family to find that its bevy of non-paying guests showed a decided disposition to develop into " perennials , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its " heroic Belgians " haled before the local magistrate for chicken-stealing . Such cases were surprisingly few , however , and British charity and common sense were quite sufficient to the occasions . The general attitude of the country was , I think , fairly expressed by an old army pensioner who recently showed me through the historic Guildhall at Exeter . " Yes , there are a number of Belgians hereabouts , " he said in answer to my query , " and , for the most part . they are proper folk . True , some of them do n't seem in a hurry to get to work , and two or three of them have not proved entirely law-abiding according to our way of thinking . But then , you see , we are their hosts , and it is n't for us to complain of little things like these . Besides , when all is said and done , there can be no doubting that Belgium saved France , and perhaps England , and in thinking of that debt we ought to be able to allow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in spite of the fact that the Belgian refugees have not all turned out the first- chop heroes they were hailed as , popular sentiment in England is still as strong as ever for their gallant King and country . and in no one thing are the people and the Government of Britain more completely of the same mind than in their determination that the war shall not end until Belgium has been fully restored and indemnified for her losses . Servia started badly handicapped in English popular esteem , for she had a rather sinister political record behind her , while the fact that she had furnished the spark to set off the bomb of the war was hardly calculated to predispose sympathy in her favor . The fine fighting qualities of the Serb , his dauntless single-handed defense against the might of Austria , won him ready admiration in England , however , and when , driven back by the overwhelming combination of both the Central Powers with Bulgaria , he still refused to ask for peace , it was no longer possible for the sport-loving Briton to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Englishmen , too , have a sort of sneaking idea that a more vigorous diplomacy and readier military measures in the Balkans might have saved Servia , and this has inclined them more and more to bracket that country with Belgium as one of the small nations whose wrongs must be fully righted as a condition precedent to any sheathing of the sword of battle . The Servian flag is hardly as readily recognized in London as that of Belgium , but the portrait of the Servian King or Crown Prince shown in a theater is now greeted with the same quick , hearty applause as is that of King Albert . More tangible still as evidence of British sympathy have been the generous contributions to the Servian Relief Fund , which is now being almost as well supported as that of Belgium .                     