@@465846

THERE are persons ? at all events , there used to be ? who profess to believe that propriety of expression depends not on the practice of the best speakers and writers , but upon some abstract principle which they call reason . Unless founded upon that assumed solid rock , no usage in their opinion can be deemed correct . If it contradict reason , or at least what they consider reason , it must necessarily be wrong . In order to conform to reason , therefore , some other manner of speech must be substituted for the unclean thing . There is a certain convenience about this view for its holders . It furnishes a short and easy method of deciding what is proper or improper in expression . It obviates all necessity of studying the development of the language . To reach their conclusions , men are not obliged to know anything of the history of the idiom under consideration or to learn anything of the exact nature of its component parts . If their limited knowledge does not enable them to parse it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reason , and therefore wrong . Persons who have faith in usage only as it is based upon what they term reason must find themselves in a state of painful perplexity when they come to consider the shocking misuse of pronouns of address . Every one of us , when he speaks to another , uses a plural pronoun with a plural verb . He does not say , " thou art " or " thou wart , " but " you are " or " you were . " A single person is spoken to as if he were two or more . Looked at from the point of view of reason . there can not well be a much grosser corruption . Such an utterly illogical license of speech never occurred to an ancient Greek or Roman . Nor did this lapse from linguistic virtue characterize the speech of our own forefathers . The man of the tenth century would have been shocked at the idea ofaddressing a single person as if he were two or more rolled into one . Yet the most uncompromising purist of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grammar pure and undefiled . Furthermore , he does it unblushingly . In the case of this particular sin he has lost more than the sense of shame ; he has lost even the consciousness of having sinned at all . Nor is this reprehensible practice confined to our own speech . If there is one corruption which , according to the theoretical views of some , ought to portend ruin to the cultivated tongues of modern Europe , it is the extent to which they have bedeviled the pronouns of address . In all of them the cup of linguistic iniquity is more than full ; it fairly runs over . English , as we have seen , is bad enough . But the offenses against reason of certain other tongues make our sins in this respect seem comparatively venial . Scandalous we doubtless are in using regularly a plural pronoun and verb in addressing a single person . But how petty seems this violation of the everlasting proprieties when contrasted with the atrocities perpetrated by the leading Teutonic tongue of the Continent . The German is not content with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the persona to whom he speaks . He resorts to several . When , however , he regards you as an equal , he calls you " they . " In writing he enables you to recognize your social position by capitalizing the initial letter of the pronoun . But in conversation there is nothing but conventional usage to indicate that you are not one of an immense unregarded multitude . Differing , indeed , as do the modern cultivated tongues of Europe in numberless grammatical characteristics , they all agree in resolutely avoiding in ordinary polite address what from the point of view of reason is the only proper usage . But English has not been content to restrict to this peculiarity its defiance of the eternal verities . In addition to its employment of the plural in addressing a single person , it has committed another offense , fully as grave , against strict grammar . In this crime it finds no associate in other cultivated tongues save in the instance of one idiom in the French . It has turned the objective ease into the nominative . Were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or us for we , both friends and enemies would unite in relegating him to the ranks of the grammatically hopeless . Yet in the pronoun of address every one of us is committing an offense of this very nature . You , etymologically speaking , is in what we call the objective case . It represents the dative and accusative of the original speech . Accordingly , it has no more business to be the subject of a sentence than has ' us or them . Still , this illegitimate use of it has succeeded after a long contest in driving out the legitimate nominative ye . This latter has been more than turned down . It has been forced , especially in poetry , to undergo the further degradation of acting at times as the object of the verb instead of its subject . It was in the last part of the sixteenth century that the complete triumph of the usurping you over ye was plainly foreshadowed . It was not fully effected , however , till the century following . Let us say nothing of earlier deviations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the middle of the sixteenth century , the great scholar , Roger Ascharn , was using in his letters the two forms indifferently for the nominative . He furthermore occasionally put ye in the objective . The same statement holds good for the later writers of the Elizabethan period . It more than holds good , indeed ; for as time went on , there was a steadily increasing disposition to make you the regular nominative in place of ye . There are , of course , occasional exceptions . Probably the most conspicuous instance of the survival of the strictly correct usage is found in the authorized version of the Bible . That work did not yield to the corruption which had long been creeping in ? at least it did not yield to any extent worth considering . Thoughnot published till 1611 , its language , founded as it was on earlier translations , was even in its own time somewhat archaic . It says , for instance , " Ye are the light of the world " ; it does not say " You are . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should do unto you , even so do ye also unto them . " Throughout it regularly confines you to its strictly proper place as an objective . The exceptions are so few as to be negligible . Yet were one of us now , in his zeal for grammatical purity , to follow the language of the Bible in this particular , and go about addressing his friends with ye , he would be deemed a candidate for the 3unatic asylum , as surely as he would be were he to follow exactly certain of the precepts of the seine book for the conduct of life . Nothing but the practice for centuries of the best speakers and writers has here made correct what is in its nature a gross corruption . For those of us who believe in the binding authority of good usage , it is proper to employ the objective you as a nominative . It is further proper for such persons to use the plural for indicating an individual . But that man has no right to do so who insists that there is a standard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used here in ifs original sense of " foolishly " ? upon grammar which conforms to reason . One sect there is which honestly strove to make its practice in this particular consonant with its faith . George Fox , the founder of the Quakers , insisted upon the use of thou and thee in addressing a single person . He endured , as he tells us , much tribulation in consequence . The practice had been earnestly advocated by two of his followers , John Stubbs and Benjamin Fenly , in a volume published in 1660 . This was entitled A Battle-Dore for Teachers and Professors to Learn Singular and Plural . In it the proper use of these two numbers was insisted upon . Fox had suggested the preparation of the book . To it also he had himself contributed . For conforming to the etymologically orthodox practice recommended in it , he tells us in his journal that men " were exceedingly fierce against us . " Incidentally he reveals the extent to which the feelings attendant upon one ancient usage of the pronoun still survived . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sore cut to proud flesh , and them that sought self - honor ; who , though they would say it to God and Christ , could not endure to have it said to themselves . So that we were often ' beset and abused , and sometimes in danger of our lives for using these words to some proud men , who would say , ' What ! you ill-bred clown , do you thou me ? ' as though there lay Christian breeding in saying you to one , which is contrary to their grammar and teaching-books . " The indignities which Fox and his followers suffered at the hands of men of " proud flesh " who were addressed by the singular pronoun of the second person indicates plainly that the earlier disparaging employment of it had by no means died out at the time of the Restoration . As things are now , in the disuse of the functions this pronoun had previously performed , English has gone beyond the other cultivated tongues of modern Europe . Once with us as with them , it conveyed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposite states of mind . It implied affection and it implied contempt . It implied superiority and it implied inferiority . These naturally are much more distinctly noticeable in our earlier speech than in our later . Yet the aroma once exhaled from the usage still lingers about it . We feel at times the beauty of it even though we no longer think of employing it . Take , for instance , the words of Ruth to Naomi . " Entreat me not to leave thee , " says the daughter-in-law to the motherin-law , " or to return from following after thee ; for - whither thou goest , I will go : and whore thou lodgest , I will lodge : thy people shall be my people , and thy God my God ; where thou diest will I die , and there will I be buried ; the Lord do so to me and more also , if aught but death part thee and me . " Even to modern ears , accustomed to the indiscriminate use of the plural pronoun of address , tho effectiveness of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lour to be substituted for thou and thy and thee . Even yet there also hangs at intervals about the singular pronoun of the second person some slight suggestion of that attitude of contempt which Fox representsas having been conveyed to his persecutors by his use of thou and thee . This once common employment of it has been made familiar to all students of our speech by a passage in Shakespeare and by the historical incident introduced to illustrate it by the Shakespearean commentator Theobald . Familiar as are these two , at least to students of the dramatist , their repetition may be pardoned for the sake of their effectiveness . The one occurs in " Twelfth Night , " in the scene where Sir Toby Belch is urging Sir Andrew Aguecheek to send a challenge to the disguised Viola . " Taunt him with the license of ink , " says the former ; " if thou thou'st him some thrice , it shall not be amiss . " The other is contained in the attacks which were made on the accused by the attorneygeneral on the occasion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " All that be did , " says Sir Edward Coke , " was at thy instigation , thou viper ; for I thou thee , thou traitor . " This was far from being the only instance in which Coke belabored the prisoner by the use of the singular number of this pronoun . " Thou hast a Spanish heart and thyself art a viper of hell , " was another one of the flowers of rhetoric which he bestowed upon Raleigh . Theobald 's bringing forward this illustration to make clear the meaning of the text is fairly presumptive proof that little sense of the force of this usage remained in the fourth decade of the eighteenth century , in which his edition of Shakespeare appeared . Yet though the recollection of the foregoing once common employment of the singular pronoun of address lingers with us , or at least with some of us , it is not felt now as a reality . The distinct functions which it still fulfils in other tongues no longer exist for us . None of us go about addressing our relatives or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contempt upon our enemies by the use of this same pronoun . Why is it that English has deviated from the practice of the other cultivated tongues of modern Europe ? Why has it given up the use of the second person singular to express affection or contempt ? Was this abandonment of it due to the character of the language , or to the character of those who speak it ? It is far from easy to give a satisfactory answer to this question . One great difficulty in reselling a conclusion arises from the fact that no exhaustive study has ever been made of the use of the pronoun of address in our literature ; hardly even a superficial one . Certain of the most common statements made about its employment will not bear the test of prolonged and thorough investigation . This is true in spite of the fact that these have at times behind them the authority of great scholars . Men content themselves with repeating their statements without ever attempting to test their accuracy by making independent investigations of their own . One thing may possibly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disuse of the singular in address . There is always a tendency in pronunciation to become hurried . With us , this led the users of speech to show no quarter to the vowels . They were dropped in the sound and not unfrequently in the spelling . The result was that a number of consonants were huddled together in the same syllable . This was true in particular of the second person singular of the preterite . The task of pronouncing it became , in consequence , increasingly difficult for even the rugged mouths with the possession of which Milton credited the English race . So long as the vowels were retained and sounded there was little difficulty . When lov-ed-est and drown-a-est appeared as three syllables , their pronunciation presented no special embarrassment . But the case was altered when the speaker was compelled to confront such forms as levdst and drowndst ; for no matter how they appeared in print , that was the way in which they were expected to come from the mouth . Rather than grapple with this dreadful combination of consonants , he betook @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plural . This may be thought to explain in a measure the abandonment of the second person singular . But in whatever way it came about , we do not need to be told that its employment has now practically gone . It is still regularly heard in the language of prayer ; to a less extent in that of poetry ; occasionally , too , in that of a prose , which , whatever its merits , represents a language no one ever really speaks . Furthermore , in all these cases it is mainly confined to the present tense . Accordingly , the difficulties that would beset the use of the preterite can hardly be said to exist . To him who examines English literature with his eyes on this particular subject of address , certain things furthermore become distinctly manifest . The use of the plural pronoun for the singular came into the language in the thirteenth century . Then in certain cases you took largely the place of thou . It was originally intended as a mark of respect to those higher in rank or authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employment was gradually extended toward one 's equals . Still , from that time to the present there has never been a distinct line of demarcation between the use of the two numbers , though assertions to that effect have been and are constantly made . Painful efforts have indeed been put forth to explain away manifest exceptions that can not be ignored . But the explanations never sufficiently explain . The general rule , it is true , can be safely laid down that the plural was used from an inferior to a superior . save in the case of prayer . But in our literature this rule has been subject to numerous modifications and exceptions . Until an exhaustive study has been made of usage on this particular point ? for up to this time all investigation of it has been distinctly superficial ? only a few statements about it can be received with any confidence in their correctness . One of these few is that from the earliest period to the present day there has prevailed in our best literature a liberty in passing from the singular to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the nature of license . It is found not merely in the course of the same conversation , but not unfrequrntly in the same sentence . Take the " Knight 's Tale " of Chaucer as an early illustration . In the prayer of Emily to Diana she addresses the goddess in these words : Now help me , lady , 8 ith ye may and can For tho e. , thasel three form &; that thou best in thee . " Again , Palamon in his prayer to Venus is represented as saying : " . And if ye will not PO , my lady sweet , Then pray I thee ? " There is nothing exceptional about such examples as these . They could be multiplied almost endlessly ; for this sort of usage abounds in our literature during all periods . Every person can verify the matter for himself by examining on this point any one of our classics in which the language of conversation appears ; say , for instance , two such representative productions of widely separated periods as our version of the Bible and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the original corruption . The substitution of the objective you for the real nominative ye has brought in its train other corruptions involving changes of grammatical construction . We can no longer " parse " certain phrases as we once did . Take , for illustration , two such common ones as " if you please " and " if you like . " We are now trained to consider the you in these expressions as the subject of the verb . From the point of view of the past , it is nothing of the sort . If we heed the etymological history of the phrases , you in them is in the dative case . The like and please in both these examples are originally impersonal verbs . In the earlier speech the it , which has now come to be a sort of indispensable crutch for this class of verbs , was often omitted . Such especially was the case when the pronoun as object preceded instead of following the verb . Consequently , if you like or if you please meant " if it like you " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubtless a time when the you was felt to be a dative . Then it had not driven out the proper nominative ye . Had that not happened , men would have continued to regard it as such . But this impression was destroyed when the usurping objective took its place as the subject of the pentenee , reinforced as it was by the fact that the impersonal verb was hardly recognized any longer as impersonal , unless accompanied by the pronoun it as its forerunner . Hence , our ancestors proceeded to commit assault upon the verb because it had ventured to appear without its now faithful attendant . They changed the class to which it belonged . The view of you as an objective gradually passed out of the consciousness of men . It came to bo considered as the subject nominative . It is now so regarded . It was not to be expected that the users of speech , out of deference to the grammatical feelings of their forefathers , would laboriously keep up a subtle grammatical distinction , of which only a few of them were vaguely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes which have been going on in the grammatical character of the language . Until they have actually established themselves they are called corruptions . But in time they come to be used not only without grief but without thought by those depressed and depressing individuals who live in a state of anxiety about the English tongue in their sincere belief that it is on the road to ruin because men will persist in using expressions to which they take exception . It becomes accordingly something of a satisfaction to soothe the feelings of these sorrowing souls by narrating the story of a corruption which did not prevail . This was the use in address of the plural pronoun with a form strictly belonging to the preterite singular of the substantive verb . In talking to an individual , educated men once frequently said you was instead of you were . It is not impossible , perhaps not unlikely , that it was a covert conviction of the impropriety of employing the same expression in one ease to denote unity , in the other to denote plurality , which led to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usage by the adoption of a sort of compromise . At any rate , from whatever motive sprung , it came for a time , and indeed for a considerable time , into fashion . It was distinct from the employment of was as a plural verb . This had existed in dialect or uncultivated speech from a remote period , and it exists now . It turned up also sporadically in our early literature . When it occurs there , however , it appears to be rather the result of accident or inattention than of conformity to a generally accepted mode of speech among the educated . Not so the usage here under consideration . For more than a century and a half it was steadily and consciously employed by cultivated speakers and writers . The frequency of its appearance shows that it represented fairly a current usage of polite conversation . The practice , however , never extended to the present tense . Unlike you was , you is was never heard from the lips of an educated person . For this usage the determining motive seems to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than one . It was not till about the middle of the seventeenth century that you was passed from dialectic into general use and was adopted as an authorized mode of speech in address . No observant reader of the literature of the hundred and fifty years following the Restoration can fail to be struck with the frequency with which it occurs . Especially is this the case in the representation of colloquial speech . To colloquial speech , in fact , the usage mainly belongs . rather than to the purely literary . Even in the former , it never displaced you were in addressing a single person ; but it took its place alongside of it as a fully authorized locution . Naturally it showed itself in comedy as representing the language of common conversation . Yet to that it did not confine itself . It invaded the stately speech of tragedy . Take an example from Dr. Young 's play of " The Brothers . " This was produced in 1753 . " At what altar was you sworn their foe ? " are the words with which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Romans . Of the large number of illustrations which could be furnished of this usage , a few may be given as specimens . In 1000 , Atterbury wrote a somewhat indignant letter to a clergyman with whose conduct he was displeased . " But neither of these positions pleased you , " he remarked , " nor was you willing to take those pupils the hour afforded you . " The passage is particularly worthy of citation for the characteristic comment it caused . Atterbury 's biographer was a gond deal shocked by this lapse , as he considered it . " The reverend gentleman , " he remarked , " in his anger loses sight of grammar ? a very common fault in his day . " The biographer himself was committing the common fault of our day in imputing his own ignorance of the grammar of a former period to the ignorance of the writer belonging to that period ? a frequent or rather the regular practice of the men cxxin. ? No. 752. - 26 who set out to expose the blunders in usage of the great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the seventeenth century the employment of you was prevailed to a considerable extent , but by no means to the extent it did during the century following . In both periods , however , it occurs more or less frequently in the writings of men who held then and still continue to hold a high rank in our literature . Dryden used it ; so did Swift ; so did the great scholar Bentley . But novels and letters constituted its peculiar province . This was almost inevitable ; for the language of correspondence and fiction naturally tends to bear a close resemblance to that of conversational speech . Consequently it excites little surprise to find it often employed by the three principal novelists of the eighteenth century ? Richardson , Fielding and Smollett . In Tom Jones , for example , you was is the form which is regularly found when a single person is addressed . Certainly in this novel the use of you were , when the language of conversation is given , is exceedingly rare . Perhaps , indeed , it never appears at all . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one out of the many instances in which it appears in the correspondence of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu . " I should be sorry to hear you was unhappy , " she wrote in 1710 to her future husband . Again , in 1728 Pope sent a letter to Swift inform- . ing him that he was " a hundred pounds a year richer than when you was here . " It also turns up constantly in the Walpole correspondence which reflects the fashionable speech of the day . Even Beattie , the melancholy Scotch prophet of the ruin impending over the language , employed it evidently without any idea of the scandalous impropriety of the expression lie was using . In 1700 he sent a poetical essay to Dr. BIacklock . Later he expressed his gratification on hearing that it had come to hand and " that you was pleased to give it a favorable reception . " In fact , you was came near establishing itself in the language as a perfectly legitimate method of addressing a single person . That point once reached , it might have become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result could have been confidently looked for . If so , we should all have been using it now with as little consciousness of its grammatical impropriety as we have in saying you were . It would have come to be regarded as a satisfactory method of distinguishing from two or more persons the single one addressed . But by the latter half of the eighteenth century grammar began to lie heavy on the hearts of those who devote themselves to preserving the speech in its purity . They directed their hatteries against this offending idiom , and kept up the fire incessantly . They had not discovered that the nominative you was strictly in the objective case ; but they had sufficient knowledge of it to be aware that it was a plural and could not therefore be properly employed with a singular form like was . As early as 1755 a writer remonstrated in the Gentleman 's Magazine against this scandalous defiance of propriety of usage . " You was there , you was here , you was pleased , etc. , " he wrote , " are expressions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is certainly false grammar , because you as well as ye is the second person plural ; for tho ' we speak in one person only , we unanimously say you are , or you had , you shall , and if a man should use the verb in the singular number , and say you art , you best , you hadst , you shalt , he would be deemed ignorant of the common rules of grammar . " Attacks like these did not make at first much impression upon the use of the idiom . Besides the authors already mentioned , it can be found in the writings of many others ; of several , indeed , of highest repute , such as Goldsmith and Cowper . In truth , notwithstanding the hostility it aroused , the employment of the expression lingered along into the nineteenth century " Was n't you sorry for Lord Nelson ? " wrote Lamb to Hazlitt in November , 1805 . " You was in serious danger , " wrote Byron to Murray late in 1815 . In the following third decade of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Still later the same expression came from the mouth of the one person who is theoretically supposed to have the language in his sacred keeping . According to the report of Creevey in his journal , William IV . in 1830 remarked to the Earl of Derby , when that nobleman was sworn in as a privy-couneilor , " I have often heard my father say you was the best Lord Lieutenant in England . " The opening of the nineteenth century , however , made manifest to the observant that the doom of this expression had been sealed . By that time its enemies had accomplished pretty fully their deadly work . Yet it took a great deal of time and effort to carry out completely the decree of extermination . But the havoc that had been already wrought with the usage and the decay which had overtaken it may be brought home to every one by contrasting the practice in this particular matter of Mrs. Radcliffe and of Jane Austen . The Mysteries of Udolpho of the one was published in 1794 ; the Sense and Sensibility of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appears again and again . In the latter it occurs also several times ; but it is intentionally put in the mouth of a somewhat illiterate character . Once and once only is it used by the clerical hero of the work . Its extinction , indeed , was inevitable . It had not taken sufficient root to hold its own against the linguistic storm which had broken out and the attacks of the grammarians who waged upon it an incessant war . With that fine sense of values which is a distinguishing badge of incompetent hostile criticism , it became no uncommon practice to attack a writer not for the inaccuracy of his facts or the feebleness of his arguments , but to make his use of you was for you were a principal subject of comment . Consequently by the time the century had entered upon its second quarter , the cause of so-called grammatical purity had triumphed . Then the practice of employing the objectionable expression had almost entirely disappeared . 