@@487093

It would doubtless be impossible to prove that any positive neglect of the public business is involved in the President 's prolonged tour of the West . Yet it is evident that there is in Washington a feeling of uneasiness about the many important topics which will need to be brought to Mr. Taft 's attention on his return . This feeling has obviously been heightened by the announcement that the President has decided to extend his trip , planning now to travel in the South and not to reach the capital until about the middle of November . That would certainly leave him scant time to make his preparations for the assembling of Congress , to say nothing of executive matters waiting for his decision . With the political effect of his Journey at least of doubtful advantage to the President , it has frankly to be said that his example in being so often and so long away from Washington , or his " summer capital , " is one that his successors will be well advised not to follow . It was high time for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regulations concerning improper matter for the mails " should be ? haracterized by wise conservatism and . justice . " He himself had already ruled , in favor of the report of the Chicago Vice Commission , at least to the extent ? of permitting it to be mailed to the list of social workers to which it was being sent through the generosity of John D. Rockefeller , jr . We are not as yet familiar with the alleged offences of the Richmond Journal and News-Leader . If they were similar to those of the metropolitan yellow press during the Thaw - trial , the Department is in a strong position . But this question demands something more than the bureaucratic rule.of-thumb procedure which marked the opinion of the fourteenth or fifteenth Deputy Assistant Attorney-General for the Post Office Department who blunder-. ad in the Chicago case . Not only is the - character of the matter to be considered , but its purpose , as well as that of its ; publishers . If the work is a genuine scientific undertaking , not scattered promiscuously or intended for general sale , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cullom 's abandonment of his undertaking to restore harmony among Illinois Republicans , in despair at the hopeless split , is as significant of the Senator 's own loosened hold in Illinois as of the seriousness of the division which he laments . Going to Illinois from Washington two months ago , he has had to listen ever since , not to plans to composing the- differences between Lorimerites and Progressives , but to arguments against his own candidacy for reelection to the Senate . Speaker Cannon discovered the temper of his party in a somewhat similar way a few years ago , when he left Washington in all the glory of his freshly won Speakership to break the six-fold deadlock for the nomination for Governor . The convention made him its presiding officer with enthusiasm , but the potency of his gavel was limited to questions of procedure . In the end the man who had made it impossible for Lorimer 's candidate to win cn the first ballot became the nominee and has been Governor of Illinois ever since . One thing Speaker Cannon was spared , however . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the farther he was away . The rout that began in the Old Guard in the Senate seems des tined to reach every member of it . There is pathos as well as unconscious humor in Senator Cullom 's announcement that he is giving up the task of straightening things out in Illinois and going back to Washington to take up the consideration of the peace treaties will be received by Democrats in New York with mingled emotions . Does he come back as a Prodigal Son , tired of wasting his substance in the far country of the Independence League ? Or is it his idea that the party ought to acclaim him as a conqueror ? As for the Independence Leaguers , they may easily be imagined dolefully chanting " The Lost Leader " ? just for a Democratic ribbon to stick in his coat ! For them there must be dejection not only on account of the great cause abandoned , but because of the cashier who now fails them . Republicans , too , will feel that Hearst has done them an ill turn in abandoning his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comfort in the thought that even if Democratic prospects looked bright , Hearst could be depended upon to make mischief ; and his rushing hack to the Democratic fold now will be taken as a sign that he sees not a ghost of a chance next year for either an irresponsible guerrilla like himself or for the Republican party . The announcement that Senator Penrose favors the commission form of government for Philadelphia will startle no one who has followed the course of the Senator 's excursion into the politics of his own city . Conditions in Councils , he finds , despite the many good men in both branches , " are admitted to be unsatisfactory , " so that from this moment their reformation is worthy of most serious consideration " by every one interested in the betterment of municipal conditions . " Being thus interested , the Senator looks about for a remedy , and his eye lights upon ? Pittsburgh . The Pittsburgh Councils , too , sad to say , were formerly corrupt , so corrupt and incompetent , indeed , " that the Legislature was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and put a commission in their place . Of ? course , no one will think of doing anything hastily , and " nothing will be done ultimately except what is in accord with the best public sentiment of the people of Philadelphia . " But if Mr. Earle should be elected Mayor , and then be declared ineligible , might not a commission be the wish such a commission than Mr. Earle ? It is safe to say that the new form of government will wait a long time before procuring a more influential convert than the senior Senator from Pennsylvania . In Charleston , South Carolina , a fight is on against the establishment of a race track . Apparently that city feels the force of the widespread sentiment against the evils bound up with racing in this country . The same interests which formerly maintained tracks in Florida are behind the project , and the example of Florida in abolishing racing is now used as , a weapon against them They have the necessary charter , but the Charleston newspapers are predicting that . it will be revoked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favor of the track  --  that of commercial advantage to the city  --  an overwhelming weight of testimony is presented from representative business men of the Florida cities where the experiment was tried . A remarkable state of mind is pie-seated by the desire of Fremont Older , editor of the San Francisco Bulletin , for the release of Abraham Ruef , the notorious boss whose conviction and imprisonment were brought about primarily through Older 's unremitting efforts . Mr. Older declares that in his hunting down of Ruef he was vindictive and savage : I went to Washington and enlisted Heney in the fight . William T. Burns came and I persuaded Spreckels to help us At last , after years of a man-hunting and man-hating debauch , Ruef became what I had longed and dreamed that he might become ? a convict Then I said to myself , " You 've got him He 's in stripes . He is helpless , beaten , chained . You 've won How do you like your victory ? " . . Well , my soul revolted . I thought over my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to others , the injustice , the wrongs I have been guilty of . . I see myself now stripped of ' all sham and pretence and self-righteousness , holding the key to another man 's cell If society will let me I want to unlock that barred door , and for the rest of my life try to get nearer the spirit of Christ There is no question of Mr Older 's sincerity , and it is impossible to withhold respect for the humane feeling and the personal humility that he expresses . But it is essential to distinguish between the question of the sincerity or beauty of such feeling on the one hand and that of the clearness of the thinking that accompanies it on the other . " I think vengeance  --  and by vengeance I mean punishment  --  makes us all worse rather than better , " says Mr. Older But , whatever may have been his own personal feelings or motives in bringing Ruef to justice , the motive of the com ism , and to warn others of Ruef 's stripe that they engage in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by some blind instinct to do the great public service which stands to his credit ; if so , we can only say that he builded better than he knew . The need of holding forth the bitterness of punishment as an agency for deterring men inclined to certain forms of evil from which society must protect itself is the beginning and the end of the justification of punishment . And whether , in the judgment of God , other forms of evil , of which judge , or jury , or lawmaker may be guilty , are more or less reprehensible , has absolutely nothing to do with the case A food expert without a fad looks almost like a contradiction in terms , but it is the ideal that Dr. Wiley professes to tollow . In proof of his sincerity , he has now ranged himself on the side of the feasters as opposed to the fasters , and thereby finds himself once more in the ranks of the majority . It is so refreshing to be advised to continue doing the thing which we have always done . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that we can not restrain our ad. =ration for the man who sets the seal of his approval upon it . This is particularly true because of the innumerable warnings showered upon us of - what vie must not do again if we expect to live out halt our allotted days . Once all we had to do , even in a crisis , was to take the most awful chemical compound that the wit of doctors could devise . Now , nothing less than the complete alteration of one 's habits of life will tide one over the most trifling trouble . Dr. Wiley comes , therefore , as a novel and delightful sort of practitioner , bearing the glad tidings of a double emancipation , from regulated mastication and partial starvation no less than from drugs . The late Clark Russell would have found in the sea-wanderings of the " Holy Ghosters " yacht Coronet a tale upon which to found another sea-yarn fairly rivalling the " Wreck of the Grosvenor . " To parallel the sufferings of those sixty-six people on a 123-foot yacht , undergone for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has twice been around the world and once won a transatlantic race . But those four months spent in the endeavor to sail from Hayti to Greenland have been severe enough to wear out many a sturdier ship . It is to be hoped that the authorities may now find some way to interfere with this fearful dragging of defenceless children over the seas . But as for the Rev. Mr. Sandford , there is no breaking his spirit . Now that a summer in Africa and a winter in Greenland have been denied him , it may be that the salvation of Maine will have to occupy him for a little while . It will take time to repair his religious letter-of-marque and to assemble the necessary funds to cruise again . He has been around the world once in the Coronet ; yet the silly old world still talks of Protestants and Catholics and Mohammedans and all the rest of the faiths which Sandford has placed on the rubbish heap . Prof. Basil L Gildersleeve completed on Monday his eightieth year , with no apparent diminution of his intellectual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humor which has been so vital an element in the influence he has exerted upon students and scholars for more than half a century . The place of Greek in the college and university world is very different now from what it was when the young South Carolinian , at the age of twenty-two , gained his doctorate of philosophy at Gottingen , among the first of the long line of American scholars who were to bring to this country the ideals and standards of German learning and science ; but in Professor Gildersleeve 's lecture-room , as in his published writings , the lamp has been kept burning as bright as ever , through all the changes of time . How little he answers to the vulgar notion of the Greek or Latin specialist has been evidenced month after mouth , for more than thirty years , in the delightful wit and almost encyclopedic range of his " Brief Comment " in the American Journal of Philology , of which he has been the editor from its foundation in the early years of Johns Hopkins University . Of that institution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he has been a leading light during the thirty-five years of his professorship there , following upon twenty years as professor in the University of Virginia . Europe 's welcome to Thomas A. Edison was so whole-hearted and universal that we can not wonder at the look of pain that appeared on the face of the Continent at the distinguished guest 's blunt and ready judgments on things European . The trouble is this- Europe has not yet grasped the truth , which with us has become a commonplace , that eminence in one particular field makes a man an oracle in every other field of human endeavor . That is why a champion polo-player returning from abroad is asked whom he picks for the Republican nomination in 1912 ; why the leading lady in a musical comedy outlines for us the future development of aviation ; why novelists are hired to write picturesque accounts of baseball games that have to be supplemented by a statement of what happened at the game ; why stock brokers continually lay down new principles of political economy , and why Trust magnates are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One of Mr. Borden 's Cabinet appointments has provoked warm discussion in the Canadian press It is that of Mr. Monk to be Minister of Public Works . The point is that he has . been Bourassa 's chief lieutenant in the Nationalist movement . Of that Wrench-Canadian agitation , a leading feature was protest against the building of a Canadian navy , to be put at the disposal of the British Admiralty , and it is accordingly natural for a paper like the Toronto Globe to assert that , since Mr. Monk joins the Government as " the mouth-piece of Mr. Bourassa , " the Navy Act will be " repealed or suspended . " This is partly borne out by the organ of the Quebec Nationalists , Le Devoir , which thinks that Mr. Borden will not go on with the navy plans until they have been submitted to the people , " either in a general election or in a referendum . " The journal quoted hastens to add , however , that on this question the Nationalists stand ready to acquiesce in the verdict of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Laurier Government will not be openly abandoned by Mr. Borden , but that he will go slow with it and seek to modify it . What seems certain is that Canada , in her present temper , will insist upon keeping for her own use whatever warships she may build , and will make no direct contribution to British sea-power . Technical education in Germany has often been highly and enviously praised , and the authorities in that country are evidently awake to the advantage of maintaining and extending it . A recent step in advance is the organization of special courses for graduates of technical schools . In Bavaria , as we read in the Frankfurter Zettung , it is now made compulsory upon engineers in the employ of the state to attend a certain number of these Fortbildungskurse . This is particularly the case with structural engineers . Graduates of ten or fifteen years ' standing may not in all cases have kept up voluntarily with modern methods in building , and the aim is to help them to be level with progress in their profession by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which they were to hear discussed this month at the technical school in Karlsruhe are - " Progress in Building and in the Transport of Materials , " " The Economic Bearings of Gas-Industry , " and " Problems of Finance and Personnel in ' Modern Industry . " It is by such methods that the Germans aim not only to educate technically but to make the processes of technical education continuous . Two Italian professors have recently had their say concerning the raid upon Tripoli . One is described as the head of an Italian archeological mission in North Africa . Interrogated by the Italian Government with regard to the natural resources of the coveted territory , this expert replied in a manner calculated to make the patriotic bosom swell indefinitely . There is plenty of rich soil in Tripoli , if you know how to look for it . There is no dearth of water , if you sink enough artesian wells . There is a great deal of timber on the mountains at a considerable distance from the coast . The natives are not hostile to Italy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other words , throughout this ' " scientific " report our expert is desperately trying to make out a case for his employers , who in the present instance are the Italian Government Having been accused of criminal conduct in seizing land belonging to some one else , and of foolish conduct in seizing land that has little value , Italy is determined to prove that the second charge at least is untrue . In doing so she has shown once more that , when patriotism calls , star-eyed science will frequently consent to shade the truth a bit . But there are honorable exceptions . Another Italian professor , Guglielmo Ferrero , has refused to kow-tow to the idol of Imperialism . He has not come out in open opposition to the Italian Government 's policy , but in an article written for Figaro , on the abstract problem of ancient and modern Imperial ism , he expresses little confidence in the classic argument for land-grabbing. namely , that it is all for the benefit of civilization and of the inhabitants of the land seized upon . Professor Ferrero admits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wake of European conquests  --  railways , sanitation , public security , Justice . Judged by such standards , the work done by France in Algeria and Tunis would seem to justify Italy 's mission in Tripoli . But Professor Ferrero has spoken with men of affairs in Tunis and Algeria , and upon the question of the ultimate outcome these men have shaken their heads . When the railways and wireless and European civilization in general have bitten far enough into Moslem society to engender decay and decomposition , what will happen then ? The conflict between a civilization triumphant and a decadent civilization at bay has several times remade history . ? The people of Japan axe learning that it is one thing to get rid of a Cabinet , but quite another thing to set aside a policy . They have exchanged Katsura for Saionji , but Saionji 's programme promises no radical departure from Katsura 's . Expenditure is to be maintained , as by the late Administration , and no new schemes are to be adopted , owing to the difficulty of finding funds . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the financial policy of the new Government , a thorough overhauling of the whole system of taxation . But no one will expect this to be accomplished at once , if it is accomplished at all . The " Pay , pay , pay " stage of expansion is not so easy as the drum-and-fife stage , but it follows that stage inevitably Any Cabinet in Japan will find its path difficult until this part of the nation 's route is past  --  more especially until the Japanese people see that no Cabinet can perform what must be left to time .                     