@@430468

It took only the first instalment in " The Atlantic Monthly , " two years ago , to demonstrate that the diary of Gideon WelIes , Secretary of the Navy in the cabinets of Lincoln and Johnson , constituted an historical document of the very foremost rank for the period of the Civil War and the early years of Reconstruction . Editor of " The Hartford Times " as early as 1826 , and contributor at various times to the editorial columns of many papers , Welles was a writer by inveterate habit , regularly passing his evenings in jotting down in " the red books , " as his family called them , the important events of the day and his comments thereon . He had the old-fashioned New England conscience , not prone to gloss over faults in the interest of expediency or good fellowship ; and during the period of his cabinet service there was no dearth of faults for his consideration . His standards of official duty were rigid and hard to reach , and his pen was severe against failure to come up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be just . A first unfavorable impression with him never meant absolute and irreversible condemnation , as it often does with a class of men whose harshness of speech might seem to the superficial observer to stamp them as closely akin to him . We may take as an instance his feeling toward General McClellan . Almost alone at the start he questioned McClellan 's fitness for the important work to which he was called ; and yet it was he who in 1862 thwarted the attempt of Secretary Chase to secure from the cabinet a united statement to the President denouncing the General in violent terms for incapacity , pronouncing him a traitor , and demanding his removal . Harsh though he was , he had a stern sense of justice , and insight to recognize such good qualities as did exist in the various objects of his animadversions ; and , still more , he had a good measure of Lincoln 's power to see that it was often better to get along with imperfect instruments than to make changes the effect of which upon an excited and poorly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ connection with Andrew Johnson began with very untoward omens . On the evening of Inauguration Day , 1865 , he writes : " The Vice-President made a rambling and strange harangue , which was listened to with pain and mortification by all his friends . My impressions were that he was under the influence of stimulants , yet I know not that he drinks . " His impression as to the cause of Johnson 's muddled speech was soon confirmed ; and yet in the end Secretary Weller was to become one of Johnson 's most loyal and unflinching supporters throughout the whole of his stormy and unpopular administration . We can do no better here than to quote a paragraph from Mr. John T. Morse 's Introduction to the Diary . " The picture of Andrew Johnson is altogether the most favorable which has ever been given , at lead with any authority , of that unfortunate man . It deserves to be studied with great interest , for , as has been said , Mr. Welles was a very shrewd and very fair judge of men . He had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the loyalty of an office-holder towards his chief , but was also a sincere esteem and genuine personal liking . It is safe to assume that the excited partisanship of the times somewhat stimulated these sentiments ; yet he was not thus prevented from often criticizing his leader , and he seems in the main even-minded and judicious . It may be that the publication of these volumes will lead to at least a partial revision of popular opinion concerning our only impeached President . " In Grant , Mr. Welles saw early , what all but bind partisans were to see later on , the ease with which he could be entangled and used by dishonest schemers : the failing so aptly put by James Russell Lowell in the last lines to come from his pen : " Yet did this man , war tempered , stern as steel Where steel opposed , prove soft in civil sway ; The hand hilt-hardened had lost tact to feel The world 's base coin , and glozing knaves made prey Of him and of the entrusted Commonweal . " During the Summer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General Grant has become severely afflicted with the Presidential disease , and it warps his judgment , which is not very intelligent or enlightened at best . He is less sound on great and fundamental principles , vastly less informed than I had supposed possible for a man of his opportunities . Obviously , he has been tampered with and flattered by the Radicals , who are using him and his name for their selfish and partisan purposes . " The attitude of Mr. Welles toward Seward was expressed in a time-softened manner in 1873 , when he published a little volume on Lincoln and Seward , in reply to an address on Seward by Charles Francis Adams , wherein the orator had attributed to Secretary Seward about all that was most worthy of credit in the Lincoln administration . In general , the publications of more recent years have tended to strip  | Seward of much of his glory in the popular imagination ; and this Diary militates powerfully in the same direction . That Seward was offensively and harmfully meddlesome in matters over which he had no jurisdiction and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and again ; and if anything in the Diary tends toward a lower estimate of Lincoln than is generally held since Morse 's great biography and other books of recent years , it is the proof of Lincoln 's too-frequent yielding to Seward as against more honest and competent advisers . Welles wrote : " There has been an itching propensity on his part to have a controlling voice in naval matters with which he has no business and which he really does not understand ; and he sometimes improperly interferes , as in the disposition of mails on captured vessels . The AttorneyGeneral has experienced similar improper interference , more than any other ; perhaps none are exempt . But the Secretary of State , while meddlesome with others , is not at all communicative of the affairs of his own department . " Secretary Welles was in sentiment one of the original Civil Service reformers , and stubbornly fought for his views on various occasions , ? as when the whole Navy Yard management was about to be upset because of the resistance of some of the better-minded officers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again the Secretary records his disgust with Senators and Representatives who overwhelmed him with demands for places for their political henchmen , in spite of obvious unfitness for the work to be done in the positions sought . In the case of one attempt to seize upon the Navy Yard for political ends , he writes of a visit to his office by the son of Secretary Seward , with certain papers : " In these papers a party committee propose to take the organization of the Navy Yard into their keeping , to name the Commandant , to remove the Naval Constructor , to change the regulations , and make the Navy Yard a party machine for the benefit of party , and to employ men to elect candidates , instead of building ships . I am amazed that Raymond Editor of the New York ' Times ' could debase himself so far as to submit such a proposition , and more that he expects me to enforce it . " An amusing reference to some remarks of Lincoln is appropriate here : " The President was happy . Says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who address him , who tell him that he is now reelected and can do just as he has a mind to , which means that he can do some unworthy thing that the person who addresses him has a mind to . There is very much of this . " Secretary Welles saw clearly the quagmire into which unwise currency measures were leading the country . In February of 1864 he wrote : " Had a brief talk to-day with Chase on Financial matters . He seems embarrassed how to proceed , but being futile in resources is listening to others still more futile . There will , however , come a day of reckoning , and the Nation will have to pay for all these expedients . In departing from the specie standard and making irredeemable paper its equivalent , I think a great error was committed . By inflating the currency , loans have been more easily taken , but the artificial prices are ruinous . I do not gather from Chase that he has any system or fixed principles to govern him in his managemen of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ granted the suffrage was severely condemned by Secretary Welles . " This whole question of suffrage is much abused . The Negro can take upon himself the duty about as intelligently , and as well for the public interest , as a considerable portion of the foreign element which comes amongst as . Each will be the tool of the demagogues . If the Negro is to vote and exercise the duties of a citizen , let him be educated to it . The measure should not , even if the government were empowered to act , be precipitated when he is stolidly ignorant and wholly unprepared . It is proposed to do it against what have been and still are the constitutions , laws , usages , and practices of the States which we wish to restore to fellowship . " But party gain , apparently within reach , was a stronger motive than sober judgment . The temper of the present day , not very regardful of abstractions concerning human rights , may possibly overestimate the harm done by Negro suffrage , but few will deny that the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders was harmful and debasing in the highest degree , and probably the majority of the most sincere friends of the Negro would now agree that it would have been better for him and for all if the gift had been bestowed gradually , as a fixed standard , not high enough to have been essentially out of reach , should be attained . There is no chapter of this Diary that is not replete with interest . Intelligent comment on some important question yields only to criticism of some incompetent , overbearing , or corrupt politician , always too biting in its expression to be dull , and always with some little touch of originality , even if , as in the case of Seward , the last has been applied so often that the count is as hopelessly lost as Catullus wanted it to be with Lesbia 's kisses . The student of American history must read these volumes ; the general reader certainly will do so , if once he discovers their quality . To the careful student , aware of what has been written during the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of estimates of men and events already entertained . Secretary Welles saw at the start much that it has taken a generation of patient  | scholarship to work out bit by bit . This Diary gives a good test of the accuracy of the work which our historical investigators have been doing on the period of the Civil War and Reconstruction , and in general the result of that test is favorable . As Mr. Morse puts it in his Introduction : " There is a remarkable agreement between what he wrote in those days when our past was his present , and what our historians and biographers are now setting forth as the dispassionate valuations of posterity . Such harmony is agreeably reassuring as to the accuracy of the judgments which we are today accepting . " 250                     