@@493033

hog . We like the hog . We like him broiled best , but we like him fried , baked or even boiled . We like his head , his hams , his chops and his trotters . It is , however , . as an animate fellow-creature that our contemporary would thrust him upon us , and this we resist . M. Claudel remarks of the hog that " his tastes do not run to the transient per ? fumes of flowers . " Our Western friend asks queru ? lously , how does he know , how does anybody know ? In the same way , we answer , in which we know and deprecate the musical insensitiveness of the snail . It is true , mayhap , that a hog is not all gluttonous , that he can not be induced to eat a pawpaw . But is this refusal really a sign of " po ? tential refinement " ? Do not the inhabitants of Kansas eat pawpaws , and are they not potentially refined ? We admit that in depicting a wallowing hog @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concrete foundation . But while this effete type exists , it is our opinion that only a pure optimist would credit to the hog himself the refine ? ment that he suffers , without initiative , referendum or recall , on a model farm . We assert that on this delicate subject M. Claudel was perspicacious , sedate , admirably free from hysteria ; and we affirm a melancholy belief that there is a profound if marble-hearted wisdom in the paradox that the only way to cure a hog is , first of all , to kill him . ARE we not prone , in view of the unexpected efficiency of the submarines , to exaggerate the role which these boats are likely to play in maritime warfare ? Already men are opposing the construc ? tion of all new battleships , and are suggesting that the only secure place for a dreadnought is a safe-deposit vault . The increase in cruising range and in general effectiveness of the under-water boat can ? not of course be denied , but in the great naval battles of the war we have heard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continue to succeed in naval sniping , in picking off an occasional battle ? ship , it is probable that when finally the German and British fleets engage , if they ever do engage , the victory will depend far less on the submarine than upon the dreadnought and super-dreadnought . MOVING pictures taken in Belgium by the Chicago Tribune and now being shown make evident one absurdity of modern fighting . It is happening on streets where anyone might live , along country roads where anyone might go bicycling . That men should be wrecking towns in the midst of trolley-cars and restaurants and bookshops and policemen makes war look more like the Baltimore fire than anything else . One contribution to docu ? mentary history , however , is made by these pictures , the sight of Belgian soldiers in the belfry of Ant ? werp Cathedral using it as a lookout . Agricultural Credit THAT the administration will do its utmost to secure a reform of the agricultural credit sys ? tem can not be doubted . It remains to be seen whether the habits of mind and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are such as to fit it well for the task . Banking reform and rural credit reform appear at first inspection to be closely related problems . Examined in detail , however , the two problems dis ? close fundamental differences . Banking reform in ? volved the reconciliation of differences of opinion ? often extreme and bitter , to be sure ? but not of con ? flicting interests . There was never a question of the interests of the borrowers versus those of the lend ? ers , of the interests of finance versus those of in ? industry . The agricultural credit problem , on the other hand , bristles with conflicting interests . The farmer demands relief from what he considers heavy rates on agricultural loans and the onerous conditions attending such loans ; from the still higher rates on personal loans , and from the extortionate prices of supplies and machinery resulting from the system of book credits . Again , the reform of the banking system involved not the creation of new resources , but the mobiliza ? tion of resources already existing . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? aster in time of panic , but such an irrational dis ? position of reserves as made it possible for hostile forces to conquer the banks in detail . Accordingly the problem admitted of a mechanical solution , en ? tirely in harmony with the classical economic logic that has always appealed so powerfully to Demo ? cratic leadership . The crux of the rural situa ? tion is the scarcity of loan funds . The borrower is forced to pay high interest rates and to accept con ? ditions , such as the early maturity of the loan , that place his whole property in jeopardy , simply be ? cause there is so little capital to be had . The prob ? lem is one of diverting funds from other fields of investment , whether through governmental subsidies or otherwise ; and this is a problem not easily to be solved through application of the principles of laissez faire or of the New Freedom . Finally , it is impossible to overlook the fact that social-political , rather than economic motives give force to the demand for agricultural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the price of hired labor . His grievance is that inade ? quate credit handicaps him in his efforts to gain independence and maximum efficiency , and thus ex ? pels him , if he is an ambitious man , from the field of agriculture . So long as we had unlimited free land on the fron ? tier , the young man without capital had only to make his way to the edge of a settlement and es tablish a home of his own . To-day he serves as a hired laborer until he has accumulated sufficient capital and credit to set himself up as a tenant , in which stage he remains until he can make the first payment on a farm of his own , reduce the mortgage indebtedness , and finally , if he is successful , be possessed of an unencumbered farm . Agricul ? tural credit thus plays a part to-day analogous with the part played by the frontier in an earlier time . If it were impossible for the young farmer to secure machinery and supplies on credit , he would hardly be able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If it were impossible to purchase land under mortgage , he would be well past middle life before he could hope to live on his own land . The independent farmer has been an essential bul ? wark of American democracy , and his fortunes are far more than a purely economic issue . A rural credit system that involves exorbitantly high charges on personal loans prolongs the wage-laborer stage in the farmer 's life ; together with high interest on mortgage loans , it prolongs the tenant stage and the stage of encumbered ownership . And the pro ? longing of these stages does not merely postpone the attainment of complete ownership ; it discourages effort , and forces the acceptance of a permanently inferior status . The agricultural credit system is all that stands between us and the formation of perma ? nent classes of agricultural laborers and tenants . Accordingly it behooves us to make it as efficient socially as possible . The independence of the farmer is not , however , the only issue involved . It is important that he should secure an unencumbered holding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be of appropriate size and well stocked , else he will have scant reward for his thrift . Recent investigations have shown that the typical American farm is a capital unit too small for efficiency . In the north ? ern half of the United States the farmer with prop ? erty worth less than four thousand dollars usually makes little more than bare wages . He would be better off economically if he sold his land , put the money at interest , and hired himself out by the month . A farmer operating property worth twelve thousand dollars has an excellent chance of pros ? perity . The enormous waste in agriculture from farms that are too small or inadequately equipped is closely bound up with the system that makes it hazardous to acquire capital through loans . In commerce and industry the man who proves unusually efficient readily secures through loans all the capital he needs . It is this process of con ? centration of control in the hands of the more effi ? cient that lies at the root of modern business prog ? ress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can borrow up to a conventional proportion of the value of his land , but this is only slightlyaffected , if at all , by his ability to make the land yield good returns . Personal efficiency may receive a certain recognition in the form of more liberal loans from local banks , but short-term loans are not well adapted to agricultural needs . On the whole , the control of capital by the efficient farmer is in ? creased only as he accumulates savings . This fact has much to do with the relative unprogressiveness of agriculture . Given a similar situation in com ? merce and industry , and they would still be in the eighteenth century stage . Agricultural credit is thus very far from a mere problem in finance . It is desirable to provide agri ? culture with cheaper and more abundant capital ; but this is not the essential point . Much more depends on the proper distribution of the capital to be loaned . Suppose that a vast capital were raised through the sale of government bonds and loaned at low rates . Let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but only to those whose objects are in harmony with clearly conceived social interests . Cheap money would be available for the tenant who wished to become an owner , but not for the owner who wished to possess himself of an automobile for pleasure , although the security offered by the latter might be equally good . Such a system , moreover , might be employed in the control of agricultural production . It might withhold funds from com ? munities persisting in a ruinous specialization upon a single crop , and dispense them freely in communi ? ties following a more rational plan . Under such a system , our government would not confine itself to the dissemination of tons of advice ? good advice , as a rule , which can not be accepted for want of funds ? but would assume a partnership with the farmer in the social work of improvement . All this , it may be said , smacks of Utopianism . From the point of view of laissez-faire economics , such a plan is indeed Utopian . Let us remember , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fields . We are loud in our praises of German and Japanese efficiency in for ? eign trade . A large part of this efficiency is due to the fact that those nations , when seeking to culti ? vate trade in a given region , throw overboard the theory of the adequacy of private interest . Branches of banking institutions subsidized and controlled by the home government are established in the regions to be developed and these offer abundant and cheap capital to their nationals for every project , in trade or mining or manufacturing , that shows promise . Is not the cultivation of corn in Texas as important to us as the bean trade in Manchuria to the Japanese ? It is mere tradition that makes the foreign field seem a more proper subject of governmental solicitude than the domestic field . It is mere tradition that foreign trade re ? quires governmental subsidy , while domestic pros perity will take care of itself . But it is a tradition that has a powerful hold on us all ; more powerful , perhaps , on the party in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wonder what are the odds that the achievements of the present administration in the field of agricultural credit will parallel its achievements in banking reform . Railroad Regulation on Trial ACCORDING to the newspaper reports , the railroads are to obtain their increase in in ? come . The obstinate resistance of the Interstate Commerce Commission to a generally higher level of rates has finally been worn down . In all prob ? ability the demands of the railroads have not been granted as completely as the newspapers intimate . The Interstate Commerce Commission must have attached certain conditions to its concession , but whatever the conditions , the decision will be inter ? preted as a victory for the railroads . Assuming that the railroads have won a victory , what effect will it have on the relations between the railroads and the nation ? Will it help or hinder the pre ? vailing principle and method of railroad regulation ? Public opinion will probably acquiesce in the de ? cision with comparatively little protest . What most of our fellow-citizens want more than anything else at present is greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contributes to a trade revival , the opponents of the increase will not get much of a hearing . But even though public opinion does acquiesce in the decision of the Commission , such acquiescence merely removes the most conspic ? uous cause of friction between the railroads and the nation . Other causes almost equally important will remain , and unless they are removed the prin ? ciple and method of regulation will be so far un ? successful that the alternative of national owner ? ship will be forced on popular attention . American public opinion needs to realize more sharply the difficulties and responsibilities of the existing experiment in national railroad regulation . It needs to realize that regulation will never be a success unless more arduous , loyal and intelligent efforts are made to bring about success . An indus ? try so vast and complicated as that of the railroads can never be converted into a genuine public utility against its own will by a series of merely discip ? linary measures on the part of a supervisory com ? mission . The regulation of such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ im ? plies a readiness to cooperate for certain purposes on the part of the directors of the industry and of the public authorities . It implies also that the ad ? ministrative body shall be granted power commen ? surate with the scope of its task , and that it shallbe organized and equipped in order to meet the great number and wide diversity of its responsibili ? ties . Up to date such cooperation , such adequacy of power and such efficiency of organization have not been secured . The railroads on their part have been persist ? ently sulky and obdurate . They have admitted the necessity of regulation in words , but have opposed any effective application of the principle . They have never consented until consent was forced upon them . Neither have they shown any disposition to meet the . Commission half way and voluntarily pro ? vide remedies for manifest abuses . They continued to give illegal rebates until the practice became dan ? gerous . They continued to distribute passes until forced to abandon the practice . It has taken legis ? lative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ structure , to bring about the general use of safety devices , and to in ? stall a scientific accounting system . In spite of the general acceptance at the present time of the desir ? ability of regulation , railroad directors are still far from adjusting themselves to the idea that the roads are primarily public servants rather than sources of private profit . On the other hand , the railroad directors may fairly complain that they were not justified in accepting many recent administrative orders , and in even trying to cooperate with many of their ad ? ministrative masters . The railroads have been un ? popular and in the name of regulation they have been worried and baited because of their unpopu ? larity . The state legislatures and railroad commis ? sions are responsible for most of this worrying . They have been as aggressive in regulating the rail ? roads in the interest of their own states as the In ? tersate Commerce Commission has been in the national interest , and Congress has so far neglect ? ed or refused to make the authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not the power to convert the rail ? road system into an essentially national utility and to protect it against the exasperating and injurious exercise of local public authority . The railroads can fairly complain that , unlike public utilities , they suffer all the disadvantages of regulation without enjoying any of its advantages . Legally they are still supposed to be competing economic units . They are not allowed to enter into agreements for the purpose of establishing rates , dividing territory or reducing unnecessary expenses . They are denied the privileges needed for the successful operation of a genuine national utility . The railroads can probably be converted into loyal and efficient national utilities , but not by any means which Congress has as yet authorized or to which the railroads have as yet consented . National utility can not be imposed upon them by an adminis                     