@@493131

Disordered Christianity A CANDID and well-informed Christian , no matter how anxious he may be at Christmas , 1919 , to make the best of a ' rebellious world , can hardly regard with anything but dismay the recent behavior and the spiritual outlook of the Christian nations . A year ago they had just emerged from one of the most exhausting , extensive and hideously costly wars in history . Their peoples were still distracted by its strains , enervated by its privations and bleeding from its wounds . Their sufferings were so great that not even the victors could whole-heartedly rejoice . Yet they had more cause for rejoicing a year ago than they have today . They could return at that time devout thanks for deliverance from a truly awful peril , and they could look forward with some confidence to a happier season first of relaxation and then of recuperation and renascence . Those among them who felt deeply the anachronism , the tragedy and the sin of such a ruinous and fratricidal war among Christian peoples could anticipate , not without reason , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeasement . The very terms of the armistice provided for the application of healing Christian principles to the wounds of civilization . They promised to the peoples of the world safeguards against a repetition of the tragedy and an express effort to compensate them for their sufferings by the infusion into the political and economic body of a greater consideration for the common human needs and interests . The events of the past year have not realized these pious anticipations . Wounded soldiers apart , there is as much suffering , privation and frustration in the world today as there was a year ago . Nineteen hundred and nineteen was a year not of recuperation and appeasement but of the dissipation of scanty material resources , of political disintegration , of emotional disenchantment and of egregious moral failure . At the end of it a large part of Europe still suffers from famine , from cold , from idleness and from despair ; and it does so less from necessity than as a consequence of the policy deliberately adopted and stubbornly maintained by the Supreme Council of the victors . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own social condition and the problem of their recuperation . They decided to protect themselves first against the recuperation of their former enemies . Their success in keeping Austria , Hungary , Russia and Germany in a state of famine , apprehension , desperation and subjection is and will continue to be the major cause of their own retarded recovery . In spite of their pledges they wrote a Treaty of Peace determined in its chief provisions by fear and revenge rather than by an intelligent desire for permanent appeasement ? a Treaty which they are already finding it impossible to execute and which , so far as executed , will keep Europe divided into hostile classes and irreconcil ? able or conspiring nations . In so far as the situation is changing for the better , as it is , for instance , with respect to Russia , its betterment is the result not of the success of the victors ' policy but of its failure . It took thirty years to prove the moral bankruptcy of the statesmanship of the Treaty of Vienna . It will not take fifteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Treaty of Versailles . It is as unprofitable to scold Wilson , Lloyd George and Clemenceau for this result as it is to charge up the outbreak of the world war exclusively to the Kaiser . Each of the Allied leaders roost ' it is true , bear a minor share of responsibility . For if , as alleged , they might have done somewhait worse , they might also have done a good clea , better . But the deeper responsibility is not personal ; The rescue of the world from the desolation of the war and the redemption of the promise of ar peasement placed a strain upon the moral and re ? ligious resources of the Christian nations which they were not capable of bearing . The victors were incompetent to extricate themselves with credit from the morass of their victory for the sarile reason that they were incompetent to avoid their earlier descent into the abyss of the war . They were the spokesmen of an economic , political agd social establishment which , although it put forth , grandiose pretensions to civilization , always turned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dangers , instinctively and helplessly to force as t , final arbiter . That is the sober , sinister and decisive truth . Until they recognize it , the democratic peoples will never attain to any considerable clegrect of liberation . If it is true , it constitutes a SUffiie , 11 explanation of the calamity of the war and We tragedy of the peace . For generations the nations had deliberately cherished political designs which were incompatible with the security of their neighbors , and they deliberately agreed to leave tm final settlement of these conflicts to trial by batte , itr The clear implication of this reliance on force if o the vindication of national policy is the abuse o force in the event of victory . Because of their constitutionalism or democracy the more civilized nations pretend that in the management of their political and social business they do not leave the final decision to force . They are deceiving themselves . While constitutionalism and democracy have ameliorated some of the evils of the arbitrament of force in politics , they have left it in ultimate command . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embodiment of power rather than justice . Its worshippers , when they proclaim and glorify its sovereign irresponsibility , admit this indictment . It must demand above everything else obedience to its own commands , no matter Whether those commands are or are not justifiable . It must insist fanatically on law and order -- meaning by law and order , not the triumph of moral knowledge , but the ability of the police to enforce obedience . And the commands which the state must insist all citizens shall obey are commands which are intended in nine cases out of ten to secure to the property-owner not only the undisturbed but usually the exclusive and irresponsible enjoyment of his property . It is of the very essence of the Prevailing conceptions both of the state and of Property that neither politicians nor property-Owners are obliged to recognize any except the mildest obligations in the exercise of their power . The possessors of this power and their interest ni its perpetuation dominate the standards of reputable individual and collective conduct . There Was a time when the Christian Church , as the Spokesman of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embody standards of behav'Or which the state and the property-owner ought it ? Observe in actual practice . It did not , to be sure , tlavernuch success in enforcing the claim . Butthough they never succeeded in bringing about the actual business of Christian standards in political and business behavior , the clergy at least asserted and cherished their , own independence of politicians and property-owners and exercised the right to dis- P. ? se of their own souls . How many of them exer- c'se such a right today ? Both politicians and prop21Y-owners consider themselves entitled to ignore Christian guidance in exercising political and ecn , ? untnic power , to expect or to compel the clergy t ? agree with them and if necessary to treat dis-agreementnegligible . The Christian Church as whole or in part does not protest against the Practically complete secularization of political , economic and social life . reason is , unfortunately , an all-too sufficient as why Christian clergy do not resist the ultiiate reign of force in human affairs and the ever ? rupleter , secularization of society . They them-selves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reign of force . They do not know how to frame a social order founded on moral knowledge which will work as successfully as the physical order ordained by the state . They do not know how to reorganize the institution of private property in the interest of human liberty and social service . They can not guide mankind towards the good life in so far as the good life involves living responsibilities towards other people in this world . They can not lead their flocks because they do not themselves know enough to be good . Christians , indeed all profess belief in the saving quality of the personality and the message of Jesus , but their faith in Him can not break out of the safe sanctuary of merely verbal testimony without being shattered into fragments by their disagreements , ignorance , ineptitude and irreconcilability . They are widely and apparently hopelessly divided one from another in their vision of the way in which ardent Christians can revive for the successive generations of mankind the peculiarly Christian boon of salvation . They have tried the authority of dogma @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Apostles , the hypnosis of reiteration and exhortation and at very rare intervals even the actual imitation of Christ himself , but they have never agreed for long about the sufficiency of more than one method . Today they are less agreed than ever . There exists an entirely efficient anarchy of opinion among Christians as to what it means and costs to be a Christian and as to the authentic way of resurrecting Christ in the souls of the new generation of heathen which is born every minute . Christianity is paralyzed . In the case of the Protestant churches it is nothing but sectarianism tempered by scepticism . In the case of the Catholic church it is nothing but counter-Protestantism . Men glorify the state , cling to it and worship it as a God because their vision of religious truth has ceased to possess authority and integrity . Religious anarchy has existed and steadily increased ever since the Reformation , but not until recently have its effects become sufficiently serious to compromise the process and the fabric of civilization . The Reformation severed the alliance between knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and religious authority . The severance had its wholesome aspect , because the human mind was bound helpless by Catholicism to a body of sacred pseudo-science . Unfortunately , however , in divorcing knowledge from Catholic realism , Protestantism immersed the human mind in a subjectivism which separated it first from any common sense of religious reality and ultimately from any effective sense of religious obligation . There resulted a prodigious growth of purely secular knowledge of the natural world which brought with it an even more prodigious increase in the mechanism of control exercised by man over nature . But owing to the divorce between knowledge and religion , the engineers of the new knowledge transmuted it into irresponsible rather than responsible power . The present awful predicament of civilization is born of this transmutation . The steady expansion of secular knowledge is the dominating fact in the lives of the Christian peoples . It is exercising an ever more complete and irresistible authority over both the conduct and the conscience of mankind . But its authority is devoid of moral sanction . The new knowledge has done little or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole . On the contrary it is vesting the moral ownership of incalculably formidable engines of power in particular classes and nations whose special interests are opposed to general human fulfillment . If the secularization of knowledge continues , it will ultimately wreck civilization . The integrity of the City of God can only be restored by the re-union of knowledge and religion . The re-uniting of knowledge with religion will continue for generations to be the indispensable and salutary task of those who seek human fulfillment . Religious authority has fought since the Reformation a losing and a hopeless battle with secular power and authority . It has suffered defeat . The clearest proof of its defeat consists , not so much in the existing reign of violence and the prevalence of so much deliberately inflicted suffering and chagrin , as in the placid acquiescence in the tragedy by the Christian clergy and in their futile remedies or wretched apologies . They have not in truth deserved anything better than defeat . The beneficiaries of the increase , in secular knowledge were prolific in the invention of novel machines and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and economic power . But those who preached the Gospel of Christ were too conventional , too ignorant , too distracted and above all too subjective to contrive methods of individual and social behavior , adapted to the experimental outlook and the public realities of an age of triumphant natural science , which would liberate and enhance their own lives and the lives of other people . That is why they are defeated and impotent . That is why the Christian Church lacks independence and authority and why the most vital religion of the present day consists in the worship of the state . If the Christian Church wishes to compete with the state for the loyalty of modern men and women , if it wishes to infect the lives of Christians with motives other than those derived from the apotheosis of private property , and if its ministers wish to regain . spiritual independence and dignity , they can only do so by recovering the possession of authoritative Christian knowledge . For without such knowledge they can not lay out paths of human salvation more persuasive to the people of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sacraments , propaganda and endless and fruitless exhortation . It is manifest , also , whither they must look for the Christian knowledge which will , if achieved , serve to restore the authority of the Christian Church and gradually overthrow the sinister do* minion of organized and self-righteous force . If there is any constructive Christian knowledge , it is surely a knowledge of human nature . In so far as the Christian Church has succeeded in liberating and enhancing human life , it has succeeded by virtue of the profound knowledge of human nature contained in the Gospels . In so far as it has failed , the failure is associated with a subsequent falsi fication of human nature . The falsification f ? 1 " lowed from the acceptance by the Church of the doctrine of an original sin which fatally afflicted all mankind and from which the sinners could escape only by a miracle of grace . Such a theory was convenient in order to square Chris ' tianity with a pre-existing paganism and with many evidences of human unregeneracy , but its implicit mechanizing of human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It undermined the foundations of an essentially and peculiarly Christian knowledge which was a know ' ledge of the liberating truth . It sanctioned the subjection and frustration of human nature in this world . The theory of human depravity and conse ' quent immobility is always cherished by those ill " dividuals and classes who profit by an existing clis ' tribution of power and propose to write their O. privileges and accidental superiority over their fellow men into the statutes of the universe . It Is more alive today than ever . Modern scientific naturalists who began by conceiving mankind a fatally regenerate often ended by conceiving it 3s fatally unregenerate . All the contemporary eneroiee of human liberation are resting their case on s ? rad affirmation of human depravity and immobility an some policeman 's vision of society and civilization ; The disposition to secularize knowledge and keeP divorced from religion finds its completest exPres sion and , I hope , its last ditch in this un-Christiall ' irreligious and perverted view of human nature . t As a matter of fact , modern science does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Anthropology and psychology are beginning to converge upon a theory of man and of society which portrays them as , indeed , the arena of interminable domestic conflicts which lends some plausibility to the doctrine of depravity , but they also open the door to the liberation of men and women from their bondage by the discovery of a valid moral compensation for their immediate losses . Psychology may soon be qualified to supply to those who are interested in the art of living a much sounder science of human life than our forbears have ever had . But not unless psychologists recognize the extent to which the knowledge of human nature depends upon faith in human nature . The effective testimony in favor of human regeneracy must come from the affirmation by a renascent Christianity of the saving virtue of the imitation of Christ . The love and reverence for human life born of the imitation of Christ constitute the substance of a truth which in so far as it is acknowledged really has some chance of setting mankind free . The possessors of such knowledge could take advantage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man and his natural environment in Order to contrive immediately operative methods of liberation . They could build a civilization whose security would depend upon the moral authority of a Church rather than the irresistible power of a state . And that Church would consist of men and women who were capable of understanding what it means to love your neighbor as yourself and of thing in the light of that understanding throughout their days in this world . HERBERT CROLY . A Christmas Carol HE horses were steaming . Over their heads the driver 's whip cracked with the same brit- die sound the wheels had on the snow . Occasion- ally the driver swore . But softly , and the five of his Were boxed inside his coach could not catch , 18 choice of words . We should have huddled ether , on the wooden seats , for the sake of shar-i together ' what bodily heat was still left in us . But we eicl apart , save now and then when a snowdrift filled under the leeward wheels and toppled us into finct3rner . Twice the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been sent spinning . A erY small toy cannon for his son had rolled b , eneath the seat and down through , a wide crevice ill the floor . He could not reach it , though he kept trying to , at intervals . When he was n't under the seat he sat staring sullenly at the floor , a misan-thr ? Pe on Christmas Eve . The other three were not so taciturn . The travelling salesman did most , I think , to keep the conversation running . But the dry-goods jobber and the little man with gold-rimmed glasses kept him company . Their talk had followed a beaten track , as men 's talk will , this Christmas Eve . Amazing , one of them had said , that all nine of those judges had stood together . Not one dissenting vote . That was n't generally the case , observed the man with the gold-rimmed glases . Usually it was 6 to 3 , or evens to 4 . He was no gossip , but there was something queer about that unanimous vote . Why should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreed on anything , now suddenly cast their votes together ? The dry-goods jobber nodded knowingly ; and the travelling salesman declared that his brother , who used to live in Washington , knew it for a positive fact that there was n't a single Justice of the Court who had n't a cellar full of contraband . There was one Justice ? Garfield , was n't it ? ? who had brought so many cases of Jamaica rum into Washington that three drays had to be borrowed from the Smithsonian Institute to move it . And him having the nerve to write the Court 's decision ! And those lame ducks in Congress I They could act quick enough to vote down a repeal of the wartime prohibition act . But what good were they when the Germans sank the Lusi-tania ? There were times , however , when the conversation took a brighter turn . And it was on these occasions that the travelling salesman reached his greatest heights . He had a brother ? his brothers seemed to dot those rare parts of the earth outside his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Havana . He had another brother , this one in West Virginia , who could take a bicycle and a sprinkling can and go patronize any one of the seventy-seven different mountain stills he had a mind to . He had stories , too , of his own prodigious travels . Of Rhode Islanders drinking cocktails exquisitely compounded of purchasable toilet waters . Of coughdrops , bought in Chattanooga , that might be melted into a rare elixir by the addition of warm gravy . Of the pied piper who came into Kenosha with a magic hair-oil . It was an Arabian Night 's Tale . But though it set the man with glasses marvelling , it never caught and held the attention of the dry-goods jobber . The jobber listened absently . And now and then he 'd rub a forefinger on the frosted window-pane and squint with one eye at a corner building no longer gay with lights . " Ike 's , " he 'd say softly . " Rudy 's . . . " I think it was when our bus was a little more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    