@@487122

- WORCESTER , Mass. , November 13 . The autumn meeting of the Academy was held at New Haven on November 12 and 13 . The beautiful new Sloane Physics Laboratory of Yale University furnished an excellent place for the meeting , and the arrangements provided by the local committee were admirable . About fifty members were in attendance and twenty-one papers were read , nearly all ha'ving to do with geological or biological subjects . William M. Davis , of Harvard University , in a paper entitled " Physiographic Evidence in Favor of the Subsidence Theory of Coral Reefs , " gave arguments for a theory which was proposed fifty or sixty years ago by Dana , but which has received scant attention by naturalists since that time . In the case of a mountainous island surrounded by- a barrier reef it may be possible that the reef grows laterally without subsidence or by upward growth upon a sinking mass . By looking at the reef it may be impossible to distinguish between these two cases , and , in default of zoological evidence , Professor Davis suggests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - seems to show subsidence . The case of a mountain with a radial pattern of ridges alternating with bays giving a star shaped shore line seems to be beyond production by marine erosion , which would produce Vertical cliffs . But ordinary erosion of the land would produce the radial valleys , and the submergence of the whole pattern would give the indented shore line . For instance , Greece has bays with a wash of gravel which has come down from the mountains . In coral islands the absence of wash shows a continuous sinking , as in the theory of Darwin and Dana . The question why the valleys are not continued under the sea is answered by the explanation that they have been filled up by the growth of the coral after submergence . William B. Scott , of Princeton University , in a paper on " Restorations of Tertiary Mammals , " gave an interesting explanation of the process , so mysterious to the layman , by which the paleontologist is able to reproduce the appearance of extinct animals . Having disposed of the popular idea that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he stated that any restoration must be founded on a virtually complete skeleton . The number of these is few , but is constantly increasing . It is a simple matter to put the muscles on the skeleton , as all leave indications on the bones . It is more difficult to decide whether the animal did or did not possess hair , and what its color was Nevertheless , we now know that the color design is almost always such as to cause the animal to be invisible in its ordinary surroundings . This would generally be attained by longitudinal stripes which were often later broken up into spotted patterns . The fawns of all deer are still spotted , showing that deer were spotted until recently . As a result of these principles , Professor Scott showed numerous very life-like illustrations , which he compared with some of those produced under the direction of Professor Osborn , the two sets displaying decided similarity . Henry F Osborn ; of the American Mu seum of Natural History , in a paper on " Geologic Correlation of Upper Palaeolithic Faunas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the palmolithic caverns of Italy , the south of France , and Spain . All these caverns contain most interesting drawings , about 4,000 in all , of palolithic animals of the upper pleistocene , such as the mammoth , the lion , the horse , ass , and ibex . These caverns in the limestone are sometimes half a mile in depth , and are frequently entered with great difficulty through a very narrow opening . The outlines of these pictures were cut in the stone and the surface then colored , showing that , although the caves were formed by the action of water , they have been free from water since the drawings were made . In one newly discovered cave there have been found two small clay statuettes of bisons showing fingerprints of palmolithic man on the clay . These drawings , executed at least 25,000 years ago , were by no means of the rough sort made by children , but were most artistically executed and , as shown in a number of lantern-slides , produced a profound impression of the development of skill in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Rockefeller Institute , in a paper " On the Fertilization of the Egg of Invertebrates with Blood , " described some of the ways in which artificial parthenogenesis may be brought about An egg may be artificially fertilized by the production of glucosides , or other reagents used in bacteriology . The egg is put in the medium for a time , and when set back in sea water will develop , but a second treatment with the reagent is generally necessary Among the agencies that may be used is blood , which even when diluted 500 times will - fertilize the eggs of the sea urchin . The blood of any foreign species , particularly of mammals , is efficacious . At first only about one in ten of the eggs would develop , but it was found that the use of chloride of strontium or barium makes the egg sensitive to the action of the blood It is important to note that the fertilization membrane can be called forth by the blood of a foreign animal , but not of the animal itself ; otherwise all ani male would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the physical property of diffusion , that is to say , two different solutions can diffuse into each other through a membrane , while two similar ones can not ; thus , the foreign blood can diffuse into the egg , while the blood of the animal itself can not It is to be noted that the offspring of parthenogenesis is always male . The question arises whether what has been stated is true of other species as well as for the sea urchin . As a matter of fact , the refractory eggs of certain molluscs were successfully treated with ox blood , and Dr. Loeb concludes that in the blood of all animals there is a substance causing fertilization membranes and subsequent devel-opment Edwin G. Conklin , of Princeton University , treated the problem of " Cell Division and Differentiation " ? that is , the question- How does the simple egg cell become the complicated structure of the adult ? This is the meaning of the term differentiation In the first place , it is shown that the egg is not entirely homogeneous , but that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body structures , even before division begins , from which materials the different parts of the adult develop In the process of division the cell first splits into two , each of which again divides , and so on , until there are hundreds of cells . If the egg does not divide , we do not get much differentiation In the cell division we have the different materials segregated in different cells , the partition between the cells being impervious to the different substances . The nucleus of the egg also divides , sending out diffusing streams , which cause the different substances in the cell to mix . Those in the surface layer , on the contrary , do not mix , so that differentiation begins at the periphery When a cell is formed with no partitions there is not mix through it , and differentiation takes place . This is tested by preventing the cell division . Each nucleus then divides , but the partition does not form , and there is no differentiation . Charles B. Davenport , of the Station for Experimental Evolution of the Carnegie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Color in Negro-White Crosses , " examines the question whether the mixture of negroes and whites is an exception to Mendel 's law , since in this case we have a blending of the characteristics rather than separation of the characteristics of the parents in the descendants . The method of the investigation was to send tactful field workers to ascertain accurately the parentage , while the color of the skin is carefully determined by matching it to the hue of a color-mixing top . The skins of 700 offspring were measured , as also those of the parents . Inasmuch as the color changes with the age , it is necessary to make an allowance for this . Observations were made in Bermuda , where there are two classes of blacks , the descendants of the Senegarnbians being darker than those of the Gold Coast . It turns out that when two mulattoes are crossed the offspring varies much more than in the first generation , clear whites appearing as well as dark skins In eighty-one offspring of mulattoes there were five whites , which is almost exactly the one-sixteenth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for black . The whole population being plotted and compared with the calculated expectation gives a surprising agreement with the theory of heredity . Franz Boas , of Columbia University , in a paper on " New Data on the Influence of Heredity and Environment Upon the Bodily Form of Man , " - continues in a different manner the study which he has hitherto made of the physical characteristics of the children of immigrants Just as a tall father and short mother produce children who tend to be more variable than when the parents are alike , so by examining the population of any region where two types overlap we should expect to find increased variability in the intermediate region . In northern Italy we find a short-headed type , while in southern Italy we find a long-headed or Mediterranean type Thus we have low variability in the north and south , with high variability in the central region . We also find the Mediterranean type on the Ligurian coast , which is near the Alps , where the other type exists , while between is the region of high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presented a paper en " The Problem of the Asteroids . " There are about eight hundred of these small bodies , mostly lying between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter , many of them too small to be seen unless their position is known with considerable accuracy . This prediction of position is a problem of great mathematical difficulty , and whereas most of the planets and their satellites give rise to mathematically similar cases of the problem of three bodies , the asteroids belong to several entirely different cases , and thus constitute , so to speak , the laboratory of the student of celestial mechanics . In most cases the orbit of the asteroid , which is not a closed curve , is not even very near to being a circle . If we find the average orbit of all the asteroids we see that they occupy a belt of a certain diameter , and that then there is a gap containing few asteroids , then another belt , a second gap , and then a belt Comparing the period of Jupiter with those of the asteroids , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of resonance , by which the cumulative action of Jupiter causes a large oscillation in the radius vector of the asteroid , and that this large oscillation gives rise to a change of period in the asteroid . Saturn may produce a similar phenomenon . The existence of the gaps is undoubtedly due to the same causes as those producing the gaps in Saturn 's rings , which are known to be composed of swarms of small satellites . Robert W. Wood , of Johns Hopkins University , contributed the only physical papers , three in number . In describing some results obtained with the most powerful spectrograph in the world , he showed the construction of the apparatus at his summer laboratory at Easthampton , where a large flat diffraction grating five inches square , ruled with seventy-five thousand lines in all , gives him a powerful resolution , while a lens of forty feet focus gives a high dispersion . The grating and lens are mounted on a column out of doors , while the slit and camera are indoors , and the tube is made of wood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the grating in the resolution of the green mercury line were shown , which compared favorably with the work of the echelon grating and the interference methods now so popular . It even seems likely that with gratings of the goodness of those now obtainable the grating may once more take its place as the most accurate instrument for wave-length determinations . In a second paper on the possibility of photographing molecules , Professor Wood suggested that this apparently lea-possible result may be accomplished by the methods of ultramicroscopy . The principle of this method is that of illuminating a small body in a perfectly black field , all the extra light being carried away by total reflection at the surface of a prism on which the small body lies . By diffraction from the small ob ject an image is obtained , and Professor Wood believes that a molecule might be photographed if a sufficiently long exposure were given . It will be necessary to find a substance which fluoresces strongly in ultraviolet light , and to secure the molecules in a solid solution , such as a layer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hospitality of the local members at a dinner at the new Taft Hotel , and of Yale University at a reception given by President and Mrs. Hadley in the art galleries of the University . ARTHUR GORDON WEBSTER Among the science books shortly to be published by the Columbia University Press . are the following . " Graphical Methods , " by Carl Runge , professor of applied mathematics in the University of Gottingen , and three volumes of the Studies in Cancer and Allied Subjects ? Vol , I , " The Study of Experimental Cancer , a Review , " by William H Woglom ; Vol . III , " Studies from the Departments of Zoology , Surgery , Clinical Pathology , and Biological Chemistry , " and Vol . IV , " Contributions to the Anatomy and Development of the Salivary Glands in the Mammalia " Vol . II , " Pathology , " has already been issued . The Congress of Americanists , which met this year in London , has accepted the invitation to hold the next meeting in Washington , in 1914 , probably in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , make preparations The sessions of the Congress will take place in the new building-of the National Museum . A second session , following that in Washington , will convene at La Paz , Bolivia " The Tyne , " the opening article of the Geographteal Journal for November , by A J Sargent , is a suggestive study of the geography of a region in which is shown the correlation of three sets of facts , the geological , topographical , and economic , and also the relation of man to his environment , which has led to an extraordinary concentration of industry . Dr. Carl Lumholtz gives an account of the Sonora Dedert of Mexico and the Papago Indians . Notwithstanding the scarcity of rain , the soil is in places extremely fertile , and will doubtless " some day delight the eye with waving-fields of grain and orchards of fruit " Prof. A J Herbertson , of Oxford , shows , with sketch-maps , the way in which the thermal conditions of the earth 's surface can be represented for the use of geographers Among the noteworthy contents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Danish expedition through Iceland by its leader , Capt J P Koch , a report of his recent explorations in the Pbmirs by A. v. Schultz , and the proposals for the construction of airship maps made by the cartographical commission of the International Aeronautic Federation In the military department are described the new fortifications on the Italian-Swiss frontier and their significance , and the railway system and fortifications of Servia There is also an account of a projected naval port on the southern coast of Korea If the plans of the Japanese Marine Department are carried out , in ten years Chinhai be the greatest naval port in eastern Asia . William Ogilvie , astronomer and explorer , died last week in Winnipeg , Manitoba , at the age of sixty-six He was appointed chief clerk and astronomer of the Canadian Department of the Interior in 1396 He was in the Yukon when gold was discovered , was commissioner of police there in 1887 , and Governor of the Yukon Territory from 1898 to 1901 One book , " Early Days of the Yukon and the Klondike , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               