@@435434

PERAIA PS nothing makes a profounder impression on the newcomer to our end of the city than the value placed by t he Jew upon education ; an overvaluation ; one is tempted to think , in view of the sacrifices which are made , particularly for the boys , ? though of late cars the girls ' claims have penetrated even to the Oriental home . 011C afternoon a group of old-world women at in the reception room at the settlement while one of the residents sang and played negro melodies . With the melancholy minor of ' Let My People Go : the women began crooning a song that told the story of Cain and Abel . The melody was not identical , bat so similar that they thought they recognized the song as their own ; and when a discussion arose upon the coincidence that two persecuted peoples should claim this melody , the women , touched by the music , confessed their homesick longing for Russia ? for Russia that had dealt so unkindly with them . Rather a stone for a pillow in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life had pressed hard . Would you go back ? ' she was asked . ' Oh , no , no , no ! ' emphasizing the words by a swaying of the body and a shaking of the head . ' It not poverty we fear . It is not money we are seeking here . We do not expect things for ourselves . It is the chance for the children , education and freedom for them . ' The passion of the Russian Jews for intellectual attainment recalls the spirit of the early New England families and their willingness to forego every comfort that a son might be set apart for the ministry . Here we are often witnesses of long-continued deprivation on the part of every member of the family , a willingness to deny themselves everything but the barest necessities of life , that there may be a doctor , a lawyer , or a teacher among them . Submission to bad housing , excessive hours , and poor working conditions is defended as of no matter because the children will have better and can go to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showed the ill-effects of basement and night work and whose three rooms housed a family of ten , My boy is already in the high school . If I ca n't keep on , the Herr Gott will take it up where I leave off . ' A painful instance was that of a woman who came to the settlement one evening . Her son was studying music under one of the most famous masters in Vienna , and she had exiled herself to New York in order to earn more money for him than she could possibly earn at home . Literally , as I afterwards discovered , she spent nothing upon herself . A tenement family gave her lodging ( a bed on chairs ) and food , in return for scrubbing done after her day 's work in 649 the necktie factory . The Viennese master , not knowing his pupil 's circumstances , or , it is possible , not caring , had written that the young man needed to give a concert , an additional deMand which it was utterly impossible for her to meet . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relinquished her wardrobe , and she had sold her grave for him . One young lad stands out among the many who came to talk over their desire to go through college . He dreamed of being great and , this period of hard-Ship over , of placing his family in comfort . I felt it right to emphasize his obligation to the family ; the father was dead , the mother burdened with anxiety for the numerous children . How reluctant I was to do this he could not realize ; only fourteen , he had impressed us with his fine courage and intelligence , and it was hard to resist the young pleader and to analyze with him the commonplace sordid facts . He had planned to work all summer , to work at night , and he was hardly going to eat at all . But his young mind grasped , almost before I had finished , the ethical impOrtance of meeting his nearest duties . He has met the family claims with generosity , and has realized all our expectations for him by acquiring through his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense of civic responsibility . Those who have had for many years continuous acquaintance with the neighborhood have countless occasions to rejoice at the good use made of the education so ardently desired , and achieved in spite of what have seemed overwhelming odds . New York City is richer for the contributions made to its civic and educational life by the young people who grew up in and with the settlements , and who are not infrequently ready crusaders in social causes . A country gentleman one day lamented to me that he had failed to keep in touch with what he was pleased to call our humanitarian zeal , and recalled his own early attempt to take an East Side boy to his estate and employ him . Be could not even learn to harness a horse ! ' he said , with implied contempt of such unfathomable inefficiency . Something he said of the lad 's characteristics made it possible for me to identify him . and I was able to add to that unsatisfactory first chapter another , which told of the boy 's continuance in school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the higher institutions of learning , and of his remarkable intelligence in certain vexed industrial problems . Such achievements are the more remarkable because the restricted tenement home , where the family life goes on in two or three rooms , affords little Opportunity for reading or study . A vivid picture of its limitations was presented by the boy who sought a quiet corner in a busy settlement . ' I can never study at home , ' he said , because sister is always using the table to wash the dishes . ' Study rooms were opened in the settlement in 1907 , where the boys and girls find , not only a quiet restful place in which to do their work , but also the needed coaching . ' The school work is supplemented by illuminating bulletins on current topics , and the young sth. dent is provided with the aid which in other conditions is given by parents or older brothers and sisters . Such study rooms are now maintained by the Board of Education in numerous schools of the city , ? ' Thanks to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the New York school system reported . It is easy to excite sympathy in our neighborhood for people deprived of books and learning . One year I accompanied a party of Northern peepie to the Southern Educational Conference . rye were all much stirred by the appeal of an itinerant Southern minister who told how the poor white natives traveled miles over the mountains to hear books read . He pictured vividly the deprivation of his neighbors , who had no access to libraries of any kind . When I returned to the settlement and related the story to the young people in the clubs , without suggestion on my part they eagerly voted to send the minister books to form a library ; and for two years or more , until the Southerner 1. ote that he had sufficient for his purpose , the clubs purchased from their several funds one book each month , suited to different ages and tastes , according to their own excellent discrimination . II It was logical that my first acquaintance with the public-school system of New York should have come about because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I had been down town only a short time when I met Louis . An open door in a rear tenement .. revealed a woman standing over a washtub , a fretting baby on her left arm , while with her right she rubbed at the butcher 's aprons which she washed for a living . Louis , she explained , was bad . ' He did not cure his head , ' and what would become of him , for they would not take hint int is t he school because of it ? Louis , hanging 1 he offending head , said he had been to the dispensary a good many Macs . He knew it was awful for a twelve-year-old boy not to know how to read the names of the streets on the lump-posts , but ' every time I go to school Teacher tells me to go home . ' It needed only intelligent application of the dispensary ointments to cure the affected area , and in September I had the joy of securing the boy 's admittance to school for the first time in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he fairly rushed up our five flights of stairs in the Jefferson Street tenement , to spell the elementary words he had acquired that morning . It had been hard on Louis to be denied the precious years of school , yet one could sympathize with the harassed school-teachers . The classes were overcrowded ; there were frequently as many as sixty pupils in a single room , and often three children on a seat . It was , perhaps , not unnatural that the eczema on Louis 's head should have been seized upon as a legitimate excuse for not adding him to the number . Perhaps it was not to be expected that the teacher should feel concern for one small boy whom she might never see again , or should realize that his brief time for education was slipping away and that he must go to work fatally handicapped because of his illiteracy . The predecessor of our present superintendent had apparently given no thought to the social relationship of the school to the pupils . The general public had no accurate information concerning the schools , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . We heard of flagrant instances of political influence in the selection and promotion of teachers , and later on we had actual knowledge of their humiliation at being forced to obtain through sordid ' pull ' the positions to which they had a legitimate claim . I had myself once been obliged to enter the saloon of N , the alderman of our district , to obtain the promise of necessary and long-delayed action on his part for the city 's acceptance of the gift of a street fountain , which I had been indirectly instrumental in securing for the neighborhood . I had been informed by his friends that without this attention he would not be likely to act . Louis set me thinking and opened my mind to many things . Miss Brew- ster and I decided to keep memoranda of the children we encountered who had been excluded from school for medical reasons , and later our enlarged staff of nurses became equally interested in obtaining data regarding them . When one of the nurses found a small boy attending school while desquamating from scarlet fever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to startle his little classmates , we exhibited him to the President of the Department of Health , and I then learned that the possibility of having physicians inspect the school-children was under dismission , and that such evidence of its need as we could produce would be helpful in securing an appropriatiOn for this purpose . I had come to the conclusion that the nurse would be an essential factor in making effective whatever treatment might be suggested for the pupils , and , following an observation of mine to this effect , the president asked me to take part , as nurse , in the medical supervision in the schools , This offer it did not seem wise to accept . We were embarking upon ventures of our own which would require all our faculties and all our strength . It seemed wiser to be:free from connections which would make demand upon our energies for routine work outside the settlement . Moreover , the time did not seem ripe for advocating the introduction of both the doctor and the nurse . The doctor himself , in this capacity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been a radiCal departure . In 1897 the Department of Health appointed the first doctors ; one hundred and fifty were assigned to the schools for one hour a day at a salary of $30 a month . They were expected to examine for contagious diseases and to send out Of the clasSrooms all those who showed suspicious symptoms . It proved to be a perfunctory service and only superfi cially touched the needs of the children . In 1902 , when a reform administration came into power , the medical staff was reduced and the salary increased to $100 a month , while three hours a day were demanded from the doctors . The Health Commissioner of that administration , an intelligent friend of children , now ordered an examination of all the public-school pupils , and New York was horrified to learn of the prevalence of trachoma . Thousands of children were sent out of the schools because of this infectious eye trouble , and in our neighborhood we watched many of them , after school hours , playing with the children for whose protection they had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and it followed that truancy was encouraged , and , where medical inspection was most thorough , the classrooms were depleted . The President of the Department of Education and the Health Commissioner sought for guidance in this predicament . Examination by physicians with the object of excluding children from the classrooms had proved a doubtful blessing . The time had come when it seemed right to urge the addition of the nurse 's service to that of the doctor . My colleagues and I offered to show that with her assistance few children would lose their valuable school time and that it would be possible to bring under treatment those who needed it . Reluctant that the democracy of the school should be invaded by even the most socially minded philanthropy , I exacted a promise from several of the city officials that if the experiment were successful they would use their influence to have the nurse , like the doctor , paid from public funds . Four schools from which there had been the greatest number of exclusions for medical causes were selected , and an experienced nurse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set t lement staff to make the demonstration . A routine was devised , and the CNain lain ; physician sent daily to the rtur , all the pupils who were found to ! , in need of attention ? using a code of symbols in order that the children might be spared the chagrin of having dit , aces due to uncleanliness adverti , , 1 to their associates . With the equipment of the settlement bag and , in some of the schools , with no more than the ledge of a window and the corner of a room for the nurse 's office , the present system of thorough medical inspection in the schools , and of home-visitation , was inaugurated . Many of the children needed only disinfectant treatment of the eyes , collodion applied to ringworm , or instruction as to cleanliness ; and such were returned at once to the class with a Minimum loss of precious school time . Where more serious conditions existed , the nurse called at the home , explained to the mother what the doctor advised , and , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be taken to him . In the families of the poor , information as to dispensaries was given , and where the mother was at work and there was no one free to take the child to he dispensary , the nurse herself did this . Where children were sent to the nurse because of uncleanliness , the mother was given tactful instruction , and , when necessary , a practical denionstration on the child himself . One month 's trial proved that , with the exception of the major contagious and infect ious diseases , ? a very small , Hml ion , ? the addition of the nurse i made it possible to reverse the object of medical inspection from excluding the children from school to keeping the children in the classroom and under treatment . An enlightened Board of Estimate and Apportionment voted $30,000 for the employment of trained nurses , ? the first municipalized school nurses in the world , ? now a feature of medical school supervision in many communities in this country and in Europe . The first nurse was placed on the city pay-roll @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the beginning of an extraordinary development in the public control of the physical condition of children . Out of this innovation New York City 's Bureau of Child Hygiene has developed . In the year 1014 this bureau employed 650 trained nurses , and there is every expectation that the number will be increased to meet the community 's growing demand for their services . Indeed , the nurse has played so important a part in the public-health movements of this generation , that fuller reference to her activities must be reserved for another chapter . Poor Louis , who all unconsciously had started the train of incidents which led to this practical reform , had long since moved from his Hester Street home to Kansas , and was able to write us , as he did with enthusiasm , of his identification with the West . III The first public school established in New York City ( Number 1 ) is on Henry Street . Number 2 is a short distance from it , on the same street , and Number 147 is at our corner . Between their sites @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ School No. 1 to School No. 147 the distance is not more than three quarters of a mile . It is not unnatural , therefore , that the school should loom large in our consciousness of the life of the child . The settlement at no time would , even if it could , usurp the place of school or home . It seeks to work with both or to supplement either . The fact that it is flexible and is not committed to any fixed programme gives opportunity for experimentation not possible in a rigid system , and the results of these experiments must have affected school methods , at least in New York City . Intelligent social workers seize opportunities for observation , and almost unconsciously develop methods to meet needs . They see conditions as they are , and become critical of systems as they act and react upon the child or fail to reach him at all . They reverse the method of the school-teacher , who approaches the child with preconceived theories and a determination to work them out . Where the school fails , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makes education a thing apart , ? because it separates its work from all that makes up the child 's life outside the classroom . Great emphasis is now laid upon the oversight of the physical condition of children from the time of their birth through school life ; but the suggestion of this extension of socialized parental control did not emanate from those within the school system . Cooking has been taught in the public schools for many years , and the instruction is of great value to those who are admitted to the classes ; but appropriations have never been sufficient to meet all the requirements , and the teaching is given in grades already depleted by the girls who have gone to work , and who will perhaps never again have leisure or inclination to learn how to prepare meals for husband and children , ? the most important business in life for most women . The laboratory method employed in the schools never seemed to us sufficiently related to the home conditions of vast numbers of the city 's population ; and therefore , when the settlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ girls ' education , all the essentials of our own housekeeping ? stove , refrigerator , bedrooms , and so ea ? were utilized . But neither were sin , gle bedrooms and rooms set apart for distinct purposes entirely satisfactory in teaching domestic procedure to the average neighbor ; and the leader final . ly developed out of her knowledge of their home conditions the admirable system of ' Honsekeeping Centres ' sus : taMed and administered by a committee of men and women on which the settlement has representation . A flat was rented in a typical Henry Street tenement . Intelligence and taste were exercised in equipping it inexpensively and with furniture that required the least possible labor to keep it free from dirt and vermin . Classes were formed to teach housekeeping in its every detail , using nothing which the people themselves could not procure , ? a tiny bathroom , a gas stove , no model ' tubs , but such as the landlord provided for washing . Cleaning , disinfecting , actual purchasing of supplies in the shops of the neighborhood , household accounts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ systematically taught . The first winter that the centre was opened the entire membership of a class consisted of girls engaged to be married , ? clerks , stenographers , teachers ; none were prepared and all were eager to have the homes which they were about to establish better organized and more intelligently conducted than those from which they had come . When one young woman announced her betrothal , she added , And I am fully prepared because I have been through the Housekeeping Centre . ' Six centres have been established by the committee in different parts of the city . Dr. Maxwell , Superintendent of Schools , always sympathetic and ready to fit instruction to the pupils ' needs , has encouraged the identification of these housekeeping centres with the schools . Whenever an enter- prising principal desires it , the teachers Of the near-by housekeeping centre are made a part of the school system . perhaps we may some day see one attached to every public school ; and I am inclined to believe that , when institutions of higher le , arning fully realize that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the young women graduates of their colleges should not , like our little girl neighbors , be fitted to meet their great home-making responsibilities . Out of the experience of the originator of the housekeeping centres , Penne Lunches ' for the public schools have hen inaugurated , and now provide a lait noonday meal for children . The commit tee now controlling this experiment has inquired into food-values , physical effects on children , relation to school attendance , and so on . The schools in a great city have an additional responsibility , as many of the pupils are deprived of home training because of extreme poverty or the absence of the mother at work , and a measure of failure may be traced to an imperfect realization of the conditions under which pupils live , or to a lack of training on the part of some of the teachers . The Home-and-School Visitor , whose duties are indicated in her title , is charged to bring the two together , that each may help the other ; but there are few visitors as yet , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over 800,000 ) is obviously limited . We are not always mindful of the fact that children in normal homes get education apart from formal lessons and instruction . Sitting down to a table at definite hours , to eat food properly served , is training , and so is the orderly organization of the home of which the child so soon becomes a conscious part . There is direction toward control in the provision for privacy , beginning with the sequestered nursery life . The exchange of letters , which begins with most children at a very early age , the conversation of their elders , familiarity with telegrams and telephones , and with the incidents of travel , stimulate their intelligence , resourcefulness , and self-reliance . Contrast this regulated domestic life with the experience of children ? an enormous percentage in New York ? wino may never have been seated around a table in an orderly manner , at a given time , for a family meal . Where the family is large and the rooms small , and those employed return at irregular hours , its members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uncommon in a neighborhood such as ours to see the mother lean out of the fourth- or fifth-story window and throw down the bread-and-butter luncheon to the little child waiting on the sidewalk below ? sometimes to save him the exertion of climbing the stairs , sometimes because of insufficient time . The children whose mothers work all day and who are locked out during their absence are expected to shift for themselves , and may as often be given too much as too little money to appease their hunger . Having no more discretion in the choice of food than other children of their age , they become an easy prey for the peddlers of unwholesome foods and candies ( often with gambling devices attached ) who prowl outside the school limits . Even those students who are better placed economically , or who have the perseverance to go on into the higher schools , may have had no experience but that of a disorganized tenement home . Emil was an instance of this . He supported himself while attending school by teaching immigrants at night . We invited him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instructed him to call in the morning for his railroad ticket . He failed to appear until long after the appointed hour , not realizing that trains leave on schedule time . Apparently he had never consulted a time-table or taken a journey except With a fresh-air party conducted by someone else . Next morning he returned the ticket , and I learned that he had not reached the farm because he did not know the way to it from the station . Somewhat disconcerted to learn that he had taken fruitlessly a trip of something over an hour 's duration ; I asked why he had not telephoned to the farm for directions . This seventeen-year-old boy ; in his third year in the high school , had not thought of a telephone in the country . Moreover , he had never used one anywhere . Happily there is a growing realization among educators of the necessity of relating the school more closely to the children 's future , and it is not an accident that one of the widely known authorities on vocational guidance has had long experience in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the letters which I wrote regularly to her family during the first two years of my life on the East Side . I had almost forgotten , until these letters recalled it to me , how often Miss Brewster and I mourned over the boys and girls who were not in schocil , and over those who had already gone to work without any education . Almost every one has had knowledge at some time of the chagrin felt by people who can not read or write . One intelligent woman of my acquaintance , born in New York State , ingeniously succeeded for many years in keeping the fact of her illiteracy secret from the people with whom she lived on terms of intimacy , buying the newspaper daily and making a pretense of reading it . We had na ? vely assumed that elemen- tary education was given to all , and were appalled to find entire families unable to read or write , even though some of the children had been born in Amer. ica . The letters remind me , too , of the efforts we made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day school or night school , public or private , ? and how many different people reacted to our appeals . The Department of Health , to facilitate our efforts , sup . plied us with virus points and authorit to vaccinate , since no unvaccinated child could be admitted to school . We gave such publicity as was in our power to the conditions we found , not disdaining to stir emotionally by our ' Stn. ries ' when dry and imperfect statistics failed to impress . Since those days , New York City has established a school census and has almost perfected a policy whereby all children are brought into school ; but throughout the state there are communities where the compulsory education law is disregarded . The Federal Census of 1910 shows in this Empire State . in the counties ( Franklin and Clinton ) inhabited by the native-born , illiteracy far in excess of that in the counties where the foreign-born congregate , Wonderful advance has been made within two decades in the conception of municipal responsibility for giving schooling to all children . Now the blind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defective are included among those who have the right to education . When in 1893 I climbed the stairs in a Monroe Street tenement in answer to a call ton , sick child , I found Annie F ? lying on a tumbled bed , rigid in the brace , which encased her from head to feet . All about her , white goods were being manufactured , and five machines were whirring in the room . She had been dismissed from the hospital as incurable , and her mother carried her at intervals to an uptown orthopedic dk- , iry A pitiful , emaciated little pc n. ? ? creature ! The sweatshop was transkured for Annie when we put pretty white curtains at the window upon which she gazed , hung a bird-cage , and placed a window-box full of growing plants for her to look at during the long days . Then , realizing that she might live many years and would need , even more t han other children , the joys that come from books , we found a young woman who was willing to go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crippled as Annie was may be taken to school daily , under the supervision of a qualified nurse , in a van that calls for them and briligs them home . One of these schools , established by intelligent philanthropists , is on Henry Street : the instructors arc engaged and paid by the Department of Education . There are also classes in different sections of the city equipped for the special needs of cripples , to give them industrial training which will provide for their future happiness and economic independence . Educators have only recently realized the existence of large numbers of pupils within the schools who are unequal to the routine class-work because of mental defects . It was one of our settlement residents , a teacher in a Henry Street school , who first startled us into serious consideration of these children . In the year 1899 she brought to is from time to time reports of a colleague whose attention was fixed upon thepoor things ' unable to keep up with the grade . She had , our resident declared , ' ideas ' about them . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a privilege to learn to know the noble enthusiasm of this young woman for those pupils who , to teachers , must always seem the least hopeful . The Board of Education permitted her to form the first class for ungraded pupils , in School Number 1 , in 1900 , and the settlement gladly helped develop her theory of separate classes and special instruction for the defectives , not alone for their sakes , but to relieve the normal classes which their presence retarded . We provided equipment not yet on the School Board 's requisition list , obtained permission for her to attend children 's clinics , secured treatment for the children , and finally , and not least important , made every effort to interest members of the School Board and the public generally in this class of children . The plan included the provision of a luncheon . For this we purchased tables , paper napkins , and dishes . The children brought from home bread and butter , and a penny for a glass of milk , and an alert principal made practical the cooking lessons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them prepare the main dish of the pupils ' luncheon ? incidentally the first to he provided in the grade schools . Occasionally the approval of the families would be expressed in extra donations , and in the beginning this sometimes took the form of a bottle of beer . Every day one pupil was permitted to invite an adult member of his family to the luncheon , which led naturally to an exchange of visits between members of the family and the teacher . Among the pupils in this first class was Tony , a Neapolitan , impossible in the grade class because of emotional outbursts called bad temper , ' and an incorrigible truant . When defects of vision were corrected the outbursts became less frequent , and manual work disclosed a latent power of application and stimulated a willingness to attend school . Tony is now a bricklayer , a member of the union in good standing , and last spring he and his father bought a house in Brooklyn . Another was Katie . Spinal meningitis when she was very young had left her with imperfect mental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the grOups of smaller muscles . She has never learned to read , but has developed skill in clay-modeling , and sews and embroiders very well . She makes her clothes and is a cheerful helper to her mot her in the work about the house . Last Christmas she sent to the school warm undergarments which she had made , to be given to the children who needed them . Her intelligent father feels that but for the discriminating instruction in the ungraded class her powers would have progressively deteriorated and Katie would be in darkness . ' The teacher who thus first fixed our attention upon these defective children has long been a member of the settlement family . She has carried us with her in her zeal for them , and we have come to see that it is because the public conscience has been sluggish that means and methods have not been more speedily devised toward an intelligent solution of this serious social problem . From the small beginnings of the experimental class in Henry Street a separate department in the public schools was created in 1908 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children throughout the city under the care of specially trained teachers who have liberty to adapt the school work to the children 's peculiar needs . All these ungraded classes are under the direction of Miss Farrell , who first awakened our interest in them . Looking back upon the struggles to win fOrmal recognition of the existence of these children , who now so much engage the attention of educators and scientists , we realize that our colleague 's devotion to them , her power to excite enthusiasm in us , and her understanding of the social implications of their existence , came from a deep-lying principle that every human being , even the least lovely , merits respectful consider . ation of his rights and his personality , Much is required of the public-school teachers , and many of them rise to every demand ; but naturally , in so great a number , there are some who do not recognize that theirs is the responsibility for discovering the children who are not normal . Harry sits on our doorsteps almost every day , ready to run errands , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pronounced moron , ' he was promoted from class to class , and when one of his settlement friends called upon the teacher to discuss Harry 's special needs , the teacher , somewhat contemptuous of our anxiety , observed that all that Harry need ed was a whipping . ' From one half of one per cent to two per cent of children of school age are , it is estimated , in need of special instruction because of the quality or the imperfect functioning of their mental powers . The public school has the power , and should exercise it , to bring within its walls all the children physically and mentally competent to attend it . If children are under intelligent observation , departures from the normal can in many instances be recognized in time for training and education according to the particular need . Long-continued observation and record of the child are essential to intelligent treatment of abnormalities concerning which there is even now very little accurate information . Cumulative experience and data , such as can be obtained only through the compulsory attendance at school of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give a basis for scientific and humanitarian action regarding them . Up to a certain period the child 's helplessness demands that every opportunity for development be given him . but that is not the whole of society 's responsibility . The time comes when the child 's own interests and those of ; he community demand the wisest , least selfish , and most statesmanlike action . Society must state in definite terms its right to be protected from the hopelessly defective and the moral pervert , herever found . This consti- , tutes the real problem of the abnormal . At the adolescent period those unlit for parenthood should be guarded ? girls and boys ? and society should be vested with authority and power to accomplish segregation , the conditions of which should attract and not repel . Because so much needs to be said upon it , if anything is said at all , I am loath to touch upon the one great obstacle to the effective use of all the intelligence and the resources available for the well-being of these children , the most baffling impediment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the supreme authority of parenthood , be it never so inefficient , avaricious , or even immoral . The breaking up of the family because of poverty , through the death or disappearance of the wage-earner , was , until comparatively recent years , generally accepted as inevitable . In the first winter of our residence on the East Side we took care of Mr. S who was in an advanced stage of phthisis ; and we daily admired the wonderful ability of his wife , who kept the home dignified while she sewed on wrappers , nursed her husband , and allowed nothing to interfere with the children 's daily attendance at school . When her husband died it seemed the most natural thing in the world to help her to realize her own wishes and to approve her good judgment in desiring to keep the family together . The or-plan asylum would doubtless have taken the children from her , leaving her childless as well as widowed , and with no counterbalancing advantage for the children to lighten her double woe . A large-minded lover of children , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , readily agreed to give the mother a monthly allowance until the eldest son could legally go to work . It was our first widow 's pension . ' Our hopes in this particular case have been more than realized . The eldest boy , it is true , has not achieved any notable place in the community ; but his sisters arc teachers and most desirable elements in the public-school system of the city , ? living testimony to the worth of the mother 's character . In no instance where we have prevented the disintegration of the family because of poverty have we had reason to regret our decision . Of course the ability of the mother tol maintain a standard in the home and control the children is a necessary qualification in any general recommendation for this treatment of the widow and orphan , and competent supervision is essential to insure the maintenance of these con-di tions . At the famous White House Conference on Children , held at the invitation of President Roosevelt , there was practical unanimity on the part of the experts who gathered there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family life should be maintained . Testimony as to this came from many sources ; and keeping the family together , or boarding the orphan with a normal family when adoption could not be arranged , became the dominant note of the conference . The children , in this as in many other instances , led us into searching thought many years ago . Forlorn little Joseph had called upon me with a crumpled note which he reluctantly dragged from a pocket . It was from the admitting agent of an orphanage , explaining that Joseph could not be taken into the in- stitution until his head was ' cured ' ; and it gave some details regarding the family , the worthiness of the mother , and her exceeding poverty . The agent hoped that I might relieve her by expediting Joseph 's admission . I tried to make the child 's daily visit to me interesting . The treatment was not painful , but the end of each visit ? he came with patient regularity every day ? left me as dolorous as himself . One day I tried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he fancied , to bring out some expression of youthful spirit ? L all unavailingly . ' But you must wish for something , ' I urged ; ' I never knew a boy who did n't . ' For the first time the silent little lad showed enthusiasm . ' I wish you would n't cure my head , so I need n't go to the orphan asylum . ' Unscrupulous parents , I am well aware , often try to shift the responsibility for their children upon public institutions , but there are many who share Joseph 's aversion to the institutional life , and we early recognized that the dislike is based upon a sound instinct and that a poor home might have compensating advantages compared with the well-equipped institution . There have been great changes in institutional methods since I first had knowledge of them , and much ingenuity has been shown in devising means to encourage the development of individuality and initiative among the orphans . The cottage plan has been introduced in some institutions to modify the abnormal life of large congregations of children . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children lose inestimably through not having day by day the experiences of normal existence . Valuable knowledge is lost because the child does not learn from experience the connection between the cost of necessities and the labor necessary to earn them . It was somewhat pathetic , at another conference on child-saving , to hear one of the speakers explain that he tried to meet this need by having the examples in arithmetic relate to the cost of food and household expenditures . The lack of a normal emotional outlet is of consequence , and as a result astute physiognomists often recognise what they term the institution look . ' Maggie , an intelligent girl , who has since given abundant evidence of spontaneity and spirit , spent a short time in an excellent orphanage . She told nee the other day , and wept as she told it , that she had felt no unkindness there , but remembered with horror that when they arose in the morning the ' orphans ' waited to be told what to do ; and that feeling was upon her every hour of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to take her out of the institution because , when I brought her for a visit to the settlement , she stood at the window the entire afternoon ; wistfully watching the children play in our back yard , and not joining them because no one had told her that she might . One is reluctant to speak only of the disadvantages of institutional life , for there are many children rescued from unfortunate family conditions who testify to the good care they received , and who , in after life , look back upon the orphanage as the only home they have known . For some children , doubtless , such care will continue to be necessary , but the conservative and rigid admin istration can be softened , and the management and their charges delivered out of the rut into which they have fallen , and from the tyranny of rules and customs which have no better warrant than that they have always existed . Perhaps these illustrations are not too insignificant to record . Happening to pass through a room in an asylum when the dentist was paying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about to have a sound front tooth extracted because he complained of toothache . No provision had been made for anything but the extraction of teeth . An offer to have the boy given proper treatment outside the institution was not accepted , but it needed no more than this to insure better dentistry in his ease and in the institution in ft.it ore . The reports stated that corporal punishment was not administered . When a little homesick lad displayed his hands , swollen from paddling , a request for an investigation , and that I he privileged to hear the inquiry , put a stop , and I am assured a permanent one , to this form of discipline . These are the more obvious disadvantages of institutional life for the child . The store subtle and dangerous are the curbing of initiative and the belittling of personality . An intelligent observer of the effects of institution life on boys , a Roman Catholic priest , established a temporary home in New York to which they could come on their release from the insulation until they found employment and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his provision for the boys during their brief sojourn with him of a formal table service , and weekly dances to which girls whom he ; new were invited . As he astutely observed , I he boys often went into common society , or society which made no demands , because , from their lack of experience , they felt ill at ease in a circle where any conventions were observed . Where life goes by rule there is little , aaancous action or conversation , but the children occasionally give clues to their passion for personal relationships . In an institution which I knew , the children were allowed to write once a month to their friends . More than one child wit bout family ties took that e ? purturtity to write letters to an imaginary mother , to send messages of affection to imaginary brothers and sisters , and to ask for personal gifts . They knew , of course , that the letters would never leave the institution . An unusual instance of intense longing for family life and the desire to ' belong ' to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all her life in an orphan asylum . Sometimes she dreamed of her mother , and often asked where she was . When she was ten years old the wife of the superintendent told her that her mother had brought her to the asylum , but that all she could remember about her was that she had red hair . From that day the child 's desire to reestablish relations with her mother never flagged . In the files of the asylum a letter was discovered from an overseer of the poor in an upstate town , saying that the woman had wandered there . At Tillie 's urgent request he was written to again , and after a search on his part it was learned that she had been declared insane and taken to the hospital at Rochester . The very day that Tillie was released from the orphan asylum she secured money for the trip and went to Rochester . The officials of the hospital received her , kindly and took her into the ward where , although she had no memory of having seen her , she identified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The mother , alas , did not recognize her . Two years later the girl revisited the hospital and found her mother enjoying an interval of memory . Tillie told me that she learned ' two important things ' ? that she had had a brother , and my name . How I was connected with the fortunes of the family the poor bewildered woman could not explain , and I have no recollection of her . Tillie followed these clues as she has every other . She has learned that the brother was sent West with orphans from an Eastern institution , and that he has joined the army . The devoted girl is making every effort to establish a home to which she can bring the mother and brother , utterly regardless of the burden it will place on her young shoulders . We must turn to the younger countries for testimony as to the wisdom of the non-institutional care of dependent children . In AuStralia the plan for many years in all the provinces has been to care for them in homes , and in Queensland and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boarded out to their own mothers . It is encouraging to note the increasing number of responsible people in America who are ready to adopt children . It may not be possible to find a sufficient number of suitable homes to provide for all who are dependent ; but once the policy of decentralization is established , other methods will be evolved to avoid large congregations of boys and girls . Two of my colleagues and I have found much happiness in assuming respOnsi bility for eight children . Quite apart from our own pleasure in taking to ourselves these ' nieces ' and ' nephews , ' we believe that we shall be able to demonstrate convincingly the practicability of establishing small groups of children , without ties of their own , as a family unit . Our children live the year round in our country home , and are identified with the life of the community ; and we hope to provide opportunity for the development of their individual tastes and aptitudes . Education and the child is a theme of widest social significance . To the age-old appeal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been added a conviction of the necessity for a guarded and trained childhood , that better men and women may- be developed . It is a modern note in patriotism and civic responsibility , which impels those who are brought in contact with the children of the poor to protect them from premature burdens , to prolong their childhood and the period of growth . Biologists bring suggestive and illuminating analogies , but when one has lived many years in a neighborhood such as ours , the children themselves tell the story : We know that physical well-being in later life is largely dependent upon early care , that only the exceptional boys and girls can escape the unwholesome effects of premature labor , and that lack of training is responsible for the enormous proportion of unskilled and unemployable among the workers . The stronghold of our democracy is the public school . This conviction lies deep in the hearts of those social enthu. siasts who would keep the school free from the demoralization of cant and impure politics , and restore it to the people ; a shrine for education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the settlement clubs hear this doctrine preached not infrequently . Last June the City Superintendent , addressing a class graduating from the normal school , Made an appeal for idealism in their work . He spoke of the possibilities in their profession for far-reaching social service , and named as one who exern7 plified his theme the young principal of a great city school , once one of set-tlement boys . In the June issue of the At/untie , Miss Wald 's topic will be , ' Children and . Work . ' ? THE EDITORS.                     