@@466031

HE exaltation of victory makes wounded soldiers oblivious of pain , and the depression of defeat increases mortality . If a cat is frightened for ten or fifteen minutes by a barking dog , a sample of its blood will make strips of certain muscles relax when they are immersed in it , though such a portion of blood had no effect on them before the emotional disturbance . Frightened rabbits show almost complete prostration , and their brain cells , in contrast with those of normal animals , take a deeper stain from certain chemicals , and their size and shape are strikingly altered . Finally , if an individual is placed in circuit with a delicate galvanometer and made to laugh , to feel sad , or is suddenly surprised , there will be movements in the instrument indicating the passage of small electric currents . Such interesting scientific facts as these , and many others to be mentioned later , make it clearly evident that emotions are something more than mere states of mind . Let us select from the multitude of theories of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a quarter-century of successful struggle against debate and of scientific research . This theory asserts that emotional consciousness is not a primary feeling , directly aroused by the exciting object or thought , but a secondary feeling indirectly aroused by the changes , muscular and organic , which are immediate reflexes following upon the presence of the exciting object . Fortunately this recondite statement has been translated , and may be said to mean that we feel sorry because we cry , angry because we strike , afraid because we tremble ; and not that we cry , strike , or tremble because we are sorry , angry , or fearful , as the case may happen to be . This paradox will be clearer if we consider briefly the biological origin of the emotions . In the lowest forms of animal life we believe that all organisms react to the various stimuli of the environment reflexly , and without purpose . For instance , the voracious , single-celled amoeba has no appetite , but indiscriminately wraps itself about all particles of matter sufficiently substantial to irritate it , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support a precarious existence . However , as we ascend the scale , and a central nervous system with external sense-organs develops , we find that the animal responds with reflex actions to more and different stimuli , and by habit selects some of these reactions to serve definite ends ; and these we dignify with the name of " instincts . " Therefore , the kitten does not catch mice because of some mysterious , ever-present hereditary influence , but because the sight of each moving object ? mouse , ball of yarn , or human foot ? is a direct stimulus to pursuit , and the mouse is eaten only because it directly stimulates the taste organs and the action of jaw muscles . Finally , among higher forms of animals and also human beings , each of these simple muscular reflex actions with which we respond to an ever-tantalizing environment is naturally accompanied by reflex activities in the closely related internal organs . These are the lungs , heart , intestines , glands , and other members of the so-called vegetative system whose office it is to nourish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therefore increase in proportion with those of the latter . This collection of reflex activities , according to the above theory , produces certain sensations in consciousness which we know as emotion ; and thus it is the " expression " which gives rise to the emotion and not the emotion which gives rise to the " expression . " So we are afraid because we tremble . In anger there is contraction of the brows , staring gaze , widening of the nostrils , grinding of the teeth , tightening of the lips , flushing of the face , clenching of the fists , stamping of the feet , and in addition much commotion among the internal organs . In the emotions accompanying pleasant ideas there is an increase of pulse frequency , size of blood vessels , and of depth of respiration . In the emotions accompanying unpleasant ideas the reverse bodily conditions obtain . And so each different emotion and each degree of emotion has a different and characteristic combination of similar reactions , and inasmuch as these combinations vary with every exciting object , memory , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emotions is evident . Love alone may be sentiment , regard , sympathy , feeling , emotion , passion , or ecstasy , according to the degree of organic response to the exciting object , memory , or imagination . In the words of Professor James , " the changes are so infinitely numerous and subtle that the entire organism may be called a sounding-board , which every change of consciousness , however slight , may make reverberate . " It is evident from the foregoing that the validity of our adopted theory really rests upon proof of the existence of internal sensations which can cause emotion . In regard to this requirement , experiments upon animals have shown that if , after a heavy dose of morphine , a small incision is made in the abdominal wall , and the surface of the small intestine is pinched with forceps or stimulated by electricity , there is a drawing together of the body , movement of the head , and whining sounds ? all surely expressions of pain . The stomach and first part of the intestines are also sensitive to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may also be irritated by chemicals . When inflammation is present all these organs are still more sensitive , and then experimental irritation of the intestines may cause slowing or even stopping of the heart . But besides the numerous experimental proofs of the existence of sensations originating in internal organs , it is com-mon experience that improper food maycause the pains of colic , and that in obstruction of the intestines these pains become so intense that the patient collapses . In gastric ulcer , gall-stone disease , appendicitis , and many other pathological conditions we have evidence of the sensitivity of abdominal organs . In surgical procedure it was shown by Crile that ether confers the beneficent loss of pain , but does not prevent the nerve impulses from reaching and influencing the brain , and hence does not prevent surgical shock , or collapse , or a train of later nervous impairments . On this account , nowadays , every good operator handles all organs with the greatest care to avoid irritation and the sending of a mass of exhausting stimuli to the brain , which may already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Therefore , whenever possible , some surgeons , in addition to general anesthesia , produce with cocaine a local anesthesia of the part to be incised and thus prevent the ascent to the brain of these injurious impulses. mpulses . In the chest , the pains of pleurisy and of heart disease are not unfamiliar to many . If the latter takes the form of angina pectoris , there is no worse pain known to ? man , and with it there is a feeling of dread and of impending death . Ordinarily we are conscious of the internal organs only when some disturbance of their normal activity occurs , such as alteration of the rhythm and function , or presence of inflammation . Normally of low intensity , diffuse and uniform , general bodily sensation pro-duces only a vague effect upon conscious-ness : but this is the great silent background of personality , and its major variations are our emotions . As to special centers in the brain for the origin of emotions , there is no proof that such exist , even on the surface , where so many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not require them . It is interesting to know , however , that evidence has been brought forward to show that emotional discharges are greatly influenced by a center at the base of the brain known as the optic thalamus , injuries of this region often causing great instability of emo- tions , such as continuous laughing or crying . As a result of extensive experiments on animals it has also been concluded that the optic thalamus influences the movements of respiration , the heart , the blood vessels , the stomach , the intestines , and the flow of tears , saliva , and sweat . That is to be expected if this portion of the brain is really the center for mimetic movements of the emotions . In this connection it is interesting to note the relation to the emotions of the sympathetic system of nerves . This is a separate and distinct portion of the general nervous system which has the important function of controlling the size of the blood vessels and pupils of the eye , the rate of the heart , the movements of the intestines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ internal organs . From Darwin we read : The frightened man at first stands as if to escape observation . The heart beats quickly and violently , so that it palpitates and knocks against the ribs ( due to accelerator sympathetic excitation ) ; the skin instantly becomes pale , as during incipient faintness ( due to spasm of sympathetic fibers in blood vessels ) , and a cold sweat occurs ( due to excitation of sympathetic fibers in sweat glands ) ; the hairs are erected and goose-flesh appears ( due to sympathetic stimulation of muscles at the roots of the hair ) ; the salivary glands act imperfectly , the mouth is dry and is often opened and shut ( due to excitation of the sympathetic constrictors of the blood vessels of the gland ) ; the pupils are dilated ( due to sympathetic influence on dilator muscles ) . It has been recently emphasized by Professor Cannon that in animals also the phenomena of a major emotional exhibition indicate the dominance of sympathetic impulses . When , for example , . a car becomes frightened , the pupils @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heart beats rapidly , the hairs of the back and tail stand erect ? all signs of nervous discharge along sympathetic paths . Perhaps the adrenal glands ? small glands near the kidneys , whose product , adrenalin , controls blood pressure by constricting the blood vessels ? are subject to sympathetic influence . In order to test this , the natural en-mitt ' between two laboratory animals , dog and cat , was utilized . The cat , fastened to a comfortable holder , was placed near a barking dog . In cases showing fright the excitement was continued for five or ten minutes , samples of blood being taken before and after the period . As a test for the presence of adrenalin ? the pioduct of the adrenal glands ? advantage was taken of the fact that this substance causes strips of intestinal muscle to relax , hence strips of this muscle were immersed in the samples of blood . In no case did blood from the quiet , normal animal produce relaxation ; on the other hand , blood from the animal after the emotional disturbance showed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blood vessels of the adrenal glands are first carefully tied and the glands removed , excitement four or five hours later does not alter the blood . Varying amounts of adrenalin , added by hand to blood which has not produced relaxation of the strip , evoke all degrees of relaxation that have been observed in excited blood . All these considerations prove that the characteristic efFect of adrenal extract on the intestinal strips was due to secretion of the adrenal glands . As is well known , adrenal secretion itself is capable of causing discharges of the adrenal glands . It is conceivable , therefore , that some of the adrenal secretion set free by nervous stimulation returns to the same glands in the blood stream , and , within limits , stimulates them to further activity . Thus the increase of emotion due to further excitement , or the persistence of the emotional state after the exciting object has disappeared , can be explained . In this connection Crile has shown that the thyroid gland is also of interest . In the wild state of animal life , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , every point of advantage may have selective value . An animal engaged in battle or in a desperate effort at escape will be able to give a better account of itself if it has some means of accelerating the discharge of energy , some influence like that of oil upon the kindling fire . There is evidence , though perhaps not conclusive , that such an influence is exerted by the thyroid gland . This evidence is as follows : In myxedema , a condition characterized by a lack of thyroid secretion , there is a dullness of reflexes and of intellect , a lowered muscular power , and generally a sluggish discharge of energy . In Graves 's disease there is an excessive production of thyroid secretion . In this disease the reflexes arc greatly sharpened , energy is discharged with very greatly increased facility , and metabolism is at a maximum . The same holds true in the administration of thyroid extract to normal subjects in large doses . In fear and in injury in cases of Graves 's disease , under which circumstances there is always an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to increased activity , as indicated by the increased activity of the thyroid circulation , by an increase in the size of the gland , by the appearance of unusual activity in the nuclei of the cells , and by an increase of the toxic symptoms . Moreover , Asher has stated that electric stimulation of the nerve supply of the thyroid causes an increased secretion . As is frequently the case in the study of any scientific problem , the introduction of a new instrument or method affords more opportunity for advance than years of work in old ways . This circumstance has been well illustrated , in the study of the emotions , by the detection and measurement , with the galvanometer , of the electrical changes which accompany emotional reactions . Various observers have shown that if a person takes hold of two electrodes so that his body is in circuit with a galvanometer , variations of emotional states due to reading , music , suggestion , or other causes will produce a movement of the needle on the dial of the instrument . The amount of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the inference is that the organic changes which have been described as the basis of emotion have produced a variation in the electrical condition of the body . For instance , in what is called the " association method , " if a series of unrelated words be pronounced in the hearing of the subject examined , the words related to some emotion will produce an effect upon the galvanometer , while the indifferent words have no effect . Forexample , if a young lady has been denied the excessive use of candy , a list of words including at random such significant ones as box , chocolate , sweet , bonbons , may cause such definite and specific de- flections of the instrument that when she is confronted with this evidence a confession of guilt frequently follows . For the benefit of the nervous cases that come to the doctor , it has been as-serted by Scripture that it is just as necessary . to know how emotional they are as it is to know how high the temperature is in a case of fever . Moreover , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experiences in the past or present life of the patient produce emotions . For this purpose the patient sits at ease with hands on the electrodes , which may be so concealed in the arms of his chair that he is unaware that the most intimate processes of his soul are being registered as various words are spoken or various topics of conversation are dis-cussed , the galvanometer showing when a sensitive subject has been touched . So far as has yet been determined , it would seem that the sweat-gland system is the chief factor in the production of this electric phenomenon , inducing on the one hand , under the influence of nervous irritation , a measurable current , or , on the other hand , altering the conductivity of the body by the filling of tubules with sweat . The fact that the sudden variations of the needle of the galvanometer are obliterated by a dose of atropine is very significant . Since this drug paralyzes the nerve endings in the sweat-glands , thus suppressing the secretion with comparatively little effect on the blood vessels , the evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the chief source of these electrical changes . Naturally , the relation of the blood to the emotions is a very important factor in the physics of the emotions . Harmonious co-operation of different tissues , by which the animal is able to adapt itself to its environment , is brought about only by the circulatory and the nervous systems , and the importance of the latter has been already demonstrated . This harmony is the prevailing condition in a healthy individual , and a general pleasurable sense of welt. being is the result . Also , the quality of the blood , by its influence on the nervous centers , may affect the emotional reaction , for we know that toxic conditions of the blood have a profound influence upon the emotional stare of the individual . Especially is this true in the condition known as auto-intoxication , in which the food is not properly digested and decomposition occurs , with the production of certain definite poisons in the alimentary tract , which are absorbed into the blood and cause great mental and physical depression , even to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the physical qualities of the blood and circulation rather than with the chemical . The disturbances of the rate of the heart-beat , the size of blood vessels , and the rate and depth of respiration in emotional excitement have been too well emphasized to require much more consideration . With the majority of individuals , in all emotion there is a constriction or dilatation of the blood vessels , an acceleration or retardation of the heart , an increase or decrease in rate and depth of respiration . These effects are the more marked as the emotion is more intense . It is evident that the pressure of the blood in the arteries , which depends upon the force and efficiency of the heart-beat and upon the size of the arteries , will also be an important factor in the physics of the emotions , as its variations will cause variations in the general bodily sensations which are the bases of emotion . it has been found that during a very strong spontaneous emotion , whether pleasant or disagreeable , the pressure is raised thirty points ? which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or from animated conversation . In idiots and imbeciles the pressure is low . Even a variation in the number of cells in the blood occurs during emotion . In certain states provoked by the loss of a dear friend or other sentimental perturbation , it has been found that during the first days following the shock there was an increase of twenty per cent . in the large white cells in the blood ; while in the normal state , and some time after the emotional disturbances , their numCXXVIII. ? No. 764. - 38amounting to shock . Also , the red-blood cells are strikingly altered in emotional states . Mental ex-citation and depression , which in general are accompanied , respectively , by dilatation and constriction of the peripheral blood vessels , are accompanied at the same time by a respective decrease and increase in the number of red cells . This alteration in the number of cells is manifested with the first circulatory change and sometimes before the mental state may be modified , clearly proving that the vascular change precedes the emotional state . An enumeration of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disturbance , or the termination of one , or perhaps even the intensity of the emotion . In most cases of insanity the red cells are diminished to the point of anemia . One of the organs subject to sympa-thetic control , but hidden deeply in the body and therefore not obviously revealing the disturbances of function accompanying emotional states ( except by symptoms or experimental intervention ) , is the stomach . The stomach is " king of the belly , " one may read in the Jnatomy of Melancholy , " for if he is affected all the rest suffer with him . " Nausea on seeing disgusting sights , or on recalling them to memory , is not uncommon . Subjects of great grief are sometimes unable to retain food for several days . Anxiety may be attended by a feeling of weight in the pit of the stomach , and stronger emotional states may lead to gastric distress which persists from a half-hour to several days . So many of the cases of indigestion ndigestion that come to a doctor for treatment are of nervous origin that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In recent physiological studies of the alimentary canal by Cannon , the importance of emotional states to normal digestion has received striking confirmation . The motility and the secretory activity have both been proved to he clearly dependent on the nature of the excitation in the central nervous system . Pawluw has made some interesting observations of gastric secretion in dogs , in connection with which an opening had been made through the neck into the throat , and the stomach provided with a side pouch which opened only to the exterior . After the food was swallowed by the dogs , it was lost through the opening in the throat and the effect upon secretion could be determined by measuring the amount of flow from the stomach opening . These observations on dogs have been almost completely confirmed by studies of human beings under similar conditions . It was found in such cases that when agreeable food was chewed , a more or less active secretion of the gastric juice was started , whereas the chewing of indifferent material was without influence . On the other hand , unpleasant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emotions , are accompanied by a failure of secretions . If one of the above patients saw food he became greatly vexed when he could not eat at once ; then no secretion appeared . In dogs the secretion has been stopped at its height for fifteen minutes or longer by bringing a cat into their presence . These effects may exist long after the removal of the exciting cause . Not only are the secretory activities of the stomach unfavorably affected during strong emotions ; the movements of the stomach as well , and , indeed , the movements of almost the entire alimentary canal , are wholly stopped during excitement . Thus in the cat any sign of rage or distress , such as difficulty in breathing , or mere anxiety , was accompanied by a total cessation of the movements of the stomach , and with the X-ray this has been observed to endure more than an hour , when the only visible indication of excitement in the animal was a continued to-and-fro twitching of the tail . What is true of the cat has been proved true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So , likewise , gastric and intestinal movements are stopped in man , as they arc stopped in the lower animals , during worry and anxiety and the major emotional states . Indeed , the feeling of heaviness in the stomach commonly complained of by nervous persons may be due to the stagnation of food . It is evident that an emotional disturbance affecting the alimentary canal is capable of starting a vicious circle ; the stagnant food , unprotected by abundant gastric juice , naturally undergoes bacterial fermentation , with the formation of gases and irritant decomposition products . These , in turn , may produce mild inflammation or be absorbed as substances disturbing to metabolism , and thus affect the mental state . Then the depressed mental state that accompanies " indigestion " may still further prolong the indigestion . The importance of these observations to personal conduct is too obvious to require elahoration . Crile finds an interesting explanation of this wide-spread emotional indigestion in hereditary influences . Under the stimulus of fear , animals show preter-natural strength . An analysis of the phenomena of fear shows that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ energy , and which are of no direct assistance in the effort toward immediate self-preiervation , are suspended . Among these functions unnecessary at the moment one naturally places digestion . Finally , the relation of emotional states to fatigue will be found of interest . As clearly pointed out by Professor O'Shea , the conditions of fatigue which give rise to physical and intellectual incoordination have a similar effect in principle upon the emotional life . People are generally aware of this , and freely condone the bad temper of individuals who , at certain times , because of their unhappy physical condition , display such anti-social qualities as irritability , jealousy , or anger , though normally well-poised . This is best explained upon the theory of hereditary recapitulation , according to which the individual retraces in some measure in development , and retains to some extent in his own being the physical , intellectual , and emotional structures developed throughout the race history . The emotions most prominent in earlier racial epochs have been those concerned with the preservation of the individual against the enemies lurking everywhere . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of very recent origin in racial evolution . By virtue of a principle of heredity , whereby the latest developed racial characteristics are most unstable in the individual , one is warranted in holding that while the social emotions are for the most part preeminent in the individual under normal conditions , yet these very emotions are most affected in fatigue , when the last-formed and therefore most delicate and highest areas in the brain are the first to be paralyzed by the waste-products , or poisons . of exhaustion , and lose , there-fore , full and sure control of lower areas i originating more egoistic impulses . In summary , the evidence of the physical basis of the emotions may , therefore , be stated as follows : Their evolutionary origin by the development , in higher animals , of internal organic disturbances which accompany the primitive simple muscular reactions to stimuli of the environment ; the existence of sensation in internal organs ; the probability of coordination of the movements of emotions in particular brain-centers and the sympathetic system of nerves ; the frequent observation during emotions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stimulating effect upon the body , of electrical changes in the skin , of alterations in the circulation and in the quality of the blood , and of disturbances in the functions of the alimentary canal ; and , finally , the effect upon personal disposi-tion of fatigue toxins . All this convincing evidence surely establishes the fact that the emotions are the consciousness of physical changes which reflexly follow the presence of exciting objects . 