@@466374

ONE hundred and nineteen years ago began the four-year period of so-called French spoliations on American commerce ? a half-forgotten era in our country 's history ? a time when it was a hazardous undertaking to ship goods from an American port consigned to a foreign port . Over-sea commerce in sailingvessels was a source of danger to property at best , but during the period referred to the activity of French public and private armed vessels made such traffic extremely perilous . French privateers hovered in every part of the Atlantic Ocean , and even within the territorial waters of the United States . The business of privateering then was more lucrative than that of shipping goods . France and England were at war . To all intents and purposes the United States was a neutral , but our commercial loss could hardly have been greater had we actually been allied in war with one of the belligerent nations . From the time of the execution of King Louis XVI. , to and through the year 18co , seizures of American vessels occurred almost daily ; plenipotentiaries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came to no understanding ; arbitration failed , and the seizures and condemnations continued ; protests and representations passed back and forth between the two countries , and still the unwarranted seizures and confiscations went on . But our merchantmen persevered ; ships went out of port despite the heavy losses and the high insurance rates ; merchants valiantly undertook to carry on their foreign trade notwithstanding the vexatious times and the indignities heaped upon them and their property . For a better understanding of the conditions then existing it is necessary to go back to the year 1778 to see upon whatgrounds the French contentions were based . In that year we entered into two treaties with the " Most Christian King " of France , one being of amity and commerce , and the other of alliance . By the terms of the latter , through our representatives , Benjamin Franklin , Silas Dean , and Arthur Lee , we offered to aid France in the event of war between that country and Great Britain . This was the first treaty entered into by the United States , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By the terms of the treaty of amity and commerce all the documents necessary to be carried on merchant vessels of the contracting nations were enumerated ; the settlement of rights arising from captures made at sea were provided for . The treaty set forth what should be and what should not be considered contraband of war ; it defined the rights of the citizens of each country , and in general the terms of trade between the two nations and with neutrals in time of war were stipulated . The aggressions on American commerce , beginning early in 1796 , became so obnoxious on the part of France that Congress was compelled to annul and abrogate both treaties by the act of July 7 , 1798 , and in so doing took occasion to refer to the " system of predatory violence . . hostile to the rights of a free and independent nation " then being carried on . The reason for this was contained in the grievances France then entertained toward us ; she was in the position of a deserted ally ; we had agreed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Jay Treaty gave the same rights to Great Britain ; we had not protected the French West India possessions in return for the military aid furnished in the War of the Revolution ; we had givento France 's enemy the most valued rights secured to her by prior treaty . Upon the publication of the Jay Treaty great indignation was aroused in France , and the spoliations upon our commerce that followed were primarily caused by our failure to fulfil our treaty obligations , and in part by the war between Great Britain and France , which caused the latter to issue certain regulations which in effect were prohibitive of American commerce on the high seas . In the celebrated case of Bass U. Tingy , the Supreme Court of the United States had occasion to pass upon the conditions existing during the so-called French spoliation period and to define the relations between the nations , and the fact being set forth that , our Congress " having authorized certain hostilities on the high seas by certain persons in certain cases " only , it was declared that France was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maritime " war existed , but not a " perfect " war as understood at the time . It is difficult at this day to understand what relations would exist between two nations engaged in a " partial " war , hut , accepting the definition of the Supreme Court , it would seem , when we read of events that transpired , that we were dangerously close to an actual war . The authorization referred to by the Supreme Court was the act of Congress of June 25 , 1798 , which permitted the arming of American merchant vessels for the purpose of defense against capture as well as to " subdue and capture any armed French vessel , " but with the reservation that the President might thereafter instruct the armed merchantmen to submit to search when French armed vessels should observe the law of nations . This act was followed shortly by the act ofluly 7 , 1798 , declaring the treaties heretofore entered into between France and the United States no longer obligatory on the United States , and annulling and abrogating said treaties . The act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power to instruct commanders of public armed vessels ro capture any French armed vessel , and further to grant commissions to private armed vessels , which were to have the same authority to capture and subdue as public armed vessels . Such was the condition of affairs in the latter part of the year 1798 , when we had abrogated our treaties with France , passed laws directing the seizure of French armed vessels by our national vessels and armed merchantmen . France had broken off diplomatic relations with us , exchanges between the respective ministers breathed the spirit of war , and the only thing lacking to effect an actual state of war was a declaration of war itself . While our histories speak only vaguely of our unpleasant relations with France , during the two years following these events our vessels were captured by the French without regard to ship 's papers , ownership , or the nature of cargoes . New England especially suffered greatly by these spoliations . Valuable cargoes were despoiled ; splendid vessels were taken , and in many cases condemned according to French decrees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absolved herself from all laws save those declared to be law by herself . In justice it can not be said that our own government was entirely blameless for the existence of these conditions . It is true , as France contended , that we had failed to respond to our obligations contained in the treaty of alliance of 1778 ; it is also true that , had our representations to the government of France been more insistent , and partisanship less rife in our own country , a better understanding of mutual obligations might have resulted . The position that France took in regard to the relations then existing culminated on her part in a system of reprisals . A great majority of the American vessels captured by reason of the activity of French privateers were condemned in the West Indies , notably in the island of Guadeloupe . The most trivial causes were assigned for these condemnations . French regulations half a century old were brought forth to furnish apparent bases for their depredations . Not a few of these seizures were of American vessels bound homeward from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases usually being that the vessels had violated a French regulation of some kind by having called at an English port . The fact that the vessels were bound to an American port and that they were American bottoms with American cargoes seemed to make not the slightest difference . The inevitable condemnation followed after the seizure , except in a few isolated cases . The high insurance rates of the times were very significant of war risks , many times running as high as thirty-three and a third per cent . of the value of the property insured for the round voyage . The situation justified these high rates , and many men in Boston , New York , Philadelphia , and other ports who had successfully carried on the business of marine insurance and built up what was for those days a lucrative business were ruined and forced into bankruptcy by the spoliations upon our commerce . While most of the masters were compelled to submit their vessels to capture without resistance ( for want of sufficient crew and armament to cope with the French ) , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ruthlessly seized without a protest . In fact , many merchants promptly availed themselves of the law which permitted them to arm their vessels , and directed their masters to defend the property against unlawful seizure . A few typical instances will suffice to show what happened when one of our armed merchantmen met a French privateer on the high seas during this period . On March 20 , 1799 , there sailed from Newburyport , Massachusetts , the ship Rose , owned by William Bartlett and commanded by William Chase . She had a crew of twenty-two men and was armed with eight carriage guns . Captain Chase 's orders were to " defend your ship from any enemy that offers to molest you . " The voyage was to Surinam , at which place the vessel arrived with a mixed cargo of fish , meat , gin , hardware , and dry-goods , worth nearly one hundred thousand dollars ? a very valuable cargo for those days . Having disposed of his cargo according to instructions , the master of the Rose took in a return cargo of coffee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the home port . On July 31 , 1799 , the Rose was met at sea by the French privateer L'Egypte Conquise , of fourteen guns and one hundred and twenty men . Recognizing the vessel as a French privateer , and knowing thefate that awaited the property under his charge if captured , Captain Chase refused to heave to upon summons , and thereupon an engagement lasting an hour and a half ensued . The American vessel valiantly defended herself , but was finally boarded and taken by the sword after having two men killed and fifteen wounded during the engagement . The privateer was hulled very severely , however , and lost twenty-five men killed and twenty-one wounded , which is testimony enough to the valor of the American crew against a greatly superior attacking force . The result , of course , was the condemnation of the Rose and her valuable cargo , and the property became a total loss to the owners . Captain Chase arrived home October 29 , 1799 , according to the Newburyport Herald and County Gazette ( November r , 1799 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a French prison . The lawlessness of French vessels and prize courts was particularly unspeakable in the West Indies . Most of the decrees rendered were violative of the rights of neutrals , and it is a fact that some judges in that part of the French possessions who presided at these trials of American vessels were themselves part owners of the privateers making the capture , and in most cases the prize courts condemned the property for the use and benefit of the owners and crew of the privateers . The French would seize , and subsequently condemn , all American vessels bound to and from English ports , and in case the vessel was sailing to or from a neutral port . some other trivial excuse would be forthcoming upon which to base an illegal decree of condemnation . It was then not without reason that American vessels , in danger from pirates , in danger from French privateers often as irresponsible , availed themselves of the law to carry some armament during the pendency of this " impartial " or " imperfect " state of warfare . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the most terrible and bloody period in her history , and being engaged in war against her natural enemy , Great Britain , put into effect the most stringent regulations intended to deprive the latter of any aid or benefit that might accrue from an unrestrained intercourse with the United States . A practical embargo was placed by France upon all commercial relations between our country and England and her pos-sessions , and no further proof was necessary before a French prize court than the fact that the vessel had been trading with the English . While it is an indisputable rule of international law that belligerents have the right of visitation and search of neutrals , indispensable as this may he to a belligerent , this privilege can not be violative of the rights of neutrals , and must be exercised in a proper manner . But taking into account the condition of the times , the arrogant spirit displayed by the French , and the unjustifiable means adopted to hinder our carrying-trade , it is not strange that an American merchant should feel it necessary to arm his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that masters , knowing what had happened to other American vessels and crews , should use their armament to repel these unwarranted encroachments upon American rights . It is of record that over fifteen hundred vessels were captured by the French during the period 1796-1801 , of which more than three-fourths were condemned . More than half of these condemnations occurred in the island of Guadeloupe . This does not take into account the large number of vessels plundered at sea and released , of the hundreds captured by the French and subsequently recaptured either by the crew or by an English or American manof-war . Neither does this estimate include such as were captured by French privateers , taken into Spanish ports and condemned by French consuls in Spanish territory , for which the government of Spain afterward admitted liability and made reparation . Of especial interest was the case of the ship Louis , James Deale , master , which sailed from Calcutta December 31,1799 , homeward bound to Baltimore , but in the course of her voyage was met on the high seas by the notorious French priva-teer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commander . The privateer approached under a redflag at her mainmast , fired upon the Louis , and a severe combat thereupon ensued in which the American vessel had three men killed and seven wounded . The force of the privateer being greatly superior , the Louis was compelled to surrender , and was convoyed as a prize into the Isle of France ( Mauritius ) , an utter loss to the owners . But this did not end the activity of this American crew , because sailing on board the Louis as supercargo was one John W. Bronaugh , of Baltimore , who , after the capture , with other men of the crew , succeeded in making his way back to Calcutta , and his subsequent experience is best told in his own words : I purchased at Calcutta a large , new , fine ship called the Rebecca , burthen about r , 000 tons . I put on her 1.6 double-fortified ninepounders , small arms , pikes , cutlasses , and every other kind of weapons of defense I could get . After this was done I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my sailingmaster , holding the command in my own hands . Thus equipt I set sail in the Rebecca about the commencement of October , 180o , for Baltimore , and in a few days after discharging my pilot I was again attacked , nearly about the same point in the Bay of Bengal where we had lost the Louis , by the Malartie brig , a privateer from the Isle of France commanded by Monsieur Dutert . This brig we fought two hours and forty-five minutes , and at length , on my ordering that we should cease firing , finding out that our shot was nearly exhausted , to let the privateer approach nearer if she chose to do so , and give us an opportunity , with our remaining shot , to sink her at close quarters ; immediately on our ceasing to fire the privateer was manned with 16 sweeps on a side , there being little or no wind , and ran off . The next day after this the brig was taken in the Bay of Bengal by one of the India Company 's ships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by us in the engagement with the Rebecca , and carried into Calcutta . On my arrival at the Cape of Good Hope , where 1 was compelled to touch to refit , having sustained great damage in our sails and rigging in the action , I had handed to me a Calcutta paper in which it was stated that the Malartic privateer had been brought into that port by one of the company 's ships , in distress , occasioned by the action she had with the American ship the Rebecca , Capt . Bronaugh , in which there were 25 men killed on board the Malartic , and 16 wounded . In this engagement I was fortunate enough not to have a man killed or wounded . On June 17 , i800 , there sailed from Baltimore the ship Amazon , commanded by Israel Trask , bound for Cadiz , Spain , with a very valuable cargo of sundry merchandise , and in the statement of the master made in Spain he sets forth that on July flth he discovered a sail following the course of his vessel ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half a league , and hoisted American colors and pursued under that flag ; but about four hours later , being about half a gun-shot away , she lowered the American flag and hoisted the French national colors , and a few minutes afterward fired one of her bow chasers with ball and grape , and immediately the ship of the deponent hoisted her American flag at the mizzen-peak . Soon afterwards she fired another gun with ball and grape , which passed over the vessel of deponent ; then he took the determination of consulting with his officers upon what was proper to be done in this situation , and after having maturely considered the situation of his country with the French Republic in regard to the navigation of American ships , and the moral certainty of being captured by the French cruisers after the innumerable instances of other ships of the same nation in similar situations , as also the reflection on the examples of the cruel atrocities committed on American crews by several privateers under the French national flag , and fearing that this might be . one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his Government to carry guns for the express purpose of defending from the hostile attacks of vessels which should sail with the national flag on the high seas , they determined , as the means most eligible to save their persons and property , to oppose all their forces to the hostile attack , which continued on the part of the vessel which chased them ; the crew were placed at their different posts , and thus they waited until the enemy should come nearer , in order to see if he continued in firing on them , and observing that the nearer he approached increased his firing , after having received numerous broadsides of ball and grape , which cut his sails and broke his rigging considerably , they began to defend themselves , with the enemy in their weather quarter . The action continued in the same position with great vigor on both sides for about two hours , at the distance of pistol shot , in which time the vessel under his command suffered much damage in the sails and rigging ; the enemy afterwards bore across his stern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them , but , having set all his sails , they were able to prevent his intention , but the enemy did nothing else but change his position , placing himself alongside on their lee quarter , and again recommenced the action with vigor continuing until six in the afternoon , in which time he had one man killed and the second officer dangerously wounded , the mizzen-topmast and mizzen-gaff carried away , and only the bare pole of the mizzen-mast remained , the braces and sheets torn , with the foretopsail shot in pieces , with the greatest part of the shrouds and running cut away . In this condition deponent consulted with Mr. Amory , who was interested in part of the cargo , upon the expediency of making more resistance against forces so superior , and it was determined that it would be imprudence and only to seek destruction and death to be obstinate ; and then , with the greatest regret , he ordered the flag to he hauled down ; notwithstanding which the firing of musketry and blunderbusses against them continued some minutes after having surrendered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands of those who had so cruelly treated their countrymen . The Amazon consequently became prize to the French privateer La ilfouche of Bordeaux , but the event had a more happy ending than some others , for on August 30 , 18ot , the Council of Prizes sitting in Paris decreed the release of the property to the owners , and the vessel and cargo were thereupon restored to Captain Trask after a detention of over fourteen months . One of the most appalling acts of the times ? a deed utterly without reason ? befell the Schooner Nautilus , Robert Dixon , master . She sailed from New York June 12 , 1799 , for the Dutch island of Curacao , and while on the high seas was met by a vessel which hoisted a flag with a skull and cross-bones painted thereon , " and fired on her . The Nautilus returned the fire , and thereupon a general engagement ensued , which resulted in the Nautilus surrendering to the superior force . Some time later several members of the crew made a statement under oath reciting what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " people of various colors came on board ? some with cutlasses and others with poniards in their hands , with which they cut and stabbed nine men of the Nautilus 's crew in the most wanton and barbarous manner , although the officers and crew begged to have their lives spared and had ceased resistance and surrendered themselves prisoners ; that after they so surrendered , five of the crew of the Nautilus were killed and their bodies thrown overboard , " and also that some other men were dangerously wounded . The capturing vessel proved to be the privateer Trois Amis , with a crew of seventy men , and carrying a commission from the French government . While the prize was carried into Curacao and detained there the papers were forwarded to the French tribunal at Basseterre , Guadeloupe , which several days later condemned the vessel and cargo for the benefit of this inhuman crew . This shocking crime is merely an instance of the cost in lives as well as property of this " partial " war . In this particular case it appeared that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the subsequent acts of the prize crew and the privateer in the harbor of Curacao were committed with the connivance of the Dutch governor . The Nautilus and cargo were the property of James Scott and Israel Seaman , of New York , who , after being apprised of the facts in the case , addressed the following letter to our Secretary of State : NEW YORK , 3d August , 1799 . Sir , ? It is with horror and indignation we inform you of the capture of our armed schooner Nautilus , Robert Dixon , master , bound to Curacoa within the territorial limits of that island . She engaged a French privateer upwards of one hour and a half and then struck ; the Frenchmen when they boarded the Nautilus murdered Captain Dixon , his mate , second mate , and two seamen , and desperately wounded four more . The same day she was carried into Curacoa , and when the vessel and cargo was demanded by our agents , being all American property , the Governor and fiscal replied they must apply to the Tribunal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circumstances was prepared by Mr. Phillips , our Consul , to be laid before the executive , and we trust such an outrage on humanity and violation of the Governor 's own proclamation as well as the laws of nations will not be overlooked by our Government , but adequate redress be obtained . As good citizens , knowing our own rights and always contributing cheerfully to the support of Government , we can not help observing the trade of that Island and the Main , say La Guira and Porto Cavello , etc. , has been very much neglected by our cruisers ; within two months we have had two vessels bound there worth 6o,000 dollars captured and others have suffered still more . I he loss of such valuable citizens leaving widows and children is a serious consideration and will require the wisdom and prudence of our Government to determine what restitution should be made . We think it our duty further to lay before you a particular account of this bloody deed , given by Capt . Fuller of the schooner Ferago , a man of veracity who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schooner arrived . We have the honor to be Your most obedient servants , SCOTT SI SEAMAN . No account of the times would he complete without mention of the brilliant exploits of Captain ( afterward Commodore ) Truxton in the U. S. S. Constellation , which splendid frigate had been launched on September 7 , 1797 . The Constellation was sent in 1799 under Truxton to cruise off Porto Rico , and on February 9 , 1799 , met the French warship L'Insurgente , and the battle that ensued is probably better known than anything that occurred during this " imperfect " war . The vessels were of about equal armament , but L'Insurgente had 40o men to the Constellation 's 300 . The American commander proved superior in seamanship , and his vessel was so well served that he succeeded in passing back and forth athwart the other and raking her . The French vessel struck to the American after losing 29 men killed and 41 wounded , the American loss in the engagement being z killed and 3 wounded . Again on February 1 , 1800 , Truxton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another French frigate , La Vengeance , of 52 guns and 33o men , the Constellation at that time having 5o guns and 310 men ? the two being quite equal in strength . The French vessel attempted to escape , but the fast-sailing Constellation came up with her and La Vengeance opened fire . Truxton wished to close , and forbade his men to fire until within pistol-shot , though the French broadsides were deadly . The Frenchman continued to fire at the rig-                     