@@465885

AT the close of the Revolutionary War there was a belief widely prevalent that the political separation of the United States from Great Britain would be the precursor of a linguistic separation . It prevailed on both sides of the Atlantic . Differences of expression , it was maintained , would spring up , and would increase rapidly or slowly as the case might be . These in time would result in the formation of languages , allied to be sure , but varying in so many details that the one speech would eventually become largely unintelligible to the users of the other , References to this new Anglo - American tongue , speculations as to its probable character , were not infrequent in the periodical literature of the thirty years which followed the Revolution . Variations of usage were carefully noted . With the limited knowledge of the language possessed at that time , no small number of these assumed differences were , as might be expected , purely imaginary . They were largely the creation of men on both sides of the Atlantic who were ignorant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the United States was wont to designate as Americanisms words which had not only been used from an early period in one or both of the two principal divisions which make up Great Britain , but were in use at the very time . Ho chanced never to have heard them in his own home . When he heard them in America , he rushed to the conclusion that America was responsible for them . It is hardly necessary to add that this anticipated cleavage of idiom failed to be realized . There has passed away entirely the once not uncommon belief that a distinct form of language would be developed on this side of the ocean . No pretense is now put forth anywhere that between the speech of England and America , separated by three thousandmiles of water , there is even a remote approach to the nature and extent of the differences which divide the tongues of Spain and Portugal , occupying contiguous portions of the same peninsula . Indeed , if we can trust some observers , a still stronger comparison might be made . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States , expressed the opinion that Scotland and England , though divisions of the same island , were further apart in various particulars , including that of language , than were England and America . He held the opinion stoutly , though well aware that some deemed it paradoxical . " The differences between England and Scotland , " lie wrote , " seem to me greater than the differences between England and America . " One not a native of Great Britain is hardly competent to form a judgment on this point . But the comparatively little distinction that prevails between the speech of the educated class of England and that of the United States is something that can not easily be disregarded . Here is not now the place to discuss the agencies which brought about this condition , not of complete similarity , but of similarity so close that the variations present no difficulty of mutual understanding . Necessarily differences were from the outset certain to arise . The settlers of a new country would meet objects they had never seen or heard of before . They would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of procedure , to follow out new lines of thought and action . For all these new terms would be required . The language they had brought with them was - unequal to the demand made upon it . To its relief the colonist was forced to come either by using . old words in a new sense , or by coining new words , or by borrowing words from other tongues . To all these methods he resorted . Such necessary departures from the usage of the old country were at first violently denounced on the one side , and occasionally apologized for most abjectly on the other . Yet , after all , the new terms entitled to be called Americanisms which have been introduced into cultivated speech are comparatively few in number . " Cultivated speech , " it will be noticed , is the phrase used . That affords the only legitimate basis of comparison between the language as used in England and in America . Many have been the articles and books written about Americanisms . Of the words and expressions so called , there have appeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largely both in quality and size . Still there is not one of them which does not contain matter worthy of consideration . He who discusses the subject could hardly get along without consulting them constantly . Yet while this can be justly said , it has also to be said that there is not one of them which is really satisfactory . It is not with the intention of expressing the slightest disrespect for the many laborers who have worked in this field that the assertion is made that nowhere has there been any scientific treatment of the subject . In all these dictionaries , indeed , whether special or general , the most heterogeneous mass of words have been gathered together and put forth indiscriminately under the name of Americanisms . Terms relating to diverse and unrelated classes of things have been brought together under that title . Words which belong to the uneducated , wherever in the wide world the English language is spoken , have been so designated . Even words which have been constantly employed in the literary tongue from time immemorial can be found enrolled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with which dictionaries of Americanisms have been swollen , there is one utterly objectionable kind which has made up no small share of the material they contain . This is the discussion not of what is peculiar to the speech in America , but of what is proper or improper in speech itself . The observations made may be good or they may be bad : but in neither case are they pertinent . They have as much to do withthe language spoken in England or Australia as they have to do with it as spoken in this country . This characteristic is especially noticeable in the earlier vocabularies . In them the subject of Americanisms proper pops in only occasionally , and when it does , it is with something of the apologetic tone of Paul Pry when he hopes that he does n't intrude . In this particular the later glossaries of Americanisms have shown vast improvement over the earlier . But they are all liable at any moment to wander away from their legitimate field of inquiry to lug in words which have no business in such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some question of usage , and in most cases to discuss it unintelligently . One particularly glaring illustration there Is of the way in which such have been shoveled into vocabularies of terms assumed to be peculiar to this country . There are at least three dictionaries of Americanisms in which for some inexplicable reason the noun female is included . One of them , indeed , puts forth a sort of pretext for its introduction . " The idiom , " says the writer ? " idiom " is a pretty large word for the usage remarked upon ? " bas now become so offensive to English taste , while in the same time maintaining a firm hold in America , that it may still properly be classed as a pseudo-Americanism . " The other , which appeared as late as 1912 , does not give even this ridie. - idelis excuse for inserting the word . It boldly includes it as if there were no doubt of the propriety of so doing . But not content with its insertion , it proceeds to add erroneous statements about its use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ female in the sense of " woman " in the New Historical Dictionary . It is one of the very few instances in that invaluable work in which the statements made are not merely inadequate but distinctly misleading . There is not given in its account of the word in this sense a solitary instance of its employment after the time of Steele from a single writer who can be regarded as an authority upon usage . Yet not merely scores but hundreds of examples could have been secured from later authors of altogether greater ability and authority than he . It ends , too , with a quotation from a newspaper in which female in this signification is designated as " a word of opprobrium . " It hardly needs to be said that the opinion of an anonymous writer carries no weight whatever in discussing a question of usage . In this instance it would pretty certainly carry none if he were known . As the reasons for inserting the word in a dictionary of Americanisms are incomprehensible , so the remarks made about it are somewhat trying to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " it says , " by Wyclif , Shakespeare , etc. , in alluding to women in general , but now contemptuously . " The fact is that the word in this sense , though used by Wyclif , Shakespeare , and their respective contemporaries , was used by them very little ; whereas from the middle of the eighteenth century to the present time it has been used by modern authors a very great deal , never more so than during the nineteenth century . This statement can easily be confirmed . by examining the employment of it by writers of fiction . There is not a great novelist from the time of Fielding and Richardson to the end of the last century in whose productions it can not be found . Furthermore , it is never found in them as " a term of opprobrium . " It almost passes comprehension that any reader of fiction who has interest in linguistic twitters can have failed to notice this fact , even if he has done no more than glance over the novels of Madame D'Arblay , Walter Scott , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Charlotte Bronte , Charles Reade , Trollope , George - Eliot , and Stevenson . In all of them he would find examples of the usage ; in most of them many examples . A concrete illustration is perhaps more impressive than a general statement . Let us take one of the most famous novels of The nineteenth century , the Vanity Fair of Thackeray . In that one work the noun female in the sense of " woman " occurs exactly twenty - three times . Were the attributive employment of it to be also reckoned ? as in " female companion , " " female subscriber "  - -   - -   the number would be more than doubled . To speak precisely , it so occurs just thirty times . This makes fifty-three instances of this use of the word in one single work . To the student of speech the repugnance now shown by many to the word female , with the ridiculous linguistic reason given for it , is of exceptional interest . It is perhaps with us the latest manifestation of a phenomenon which appears every now and then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is directed for a period against the use of some special word or phrase . It starts out from the whim or prejudice of a particular person or of particular persons , and steadily gathers strength by persistent agitation . The war waged upon female is a striking illustration of the nature and force of movements of this sort . It is not only modern ; it is very late modern . Active hostilities against it have apparently been carried on mainly by members of the supposedly aggrieved sex which it designates . As men have never objeeted to being termed males , it looks very much as if women , or rather some women , had begun to feel ashamed of being females . Still , until the attack upon the word is sanctioned by the refusal of the classic writers to employ it , the feelings about it of its assailants are not entitled to recognition in dictionaries . But the very fact that such a word could be inserted in vocabularies of terms presumably peculiar to this country renders it desirable before going further into the subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not . Three general principles can be laid down by which to test the right of any sort of expression to that appellation , even in its widest sense . In the first place , a word is not an Americanism because it designates objects , customs , or institutions peculiar to this country . These are not distinguishing characteristics of American speech ; they are American contributions to the common speech . No ether satisfactory words or phrases can be substituted for them . The foreigner , when speaking of them , is no more able to refrain from employing them than is the native . To call the Congress of the United States an Americanism is as absurd as it would be to call the Parliament of Great Britain an Anglicism . The same thing can be said of the Senate as compared with the House of Lords , or the House of Representatives as compared with the House of Commons . Again , a dollar or a dime is no more an Americanism than a pound or a shilling is an Anglicism . Examples of this sort could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for referring to them , were it not that these terms and others of the same general nature have made up no small share of the words contained in dictionaries of Americanisms . It may be well , indeed , to have a glossary of terms of this character . As such a work would consist largely of names given to political issues and to political parties , it would be of great service to him who is making a study of the history of this country and its institutions . But to designate the words contained in it as denoting an element of language peculiar to American speech gives an utterly wrong impression . They are no more so than the names of the States which make up the Union . To term them Americanisms is therefore a misnomer . We do not consider Whig and Tory Anglicisms . Neither is such an issue , for instance , as Home Rule so called , though the discussion of it concerns only the British Islands . If for any reason that phrase should chance to be transferred to this country , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signification . In truth , in political history the same word or phrase may be necessary to the speech of the two great English - speaking countries and yet have meanings not only absolutely different but exactly opposite . Take , as an illustration , the expression " tariff reform . " In Great Britain it means to impose or to raise duties on imported articles ; in the United States it means to lower them or to take them off entirely . In the second place , a word is not an Americanism because the only known instance in which it has been employed has been by an American . This sort of error is responsible for the attribution to this country of many terms which have never had a real existence . An American , like any one else , may choose or happen to coin a new word . It never becomes current . The probabilities are that no one save its inventor has ever found occasion to use it . Yet if it chance to catch the eye of some curious but not altogether wise collector of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his list on the strength of this single instance of its occurrence . The proceeding is absurd because the term not merely lacks universality of use , but really lacks any use at all . As a matter of fact , not a day passes but some new words spring into existence somewhere . They are evolved on the spur of the moment , usually in spoken intercourse . In ninety-nine cases out of a hundred not one of them over gets into print . If by any accident it gets there once , it never appears again . Accordingly , it dies unnoticed and unrecorded . Such words do not belong to the language , as used in America or anywhere else . They are peculiar to a single person , often peculiar to a single moment of that person 's life . Accordingly , they have no business to lumber up dictionaries . Were , indeed , all individual coinages of this sort to be collected and included in these works , there would be little limit to the number of volumes necessary to contain them . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life is hardly the length of a summer 's day as to put on permanent record these ephemeral productions of the hour . To some extent this is true even of the words used in local communities . They have a right to a place in a dialect dictionary , but not in a dictionary of the general speech . Even in a dialect dictionary they ought to be inserted as belonging to the region or particular place where they are heard . Peculiar words and expressions spring op in every locality . They are not known outside of it . Unless they chance to get into print they are not recorded . There are few commanities which could not contribute from the language , as spoken . words which have not been included in any vocabulary . For instance , there is one which can be heard in widely separated districts of the United States , both North and South . This is the verb sagafiate . It is a half-humorous word of salutation . Instead of saying to others , " How are you ? " or , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " How do you sagatiate ? " To some Americans the word will be familiar ; to many it will be entirely unknown . Occasionally met with in private letters , it has very rarely got into print . One form of it appears in the account given by Uncle Remus of the adventures of the Rabbit with the Tar baby . " 4 How duz yo ' sym'tums seem ter segashuate ? ' sez B'rer Rabbit , ses ee . " But the word itself has never been included in any vocabulary of Americanisms . Instances like this could be multiplied largely . Of course , if any unusual word , even were it the coinage of the moment , chance to be embalmed in the writings of a man of genius , it becomes by that very fact an integral part of the language . It requires record even if no other author can be found to have shared with him in its use . When Othello speaks of " antres vast " ? aniars or an-frees in the original editions ? it is right to insert the word @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be true even were there not a single other example of its employment to be found anywhere . But such action is something entirely different from putting on permanent record the vast number of words which have their birth in the daily press and die as soon as they are born . Yet the results of misdirected energy in. searching for such expressions have tended to increase largely the vocabularies which go under the name of Americanisms . They swell the number to be found in them , however , with-ant adding the slightest to their value . in truth , they detract from their value , because they give a wrong impression as to the actual fact . Full as absurd is it to reckon among Americanisms technical and scientific terms because some American took the pains to deviso them for some special purpose or to convey by them some special signification which he had in mind . Inability to understand this elementary principle has contributed extraordinary additions to the vocabularies of words assumed to be peculiar to this country . In some editions of Bartlett 's Dictionary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as denoting " the primordial facts of our being which , though known by necessity of reason to exist , are not the immediate objects of consciousness ! ' There also appeared the verb logicize , meaning " to reason . " Both these words were credited to a philosophical work written by Chancellor Tappan , of the University of Michigan . Both of them without doubt expressed exactly the meaning which it was in his mind to convey . But they are purely technical terms . Accordingly , they have no more business to be included in a dictionary of words peculiar to this country than the name of a new chemical compound here produced . Fancy the existence of Americans who go about discussing the primordial facts of their being , and in so doing terming them tnetaphenamena . Fancy them , when they give reasons for some view , asserting that they are logicizing . Yet it is a natural inference from the inclusion of these words that they are in the mouths of all of us to indicate what we are doing and saying . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to drop melaphenomena . He insisted , however , that we were continuing to logicize . Consequently , he retained that verb . We can now be consoled by finding from the Historical Dictionary that the English had been doing it before us long ago . Thirdly , a word in common use in English speech , wherever that is spoken , has no right to be termed an Americanism simply because he who invented it and first employed it chanced to be an American . As properly might we say that the immense majority of the words belonging to our language are Anglicisms . The moment a word is adopted by the members of the whole English-speaking world its origin is of no importance , so far as the use of it is concerned . Its place of birth is unquestionably a subject of legitimate inquiry in Connection with its history . About that there is always interest , and sometimes great interest . But it is a limited interest . As soon as the word becomes universally accepted , its origin is of moment only to the linguistic scholar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or an Irishism , or an Americanism , or whatever other term may describe the particular region from which it came . Telegram , for illustration , may have sprung , and probably did spring , into existence in this country . In time it was adopted everywhere . When the use of it had become general , it ceased to be an Americanism . It had been made part of the common speech . If the mere of a word is to be taken as satisfactory proof of its being an Americanism , schooner is better entitled to that distinction than a goodly number of those which are regularly in-eluded . There is little if any doubt that both name and vessel had their birthplace in Massachusetts in the early part of the eighteenth century . From there they were carried not merely to all English-speaking lands , but to various countries of the European continent . Yet not a dictionary of Americanisms includes the word , though its use in the now disappearing prairie - schooner can be found in most . In leaving it out their compilers are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in inserting other words that they are right only through ignorance of its history . The fairly well-known account of its origin runs to the following effect . When the new type of sailing-craft was launched at Gloucester in 1713 , one of the bystanders who saw it moving over the water cried out , " Oh , how she seems ! " " A scooner let her be , then , " was the reply of the builder . Then it was that the name by which this sort of vessel was christened at the moment came into being . There is no inherent improbability in this story . True , no such verb as scoop has ever been recorded . But , as it has already been intimated , few are the communities in this country which would not furnish words and phrases which , though heard in conversation , have never got into print . At all events , this account of the origin of the word is generally , perhaps universally , accepted by linguistic scholars . Originally it was spelled scooner or skimmer . The early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unimportant contribution to the had spelling of the English language which many worthy persons cherish as its chief glory . In this respect its history is not unlike that of the anchor which the schooner carries with her , By our Anglo-Saxon forefathers anchor was spelled ancnra . After dropping the final e to which the termination a had been weakened , the word got along very comfortably for centuries as ancor . But the loss of its final vowel was made up to it at last by the insertion of an unneeded letter h . This was a blunder based upon a wrong spelling of its remote original . But blunder as it is , it has become so endeared to our hearts that few of us would now consent to drop it without passionate protest . Still the point to be made emphatic here is not the erroneous spelling of schooner , but the fact that the word in spite of its origin here has no right to be enrolled as an Americanism in any proper sense of that term . Such views of the whole subject strike out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of so-called Americanisms which never had any real existence ; and on the other hand , words which , whether originating hero or not , have cones to be adopted , sometimes speedily , sometimes slowly , in all English-speaking countries . This latter point can he brought out distinctly by one or two examples . Early came into the tongue as spoken in this country the word bluff as a name given to a precipitous headland , It is now beginning to be used wherever English is spoken . A more noteworthy history has prairie as the designation of the broad , treeless plains of the Mississippi valley . In the British periodicals this word at first was not unfrequently made a subject of comment which ordinarily took the form of censure . One of the great delights of the Quarfprry Review in its earlier years was to fall foul of everything coming or purporting to come from America . Expressions assumed , often erroneously , to be peculiar to this country were soundly castigated . Naturally the employment of prairie was made a subject of protest by one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was the burden of his cry , when savanna already exists ? It is fair to this critic to add that he refrained from committing himself to a too sweeping censure . Thera was a lurking suspicion in his mind that there might be a difference between a prairie and a savanna . Not so restrained had been a critie in the rival periodical some years before . The spirit of the gdinburgh . Review as regards America was widely different from that of the Quarterly ; but in this particular instance the ignorance was much more dense . In 181.0 it had a highly favorable notice of the first number of the American Mineralogical Journal . But before it set out to praise , it felt obliged to protest against the language employed . It censured what it called the Gallicisms found in the opening article . " The two first words of it bespeak , " it said , " a foreign idiom characterizing , as might be expected . the Anglo-American language in which the journal is written . " What , it may he asked , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the existence of the Anglo-American idiom ? One of them was pieces to denote the separate articles contained in the journal . That pieces had been in use for centuries to designate short literary or scientific compositions was unknown to the critic . As it was unknown to him , he assumed that it was unknown to the language . Furthermore , there were no prairies to be found in Great Britain . Hence there had been no occasion to speak of them . Accordingly , as they could not be seen there , it was manifestly improper , in the critic 's opinion , for the word denoting them to have a place in the language . lrany , indeed , were the words censured as Americanisms by English critics at the beginning of the last century . The words themselves and the comments made upon them supply us now not merely with amusement , but almost invariably with amazement . Yet the writers who contributed to these reviews were highly educated men . Not only , too , were they men of distinctly greater ability , as a rule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of much more learning . In the matter of their own tongue , however , they failed lamentably . They exhibited in that the regretable peculiarity of talking about something of which they fan-vied they knew everything , but of which they knew really little or nothing . Nor did mere lack of knowledge constitute the main defect of their comments . It was knowing so much that was not so . In this respect prejudice and dislike naturally intensified credulity . The Quar terly Review , in particular , during the early years of its existence , did its utmost to bring about the comity of nations by giving glowing descriptions of the generally horrible conditions prevailing in the United Slates , based upon information supplied by the veracious traveler . Necessarily the language employed had no chance to escape . As one illustration out of many , take the statement contained in an article which appeared in the number for January , 1814 . In it we were informed that one of the projects entertained by us was that of getting rid of the English language altogether . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To that we were inevitably addicted by the mere fact of being inhabitants of this country . Consequently the writer of the article contented himself with simply giving a few illustrations of the way in which Americans were barbarizing the tongue , " as when they progress a bill , jeopardize a ship , guess a probability , proceed by grades , hold a caucus , conglaciate a wave , etc. ; when the president of Yale College talks of a conflagrative brand . and President Jefferson of belittling the productions of nature . " But it was no petty changes of this sort that were in our thoughts . We were aiming to abolish the English language itself and substitute a new language of our own . We were told that one of the proposals seriously brought forward was the adoption of Hebrew as the national tongue . This information fixes the authorship of the particular article pretty certainly upon Gifford , the amiable editor of the Re-View . In his notes to Ben Jonsun 's Alchemist he assured us that prejudice in favor of the Old Testament was carried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rebellion of the Colonies , " he wrote . " a member of that state seriously proposed to Congress the putting down of the English language by law , and decreeing the universal adoption of Hebrew in its stead . " This fact seems to have escaped the researches of historians on this side of the Atlantic . It is perhaps due to their failure to find " the state of New England , " from which the author 3f the proposal is represented as having come .                     