@@486947

All the glowing predictions of important Republican enactments during the coming short session of Congress are cruelly shattered by Speaker Cannon , who - is now in Washington . Uncle Joe is not lacking in sympathy with the proposed legislation , but sets his experience against other men 's hopes . " It has been my experience , " he placidly remarks , " that when a party has been beaten at the polls , it has been unable to enact such legislation at the ensuing short session of Congress . " In Mr. Cannon we evidently have a case where old experience doth attain to something of prophetic strain . And in this instance he is in line with other seasoned prophets like Congressman Mann . What they have in mind is not so much unwillingness as impossibility . In the short session , the passing of-the necessary appropriation bills takes up so much of the time that any other legislation has to be enacted virtually by consent . Especially in the Senate , the rules permit any two or three determined men to kill for the session @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we may as well resign ourselves to the prospect of a session legislatively barren . - Of the strength of the sentiment in favor of Edward M. Shepard 's election as United States Senator from New York , there can be no manner of doubt . The remarkable thing about the many expressiOns of opinion that have appeared is the simple statement of his manifest superiority , in point of qualification for the office , to any other candidate that can be named . This , it is felt on all hands , will hardly be disputed . Mayor Gaynor 's words were : " He is the man above all others to represent New York State at Washington . " The same sentiment is expressed , in varying forms , and with or without specification of detailed reasons , by one representative man and representative newspaper after another . Commenting on the Brooklyn Eagle 's remark that " more Senatorial qualifications centre in him than in any other member of the party who is now proposed for the office , " the Syracuse Herald says : " The press of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subscribe to this estimate of Edward AL Shepard . " And this up-State newspaper goes on to argue against giving any weight to the consideration that Mr. Shepard 's election would make both the Senators residents of New York city , pointing out that the fact that Roscoe Conkling was a resident of the little city of Utica did not prevent a Democratic Legislature from electing Francis Eernan , of the same place , as his colleague . The anti-Lodge press in Massachusetts is concerned lest the Senator , imitating Speaker Cannon , obtain his ends by summoning Democratic assistance . The Boston Herald , which is friendly or neutral , declares that Mr. Lodge " seems confident of enough support from the Democratic side of the Legislature to offset any possible Republican insurgency . " " The answer of Republican Progressives to this threat , " says the Boston Common , " should be a flat refusal to go near the caucus . " The caucus surely seems unnecessary to bind Republicans already committed to Lodge , and those opposed to him are , it is to be hoped , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be bound by it . As the Boston Gammon says , in this case the caucus is " a device of machine politicians to fetter personal conviction . " Altogether , Mr. Lodge 's situation is one of growing interest . Arrayed against him are all the Republican progressives in Massachusetts , the men who sympathize with Cummins , Beveridge . La Follette , and their wing of the party in the nation . Yet their chief spokesman is to be the Democratic Governor-elect , since no Republican of any prominence has dared to come out . openly against Senator Lodge . Pathetic despair over the failure of popular government has suddenly darkened the sky of a few newspapers hitherto noted for cheerfulness . Thus the Indianapolis Star : It is impossible to derive any reassurance from at least one aspect of current affairs , and that is the ominous &scour,; agement of modest merit in public life . This conclusion sets one searching for the premises , which , in the editorial quoted from , are so far away that one finds himself almost back at its beginning before he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trouble of discovering . Sometimes , it seems , you can get the attention of the people to a fight over organized privilege , " but often in a critical emergency they will fail . " For example : In the recent election , two champions of the square deal were beaten ? Roosevelt and Beveridge . So there we have the new synonyms for " modest merit " The attempt of the Baltimore City Council to segregate the negroes of that municipality by prescribing zones within which they may live is so obviously doomed to defeat in the courts as to be hardly worth discussing . It Is so conspicuously an interference with the constitutional guarantees , and is so fundamental a blow at the right to hold property , that no honest court could for a moment sustain it . To parallel it , one must recall the Pale in Russia and the medieval attempts to prescribe residence districts for each and every guild or class of citizens . SAN FRANCISCO , November 23 ? The Court of Appeals of the Fith District sustained to-day the conviction of Abraham @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been sentenced to fourteen years ' imprisonment and was at liberty on bail . Ruef 's attorneys will be allowed forty days in which to prepare an appeal ' to the State Supreme Court . - And if at the end of the forty days , and at the end of the argument before the State supreme Court , and after ' that court has taken due time to consider the various metaphysical subtleties that may be interposed between Ruef 's crimes and his punishment if , after all this , Ruef shall finally , years after his pi osecution began ; come down to serving a term of imprisonment , how much will be left of the moral effect that would have been produced had this notoriously corrupt politician been promptly visited with the penalty of his crimes when they were first brought home to him9 That is what would have happened under the business-like and efficient methods of the English courts . Is there a single human being in this country who imagines that these delays and uncertainties , these gigantic struggles that are necessary to compass the punishment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accurate ascertainment of the truth ? Under analysis , Mr. James J. Hill 's somewhat gloomy forecast of the industrial situation resolves itself into the declaration that the country is likely , next year , to proceed at a slackened pace in construction and expansion . But we imagine that the majority of observant people had reached the same conclusion before reading Mr. Hill 's St Paul interview . There were numerous reasons for such expectations . One arose from the knowledge of all experienced men that what Wall Street calls " boom times " never continue uninterruptedly ; that it is the habit of air industrial communities , and of the United States especially , to move forward , in a sense , by fits and starts  --  in other words , to overdo the expansion so far in one year or series of years that a subsequent period of relaxation is inevitable while the country is growing up to the rapidly expanded facilities , and is liquidating the debt contracted to introduce them . Another and more immediate reason for belief in slackening activity lay in the feeling of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the " boom " which followed so swiftly on the heels o ! 1907 . All other great panics in our history have been followed by a season of much more thorough rest and recuperation . The internal revenue figures for the fiscal year ended June 30 , with their showing of a great increase in the manufacture of liquors , are doubly curious , as not only coming in the face of the - prohibithin and local Option movement , but also as contrasting with the extraordinary decline in the consumption of liquor in the United Kingdom which has been reported ' in recent British official figures . However , the figures do not have quite the significance that may at first sight be attached to them . The amount of distilled spirits , for example , is stated as 163,000,000 gallons , be ing " 30,000,000 gallons more than the year before . " which seems to show an astonishing growth of the use of spirits ; but if we look further back into the figures we get a very important modification of our conclusions . For the fiscal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was 134,000,000 gallons ; and the preceding year , 1907 , gave the vastly greater total of 175,000,000 gallons . So the fact is that the prohibition agitation caused a very great drop in the production of distilled spirits , and what happened in the last fiscal year was only a recovery from that drop ; even so , the amount was 12,000,000 gallons less than it had been three years ago . There is one point raised in the Government 's bill of complaint against the Sugar Trust upon which it is devoutly to be wished that the Supreme Court may find it in its heart to lay down the law in broad and illuminating language . There is probably no question connected with anti-monopoly legislation that touches the interests both of consumers and of independent producers , in all fields , more nearly than that relating to exclusive dealing under compulsion . The Government 's complaint in the Sugar Trust case charges that " by using their great power they the defendants have successfully demanded that brokers and other intermediaries should handle their products alone , and have forced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a long time they wrongfully induced members of various wholesale grocers ' associations throughout the country to purchase and handle their sugar exclusively . " It was largely with a view to enacting express prohibitions of such practices in place of the general and indefinite provisions of the Sherman Act that President Taft and others , not very long ago , advocated the repeal or modification of that act and the substitution in its stead of legislation of a more specific character . A law suit of national ? importance has been begun in Ohio against the county commissioners of Licking County . It has been brought under the Ohio Anti-Lynching law by the administrator of the estate of Carl Etherington , the detective of the Ohio Anti-Saloon League who was lynched by a mob in Licking County , because of his activities in procuring evidence against lawless saloons . Gov . Harmon promptly removed the Mayor of the town , in accordance with this same law. , Now , the question of money damages has come up . There are those who have held for.years past that under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took possession of persons accused of crime and failed to protect them from the fury of Judge Lynch The Ohio law directly makes the county liable , and this test case which will settle the constitutionality of the law will be watched all over the Union . Should it be upheld , it is bound to prove a great deterrent to mobs . It is all very well to hang or burn a man out of hand , but when you have to pay a high price for the afternoon 's entertainment , it is apt to appear differently both to lynchers and complaisant city officials . The death of George F. Seward removes a citizen of whom New York could well be proud . An insurance-company president who knew precisely what answer to give to grafters and political blackmailers , he was wherever he went a standing refutation of the stupid charge that all New York business men in high positions are there merely to subvert the liberties of the people or to make money illegally . But Mr. Seward was far more than a mere business man . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wide vision . As consul , consul-general , and minister to Korea and China for nineteen years , Mr. Seward knew the East as did few Americans . And far from having any contempt for the Oriental , he brought back from China a profound respect for the Chinese and an ever-ready indignation at their bad treatment by his country and his countrymen . The ghost of the Hilprecht controversy has risen again , with every indication , however , that this is to be the " positively farewell appearance . " Professor Hilprecht has presented his resignation both as professor of Assyriology at the University of Pennsylvania and as curator of the Babylonian Section of the university 's ArchEeological Museum . It only remains for the board of trustees to take action , and it is difficult to see how , acting in the best interests of the institution , they can do anything else . but accept . The controversies in which Professor Hilprecht has been involved have for many years been a disturbing factor of a most serious character both within and without the University of Pennsylvania . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the university the cause of archeology has also been affected by the doubt and the confusion created in the public mind ; and so on all sides a state of affairs has been engendered which ought to be , brought to an end . The affairs of the University of Pennsylvania are about to be handed over to a new president , who appears to have the confidence and esteem of the faculty and the student body ; and it is particularly important that the new administration should not be handicapped at the start . Though the present attempts at revolution in Mexico  --  they can hardly be called more than attempts  --  came upon the world as a surprise , they have been long preparing , and their causes have not been hidden . As Diaz 's power became more absolute , he used it more despotically . Though he had no real reason to fear political opposition , he would not brook it . Even free discussion got to be distasteful to him . Examples have been frequent and recent of his muzzling of editors and expulsion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This plan of squatting on the safety-valve could not be persisted in for years , even in Mexico , without leading to an explosion . It seems to be the fact , also , that the very growth of industries and manufactures which has come about under the Diaz regime has furnished the means for a revolutionary propaganda . Workingmen can not be assembled in great numbers without supplying a nzdus for ideas opposed to tyrannical government . We have seen this to be true in Spain and Russia ; we are now seeing it to be true in Mexico ? . That President Diaz is greatly pertUrbed by the uprising against him , the telegrams from Mexico assert , and it is easy to believe it . A serious revolution now would be not only an unhappy clouding of his closing years , but a severe impeachment of the wisdom and euccess of his rule . It is not to be seriously expected that he will change his methods . To a man of his mould , the lesson of the troubles will very probably seem to be that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ iron . Though it was only a mutiny , and not a revolution , of which the Brazilian navy gave an exhibition in the harbor of Rio de Janeiro , it is an apt illustration of the danger , of such toys as Dreadnoughts in undisciplined and reckless hands . The mutineers submitted themselves to the Government , but with a formal guarantee of amnesty , so that they will not be dealt with as military law would require . That being so , they have gained a good part of their object , and will also have established a vicious precedent . Indeed , last week 's performance was probably inspired by the memory of the events in 1893 when the warships terrorized the city , defied the Government , and tied up commerce for several weeks . There is now a new precedent for a third mutiny . Ireland is as gallantly to the fore as usual in the English election . The Ulster Unionists are already highly resolving that they will never , never submit to laws enacted by an Irish Parliament , and will pay no penny @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their neat way of driving home their favorite argument that the Irish Nationalists are too lawless to be trusted . If it comes to flouting laws they do not like , Ulster Irishmen will not be behind their countrymen in the South of Ireland , and will not give a fig for consistency . As for the prominence given by the Tories to Redmond and his " American dollars , " this will no doubt make the Irish leader stronger than ever , though it may turn the scale in some close elections in England . It is somewhat comic that the " cry " of resisting the break-up of the Union by the use of American money should have been started by an Irishman , Mr. Garvin . The lead of this Irish editor has been followed tumultuously by the most respectable Conservative newspapers , which are always ready to recognize Irish political genius when it is enlisted on their side . But all this fierce denunciation of the venality of the Irish Nationalists might prove awkward if it turned out that the Irish held the balance of power in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be as ready to make a bargain with them as Lord Salisbury - was , and the prophecy of Lord Charles Russell might be fulfilled : " On my word , I often think that we shall get Home Rule from the Tories . " A new physical feature in Russia is significant of a new economic fact . This is the farmhouse of the peasant who has availed himself of M. Stolypin 's Land Act , and is seeking to establish himself , in the language of an English newspaper correspondent , as a yeoman freeholder . The wisdom and the success of the experiment are shown by the circumstance that , after four years of operation , there have been less than three per cent . of protests from the new farmers , and these not because of any desire to go back to the old commune. but only because some of their neighbors have procured better bargains than they have . Many of the clergy are said to be opposed to the new system . on the ground that the migration of families to isolated farmhouses will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of her intention to terminate her commercial treaties which went into effect with most of the leading nations on July 17 , 1899 . They were to be in force for twelve yedis , subject to termination , at the end of that period , on a year 's notification in advance . The treaty with the United States contained a clause which apparently entitles our Government to insist that the whole shall be in effect until July 17 , 1912 ; but even so it Is known that our State Department has already concerned itself with the negotiations for a new agreement . The existing treaties , soon to be abrogated , contain a stipulation of fixed rates of duty on 150 specified products , when imported into Japan ; and it is partly in order to levy protective rates on these articles that the Japanese Government has sought a free hand . The move has evidently troubled Japan 's faithful allies , the English , and a deputation of British merchants has waited upon the Foreign Secretary to ask that steps- be taken to keep English exports to-Japan upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Great Britain could do - nothing to prevent Japan from enacting a protective tariff . ' This will , of course , be hailed by the British protectionists as proof that the policy of free trade robs the Government of power to bring protected countries to terms by retaliation . But there seems no good reason why , because British trade with Japan is to be injured going , it should also be injured coming .                     