@@488333

THE country 's greatest loss in men , thus far in the war , must have found most Americans braced to read of such disasters as the sinking of a transport . That she went to the bottom homeward bound , instead of on her voyage to France with 1,200 soldiers , is a piece of good fortune . Despite all the skill and foresight shown by the War and Navy Departments in sending troops to France , the possibility of a great calamity has always been present . The fact that the losses on the Antilles involved but few fighting men will not lessen the regret that so many lives were taken by the lurking submarine . Seamen or stokers are just as truly servants of the nation as soldiers , and are just as freely risking their lives for their country . Heavier losses will surely come to America , if the war goes on , but this first toll of death necessarily carries with it a peculiar shock , and a special appeal to sympathy . GEN . CROWDER 'S statement as to the reconstruction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he announces will make the choice of men much more truly " selective " than before , and will greatly lighten the labors of the exemption boards . A new questionnaire which each registrant will have to fill out , and a new form for use of the board which will eliminate all the old docket sheets and records , all the laborious work of making and posting lists , and much of the old work in assembling personal information , are to be the chief instruments in this revolution . As for the registered man , he will feel that there is a new guarantee of exact justice in the statement that " the man who can least be spared either as the head of a family or the head of a business necessary to the defence of the nation will be the last to go . " The questionnaires when filled out will be the basis for a division of the registrants into five classes ; and this division into classes will relieve the draft of much of the unevenness traceable to varying interpretation of general rules by different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of whom a good many are now in camp , will hereafter not be sent in advance of unmarried , independent men unless their economic status is unusually high . DSYCHOLOGICAL tests proposed for the new army are I intended not only to promote military efficiency by elimination of defectives , but also to economize in manpower . Many men have volunteered or been drafted who , under ordinary conditions of civil life , would be fitted to compete with their fellows and survive successfully enough , but who , subjected to the terrible strain of modern warfare , would inevitably succumb mentally , and , in the end , find their way to our asylums . These men may be perfectly normal now . If left to peaceful pursuits , they might never be anything but normal . Yet an examination of ancestry and laboratory tests might establish their nervous organization to be such as to exclude them from the fighting zone which has already shattered the minds of so many soldiers . The country will be saved an enormous tax on its resources after the war in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizens will be rescued for the community by this timely psychological examination . The light-minded may scoff at these new-fangled proceedings , but to thinking people they will furnish another assurance that , at least on the technical side , our preparations for war are being carried forward at a maximum of efficiency . UNTIL the law permits Mr. Hoover to initiate a policy of retail price-fixing , if it should have to come to that , nothing would seem to stand in the way of an alternative policy of price-indicating . By this we mean an authoritative statement from the Food Commissioner 's office of what a fair price for various commodities would be in various localities . Such an estimate need not enter into calculations of fractional parts of a cent , such as unfortunately becloud so many of our investigations . Once a fair norm is established and made generally known , the public in its dealings with the retailer will be in a position to recognize extortionate prices without trusting to personal impressions on the subject . Especially would the wide publicity for a fair normal price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from shop to shop in the same locality . The consumer at present can not argue from the price of coal at the mine to coal in his bin , or from wholesale food prices to retail food prices , because the subject of distribution is a darksome book to him . It should not be difficult to work out such a scheme for him in regular bulletins , a procedure which might mean hardship in isolated cases , but would bring . relief to a vast public . THE annoying shortage in sugar is but a temporary condition ; Western beet sugar will bring some relief within a few weeks , it will be followed by the arrival at market of Louisiana sugar , and December 15 the large Cuban crop will begin moving . We may be certain that ' the Government is doing all it can . It has taken steps for the complete stoppage of speculation in sugar , it is trying to keep all the sugar refineries of the East running , and at its suggestion the Cuban Government has lent the Cuban Railway $5,000,000 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have been exporting sugar heavily to Europe is not the whole explanation of the temporary dearth , for Mr. Hoover appealed weeks ago for home economy in the consumption of sugar , and he has found no evidence that his appeal was heeded . Every individual owes it to the country at large to take the step which individual advantage will itself point out  --  to use as little sugar as possible , doing without and resorting to substitutes till the market is again fully supplied . THE loss of four or five out of a fleet of less than a I dozen raiding Zeppelins reaffirms the established lesson 9f the inefficacy of the balloon airship for military purposes and especially for offensive purposes . If we ask why in face of such experience Germany should have sent forth her Zeppelins against England , one answer may be that , having these monster gas-bags on her hands , Germany might as well try to squeeze all the profit out of them she can while the war lasts . A special reason for the latest-raid on England is to be found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slackening morale at home . On the eve of a winter of comparative lull in the land fighting , and another long winter of semi-starvation and general wretchedness and gathering discontent , it may be of some gain to make a combined demonstration of the Fatherland 's still impressive powers . With her armies holding courageously under Haig 's gunfire , her fleets in action in Russian waters , her armed cruisers raiding in the North Sea , and her airships hovering over enemy soil , Germany serves notice on her opponents , on her own people , that she is still very much in the fight . THE starvation of England by the U-boats has by this time passed into a highly speculative future , even according to Tirpitz . But it is doubtful whether at any time even Tirpitz expected to starve out England . . The principal purpose was undoubtedly to hamper the conduct of the war on land . Official figures for the third quarter of the year show that 2,642 British vessels have been diverted from normal trade to regular or auxiliary naval service . Since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ships we may safely assume the same average of 4,500 tons to the ship that we have used in calculating the destruction of tonnage by the submarines . This would show nearly 12,000,000 tons diverted to purposes of war . Before England consented to accept a peace of starvation she would have brought back into the food service several millions of this tonnage . It would have seriously affected the military plans of the Allies , but it would have nullified the hope of a British collapse . THAT recent conference at Berlin , where plans for control of trade after the war were seriously discussed , must be regarded as of considerable importance . It is very significant that such a conference should have been called just now , at all . The Germans are an extremely forehanded people , as the world knows to its cost . Yet their leaders would not be wasting precious time and energy discussing ways and means for resuming the broken threads of commerce unless there were a reasonable assurance of peace within a fairly short time . Here , then , is another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war will soon end , which strikes the outsider as such an enigma . For almost a year all Germans , from the Chancellors down , have been talking as if peace were only a matter of days ; and yet the military and diplomatic situation has not altered in a way to give ground for such confidence . These princes of finance and industry meeting at Berlin , in their discussions , quietly assume a proximate peace , and on the basis of that assumption proceed to lay plans for Germany 's commercial future , a future which , they insist , by the way , shall not be Government-controlled , but , on the contrary , is to see a return to free trading without Government interference . THE commissioning of 684 colored aspirants for officers ' positions , all of them graduates of the " colored Plattsburgh " at Fort Des Moines , is at once the wisest and most just action towards the colored people the Wilson Administration has taken since it first assumed office . There is an old and misleading belief that negro troops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because very few colored officers have been commissioned , so that there have been few tests . The conduct of the Tenth Cavalry under its lieutenant-colonel , Young , a colored graduate of West Point , during the Villa campaign , after the disability of Col. Dodd , ought to be a final answer to those who doubt the ability of colored men to lead , to say nothing of the magnificent performances of colored French troops in France . As a matter of fact , we believe that the best leaders for colored soldiers are colored men , and we expect these colored officers to reflect the greatest credit upon their race and their country wherever their service may lead them . The commissioning of them is the more welcome because the drafted colored men have not had a square deal . The boasted equality and democracy of the Draft law broke down in practice at the color line . If our reports are correct , only a portion of the young colored men eligible for the draft have been called out in certain Southern States . Here in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . THERE is no doubt that Gen. Bell has been guilty of serious unfairness in refusing Mr. Hillquit permission to speak at Camp Upton . The Socialist candidate has the same right as the candidates of the other parties to address the soldiers under General Bell 's command . There has been nothing in Mr. Hillquit 's campaign to justify the fear that he would preach treachery , disloyalty , or sedition . No allegations have been made that such a fear was entertained . On the contrary , the refusal seems to have been based on vague generalities . Therefore , the ordinary citizen , not the Socialist only , will consider that such a refusal constitutes an unjust discrimination against the Socialist party . Under the circumstances , both Gen. Bell and Secretary Baker , to whom Mr. Hillquit makes a direct appeal , will act wisely if they reconsider their decision and give the Socialist candidate the opportunity of addressing his fellow-citizens in khaki to which he is entitled . Not to do this would be to enlist on Mr. Hillquit 's side both sympathies and votes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kept going on grievances ? NO less a " regular " than Boies Penrose has repudiated the result of the Philadelphia Republican primary . The Senator draws the line at murder ; in fact , he seems to revolt against any coercion of voters when practiced by the Vares , although he has not hitherto felt it a matter of conscience to refuse to accept the outcome of such coercion . His declaration of independence should be carefully preserved by the Vare faction , who in their turn a year or two hence may find it borne in upon them that Republicans " are not bound by any tie or obligation to support the county and ward tickets technically styled Republican ' at the approaching election . " A mere citizen might ask how it is that the Philadelphia county and ward tickets of 1917 are only " technically styled ' Republican . ' " The ward in which the murder was committed was carried , in spite of violence , by the Penrose-McNichol candidate , while in most of the other wards there was no trouble , owing to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " fifty-fifty " ticket . The Senator thus tears up a scrap of paper that always before he has held sacred , and does so at the cost of aligning himself with the reformers , and so of deserting his own candidates . But they will understand that , in the holy cause of beating a faction that you have never been able to beat before , minor losses must be overlooked . WILL one of the peace conditions involve a return of Belgian and French art treasures removed by the Germans since 1914 from the occupied territories ? Until the outbreak of the war , every one had supposed the custom of nations changed since Napoleon 's time , so that it would no longer be possible for a conqueror to fill his museums with plunder . That supposition , like so many others , seems to have been given the lie by the Kaiser , whose agents are said to have emptied the Antwerp and Brussels museums for the benefit of Berlin . ? Even the Emperor 's grand . father , in the war of 1870 , took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ascribed this moderation to the , lack , in that Spartan generation , of appreciation for art , which led those earlier invaders to confine their activities , for the most part , to ormolu clocks and silver services . The modern Prussian , however , from the Crown Prince down , has become a dilettante connoisseur of art . Hence the very thorough clean-up made of art objects . Berlin , willy nilly , is to be made a world centre of art . If tourists prefer Paris because of its greater natural charm , they will , in any event , be forced to visit the Prussian capital in order to see Rubens 's " Descent from the Cross . " A monopoly of the world 's supply of potash , and a collection of stolen art , is to keep the world at Germany 's mercy  --  unless the terms of peace provide otherwise . IT is gratifying to read that President Wilson is having his portrait painted by John Sargent . The present generation of Chief Executives , Roosevelt , Taft , and Wilson , are fortunate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of suffering misrepresentation at the dull hand of mediocrity . Our early American fathers had the benefit of Houdon , Stuart , Copley , Trumbull , and Peale , who gave us a gallery of true Olympians . But since that Augustan period there has been a singular aridity in our portraiture . The controversy about the Barnard Lincoln would not now be raging had the Emancipator had a great painter-biographer to sit to . Unlike Whistler , Sargent , in spite of his residence in England , has never lost touch with things American , and has always dedicated a certain percentage of his work to America . In President Wilson he ought to find one of his best subjects . He is to have a full week of sittings , which is a long time for the Sargent who was said to have dashed off a baker 's dozen of portraits in less time . THE Faculty Council of Columbia last week voted unanimously for a permanent Committee of Reference , with the President of the University as chairman and six of the Faculty as members , to which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the separation of a teacher from the University , the reference to come either from the President or any officer of the University or from the trustees . Since the request only reads that such reference may be the procedure , the trustees are asked by the Council to establish this formally as the permanent policy of Columbia . So far so good . If the trustees accede to this reasonable request , some progress will have been made . But - what is needed at Columbia is something more than thatnamely , an assurance of good faith by the authorities in any future cases calling for discipline . It must not be forgotten that a chief cause for the feeling of outrage which exists at Columbia comes from the fact that in the instances of Dana and Cattell the trustees calmly accepted those recommendations of the existing special Committee of Nine on questions of academic insubordination which they liked , ignored those they did not like , and then disingenuously gave to the public the impression that they had acted in accord with the wishes of the Committee of Nine and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Science . If there is no positive assurance that the proposed Committee of Reference will fare better in future cases , there is no real gain . But even if this assurance is given , we sincerely trust that the faculty will not permit itself to be lulled by any promise into silence and indifference as to the cases of Cattell and Dana . It should speak out on them , and insist that Cattell receive his pension and Dana the year 's leave , with permission to resign , which the Committee of Nine recommended . THE second postponement of the Jewish Congress seems to be in accord with a general conviction that such a gathering now might do more harm than good . Too many people talking at cross-purposes would only interfere with the attainment of the original objects of the Congress . These were of a two-fold nature . First , the delegates would be expected to ask equal rights for Jews throughout the world . But this is a project dear not only to all Jews , but also to all the peoples of the Allied nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Zionism . Here neither the Jewish community nor the world at large presents a united front . Discussion of the subject would only lead to acrimonious differences . On the other hand , there is pretty good evidence that authoritative assurances have been given the Zionist wing to the effect that , at any final peace conference , a Palestine , under good government , open to the settlement of all corners , without restriction , will be provided for . This is about all that moderate Zionists have been asking . IT is taken for granted that a fire-swept community will I follow Chicago 's example and turn a disaster into a blessing by rebuilding upon improved principles . But the difficulties that have to be overcome before this result can be assured are prominent in the report of the commission that has had general supervision of the rebuilding of Salem , Mass . The requirement of non-combustible roofs was fought by persons financially interested in the use of shingles . The requirement of a larger amount of open space between houses was anathema to speculative builders , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the face of the destruction caused by a fire that owed its spread to the lack of just such precautions , however , they appealed with no little force to the body of citizens , who have supported the Commission also in its efforts for sanitary improvement of the 256 acres burned over . It is admitted that esthetically the new Salem does not equal the best parts of the old . The first aim in rebuilding was utility , and not so much attention was paid to preserving the colonial appearance of the city as might have been . Even so ; the general attractiveness of the rebuilt part excels that which it replaces , while the speculative builders have to admit a rise of values to a point higher than before .                     