@@487202

M R. E. T. HURLEY has again issued a little volume of reproductions of his etchings , " For Old Acquaintance , ' illustrating scenes in Cincinnati and its surroundings . The thirty illustrations emphasize the old truth that picturesqueness and interest can be found at home , provided the artist 's heart and sympathy are behind his eyes . The text by Sara Sax gives facts of local interest . FF ROM the Macmillan Company comes " Navigation , " a short , compact , well-printed octavo by Prof. Harold Jacoby ( $1.25 net ) . The work is designed to meet the wants of hundreds of young officers recently taken into the navy , as well as of more yet to enter that service , who know little of mathematics and less of astronomy as applied to the daily problem of determining the position of a ship at sea . The ordinary astronomer is hardly fitted for this humble task , so far beneath his customary intellectual plane ; but the author enjoyed unusual opportunities of studying the question during a cruise on the U. S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took him and his fellow astronomers to South Africa to observe a total eclipse of the sun . It is this practical experience which gave him the point of view of the seaman for whom this little book is written . Assuming no mathematical knowledge on the part of the reader and using simple language , he defines the ship 's position , describes the methods of finding it by dead reckoning , by observation of a heavenly body or of objects on shore in coasting . These he illustrates by specific examples . The volume contains all the tables necessary to such calculations , so that , with it and the " Nautical Almanac , " which gives for any date the location of all the navigational heavenly bodies ( and which is supplied by the Government to every vessel ) , nothing more in the way of books is required by young navigators , who , doubtless , will welcome it as warmly as it deserves . ccG LEANINGS from Old Shaker Journals , " compiled by Clara Endicott Sears ( Houghton Mifflin ; $1.25 ) , relates to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harvard , Massachusetts . From their early days the Shakers believed that the Christ Spirit , having once been revealed in the person of a man , must appear again and in the body of a woman , in order that humanity might have a complete revelation of the divine nature . When , therefore , Anne Lee , an English woman of strong personality , appeared among them , they took her for the expected Messiah and made her their head . To their questions in regard to her nature she said : " I am Anne , the Word , " which satisfied their trusting natures . They followed her to North America , where , after some wanderings , they settled in Harvard , thenceforth the centre of the Shakers of New England . The peculiar forms of their worship aroused the countryside against them , and bitter persecutions followed . As long as these troubles lasted the sect prospered , but when tolerance came , about the middle of the nineteenth century , religious fervor decreased , and the Shakers were gradually absorbed in " the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a thing of the past , and the compiler of this interesting little volume , who has had the art to win the confidence of a few survivors , has been allowed to draw freely from records which have hitherto been withheld from public inspection . Her story consists of long excerpts united by short comments of her own . It is a sympathetic treatment of people whose many virtues atone for their eccentricities . The major part of the extracts deal with persecutions , and are written by the Shakers themselves . Others deal with the mystical belief of the people and their singular ceremonies , while still others illustrate the economic and social life of the Shaker community . It is a book to be read by those who appreciate the spirit of the early-nineteenthcentury New England , and for such persons it is alive with human interest . T HE American Sociological Society , in its last Christmas meeting , devoted its attention to the Sociology of Rural Life , and we have before us the set of papers and discussions presented ( Volume XI of the Publications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ W. Bedford , University of Chicago Press ; $1.50 net ) . President Vincent leads off with a paper on " Countryside and Nation , " and there follows a series of presentations that makes a well-balanced survey of the most important aspects of the general subject , as these have been revealed during the comparatively few years since this brand of sociology came to be recognized . Professors Gillette and Vogt , whose recent works on Rural Sociology have been noticed in these columns , appear on the list of speakers . It is hardly possible to present any brief conspectus of the proceedings of the annual meeting beyond saying that in all probability the general subject has never before received so comprehensive an airing ; and it is an important subject whose understanding will have much to contribute towards the wholesome prosecution of our national purposes and destiny . M R. ARNOLD BENNETT has one attainment obviously needed by any one aspiring to causerie  --  he has read omnivorously . That was the secret of Andrew Lang 's charm when he talked on the new publications . Mr. Bennett @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provocative as a critic , seldom convincing . In short , he was excellently equipped to conduct the columns on " Books and Persons " in an English review for which he wrote under the name of Jacob Tonson in the years from 1908 to 1911 . Many of his papers have now been collected in book form and pub-lished by Doran ( $2 net ) . While not affording any consistent body of criticism , the book ranges pleasantly over the lights of the literary world in England and on the Continent during the years mentioned . The volume is always readable , it is often intime , and it is nearly always baffling . Perhaps this last characteristic was consciously cultivated as a part of the author 's stock in trade : paradox and surprise had come to be the sine qua non of London 's literary set . So , without further qualification , he says of St. John Hankin : " The least of his works is infinitely more important in the development of the English theatre than the biggest of the creaking contrivances for which Sir @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and cultured Government . " But Mr. Bennett professes no competency in criticism save as a " creative artist , " and he is at pains to enforce the point repeatedly . He can describe for you the authentic feeling shared by artists in the presence of Art 's new offsprings . One is reminded of Swinburne 's efforts at literary criticism . The two have this at least in common : their tributes , even to minor writers , are generous to the point of exaggeration . Mr. Bennett is the more discriminating , yet his judgments seem often to issue from a mind that is constitutionally fussy rather than judicial . F OR his doctoral thesis in Columbia University William Haller has chosen " The Early Life of Robert Southey " ( Lemcke &; Buechner ) , that is , the first twenty-nine years of the poet 's life , ending with his settlement at Keswick . In the main this is a good piece of work . The narrative parts are sufficiently vivacious , and the analysis of Southey 's character , in itself and in comparison with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not without penetration . There is good psychology as well as sociology in such an observation as this ; " Near Villa Franca in Spain , for instance , where nature seemed a paradise , but where Church and State kept the people in poverty and ignorance , he Southey saw such a sight as Wordsworth had beheld in France ? a woman carrying a heavy burden of wood on her head , which she had cut herself , and spinning as she went along ; a melancholy picture of industrious wretchedness . ' In Wordsworth such an experience helped to confirm the revolutionary spirit . In Southey it turned loyalty back to England . " Southey 's part in the romantic scheme of pantisocracy is brought out distinctly , and the practical reasons for his withdrawal , while Coleridge was still skirting " the precipices of distempered sleep , " are stated clearly , if with a little too much repetition . This vice of repetition , with an occasional plethora of useless details , is the weakness of the book , a weakness not uncommon in such treatises . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the need of appearing learned leads the author now and then into the bog of tautological pedantry . In the larger matters of literary criticism , Dr. Haller is sound , if not brilliant ; if he errs , it is certainly not on the side of unduly magnifying the importance of his author . Perhaps a little more appreciation might be shown of the joys of bookishness , although this is a theme belonging more emphatically to the later years of Southey 's life . We should like to hope that Dr. Haller , in his own maturer years , would continue his study of an author who , after all , stands for something distinct in English letters . Q UESTIONS of fundamental importance in political theory are reopened for discussion in Harold J. Laski 's " Studies in the Problems of Sovereignty " ( Yale University Press ; $2.50 net ) . Starting with the postulate that our ideas on the nature and basis of sovereignty must be made clear before we can have a workable theory of the state , the author proceeds to a comprehensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control not only of action but of opinion , and particularly to the control of religious opinion or belief . To this end he has studied with great diligence the ecclesiastical history of the nineteenth century , noting the extent to which disruptive forces have been marshalled as a protest against the assumed right of sovereign authorities to control the consciences of men . Mr. Laski rejects , of course , the Hegelian theory of the sovereign state as an all-highest organism , and ranges himself with the English school of political philosophy , now headed by Dr. J. N. Figgis , in placing the state within the category of corporate entities , differing perhaps in rank , but not in species , from ordinary corporations as we know them . The acceptance of this doctrine would have , as one of its results , the almost entire recasting of orthodox political theory . That might be no misfortune . At any rate , Mr. Laski has done his part both in making clear his own tentative ideas and in presenting the historical data upon which they are based . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ word on the subject . There is an intimation in its preface that the author has more ammunition in his bandolier , and that in due course it will be hurled at Hegelian trenches . A THIRD volume of the Harvard Studies in Romance Languages contains " Four Essays " by the late Murray A. Potter , prepared for publication by some of his colleagues in the Harvard Romance Department ( $1.25 net ) . One need invoke no proverb to justify fair speech : the essays carry their own commendation . They are comprehensive and patient in scholarship , and they are eminently readable . The first three deal with Petrarch , as Author , as Man , as Critic and Reader . Renaissance Latin was to Professor Potter , as his graduate students well know , a tongue as familiar and as full of life as the vernacular ; and these essays draw their special value from the fact that they reflect an alert individual study of the rich-veined mass of Petrarch 's Latin verse and prose . The essay presents most entertainingly the Horse as an Epic Character @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the material Professor Potter had collected : he had planned a treatise upon this theme . Steeds of many lands and of many types are gathered and called by name ? Arabian , Greek , Russian , French , Persian , Irish , Norse , Spanish , German . Some are faithful and helpful , but merely equine ; others are creatures protean and altogether marvellous . Repeated traits and linking anecdotes fill the swift review . The essay ends with fuller accounts of four favorites : Marchegai , of the Aiol ; Bayard , the Siberian Sib , and Sharatz , the horse of Marko Kralyevich. , ci l HE Battle with Tuberculosis and How to Win It " ( Lippincott ; $1.50 net ) , by D. MacDougall King , bears the sub-title , " A Book for the Patient and His Friends . " The author writes as one who , attacked by the disease , has won the battle and desires to help others , not only through a recital of his experiences , but by emphasizing the why and wherefore of modern treatment . This latter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convictions that the great number of deaths occur , notbecause the disease is terribly virulent , but because the majority of patients do not understand , or even begin to comprehend , the significance of the reasons underlying the only treatment that will bring success . Throughout the book , he attempts to set forth in simple language the fundamental scientific facts which help to answer the patient 's constant query , " Why must I do this ? " The chapter headings follow the military terminology of the title of the book ; thus the first chapter deals with The Enemy , the tubercle bacillus ; the second with The Defence Forces , that is , the natural resistance of the subject of the disease , and so on through twenty-six chapters . Under Choosing the Battle Grounds , the questions of climate and residence are discussed , and under The Commissariat the problems of diet . This arrangement focusses the attention of the reader upon the special subject-matter discussed , and emphasizes the principle every physician believes is the chief factor in the cure of tuberculosis  --  the idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Earnestness , not worry ; perseverance , not luxury ; and grit , not ease , win the day . " F OR the military reader there are small items of interest in " The Note-Book of an Intelligence Officer " from the versatile pen of Eric Fisher Wood ( Century ; $1.75 net ) : but he will turn from the pages into which he was inveigled by the technical promise conveyed in the title with a keen sense of disappointment . For the lay reader Mr. Wood has dressed up sundry experiences with London officialdom and the British army in an entertaining style , but even here the chief impression derived is the importance the author continually places upon his own fortuitous presence at the right hand of the various powers with whom he maintained familiar contact . There is no mistaking the inspirer of the book . To Lord Northcliffe , aspirant to Clemenceau 's title of " wrecker of cabinets , " the author is indebted for these favors , and he offers praise ad nauseam . The reader is duly impressed with all the intimate details @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his dominion at the centre of the British Empire . In " his famous green Rolls-Royce limousine " Lord Northcliffe whirls Mr. Wood to a conference with Premier Lloyd George , the upshot of which , we gather , is that previously Lord Northcliffe had been impressed with the need of bringing before the American public the full story of England 's effort in the war , in order to counteract the impression current in this country of an inarticulate , blundering nation . All of which is most commendable . But the author never fails to remind us that the real spring in British effort , the heroic , vilified , and self-sacrificing gadfly , is the genius whose omnipotent press recently appointed him the successor to Mr. Balfour in this country 's contacts with her British ally . Thus we are doubly grateful for those pages that give us glimpses of Britain 's war economies , and a rather vivid , compensating picture of the Battle of Arras . T HE terrible indictment of German militarism continues , but we have come to separate the irresponsible charges from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Bryce report was one of those that commended itself to the world as uninspired by malice or partisan propaganda . The latest brochure is from a Belgian , and the evident restraint of passion is not its least virtue . Emile Cammaerts in " Through the Bars " ( Lane ; 75 cents ) has stated in succinct terms the various indignities and the irreparable injuries that his unfortunate country and people have suffered from Prussian militarism during the three years of occupation . The systematic methods by which the Prussian military oligarchy succeeded in inflaming their legions with rumors of francstireurs , poisoned wells , etc. , as they swept through the supine country , the subsequent enslavement of laborers , are calmly discussed , and are fortified by chapter and verse at the hands of a scholar . The cartoons from the mordant pencil of the irrepressible Louis Raemaekers adequately support the indictments of the text .                     