@@487205

SIR : In a recent editorial note on the Italian disaster you refer to the new " mustard " gas used by the Germans . You may be interested to know that it was tried first , four months ago , upon the Canadian corps on the western front . Its effect is curious . It does not attack the bare face , but wherever the body is covered by clothing , it raises blisters . It shows how resourceful the Canadians are that by the second night that the gas was used , they had found the antidote . A quantity of tubs and two thousand suits of pajamas were sent up to the front line . The " gassed " men were promptly stripped , bathed , dressed in the pajamas and sent to the rear . It is needless to add that the Canadians did not give way . ARCHIBALD MACMECHAN Halifax , N. S. , November 24 " Borden Versus Laurier " To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : I have read with a good deal of interest and satisfaction an article @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Garrison Villard , which appeared in your issue of the 22d inst . The article is both judicial and just , and states very accurately the political conditions that just now obtain in Canada . As a Canadian I am quite sure that the great body of the Canadians desire to continue aiding the mother country on the European battlefront , but many of the most patriotic among them question whether in a democracy such as Canada , where voluntary recruitment already has organized an army of 420,000 men , conscription should be resorted to , without an appeal to the people . The United States introduced conscription at the outset . This was wise and well . But the United States is a nation and declared war as a nation . Canada did not declare war , but voluntarily went to the aid of the mother-land . Her relation to England is exactly that of Australia to the mother country . Yet in the latter they did not dare foist conscription on the people without a referendum . Very likely Sir Robert Borden and his " win the war " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 17 , but he will have planted thereby such seeds of discord and division as years of the wisest statesmanship may not eradicate . It is one thing to aid our Canadian soldiers at the front in every way possible , but quite another thing in obtaining this aid to ignore the will of the Canadian people . There is no time for a referendum , says our " Win-the-War " party . This is plainly absurd . Besides , as a matter of fact , the voluntary recruiting during the past six months has very nearly reached the maximum number which , under conscription , is to be dispatched across the seas monthly . I notice that several of the " Win-the-War " journals in Ontario cry out that there is no longer freedom of speech in the Province of Quebec . Well , I fancy that Ontario has led in this . Between two or three years ago a body of young men wearing the King 's uniform prevented freedom of speech in the Opera House , in Ottawa , the capital of the Dominion . It depends upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had there not been a narrow unstatesmanlike racial crusade carried on during the past ten years in Ontario against Quebec , we might now have fighting on the western front not twenty thousand , but one hundred thousand French-Canadians . THOMAS O'HAGAN Ithaca , New York , November 30 What Is a Grievance ? To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : Much admiration is due to a man who can see both sides of a question . But even that rare binocular gift may be so excessively cultivated that it " o'erleaps itself . " By making an exclusive specialty of seeing the other man 's side of the question it may be possible to lose sight entirely of one 's own . Under these circumstances , the man who defends the other 's point of view until he adopts it is just as narrow as if he saw only his own side of the question , with the added liability of meriting the charge of disloyalty to the just and lawful claims of what should be his own side . In this predicament stands Senator La Follette , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " We had no grievance with Germany , " at the time we broke off relations with her . This statement the Senator found it possible to make after the heart of the whole world had been wrung with the martyrdom of Belgium , France , Servia , Poland , and Armenia ; after the naval assassination of the Lusitania and thousands of other unspeakble atrocities such as never before had blackened the annals of history ; after hundreds of thousands of Belgians and French had been deported to penal servitude , or worse ; after the kindly earth itself , in the regions of France and Belgium , had been ravaged of every vestige of green life , in blasphemous defiance of God and man . Comparing these grisly facts with Senator La Follette 's serenity concerning them , one feels the necessity of a speedy examination of three questions . First of all , what might constitute a grievance in the eyes of the Wisconsin Senator , if he found none in the monstrous crimes enumerated ? Secondly , what is patriotism , if its force is so mechanically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cry out ? The third question is the climax of the heart 's rebellion at indifference to the foul wrongs suffered by others : what is man if mere geographical distance can so annul all human reactions against inhuman crimes ? Would any man , worthy of the name , stand by , with hands folded , and watch a thug torture and kill an innocent man , or transport to a worse fate some defenceless woman ? Assuredly not . But if that tortured man or wronged woman were a mile away from another man , who knew of the evil being done , would he be worthy the name of a man if he did not fly to the rescue ? Again , there can be but one answer to the question . But if , instead of one mile , the distance from the scene of the crimes were a thousand or three thousand miles , and the victims millions of men , women , and children , instead of one or two , would any man or nation be worthy to be called human if that man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such outrages ? Never ! Apathy under such circumstances would prove those capable of it beings in whose veins one might expect to find nothing but colorless ichor . Nation after nation is trampled upon , despoiled , tortured , and transported ; millions of little children starve , and with them die by inches , from hunger and cold , millions of aged men and women . To the farthest rim of the world , the convulsive throes of this fiend-begotten war are felt . Not only was the starvation of millions in Europe one of the results of the military madness and megalomania , but millions of the poor in our own country have paid a fearful toll in disease and death as a result of a war which has made prohibitive prices for food and fuel . And yet , Senator La Follette could say , " We had no grievance ! " The whole world , furthermore , has become hardened and brutalized by three years of daily horrors , whose loathsome influence is as unavoidable as physical contagion from yellow fever . " After awhile we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a brave young Canadian , who was forced to witness the ghastly barbarities on the programme of Schrecklichkeit . Alas for us all if , in the face of all this fearful evidence , we can still say , " We had no grievance " ! Alas for patriotism whose radius is measured only by self-interest ! Those suffering from this atrophied form of patriotism should re-read in Dickens 's " Christmas Carol " the words of Marley 's ghost to Scrooge : " Mankind was my business . The common welfare was my business . " Not till every man on the face of the earth is willing to give the last full measure of devotion as evidence of this civilized form of patriotism will the God of Destruction be overthrown and those who worship at his blood-encrusted shrines turned from the low-browed past towards which they face . No one can loathe the brutal stupidity of war more than the writer of this protest . But there are times when we need to remember the words of Dr. Parkhurst : " One can not cure a cancer with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University announces , even in the glare of Europe 's conflagration , that the " smaller nations must learn that they will have to yield to force , " he gives the world once more an epitome of that blind and self-defeating despotism which has reduced the entire occupation of the world to two activities : killing and maiming and burying the dead and binding up the wounds of those who are obliged to go on living in the physical ruins that were once the fair temple of a human soul . It needs must be , that we temporarily renounce our visions of peace and buckle on our armors and fight ; but woe to us all , if we go not forth with the battle-cry , Delendum est bellum ! And woe to those who sit at home and make laws , if ever after the end of this infamous spectacle of world impotence , we allow the war lords of any country to banish sanity from the legislation of the world . The old law of impenetrability holds good in the intellectual as well as the physical world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same time . War will never be dethroned until the war-idea is cast out . One can not hatch out doves from a nest full of hawk-eggs . As long as the world keeps armaments , the minds of men will be little less than nests for military hawk-eggs . Ye can not serve God and mammon is just as true now as when it was first spoken . It was the divine application , again , of the law of impenetrability . The militarists , however , imagined that it could be done . The cosmic tragedy of the last three years proves that it can not be done . Shall we learn nothing from that failure ? There must be no haggling or half-way measures in the reformation that follows the war . The idea of war , as a possibility , must be treated precisely as if it were a case of smallpox , and every mental door and window shut against it forever . How build upon the normal and constructive platform of peace , if all our mental faculties are occupied with the displacing activities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very armaments themselves with their suggestions continue to breed in our minds the same old dangerous broods of the war-hawk . If we make ready for war it will always come forth to meet us . If we make ready for peace , first by slamming the door always in the face of any suggestion of war as a possibility and afterwards by more detailed methods of construction , we shall find peace also meeting us half-way . Finally ( and this is difficult ) in aid to the permanence of the same end , every nation must cast out the devil of hate , at the same time that the war-idea is cast out . Above all should we reach out to the millions of innocent members of the nation most responsible for this ghastly war a sympathetic hand of fellowship and to the entire nation a forgiving hand , when it finally renounces its obsession of militarism . There can be no healing for the nations as long as any is left outside the fold of brotherhood , foretold by the prophet Micah , when nation shall not lift @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any more . Commerce and all the devices for swift communication have so inter-knit the peoples of the world that we are in a literal sense fellow-members one with another . All of which has been much better said in the lines of Whittier : Like warp and woof All destinies are woven fast , Linked in sympathy Like the keys of an organ vast ; Pluck one thread and the web ye mar , Break but one of a thousand keys And the paining jar Through all will run . At home and abroad until the war ends , let our battle cry be , Delendum est bellum ! thereafter , let the perpetual slogan of peace be , There is always another way than war . If two men can settle disputes without killing each other two nations can . ELLEN BURNS SHERMAN 