@@466471

IT is a truth on the way to being generally accepted that poverty is a disease of the whole social body instead of a local affection of that portion of the community called the poor . When the world determines to cure itself of this general sickness , how shall it go about it ? Not by the giving of alms certainly , for though contributions of a million , five millions , ten millions have become as common as gifts of scraps or old clothes , not only do the numbers of the depauperate , both actually and in proportion to the whole population , increase , but philanthropy is put to a strain it can by no means support . I he remedy of alms has been tried and has failed . The New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor , which during its seventy-two years of existence has probably investigated more applications for aid and distributed material relief ? food , fuel , clothing , rent ? to a greater number of destitute families than any other private charity in America , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their personal frailties to the technical organization of the economic life of the community . Persuaded that poverty is principally a by-product of industrial mismanagement , it has entered the field of business ; and by a series of practical demonstrations is attempting to teach the public that the cure of poverty is not in charity , organized or unorganized , but in social-ized business efficiency . These demonstrations owe their inception , they were touched off , as it were , by the revolt against sacrificial pauperization of one Buonocore , an Italian carpenter , whose case record is an epitome of prevailing charitable practice . At the time when Buonocore first VOL . CXXXII1. ? No. 793. - 11 " became known " to the Association he was a victim of tuberculosis and his family were starving . When last employed he had been earning three and a half dollars a week . Then he was forced to quit work entirely . When employers rejected him as unfit , he doubted their candor and persisted in going from place to place peddling his skill . Convinced at last that no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protesting silence . And at first his wife honored his pride . But there were children . The benefits due from the carpenters ' union ran out . Then the mother went to the priest , and the priest referred her appeal to organized charity . Whereupon the shining gates of goodwill flew open . The Association sent a visitor with a full purse to meet the immediate needs ? a charwoman to do a day 's cleaning , a dietitian to teach the woman what foods to buy and how to prepare them scientifically . A nursing agency sent a trained nurse , " for all the children looked sick " ; a settlementhouse sent a neighborhood worker in token of the friendship which the prosperous keep for the tenement neighbors whom they never see ; the district school interested a lady of means . There are thousands of charitable agencies in the city , representing millions of capitalized good-will , and at the cry of distress they swarm ! But instead of kissing the helping hands , Buonocore was outraged . Why brand him as a pauper in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his life only to deserve for himself and his children the stigma of alms ? He railed at the agents of charity as though they represented the intangible injustice of which he felt himself the victim . Patient under rebuff , the missionaries of good-will presented their time-approved plan of rehabilitation . They explained to Buonocore that he must go to a free hospital , since in his tenement he was a burden to himself and a menace to the health of his family and his neighbors ; and that , since his family could not possibly manage without his wages , it would have to be " broken up " and the children removed to various benevolent institutions . Then Buonocore 's sense of injustice flared into rebellion . He protested that he would neither lie apart in a pauper 's bed nor tolerate the commitment of his children to homes for juvenile paupers . He would rather die than abandon his family ! Old in experience , charity pronounced the customary warning : either Buonocore would obey the plan , or further relief must be withheld from him and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the following entry : Visited family twice to-day . First time visitor was told that no one was in ; later found boy , Frank , in street and was immediately surrounded and followed by a number of children up to family 's rooms , and one of them , a large boy , tried to snatch her bag and used most abusive language . Woman answered knock this time , but was far more abusive than lad had been , and pushed her out of the room , without giving her an op-portunity to say one word in explanation of her call , and shouting abuse of her as she left . Case Closed . Recommendations : Relief , Temporary . Permanent Defects : T. B. Strange ingratitude of the receivers of gifts ! Individuals representing millions of capitalized good-will , and sincerely eager to help , had called , advised , urged , pleaded still Buonocore re-mained obdurate ; he would have nothing to do with the plan . After an interval , during which the family was left to the chastening discipline of hunger , the case was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rent paid ; again a host of agents tried to rescue the jettisoned family . Again the plan , the same time-tested plan , was presented . Again Buonocore revolted . He shifted his residence to avoid the agents of charity . When they rediscovered him , he disappeared entirely , and was marked for court judgment as a deserter . Yet relief was continued to his family ? always backed by the plan . When the children cried for hunger , the motheragreed to obey ; the moment groceries came and the landlord was appeased , she honored her husband 's defiance . Relief was given and withheld in long-suffering effort to persuade the family to " cooperate in their own rehabilitation . " Two of the children died under this discipline . The eldest son , after being haled to court and put on probation for selling newspapers in contravention of law , was later sent to the reformatory for picking pockets in an errant attempt to rescue his mother from charity . And finally the carpenter returned to die at home , and was buried by the carpenters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this in the files of any organized charity . The plan of rehabilitation has become an unquestioned convention , an established institution . Sometimes it fails , sometimes it succeeds . But I have told Buonocore 's story because , though while living the carpenter was merely an atom of tribulation , dead he took possession of the soul of the Association 's director and became a force for the rehabilitation of charity itself . When the director asked himself what more he could do in cases like Buonocore 's , there came the protest of the carpenter , " At . least you might keep our families to-gether ! " " I could n't help sympathizing with the man , " the director told me . " His passionate pride in his economic independence and his devotion to his family appealed to me as the essence of good citizenship in our democracy . Our attempt to beat it down had resulted in complete failure , and I wondered if there was nut some way to help the victims of combined poverty and tuberculosis without breaking up families and making paupers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Home Hospital is due . " The Home Hospital , which opened the way for the campaign against poverty through business efficiency , is nothing but a high-class tenement under medical supervision . It is chiefly interesting as a half-way station between philanthropy and business . Its immediate philanthropic purpose is to cure tuberculosis among the poor without either breaking up their families or making them entirely dependent . In this its success has been unqualified . During the first two years of its existence it housed seventy-five families on the economic level of Buonocore 's , containing two hundred and twenty - six tuberculous individuals . They were required to follow certain rules as to ventilation , diet , and cleanliness , but everything was done to keep the families together and to preserve their sense of economic independence . They were made self-supporting , so far as possible , and charity , instead of frankly Just tiding them over a crisis , started to work out their problems with them . During this period forty-seven per cent . of the patients were cured , thirty-five per cent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showed improvement . Only one died , a patient who was far gone when he entered the hospital . Not a single child or adult has contracted the disease . There has been much rejoicing over the result . The demonstration that tuberculosis can be cured under tenement conditions without creating centers of infection is considered a valuable contribution to medical and social science ? and indeed it is . The fact that there are tens of thousands of tuberculous patients in New York City alone , and hundreds of thousands in the United States who are dying because there are not sanatoria enough to receive them , and because it has been considered impossible to cure them under city conditions , shows the extent of the triumph . And yet there is nothing here that our experience with tuberculosis among the well-to-do had not made plain long ago . Given a decent home to live in , sunlight , and abundance of nourishing food , leisure to take life easily for a space . and freedom from financial worry , ninety cases in a hundred will make a good recovery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , withdrawal to a sanatorium in the mountains , by the seashore , or in the dry Western plains is only an added luxury . We know that tuberculosis works its greatest ravages among the poor , not because they are peculiarly susceptible to the disease , but because they are attacked also by hunger , overcrowding , and dirt . They die primarily not be-cause they are individually smitten with tuberculosis , but because the whole community is sick with poverty . But is poverty incurable ? Can we not afford the luxury of a healthy and prosperous citizenship ? Or does it continue to exist because we as a community fail to apply our best intelligence to the use of our resources and are indifferent to the waste of human life ? What is the real cause of our poverty ? But it was not to answer these questions that the Home Hospital was established . Its object was , as I have said , the simple one of discovering whether tuberculosis among the poor could be cured without the breaking up of families . When the enterprise was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cost of keeping families together under city conditions would he prohibitive . Somehow the venture had to be made a practical success , because there is , in spite of the enormous gifts of recent years , a distinct limit to what the charitable want to give . All the published gifts to organized charity in New York City , including those of less than a dollar , come from less than one per cent . of the population . The limit of benevolence has been reached more than once . One of the great charities went bankrupt a few years ago because of its inability to raise sufficient alms to carry on its work . And public charity is in no better case ; the taxpayers are clamoring for the reduction of the charities budget , and indeed if it is not reduced taxation must he increased to meet it , and the burden will fall exactly in the spot where the heaviest contributions come from now . It was imperative that the Home Hospital should be able to cure the poverty that manifested itself in tuberculosis cheaply , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largest single item in the family budget is food , and in the cure of tuberculosis neither the quantity nor the quality can be skimped . The burden of this expenditure on philanthropy could not be lightened by teaching the people thrift , for too rigorous economy in the matter of food would endanger the whole experiment . But it occurred to the director of the Association that it might be well to ascertain whether the families in the Home Hospital were getting a good quality of food at a fair price . To this end an experimental foodstore was opened within the hospital itself , and the surprising discovery was made that food could be bought at wholesale and distributed for twentyfive cents less on the dollar than the hospital families were paying at the corner groceries . What was there in the food-selling business to account for this enormous difference between the wholesale and retail price ? Might there not be some connection between the management of the community 's commissariat and the prevalence of combined tuberculosis and poverty ? Philanthropy has had very definite limits set for it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with industry , but it has always been allowed to try to improve the environment of the poor , and to busily concern itself with the endeavor to make a ten-dollar-aweek income do the work of a twentydollar-a-week one . The problem of buying adequate food for a price that could be paid for it was a question quite as pertinent to the legitimate work of charity , and quite as significant , as the earlier question of the breaking up of families raised by Buonocore 's revolt . There followed an investigation of the food-supply of Manhattan , which began at the city receiving-terminals , followed the food to the stores and through the stores to the consumer , testing the cost of distribution , the efficiency of the dealers ? all the elements that contributed to the retail selling-price . The investigation showed that there are some forty thousand food - distributing agencies in the city , about one to every thirty families . With few exceptions each of these forty thousand maintains some sort of delivery system ? thousands of horses dragging thousands of wagons after one another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up and down the tenement stairs , a costly reduplication for which the consumer pays . It was found that of each dollar the consumer spends for food , sixty-six cents represents its cost at the city terminals and thirty-four cents the cost of retail distribution , whereas the Home Hospital was able tomeet the entire cost of distribution for nine cents on the dollar . And the absurdity of this situation appears in the fact that this high cost of distribution is in no way accounted for by the storekeeper 's profit . The great majority of the dealers are men ignorant of the simple elements of business management , who have become storekeepers for lack of anything better to do , with the result that very few among the forty thousand make more than a bare subsistence , and bankruptcy is far more frequent among them than conspicuous success . Moreover , while the gross profits are extravagantly high , the net profits are only about half those made by the Association 's own store , and to eke out even such meager profits as these the storekeepers are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the same quality as different grades and sell them at different prices is a common practice , and that lure to buy ? the trading-stamp ? is used to increase the prices of food from two and one-half to three per cent. ; weights and measures are tampered with , and bargain sales are used to dispose of spoiled goods at an advance over the original selling-price . Their discovery of this state of anarchy in the commissariat of peace , which the poor are no more able to meet singlehanded than any individual is able to meet an epidemic , committed the Association to the novel theory that the food-supply business ought not to exist to give a host of ignorant amateurs an opportunity to exploit the necessities of the community , but is an essential public utility like the water-supply , to be conducted as a social service . They had reduced by twenty-five per cent . the cost of food to the families with whom they co-operated , by merely substituting business efficiency for the disorganization of the retail trade . In their attempt to make it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they earned , and also to reduce the cost of caring for the families in their charge and lighten the burden on philanthropy , they found themselves forced into the field of distributive business , and opened their food-supply store to the general public . These stores ? there are three of them now ? are not conducted on charitable lines , but on sound business principles . In addition to honest labeling , perfect sanitation , and a scale of wages based on a liberal living wage for their employees , they operate on a ten-per-cent. margin of profit ? almost twice that now made on the average by commercial dealers . These stores are in charge of experienced business men instead of ignorant amateurs , and are supervised by a physician who is a trained expert in hygiene and food values . They do , however , perform one function that has been immemorially turned over to charity ? they attempt to teach the poor how to " manage . " Permanent exhibits are maintained showing graded qualities of food ; foods which are artificially colored and foods which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The managers never try to persuade their customers to buy what they do not want , but they do try to induce them to buy what is they for the money . Not through any wish to enter business , but through the need to make it possible for the poor to manage on what they have ? to eliminate the ailment of poverty , or to reduce it so that the community can carry it ? they have made themselves the center of an educational campaign , and begun to organize a commissariat of peace to promote the health and efficiency of the whole industrial army . But to lift the burden of ill-fed people . from the shoulders of charity means much more than to give them a chance to buy their raw food cheap . In an industrial system that drafts an increasing number of the tenement mothers into the workshops , who is going to cook even the best and cheapest of food so that the children can eat it ? A decade ago a great hubbub was raised in the press by the statement of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to school every day . Coming as it did at the time when muckraking was a popular diversion , the statement was largely discredited . It happened , however , that at this time England 's experience in the Boer War , when volunteers had been rejected wholesale because of physical disability , had led to the establishment of an English school service where the children of poverty were fed at the public expense . Our own charity workers were well aware that hungry children tend to become dependent adults and increase the acuteness of poverty , but the introduction of charity into our public-school system was repugnant to the democratic sense of our boards of education . Investigation did show that the settlement worker 's estimate was more than justified ? that not only in New York City , but all over the country , thousands of children were habitually underfed and undernourished , but it was felt that starvation was better than pauperization . They could not countenance a paternal public mind toward all children . They left it to private charity to take up the work of school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstrated . But here again was the old problem : to feed the hungry was the recognized function of charity , but it did not want , nor was it able to carry , the burden of feeding the school - children . And yet , might it not be possible to reorganize the business of furnishing food so that neither would the children have to go hungry nor would so much have to be spent in uncertain plans of family rehabilitation ? The experience of the food-supply stores was brought into the field , and the effort to serve a nourishing portion of food for one cent became not an opportunity for alms , but a demand upon business efficiency . It was found that , in the most highly organized system of chain restaurants , all the buying and most of the cooking was done by a central agency . Fifty restaurants in Manhattan , Brooklyn , and Newark were operated from a single kitchen which distributed cooked food before the city was awake . Following this plan , central kitchens were installed , each of which could supply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1914-15 twenty-five thousand school-children were served with one million and a quarter penny-portions of food . This food actually cost one and one-third cents a portion , though it was sold for one cent , so that up to the present time there has been a money deficit to make up ; but this deficit is not being regarded as a permanent opportunity for the charitable , but as a call for better business management , and the same methods are being taken as would be used in a factory that did not pay ? the plant is to be worked to capacity and the market for the product is to be increased . The school kitchens could easily serve other meals besides lunch , and inquiry among the families of the school-children showed that many of their mothers were employed in factories and not only were unable to cook the children 's lunch , but returned home too late to cook the family dinner . This led them to rely on delicatessen-stores and other places where cooked food was sold , from which , investigation showed , the purchasers got @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quality . To take advantage of this wider market and also to meet the wider social demand , the school-lunch service has opened an experimental res-taurant in a factory district from which cooked food is sold to be taken home . For why should not business which was drafting the women into industry turn its efficiency to doing some of the work which they were forced to leave undone , especially since the neglect of it had added to the burden on philanthropy which business and industry must support ? And there was still in the mind of the director the persistent question of what might have happened to the family of &Joni:wore?now; unhappily caught in the whirlpool of poverty , crime , and death ? if the children had been assured a wholesome and sufficient meal in the middle of the day for a price they could pay , if the whole family could have had a proper dinner at night for far less than they must pay for the ingredients at the corner store , prepared by trained cooks with due attention to dietetics and with no labor on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serve it ? Might not this good food at a low price have turned the tuberculosis microbe from the door and helped the carpenter to keep himself in shape to earn more than three dollars and a half a week ? Might not the fact that this saving food could be bought at a profit to the seller have satisfied that pride of independence which charity had tried in vain to break down ? Still struggling with the problems of the dead carpenter , the Associationfound itself increasingly concerned with the affairs of housekeeping , It had always tried to teach home economics to the poor ; the care for the sanitation and ventilation in the Home Hospital , the establishment of the food-supply stores , were merely extensions of this function . It had always preached cleanliness at the same time that it gave alms for the cure of the diseases of dirt . The successful experiment in organizing the food-buying business led the Association on to the consideration of the modern mechanism for the washing of clothes . An investigation of the commercial laundry business showed a state of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food ? no standards of price or quality or in the wages paid to employees . And their investigation showed further why the time when every housewife washed the family linen at home is as far past for the poor as for the rich . In one typical tenement district they found forty per cent . of the homes to be without wash-tubs ; in another district , fifty-nine per cent. ; and even hot water was not usually available . Under such circumstances the family clothes were either not washed at all , or were sent to the commercial laundries at extreme intervals , excessive cost , and with unsatisfactory results . The first plan was to establish what nearly every other large city both here and in Europe has ? a public washhouse . This it was intended to equip with hot water and steam , soap and drying facilities , so that men and women might bring their clothes and wash them without charge . But before establishing the first wash-house a canvas was made of the district where it was proposed to place it . The investigators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the product of the school- lunch kitchens , that an increasing number of the housewives were wage-earners employed away from home six days in the week . ' Ishey were no more able to do the family washing than they were to cook the family dinner . If they did it at all it was at the cost of excessive fatigue after the day 's work was done . The best wash-house that could be established was no solution of their problem . And , besides , why should the old , slow , costly BUSINESS AND methods of washing by hand be countenanced in a world full of laundry machinery ? It was decided to try to save to the community things quite as important in the elimination of poverty as money ? the time and strength of the women . Accordingly a wet-wash laundry has been established which washes the clothes , dries them , and returns them to the owner ready for ironing ? this , not from any prejudice against ironing the clothes , but because being so much cheaper it is more likely to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a capacity of five hundred washes a week . All the work is done by machinery , which washes each family 's bundle in a bronze compartment without direct contact with any other family 's clothes . What no tenement woman could command , a hundred gallons of water with live steam and half a pail of soap are used for the clothes of each family . The process occupies thirty minutes instead of a day . The clothes are then dried in centrifugal hydro - extractors in ten minutes and returned to the owners the same day they are received . Bacteriological tests made by the Department of Health demonstrate that this washing process completely sterilizes the clothes as no handwashing at home can do . The charge is twenty-five cents for thirty pounds , a good-sized family wash , if it is brought and taken away by hand , and fifty cents if it is called for and delivered . Now there is nothing of alms in this model wet-wash laundry , although charity established it . It is merely an experiment in business efficiency to bring order out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the community . It is an enterprise so well managed that it can pay living wages , operate under sanitary conditions and reasonable hours , and pay a good . dividend on the investment while offering the consumer a good product . But the most significant part of all these experiments is that none of the employees in the Home Hospital , the food-supply stores , the school-lunch and restaurant service , or the wet-wash laundry receives less than a generous living wage.These experimental businesses keep within the legal hours of employment and obey far higher sanitary regulations than are set by law ; at the same time they reduce the cost of their output , raise its quality , and assure a ten-percent. profit . And all this through no other means than efficient business organization ! Those who are helped are more likely to become social assets than economic liabilities ; and this because , in its effort to teach the poor how to make one dollar do the work of two , the Association has had to reorganize the businesses on which the poor depend , and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that one dollar of wages two . But the things actually accomplished by these experiment stations in living , the light they throw on the relation of anarchy in business to the problems of the poor , is not by any means so important as the point of view through which they have brought about the application of business intelligence to the problem of poverty . The evils of poverty are not primarily to the poor , but to the national stamina . Poverty , which is only one segment in the circle , means hunger and disease ; and sick and hungry men arc neither good workers nor good citizens . Poor workmen drive the wheels of industry awry and hamper business . Inefficient business and bad government are the roots of modern poverty . It is a wellproved cycle . Philanthropy , catching the coil at the point where inefficient business creates the poor and the sick , is beginning to discover how the basic needs of living ? shelter , food , clothes ? may be supplied so as to lift the burden of poverty from the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The experiments themselves are all small things ? seventy-five out of thousands of tuberculous families decently housed in the Home Hospital , three food - supply stores among the forty thousand in the city making private property subsidiary to public health , twenty-five thousand schoolchildren fed out of eight hundred thousand , the clothes of five hundred families out of three-quarters of a million washed in the wet-wash laundry ? but they are unmistakable signs of a change from alms and welfare work to socialized business efficiency .                     