@@466275

DOES civilization depend chiefly upon race or place ? Or are the two of equal importance ? By common consent the Teutons stand in the front rank of civilizat'on , while the negroes stand well toward the bottom . Suppose that a thousand Teutons and a thousand negroes were transplanted to some place such as Egypt , intermediate between the original homes of the two races and having a climate markedly different from either . Suppose , also , that both groups are average specimens of their respective races , and that they have had approximately the same degree of education . This could easily happen if the negroes came from the United States . Under such circumstances , which would succeed better ? " The Teutons , of course , " is the answer ; " what a foolish question ! " But wait a minute . You are thinking of the first generation ; I am thinking of the twentieth and thirtieth , or later . Does not that make a difference ? Does any one know what five hundred or a thousand years of life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to either Teutons or negroes ? We are disposed to look down upon the negroes as a race . We have been brought up in an atmosphere of racial pride and with an unreasoning prejudice against other races . The Asiatic certainly feels the same sort of pride , and perhaps the African feels it equally strongly . As I write the last sentence I am conscious of another absurd feeling . Those words , " Asiatic " and " African , " are as good as " European , " " American , " or " Australian . " Yet in using them one is aware of a certain feeling of condescension toward the African , while one almost wonders whether cultivated Chinese and Japanese may not have the same feeling about being called Asiatics that we would have if we were called by that term . Of course , on second thought , one laughs at such a ridiculous notion , for the word " Asiatic " is as dignified as " European . " Yet , after all , we find it hard to get rid of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that just because a thing is ours it is the best , it is extremely hard to determine the relative importance of race compared with place . Yet the question is of vital importance . If race is most important , we must do everything in our power to spread the best races all over the world . We must promote colonization even in well-peopled lands , provided the original people are a race of low capacity . Above all things , we must prevent the mixing of high races with low , for almost invariably the tendency is for the mixed race to approximate to the type of the original inhabitants , which in this case would be the lower race , If place is most important , on the contrary , we must find out exactly what characteristics of certain places are most favorable . Then we must try to introduce these into other places , and thereby raise the races which already live there . If race and place are of equal importance , as is probably the case , both methods must be pursued . All this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of explanation . Let us leave it , and turn back to our original question . The English-speaking race is unquestionably far superior to the negro . Wherever exact mental tests , such as those of the Binet system , have been applied to the two races under similar conditions , the whites surpass the negroes . Yet , in spite of this , strange things are happening , things which carry with them some startling possibilities . Compare the English and the negroes under various conditions . For instance , take the average negro waiter in Boston , and compare him with the so-called tropical tramp of English descent in Central America . The waiter may seem slow when we are in a hurry , but on the whole his movements are quick ; his industry is by no means inconsiderable ; he frequently lays by a little money ; he often has a home of his own , and on the whole he is a faithful husband and father . The white tropical tramp , like the negro waiter , has wandered from his old home in search of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living . What manner of man is he If he has lived steadily in the tropics for twenty years , the less said about him the better . In the first place he is desperately lazy . He has probably made more or less money , but he has wasted it all , and lives by his wits . He has no home , and he is such a moral wreck that respectable native women are afraid to meet him alone on the street . Of course I do not mean that all white men are like this in the tropics , but I believe that this is a fair picture of what happens to the ordinary white man of the class corresponding to negro waiters when he permanently becomes a denizen of the tropics . The negro goes North and is stimulated to energy and thrift ; the white man goes South and degenerates . Social environment doubtless has much to do with the matter , but equal importance apparently attaches to an actual change in the amount of climatic stimulus , a change which makes the negro competent and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strictly physiological effect of climate , as we have seen in previous articles . There are other cases where we can compare the negro and the Englishman more exactly than in the case just mentioned . Take South Africa , for example . Europeans have been there only for two or three generations in any large numbers . They have gone from the highly stimulating climate of western Europe to the moderately stimulating climate of South Africa . They find themselves face to face with the Zulus , and especially the Basutos , who within a few generations have come from the unstimulating regions nearer to theequator . To-day we find a critical situation . The Europeans are not holding their own . The blacks are slowly pushing them out . The Europeans are not in danger in Cape Colony , but farther north it is an open question what will become of them . The blacks not only work more cheaply than is possible for the whites , but also more industriously . The result is that to-day about ten per cent . of the white European population is reckoned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , living from hand to mouth , untrustworthy , and a danger to the whole community . The most ardent advocates of South Africa as a white man 's land admit this . They say it is due to the great supply of black labor , which does not give the whites a chance . Doubtless that is true , but if the white men had the energy of good , solid Englishmen at home , employers would gladly pay them much higher wages than it is worth while to pay the blacks . The case is like that of western Texas , where a rancher was talking about the prospects of the country : " I do n't know what it is , but every one gets lazy here . I 'd rather have one than fresh from Kansas or Missouri than two who have been here ten years ; and I 'd pay him the wages of two . " Although such a statement is exaggerated , it represents an unfortunate truth . To-day the people of South Africa are in the midst of a great struggle over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One party wants to exclude them entirely from Cape Colony , Transvaal , and the Orange Free State , leaving them to occupy the warmer regions of Natal and Rhodesia , where the white man can not thrive so well . The problem of whites against blacks manifests itself in economic and political forms , but fundamentally much of it seems to be a question of the effect of climate . A more striking case than that of South Africa is found in the Bahamas . At the time of the American Revolution a considerable number of Loyalists were so faithful to England that they would not live under the new flag with its stars and stripes . They left their homes in Georgia and the neighboring states and moved to the Bahamas . Other colonists came from Great Britain . Now , after from three to five generations , the new environment has had inure opportunity to produce its full effect than in South Africa . Moreover , the climate is much warmer and more uniform than in the plateaus of Cape Colony and the Transvaal . From the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Part of the luck is due to isolation and part to natural disasters , but lack of energy on the part of the people appears to be a still more important factor . I have talked about it with scores of persons , both islanders of the more intelligent sort and Europeans who have lived there for a term of years . Almost without exception they say , " This climate is very beautiful and healthful , and we like it , but somehow we ca n't work as you people do in the States . Even in Florida it is better than here . Do n't you believe it ? Try living here a year or two , and you 'll be as lazy as we are . " What they say of Florida is true , for although the average temperature there is almost as high as in the Bahamas , the degree of variability is much greater , especially in winter . In the islands the thermometer practically never falls below so ? , while in Florida frosts are by no means unknown . Because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the isolation of the Bahamas and their other disadvantages have been far more harmful than those in other secluded archipelagoes such as the Shetland or Faroe Islands . Although part of the white inhabitants are like the people of their race in more favored lands , a large portion have fallen to the estate of typical " poor whites . " Compared with the total population , the number is far larger than in our southern states or South Africa . The more progressive among them still inherit the Anglo-Saxon type of mind , and when subjected to the stimulating conditions of the United States or England they frequently measure up to the standard of their race . Those who stay at home , however , are poor , proud , and shiftless . In many cases they are decidedly behind their colored neighbors , upon whom they nevertheless look down . They attribute their troubles to anything except themselves , but do very little to better their own condition . That is one of the sad things about the case . The negroes go out and work in other places @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are poor . The poor whites stay at home and almost starve . The great majority seem to lack the energy to bestir themselves . Sometimes this condition is explained as i the result . of inbreeding . Consangui-nous marriages , however , are common only in certain limited communities , but poor whites abound almost everywhere . If the whites of the Bahamas were energetic and moved around as white people do elsewhere , there would be no danger of too close intermarriage . The fact seems to be that the warm , monotonous climate produces a kind of lethargy which . manifests itself in all sorts of ways just as in South Africa . The negroes do not suffer in the same way because to them the climate of the Bahamas is on the whole better than the climate of their original homes . Having seen a few cases where the effect of climate seems to counteract that of race , even in the strong English stock , let us look at the matter more widely . It has frequently been said that western i Europe owes its supremacy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found any wide acceptance . We have prided ourselves that people of the strong European races can go to any part of the world and carry their civiliza-tion with them . We have been willing to admit that we have to be provided with food and shelter and clothing in order to protect us from climate ; we have even been willing to admit that we need to be protected not only from tropical diseases , but from tropical heat ; but we have not been willing to admit that any climate whatever is able to prevent us from showing as great ability as we possess in Europe and America . i The idea that climate is less important than race has been fostered not only by our racial pride , but in other ways . We see that countries which have the same mean temperature and essentially the same succession of seasons may include such widely diverse types as northern France , southern Germany , Austria , and the northern half of Japan in one group ; southern Russia and Rumania in another ; Korea and northern China in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Transcaspia in a fourth . These countries range from the very top down almost to the bottom in the scale of civilization . If such great diversity can exist in essentially the same climate , the differences are obviously due either to race or to some other factor which is not climatic . A similar conclusion is derived from a study of the civilization of the past . With the exception of China , all the countries where civilization flourished two or three thousand years , ago are decidedly warmer than the countries where it now flourishes . It seems probable that the rainfall in many subtropical countries has decreased and has thus caused a decline in prosperity , but that is scarcely enough to account for the enormous change in the character of the people . In the past the Egyptians , Chaldeans , Mayas , and others were full of an energy and vitality which is now lacking . We can not suppose that this condition was due to lower temperature than at present , for there is no good reason for thinking that the temperature of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a very few degrees lower than at present . A conclusion which seems irresistible when only six facts are known may require much modification when two or three more facts arc ascertained . That seems to be our condition at present . The new facts have been set forth in previous articles . They may he briefly summed up as follows : The daily work of about twenty-five hundred factory operatives in Connecticut , the Carolinas , Georgia , and Florida , and the marks of about fifteen hundred students at West Point and Annapolis show that both physical and mental activities depend closely upon conditions of weather and climate . The greatest amount of work is not accomplished at such low temperatures as we usually suppose . Physical work is at its height when the average temperature for the day is between 55 ? and 65 ' ; that is , when the thermometer ranges From about 45 ? at night to 75 ? by day . Mental work , on the other hand , is at its best when the temperature averages from 40 ? to 45 ? , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at night and up to perhaps 55 ? by day . The best conditions are those where both physical and mental activity are as near as possible at a maximum , which would be at about 5o ? . This may be considered the optimum or most favorable temperature . Above and below this , however , the failing off in efficiency does not become serious until average temperatures of almost 70 ? on the one side and 30 ? on the other are reached . On this basis all of the earth 's surface except the regions close to the equator and far toward the poles has a mean temperature which is fairly propitious . A moderate degree of heat is not so bad a thing as people usually think . If heat is not so detrimental as we have supposed , does this mean that the climate of tropical regions is not so great a disadvantage as is commonly thought ? By no means . The statistics of factory operatives and students show that there is another climatic element which has not received due attention . A century ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , said that western Europe owes her pre-eminence to her variable climate . His remark was based on general observations and not on farts which had actually been determined , and it has received no special consideration . Nevertheless , he seems to have been right . Our measurements of actual work show that if the temperature of to-day is the same as that of yesterday , the amount of work accomplished is relatively small . If the temperature rises or falls , the amount of work increases . The only exceptions are when the change is extremely great and sudden or when it carries the temperature so high or so low as to overcome the good effect of the change . The total effect of any individual change is of course small , just as the effect of a single meal is small . If a man goes without his breakfast , he may accomplish as much or more than if he eats it , but if he goes without his meals for a week , his work will decline . It is the same with changes of temperature . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it is to remain at a high level of achievement both mentally and physically . Apparently , to adopt the explanation of Dr. W. B. James , such changes are needed to keep the blood in motion , and thus to tone up the whole system . A few weeks ? or even a few months ? without them may be as beneficial as is the omission of an occasional meal . If other conditions are favorable , a person of strong physique may not suffer seriously for several years under conditions of little or no change . Yet in the end he is almost certain to pay the penalty , just as he would if he went a week or two without food . In a previous article I have shown two maps of the world . One illustrated the distribution of civilization at the present time according to the opinions of forty or fifty widely informed men in a dozen different countries in Europe , America , and Asia . The other showed the distribution of human energy as it would be if all the people of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the eastern United States . The two maps are remarkable because of their close agreement . In spite of inevitable inaccuracies due to the imperfections which are inherent in any first attempt to employ a new method , it seems likely that so close an agreement would be impossible unless favorable climatic conditions were an indispensable condition , although not necessarily a cause , of the development of high civilization . The maps notably exhibit five centers where both civilization and climatic energy are high . Neither condition rises to so great a height elsewhere . The chief of the five centers is an area of about nine hundred thousand square miles , including Britain , France , Germany , Austria proper , most of Italy , the coasts of the Baltic Sea , and the minor countries of Switzerland and the Netherlands . It embraces less than two per cent . of the land area of the whole world . Yet if all the remainder had ceased to exist seventeen or eighteen centuries ago , civilization would not be appreciably different from what it is today . Byzantine art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a considerable number of American inventions and methods of business and manufacturing would be lacking , but these would not be sufficient appreciably to alter the general conditions . The people of northwestern Europe have themselves developed almost every idea which any one else had thought of , together with a vast number which had occurred to no one else . The second area of high civilization includes the United States north of Mason and Dixon 's line and westward to Kansas , together with the southern part of Canada . Its area is a little smaller than the European area , and its population much less . In certain ways it has begun to rival Europe in its contributions to the world 's progress , but in many other ways , such as literature , art , scientific achievement , and good government , it still has a long way to go . The third high area is Japan , which falls only a little short of the second area in population , although much smaller in area . When we consider Japan 's contribution to the world 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even than that of the eastern United States . Japanese art and a few ideas as to military sanitation are the things which first come to mind . Of course there are others , but one can not name them offhand as he can the great things done in Europe . The fourth area of really high civilization is the Pacific coast of the United States . Here the number of people is small , and it is hard to define any particular contribution which they have made as distinguished from that of the United States as a whole . They have not lived in their present homes long enough nor have they been sufficiently distinct from the eastern United States to have evolved many important ideas which belong to them more than to the rest of the country . The same is true of the fifth high area , southeastern Australia and New Zealand , as distinguished from the original home of its people in England . Yet the world has been impressed by such things as the Australian Ballot , the old-age pensions of New Zealand , and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five areas include less than five per cent . of the lands of the globe , and less than a quarter of the people . Yet scarcely an idea which has been evolved elsewhere within the past three centuries has produced any marked effect upon mankind . The areas where energy is high because of climate are distinctly the centers from which civilization radiates outward . When we inquire why civilization centers in these particular places , we are met by various answers which can not here be taken up . Race , religion , the birth of men of genius , the growth of institutions , intercourse with other nations , and a host of other factors have co-operated . So far as geographic environment is concerned , however , there seems to be only one characteristic which they all possess in common . In all of them the climate is not only relatively free from great extremes of temperature which last for a long time , but it is characterized by frequent changes of temperature from day to day . In all but the Pacific coast area of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the type of cyclonic storms which is so familiar as the cause of our frequent changes of weather . Northwestern Europe , including northern Italy , the northern United States and southern Canada , Japan , and the southeastern corner of Australia , together with New Zealand , arc almost the only parts of the world where such storms now prevail in great numbers . The Pacific coast of the United States seems to be the one region where the absence of cyclonic storms is to a large extent compensated for by changes of another kind . There the mean temperature of the areas close to the coast is almost ideal . There is not much change from season to season , however , which is a distinct deficiency . Nevertheless , in spite of the absence of cyclonic storms , there is a good deal of change from day to day . At San Francisco , for example , a change of five or even ten degrees in the mean temperature is common , especially in summer , when it is most needed . Sometimes the conditions of the hot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rises to 80 ? or even oo ? during the middle of the day ; then the prevailing winds from the ocean blow in and lower the temperature to about 5o ? at night . It is a curious thing that , both here and in the other four regions , the feature of the climate which is commonly considered most disagreeable appears in reality to be the most stimulating and valuable . Aside from the regions just mentioned , the only part of the world which seemsto possess a really high degree of climatic stimulus is the southern part of Chile and Argentina . The data are there so incomplete that we are not quite certain about them . We have seen that to-daY , civilization reaches a high level only in places where there are frequent changes of temperature from day to day , or else where the changes are not so great , but where the mean temperature remains near the ideal level . in regions like Central Asia , on the contrary , the amount of stimulus is small because , although there are great changes from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day to another . The seasons merge into one another by almost imperceptible gradations . In still other regions , such as the torrid zone , the stimulus is still less , because seasonal changes as well as daily changes are almost entirely lacking Yet the civilizations of the ancient world flourished where now the conditions seem highly adverse . Formerly , however , the regions apparently enjoyed a climate more stimulating than that of the present . In approaching this subject I can not refrain from expressing astonishment at the way in which this problem has worked out . The study of changes of climate in Asia led me to think that they had had an important historic effect , but the effect seemed to be far more than was warranted by any assignable cause . Changes in the fertility of the soil because of changes in rainfall might do much . The introduction of diseases such as malaria may also have been an important factor . The invasions of barbarians because of famine and distress also seemed to have been a potent factor in causing the decline of nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seem by any means sufficient to cause all the observed effects , and I agree with my critics in thinking that non-climatic factors must account for the evident decline in energy which has been so marked and universal a feature in the fall of nation after nation . While the problem was in this uncertain state , Prof. C. J. KulImer advanced the hypothesis that civilization is closely connected with the occurrence of cyclonic storms . This opened such a field changes of temperature from day to day quite frequent . In most cases the number of storms would probably have been magnified in a much greater proportion than would the actual rainfall . Thus there would have been frequent changes of temperature from day to day , even when the sky was relatively free from clouds . In ancient times ? just as to-day ? the areas where there have been great advances in art , science , government , religion , philosophy , and the other elements of civilization have been few in number and limited in extent . One such center was in northern India . There the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ originated . There Gautama preached the lofty doctrines of a new and unpolluted Buddhism . Art and science flourished also , and a stimulus went out to southern India , Burma , Siam , and even the East Indies . This center decayed even before the days of Christ , but at times it has risen again for short periods . No longer ago than the seventeenth century it produced the Taj-Mahal , the most exquisite building in the world . Yet , taken as a whole , it has made no great contribution to human progress for over two thousand years . When it fell it left no real successor . The case is different with the next great center . It began in China perhaps three thousand years ago . There a great civilization sprang up along the lower Hoang-Ho , beginning in the loess country and extending from Hsian-Fu to the mouth of the river . Ho-nan was the nucleus , but an equally high culture extended to the Yangtse and embraced all the regions between the lower parts of the two rivers . Great men and great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greatest names , for both Confucius and Mencius came from there . For ages this region stood in the forefront of human progress , although we Occidentals are slow to recognize it . The palm for activity has to-day passed to Japan , but Japanese culture is merely a modified expression of that which arose in China . How important this Oriental center was and is we may judge from the extent to which Chinese and Japanese art , or ideas as to thethrift and economy of those nations , or fears of the Yellow Peril and of Japanese aggression enter into the thoughts which make up our own modern environment . These things are spoken of a dozen times for once that things of Indian origin are mentioned . The reason is clear . The Sino-Japanese center did not become moribund ages ago , like that of India . On the contrary , in China still preserves part pa of its old vigor n China itself , i while in its march Japanward it has gathered up new ideas and new powers . The third and by far the greatest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in Mesopotamia and Egypt.The two were closely connected by the highly civilized region where dwelt the Syrians and Phoenicians . How high that connecting area had risen is evident from the fact that the world owes to it the fundamental features not only of Judaism and Christianity , but also of Mohammedanism . In reality the whole region from Mesopotamia to Crete was a single great center . Little by little it spread westward and took in Greece , whereit developed as never before . i Then it expanded still more , including Carthage and Rome , but meanwhile Mesopotamia was beginning to decline , and Egypt had lost her old vigor . Soon the same fate overtook Greece , for something kept pushing the center of civilization westward and northward . Even Italy suffered partial eclipse , although she never fell so low as Greece . Now she lies not on the northwestern edge of the area of high civilization , as she did at first , but on the southeastern edge , while the main center has passed to the countries around the North Sea . Here , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from comparatively continental or southerly regions to those that are more oceanic or northerly . In America the course of events has been similar to that in the Old World , although with important differences . The only really great civilization which grew up indigenously was that of the Mayas in the lowlands of Guatemala and Yucatan . They alone invented the art of writing and carried the arts of sculpture and architecture to a point comparable with that of the three centers in the Old World . From them the center moved into the highlands of Mexico , but there , among the Aztecs , it never attained anything like so great a development as in the lowlands where it originated . It could not go north into the United States , for fate denied to the aboriginal Americans the two great discoveries which are essential if man is to conquer prairies and forests . They had no domestic animals wherewith to convert the grass of the prairies into food for man and to turn up the tough sod and make it possible to raise grain . They also had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the forest and make for themselves cleared spaces in the wilderness . Where the Mayas rose to the highest pitch of culture dense forests now prevail , but there is strong reason to think that the forests of their day were far less formidable than those of the present . Because they were unable to expand northward , their center , like that of India , declined without producing any great results . Perhaps this would not have happened ? in spite of the lack of metal tools ? if they had not been separated from the eastern United States by the great barrier of the grassy plains , impassable for an agricultural people who did not possess beasts of burden . However this may be , it appears that in America , just as in Asia and Europe , civilization has moved from its old center and now is strongest far to the north of its old home . The centers of ancient civilization seem to have been located in positions where cyclonic movements of the air would be particularly numerous under the conditions of climate which apparently prevailed at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moo A. D. If this is so , the temperature must then have changed frequently from day to day . In America at times of many sunspots a belt of increased cyclonic activity passes through Arizona and New Mexico , where the ancient Pueblo Indians dwelt , continues into the Gulf of Mexico , and then bends north again . If it became intensified , it would probably form a center over Yucatan and Guatemala like the centers which now lie in more northern regions of the United States and Europe . Its influence would spread far enough to include thehome of the Aztecs on the Mexican plateau , but there its intensity would probably be much less than in the lowlands farther east . In the low country the ancient Mayas apparently dwelt in a climate which , though warm , was so variable as to be stimulating both physically and mentally . In Europe and Asia the Indian Meteorological Department has found that the storms which prevail at Malta and in the eastern Mediterranean Sea continue eastward across Syria and Mesopotamia to Persia and northern India . In some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desert ? although this is not certain ? the storms die out , only to become intensified again in such regions as Mesopotamia and the plains of northern India . To-day we have a great concentration of storms or of cyclonic disturbances in the Gulf of Lyon , south of Marseilles . In the past such a concentration apparently took place in the region where the Vedas were written , in Mesopotamia , and at the eastern end of the Mediterranean Sea . Later the Indian and Mesopotamian centers of storminess probably grew weak , while the Mediterranean center moved a little westward and northward so as to include Greece and finally Rome . If this actually happened , the climatic conditions in the places where civilization was highest must have been highly stimulatory . Or rather , to put it in another way , under such circumstances the physical characteristics of the great countries of the past would have been such that high civilization would have been favored just as it is now favored in the five great centers of modern progress . We can not say positively that any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seem to point to it . It seems at first almost impossible that so great a thing as civilization should be limited by so small a thing as changes in the air from day to day . Yet we all recognize that civilization is absolutely prohibited if the temperature stays permanently below freezing , for all life would be impossible . In spite of ourselves we are limited by nature on every side . Our only freedom consists in finding out exactly how we are limited and then in devising ways to overcome those limitations .                     