@@493031

Baiting the Commerce Commission IN Wall Street , the first day of open trading on the Stock Exchange since the beginning of the war , I found men buying railroad securities for a rise , believing that at last the carriers were going to be permitted to raise their rates . At the same time they were denouncing the Interstate Commerce Commission . " For what ? " I asked . The answers varied in texture , content and color , but were alike in feeling . The Interstate Commerce Commission , though pretending to perform a judicial function , was against the railroads . And it always had been . Although it was about to grant the railroads a living wage , no thanks were due either to its intelligence or to its fair-mindedness . There had arisen an irresistible public demand for right treatment of the second most important industry in the country . Not until then had the Commission been able to see the light of reason . It was intolerable . Something would have to be done about it . Knowing Wall Street fairly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spontaneous , and I intercepted a regular financial writer in his goings-about to ask him what it meant . " It 's an agitation from the top , " he said . " You 'd be surprised to hear what some of the big bankers are saying ? men you 'd expect would have a more detached point of view . My opinion is that the , railroad peopleand the bankers together are trying to take advantage of public sentiment favorable to the railroads to bring about a radical reform in Federal regulation of railroads . " I went to talk to some of those bankers , and was surprised at the pitch of their feelings . The Interstate Commerce Commission , they said , was an obsolete , dilatory body , with arbitrary powers over a business which , as everyone ought to know , requires prompt decisions ; it combined the work of prosecutor and judge ; it was in politics and could not help being biased on that account ; it was biased against the railroads , and it had no constructive policy . One way of dealing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward an institution which , though obviously imperfect , is yet very important and may have done some good , is to ask him a question like this : " Granted that the Interstate Commerce Commission works slowly ? which is a hardship to business ; that it is conscious of political situations , as all other of democracy 's institutions are ; that it acts both as prosecutor and judge , although willing to receive all the evidence unhindered ; and that it has no constructive policy ? granting these and other imperfections , yet if by a word you could abolish it , would you say the word ? " He may decline to answer , but if he answers at all he will say no . And he will answer that ways because he knows that the Interstate Commerce Commission , created primarily to protect the publicl from the railroads , has , in so doing , protected the railroads also . It protected them first from them -- selves and then from the big shippers , and it is now the carriers ' only hope of continued protection from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . That what the Interstate Commerce Commission has done for the railroads is so commonly undervalued or forgotten may be due to the fact that the benefits in every case have been conferred upon protesting carriers . Never have they received them willingly or believingly , but always as calamities , like children to whom remedies are administered sternly . Looking back upon it now , one can not understand the furor of panic with which the creation of the Commission in 1887 was met by the railroad people . All of them believed that railroad credit was ruined . It was an intolerable and disastrous interference of government in the management of an industry in which private capital was necessary . Phrases have not changed much since then . James J. Hill said that though the railroads might survive , the country would be ruined . He predicted that within thirty days , or as soon as people could see what they had done , Congress would be assembled in special session to repeal the law . ' Wall Street was extremely " bearish . " Shrewd men announced that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The terrible powers originally conferred upon the Interstate Commerce Commission were so limited as now to seem futile . All the Commission could do was to require publicity of rates , denounce unfair rates , and act in certain prescribed ways against discrimination in rates between persons and places . What happened was unexpected . Even this moderate interference of government with the freedom of private capital in railroads marked the beginning of a stability of rates such as had been utterly impossible before . Previously the railroads had been run not by their proprietors , not by their bankers , but by their traffic managers , who were intimidated by big shippers . Rate wars were the nightmare of finance and the source of much scandalous speculation on the Stock Exchange . When other things seemed propitious , Wall Street would be expecting prosperity and rising prices , when out of a clear sky would break another rate war , and down would go stock prices with a crash . The weaker roads were always the worst offenders . They could not be persuaded to keep any agreement . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in New York , the president of the Chicago and Great Western refused to be bound , saying , " Gentlemen , I would trust any of you with my watch , but none of you in a rate agreement . " Publicity of rates hampered the traffic managers , and open rate wars presently ceased ; but it did not destroy the whole of their practice . Nor did it deliver the railroads out of the hands of the bigshippers , who continued to demand costly favors and to play one carrier against another . They were very cunning . They required the traffic manager to make a new rate when they could use it to best advantage , to publish it afterward , and then suddenly to put it back where it had been , before their competitors could use it at all . Failing in that , they required advance and secret notice of an impending change . Also , they still demanded and still received the indefensible rebate . It was years before the powers of the Interstate Commerce Commission , gradually enlarged by precedent and legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the railroads . At last , in 1906 , it received the power from Congress to determine and fix reasonable rates , and to suspend changes proposed by the railroads pending investigation of their reasonableness . Then for the first time the railroads were freed from the greed of big shippers , and from the false theories of traffic managers . Then for the first time could they say to the favored big shipper : " We can give you only what we give everybody else . Sorry . It 's the law . " The railroads protested very bitterly . Wall Street pretended to think that the distrust of railroad securities in the panic of 1907 was owing partly to the Hepburn Amendment , which transferred control of the railroad industry from the owners therof to the Interstate Commerce Commission . Railroad securities had no future . That was the expression . The distrust of railroad securities , however , was no greater than the distrust of other securities . As for the prediction that capital would cease to be invested in the carriers ' business , in the ensuing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invested increased four billions and six hundred millions of dollars ? about 31 per cent ; the proportion of stocks paying dividends increased from 66.5 per cent to 67.6 per cent ; and the average rate of dividend on the dividend-paying stocks increased from 6.03 to 8.03 per cent . To all this the railroad man answers that neither the cessation of rate wars nor the present stability of rates can be ascribed to the work of the Interstate Commerce Commission . Rate wars , he says , would have ceased because they were ruinous , and stability of rates was bound to eventuate from the dictates of common sense . To say that the railroads could not now trust each other to maintain rates on which they should all be able to live , merely because once they were unable to do so , would be to say that they had learned nothing , which would be absurd . Yet when the railroads , by reason of the interference of the Interstate Commeerce Commission , were unable any longer to compete in rates , they were still able to compete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ competed in service as recklessly as ever they did in rates . Hence the faster freight trains that run on almost passenger schedule between distant points , e.g. , the " third morning delivery " between New York and Chicago , or " second morning delivery " between Boston and Albany . They run with half loads or less of dead freight , such as castings , ax-handles and chemicals , that ought to move more economically in slow trains better loaded . Hence , also , the eight or ten palatial passenger trains between two cities where two or four would do . Nothing has recently been so much wasted in this country as railroad transportation , in consequence of competition in service . Railroad men say , " But service is the only thing we have left to compete in . " They do not deny waste . They complain that nobody can stop because nobody will . It is true , as its critics say , that the Interstate Commerce Commission was created out of a spirit hostile to the railroads , and it is very possibly true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the fact that no experienced railroad man , reviewing the ethics of the business in the time of his youth , would deny that the public needed protection . That is confessed , indeed , in the formal plea of the railroads before the Interstate Commerce Commission that they should not be held accountable for sins of the past ; that bygones should be bygones . The criticism that the Interstate Commerce Commission is a dilatory body will bear examination , although dilatory is not the word . It is an overworked body . Too much is required of it , especially by Congress in its demands for investigations ; and much work now painfully and patiently performed by the Commission itself might very wisely be delegated to referees and subordinate experts . An improved , stronger and more efficient Interstate Commerce Commission is greatly to be desired . There are few things that could not be improved , strengthened and made more efficient . But if the railroad people mean to complain that in a season of more or less desperate need it has taken too long to get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ let them ask themselves if , without the Interstate Commerce Commission , they could raise their rates at all . They were never able to control rates before there was an Interstate Commerce Commission , any more than they have been able to control competition in service since .                     