@@430703

 | IN my recent journeys through the Middle West I thought it worth while to spend some days in the State of Ohio in consultation with the Mother of Presidents , the commonwealth of Hayes and Garfield and McKinley . The Ohio portion of the National electorate has a wide reputation for deep and patriotic interest in the concerns of the country . I entered at Cincinnati and came out at Cleveland . Cincinnati has a variety of elements in its popular make-up which renders it pretty antagonistic to change or unprejudiced thought upon many National matters . It is our first distillery city , our second tobacco city . and our third brewery city , and so completely do these forces dominate that there is hardly an influence of importance that does not directly or remotely depend upon one of these three powerful interests . They are themselves united , and they ramify in every direction , into banks and business of every kind , and into unnumbered thousands of plain homes throughout the municipality and far out into the farming districts . Thirty thousand men formed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proposed State prohibition amendment last fall , which was beaten by fifty-four thousand . The dry and the wet issue transcends all others in the State . Central and northern Ohio , outside of the larger centers , stand militantly and solidly against Cincinnati , which they regard as the modern Babylon . One of the franker editors of the city explained to me why the newspapers of Cincinnati are tied hand and foot to things as they are . A fresh sixteen-page copy of the latest issue lay before us . He said : " At the present cost , the price of this paper to the subscriber and on the street hardly pays for the white paper in it . We are absolutely dependent , and so is every newspaper in Cincinnati , upon the good will of powerful advertising interests . Of course nothing gets into these pages that will in any way seem hostile to them . " Another powerful element in Cincinnati is the German . Here are the sons and grandsons of the Forty-eighters , the men of the educated class who left Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I spent much time in carefully looking into the sentiment of Germans in America upon the National issues of the hour . I talked with German editors , bankers , business men , average citizens , and I think I got a pretty clear conception of what lies back in their minds and rankles there . Suffice it to say here that the long-drawn-out controversy between our Government in Washington and the German Foreign Office has solidified German opinion and established a unity of antagonism and resentment from Cincinnati to Milwaukee that varies only m degree . There is some disloyalty to the country , but that is not widespread . The average German in the Middle West has no thought of any other country . Lut he has a deep feeling of resentment against what he regards as an attack upon the integrity of the German character . And his resentment goes to such extremes that it at times becomes illogical . Many Germans who believe thoroughly in National preparation would be willing to go the limit of voting for Ford and disarmament , and almost any kind of peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to what they regard as an unwarranted infringement of their sense of honor and neutrality . One of the most illuminating reflections that I have run upon arose as a result of one discussion I had over this new resentful German sentiment of solidarity in the United States . If the German crisis could have been handled swiftly and quietly when the German Embassy first advertised impending disaster to the Lusitania . the whole course of German feeling and action , both here and abroad . might have been different . The present Administration has dragged it along in the open and aroused antagonisms and new forms of hostile German unity that it will take a long time to alter . This illustrates the difference between Roosevelt 's diplomacy and Wilson 's . Roosevelt pilloried domestic intriguers , but was very cautious about foreign difficulties . Wilson pillories foreign intriguers . Roosevelt gave them an opportunity to save their faces and retire without undue publicity from an incorrect and uncomfortable position . The Progressive party movement in 1912  | hardly touched Cincinnati . That was partly because it was the home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immune to movements of that sort . The impression seems to be there that the actual amalgamation of the Republican and Progressive voters in Ohio is very nearly complete . There are still , however , very influential leaders , like Garfield ( of Cleveland ) , Garford ( of Elyria ) , and Walter Brown ( of Toledo ) , who are holding out against the unmistakable trend of the rank and . file , and in Columbus in the month of May there was a very complete reunion of the leaders of the Progressive movement of 1912 . So it seems that - the skeleton organization of the Progressive party at least is very lively and trouble-threatening in that commonwealth . The candidacy of Burton , of Ohio , for the Presidency is greeted with a smile , except on the part of some of his actual delegates , who are serious , even grave , about it . But there is really in the Republican organization more natural and jovial sentiment for United States Senator Harding , of Marion , who is the keynoter of the Republican Convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and represents better the rubicund , smooth countenance , the silver voice , the impressive front , the hand-in-the-bosom type of political leader and orator of the old Ohio sort , than Burton , who is scholarly , serious , and has been too much opposed to the improving of the Ohio River foolishly at Cincinnati . It is hoped by Harding 's supporters that , as the result of his speech and because of his handsome figure in the eyes of the delegates , Harding may prove another Garfield when the ice begins to move out at the Convention . Ohio is not clearly for anybody for the Presidency . In the north the Burton following will be likely to go to Root next . In the center and the south they would like to try Harding , and then either Hughes or Roosevelt . The Republican organization in Cincinnati is not so unfriendly to Roosevelt , whom they regard as naturally a good organization man , but of course the German constituency there would , at least in advance , view his candidacy with infinite alarm . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Roosevelt , if nominated by the Republicans , would get on election day at least eighty per cent of the regular Republican vote even in that most unpromising of all Roosevelt localities . As elsewhere in Ohio and the Middle West , so in Cincinnati there is a saving remnant interested in National preparation against trouble , but the conviction has not struck deep . Perhaps the most distinguished proAmerican in the city , at the ' head of one of the great manufacturing firms , told me that he had given two hundred and fifty of his men in the offices a chance to go to Plattsburg this summer , and only eleven had accepted it . The same offer was made by the First National Bank and nobody had accepted it . Underneath , I judge , this is not because of any ultrapacifist sentiment of importance , but is the result of inertia , on the one hand , and , on the other hand , with a large class , a feeling against preparedness to get into the war against Germany . The same persons would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is some pacifist sentiment of the Ford sort , however . Herbert Bigelow , an independent religious and political leader of the city , announced only the day before the primaries that he had decided to vote for Ford , and two thousand followed him in writing in the great pacifist 's name . And one of the Bigelow group assured me that a purely pacifist ticket would get a very considerable following in Cincinnati on election day . Dayton , Ohio , is at present a most flourishing and interesting city , having largely recovered from the disastrous flood of 1913 . It is at present a heavy munitions center . There are thousands of Germans in the city , and more thousands of Hungarians . The difference in the attitude of these two groups is marked . The Germans have been bitter and threatening in their attitude towards the native element who , in the newspaper field and elsewhere , have latterly cast neutrality to the winds and defended the course of the Government at Washington against Germany , or at least have shown pro-Ally sympathy . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refused to work in munitions factories , but the Hungarians have freely and gladly gone into the very profitable wage field of munition-making , even though the product of their toil was to be turned against their friends and relatives in the homeland . There is no such national feeling for Austria as the Germans exhibit for the Fatherland . President Wilson has very strong backing in Ohio , and particularly in Dayton . It is the center of wise and able Democratic leadership in the commonwealth . I found that these strong friends of the President believe  | that , while his Administration does not strongly appeal to the public imagination . Mr. Wilson has great reserve strength , and can be counted to call upon it for all it is worth in the campaign . I found great faith in the President as a campaigner . The chief concern of his friends seemed to be , not about his German policy , but about his Mexican policy . They seemed to think that the people of Ohio are more restive about that , even the Democrats , than about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to strengthen the policy at the border ; that as it is becoming more and more evident that the Carranza experiment is failing , the President must very shortly consider the advisability of a firm , even if restricted , programme of intervention , and that , when the President really goes in , he must say nothing at all about how long he is going to stay there or how far he is to go in the intervention . But he must stay there until the work is accomplished . I have the impression that this is the virile Democratic view , and that we may see the tide of policy at Washington turn in this direction before many weeks . Certainly , politically Mexico is the weak spot upon the map for the Wilson Administration in the estimation of the whole country . Men deride that who are far more cautious about what they regard as the much graver peril of mixing in the European imbroglio . Here I came upon the question which the Democrats will put to Justice Hughes if he shall be nominated by the Republicans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not done ? " My Democratic friends also venture a prophecy as to what sort of a scene we shall observe at the Republican Convention in Chicago . They agreed that the block of Old Guard delegates were of the sort that could be counted on to sit still for three days and read the newspapers in the midst of the most violent stampeding tendencies of the occasion . But , they said , it was the sight of the New York delegation doing just that at Baltimore in 1912 which finally nominated Woodrow Wilson . These Democratic friends felt that nothing could stem the tide at Chicago ultimately towards either Hughes or Roosevelt . When I reached Columbus , the capital of Ohio , I learned that the Democrats have been far more astute in their handling of the Progressives than the Republicans . Under the administration of Democratic Governor Cox much was done to conciliate the Progressive leader and voter . Very little has been done under the present Republican administration in Ohio , in marked contrast to the attitude of the Fairbanks organization in Indiana . As a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committed to the Republican column in Ohio . On National issues I should expect Wilson to get a considerable slice . I heard an unusual amount of talk in Ohio about the necessity of placating Mr. Roosevelt if the Republicans were planning to win . In 1904 Roosevelt carried the State by two hundred and fifty-six thousand . He has always been able to command a great many Democratic votes in Ohio . Probably the most impartial political critic in the State told me that the statistics indicated that about eighty thousand Democrats voted for Roosevelt in 1912 . And , finally , in my journey I came to Cleveland , that mighty conglomerate city by the Lakes . In the heart of the Western Reserve , it was founded by blue-nosed Yankees . But the transformation is complete . The foreign tide has flowed over all . There are ten different nationalities represented there , several hundred thousand of whom are South Europeans . The greatest boon which has befallen Cleveland , so men of all varieties of opinion were forced to admit , was the educational value of Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view of the men who idolized Johnson ? there were many of them . I mean the impartial judges . Some of them were free to say that , in the choice of means , Johnson in business and politics belonged in some respects to the primitive period of public struggle . But there was no question anywhere that the net result of his life and service had been profoundly for good upon the whole future of the city of Cleveland . There is a sitting statue in bronze of Johnson , cast by the Tiffany Studios in New York , recently set up in the spot in the public square which he , when Mayor , dedicated to free discussion . Johnson died at fifty-seven . The carved sentiments upon the base of the statue indicate the feeling and conviction of the city : " He found us groping , leaderless , and blind , He left a city with a civic mind . He found us striving , each his selfish part , He left a city with a civic heart . Beyond his party and beyond his class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " " Erected by popular subscription in memory of the man who gave his fortune and his life to  | make Cleveland , as he often expressed it , a happier place to live in , a better place to die in . " ' Johnson 's influence must long be taken into account in reckoning up political conviction in Cleveland . One of the sturdiest and ablest opponents of Johnson told me that the radical rush of the Johnson programme had been so tempered and balanced by the public service of the chief Johnson lieutenant . Newton D. Baker , now Secretary of War and for two terms Mayor of Cleveland , that there is very little belief anywhere that the Johnson reforms were not worthy , indeed greatly worth while . Newton D. Baker seems to be the most popular man in Cleveland , and because of his influence in the councils of President Wilson , and also because of his great ability as a public speaker , is likely to be one of the determining factors in the campaign , particularly in the State of Ohio . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the careers of Johnson and Baker , and is likely to give Wilson a heavy vote . I talked carefully with leading representatives of the stand-patter attitude of Republicanism in Cleveland , among others with men who are delegates to the National Convention . They assured me that the safety-first view would prevail , that the sober-minded representatives are in no danger of being carried off their feet . There need be no solicitude , said they , about the Convention 's taking the Roosevelt view , which is too violent in the present emergency , as it was four years ago . Of course . said they , he would not be violent if he were nominated . We are against him , but we know that . He would say , " Now that the people are aroused , let us do the wise and adequate thing . " It is no time to rush into great preparation . Any possible opponent in Europe will be exhausted . and it is the time to go to him and urge a plan that shall not involve vast burden and passion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chicago Convention , we think . Burton or Root is the natural candidate . It is too bad that the election is coming so soon . If it could only come after the war , they say , we should understand far better what we need . This is undoubtedly the intelligently conservative Republican note of the more or less pacific stand-patter of northern Ohio . But I ran into a robust type of militant stand-patter also . In his office the picture of Cannon on the one hand and Taft on the other flanked the portrait of Abraham Lincoln . He was much exercised over the listlessness of Cleveland about National preparation , and what he conceived to be the lack of patriotism on the part of labor . He quoted a conversation he had recently heard as one laboring man said to another : " What difference does it make to me whether I live here under the Government of England or Germany or the United States ? Wages will be high or low all the same , and it will make no difference to me . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " with the country . We are not ready for much of anything in the way of trouble . A thousand Germans with a small screen of cavalry and a little artillery could march through Ohio from one end to the other and nothing could stop them . " He said he had never forgiven Roosevelt for 1912 and he never would . I asked him if men who felt as he did would carry their resentment to the polls . He answered , " Well , I should say so . " I listened quietly to the conversation of a good many groups during my travel . Talk gravitates naturally towards National issues and leadership as the time of the Convention approaches . But I have been impressed with the aridness and superficiality of much of the discussion . I would really like to know what the " forgotten citizen " has in mind . Then we should be better able to predict the outcome . But nobody knows . Is the " forgotten citizen " warmly disposed towards Wilson ? The President has been striving earnestly against war . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of that course . Will he get it ? We have a long record in democracies of benefits forgot , and republics are proverbially ungrateful . What are the peace-loving Republicans going to do ? That was Bryan 's question to Nilson the other day in the " Commoner , " when he called attention to the fact that we have a minority President . Wilson has lost the German Democrats and must so act as to reach the peace-loving Republicans , said Bryan . Can he reach them ? Nobody knows . As the reputed best reader of public opinion in Ohio said to me : " We are just between hay and grass . The folks are now in a mood where they think that things are going to be looked after for them . Nobody knows how and nobody cares . But the folks will criticise all right after it is over . "                     