@@465418

FOR a generation or more it has been the fashion to reproach England with a lack of serious aesthetic advancement . As may be inferred , such an attitude arises , however , mainly from ignorance of the true aspects of the situation . It is indeed only lately that the aristocratic charm of British eighteenth-century art has been accorded its just measure of approval , while contemporary effort is still popularly supposed to be represented by the Pre-Raphaelites and their pendants , and the habitual sentiment and pedantry of the Royal Academy . Yet nothing could be less exact than the assumption that there is at present no real aesthetic progress in Great Britain . In point of fact , the country is making notable strides in almost every branch of the fine arts . Although in painting proper the Glasgow School at present enjoys greater vogue abroad than any other group , it is by no means the only centre of activity . unknown to the general public , either European or American , there is to-day in London a body of men whose aims are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it is incomprehensible that they should not have attained wider recognition . For it score of years there have been held at various minor galleries a series of exhibitions by certain younger spirits whose task has been to free art from the shackles cf commercialism and offlehilism . Their creed is to paint not for popular approval or pecuniary reward . but for the sheer joy of self-expression . They have never had any permanent home . Their existence has been itinerant , yet their ideals have remained steadfast , and , after a persistent struggle , they to-day occupy the proudest position in current British art . The new English Art Club is the direct antithesis of the Royal Academy . and has happily furnished a wholesome antidote to academic ascendeney . The Club has no officers beyond an executive committee , it awards no prizes , and holds no annual banquets . Its membership is small , yet by means of a judicious policy of invitation to outsiders in sympathy with the cause , the exhibitions never fail to prove coherent , stimulating , and significant . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the organization as a whole . Its ideals have in a measure altered the very conception of painting in England . It has injected vigor and independence into that which was timid and formal , and in its activities can clearly be traced the future course of British art . The careers of most of these young lions of the brush ? these men who have opened the eyes of their countrymen to the beauty of every-day scene or to the haunting appeal of the imagination ? read singularly alike . The majority have studied at the Schools , preferably the Slade , have gone afterward to Paris , and have returned to cultivate those purely native sources of inspiration which have proved their strength and salvation . While the initial exhibitions of the New English Art Club were Gallic and impressionistic , it is significant to note that they have year by year grown more national in character . After learning how to paint with that fusion of freedom and science which is alone the gift of French training , these young Britains have had the wisdom to look about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themes in the splendid pictorial and poetic heritage of their own land and race . They are eclectic and receptive . They know Armlet and Degas , Veltisquez and Daumier . They hark back now to the sumptuous Venetians , and now to the sturdy , patient Dutch , but they arc more in sympathy with Gainsborough , Romney , Constable , and Turner . Instinctively they attach themselves to that great ventral tradition upon which the art of their country has been founded . The important feature of their work is that it is English ? Englisb in accent and in spirit . Contemporary British painting as represented l ) y the Hewer men shows two clearly marked phases . While it is true VOL . CXX1. ? No. 722. - 30 that a strong decorative tendency is everywhere manifest , giving a general identity of a , pect , and purpose , this tut is fundamentally either realistic or imaginative . One group finds its inspiration in the changing vesture of visible things ; the other and smaller body clings , not without a certain heroism , to the more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two currents converge in a single individual , but for the most part the aims of each remain distinct . There should be scant hesitation in plaeiug at the head of those who are absorbed in the shifting magic of the concrete world , whether studied outdoors or within , the name of P. Wilson Steer . The art of Mr. Steer symbolizes the spirit of the entire group . It is characteristically modern and flexible . Fascinated by the possibilities of pigment . Mr. Steer paints with uniaiiing zest . The love of adventure is ever upon him . His work is fresh and foil of spontaneity , and he approaches landscape , the figure . or an interior in the same blithe , unfettered mood . While his views of moor , river , or castle may lack a sense of that vibrant atmospheric envelope which suffuses and unifies all things , they arc the finest achievements of the kind since Constable and Turner , whose legacy they continue on broader , more robust lines . Equally happy in his figure compositions and in those radiant glimpses of music @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the piano or by an open window . Mr. Steer is year by year adding to the glory of British art . Uncommun ieati ve , almost stolid of manner , his work is the essence of all that is restless and sensitive . His surfaces are loose and broken , giving the impression of beautiful mosaics carelessly set , but his draughtsmanship is free yet sure and his sense of color rich , balanced , and varied . Of equal prominence alike in the current development of British art and in the counsels of the Club is Augustus E. John . the stormy and solitary Titan , whose work will remain for subsequent comment . Mr. John belongs to the broadly symbolic movement . not to the htmnuros ohservat ion of Mr. Steer , which finds its parallel in such men as Philip Coimard . Walter W. Russell , Pro fessor Tanks , and other apostles of sunlight n d the pellucid clarity of a fresh , ? indoor scene . The work of these men , and even to a greater extent . that of Omen . William Rothensteim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . is not without its mid-Victorian affiliations . More or less consciously they all glance backward to gracious , departed days . to the London of fifty years ago . to the full skirt , the slender furniture . and that indefinable poetry which clings to things past and gone . There is hardly one among them who has not succumbed to this persuasive spell , and the result has been that they have brought home to the public as nothing else has done the piemrial possibilities of British every-day existence . Mr. Connard is more advanced than most of his colleagues . more absorbed in pure problems of air . light , and color , and from his Chelsea studio sends forth canvases that reveal a distinguished sense of design and a clarity of tone which are full of aesthetic stimulus . His work has a singular sparkle and crispness of touch and an unfailing regard for decorative ensemble . A comparatively new man . Mr. Connerd 's place is already assured , and his progress will he followed with increasing pleasure and interest . Less individual . and devoting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russell , who belongs with this particular group through his admiration for tonal purity and the varied caprices of light and shade ; nor must one here forget the name of Professor Tonks . whose instruction at the Slade School has done more than any single factor toward awakening the artistic consciousness of the younger generation of painters . Though the dividing-line between the above own and those who follow is not always definite . there are marked differences between the prismatic vision of Mr. Steer and Mr. Gaillard and the mere searching presentments of Mr. Orpeu and his associates . The art of Mr. Orpen.like that of Mr. McEvoy and Mr. Rothenstein , is not without its mental as well as kesthetie significance . These men are the exponents of what may be termed the psychological interior . They are masters in the sphere of quiet , subtle suggestion . With a few simple . carefully selected facts , and a singularly pervasive tonality. they evoke emotions which , if a trifle literary . are not the less legitimate from the standpoint of art . A woman reading by mellow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gray shadows of eventide : a tired figure asleep in a chair . or a quaint-clad family group in the big Urine-room of a typical Geor- ' ) 41 gian house ? such are the scenes about which the observation and fancy of these men love to play . Organic unity is the ideal toward which they strive . They are the true intimists of British painting . They secure an accord between subject and treatment which is magical in its appeal , and their touch is ever eloquent with insight and sympathy . There are few artists who have carried further that indoor poetry , that sense of suppressed life in inanimate things , and that curious affinity between person and place which are the dominant charameristics of these canvases . It is a simpler . more deliberate world which this art invokes . a world that has passed . but which has been recalled with patient perception from fragments that still exist in the quaint corners of ' Kensington or Bloomsbur , - . While choosing similar subjects , these men differ in their several interpretations . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humor with his sentiment : Mr. McEvoy is not . without a certain depth and poignancy of feelh ; end NI% Rothenstein is austere and dramatic . Although this is perhaps the most distinctive phase of the art of the foregoing men . it twist net be assumed that they paint only interiors . The most wholesome feature of modern British lesthetie endeavor is that its exemplars cover a wide field and are seldom the victims of single mode or method . Portraiture has claimed some of the best of Mr. Omen 's efforts . and the same may be said ' if Mr. Rothenstein . Mr. John . and Mr. Nicholson . There is little of the specious bravura of Certain latter-day executants in this work . Affirmative in conception . it shows a welcome dignity and balance . and usually aims to give a sense of the actual surronndings and occupation of the sitter . An acknowledged exponent of the decorative tradition , whether in portraiture , genre , or still-life . is William Nicholson , who has evolved from a master of the poster into a painter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manner still cling to him , and thereto have been added a fluent , through restricted , command of color and an increased freedom of pattern . It is unnecessary to consider in derail the varied activities of these men and of those who are in more or less close sympathy with their efforts . The general tendency of modern English art is toward broad . constructive effects rather than minute and patient analysis . Pure land-soave is represented by happy , idyllic Mark Fisher , by the more lyrical Bertram Priestman , and the severe and stylistic Professor Holmes . Walter Sickart. , true to his early convictions , remains complex and Gallic , while in the superb animal drawings of Joseph Crawhall we have a F ; ynthetic economy of statement which recalls the Japanese . For several seasons ' the exhibitions of the New English Art Club have been reinforced by the fluent , daring brush of Mr. Sargent , who usually sends a dazzling series of sketches made in Spain , Sicily , or Palestine , and along with them may be mentioned the delicate and masterly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sargent was the first to discover . Yet . despite the splendid strides made by the Club during ; he past few years , it must not be inferred that all new and worthy achievement is confined to these dispinys . The annual exhibitions of the International Society of Sculptors . Painters . aid Gravers. the recent slow . ; He ; of Independent British Art at - vs . Agnews. the lately inaugurated G ? : nil Salon , the New Gallery , and even the Royal Academy . have disclosed a notable array of talent along various interesting lines . It was , however , in the exhibition of Chosen Pictures arranged last season at the Grafton Galleries by Mr. Francis Howard that the significance of the new movement was revealed for the first time in anything approaching its proper strength . Public opinion here became focussed upon painters whose work had hitherto been scattered , and the resultant impression proved most stimulating . Hung according to the individual group system . it was possible to study each man 's work eonsccutively and in perspective . and hence to arrive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the onward march of British art . The balance of interest was admirably maintained between the idealistic painters , such as Charles Shannon and Charles Ricketts . who are reserved for later consideration , and the realists , decorative men , intimists. and those who , like Mr. Strang , and indeed Mr. Shannon himself . cultivate more than one manner . While the distinguished portraiture of Mr. George Henry was not in evidence , here as elsewhere the stipple elegance of Mr. Lavery , the Velaisquezlike vision of George Lambert , and the caressing , penetrant touch of Professor Sauter each counted at its just value . The display as a whole was a complete vindication for modern British art . It showed in welcome measure that firm grasp of actuality and that imaginative fervor ' which form the basis oil all worthy . esthetic at laitiment . Such an exhibition as that at the Grafton Galleries was bound to disclose points of general as well as particular interest . English painting during the past decade has undergone radical changes . Obviously poetic and literary subjects have disappeared save @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and new methods are rapidly supplanting the old and outworn , and on every side are signs of strength mid vitality . From Whistler and the Scotch-men have been learned the compelling unity of tone and atmosphere . and the necessity for a well-conceived design , There are echoes of French training in the greater freedom of brushwork and the loss stilted choice of theme . but . best of all . British art has developed from within . It is to-day replete with national &Yon; not brooding over Renaissance legend , or coldly copying classic models . After a period of exile the landscape-painter. - again go frankly forth to meadow and Juan as did Constable and Old Crome ; after industriously studying ancient sites and costumes the painter of the past to-day celebrates the less remote charm of Victorian days , mad instead of peerless , mail-clad knights we arc now more apt to see a group of morris-dancers making merry before the park gates . Art in England . so long divorced from - Popular life . is again king humanized . It is reasserting that wholesome verity which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ George Morland , and which well-nigh perished under the blight of academic sterility . It is such men as Mr. Steer . Mr. Orpen , and their colleagues who are responsible for this transformatioa . They are teaching their generation style 111141 truth . They are not slaves to detail , they look-at nature broadly and synthetically , and their inspiration is British through and through . Thus far it can not be maintained that this art is technically as advanced or self-reliant as that of many corresponding groups of painters on the Continent . When it conics to matters of sheer craftsmanship , certain of these men hear the stamp of amateurs. yet they reveal qualities of sincerity and single-mindedness which do much toward emupensating for the lack of manipulative dexterity . Not the least encouraging . feature of British painting is its innate and unaffected charm . There is something frank and wholesome ; t artist life in London and the stn .. - f K.C.11- , diaron and Chelsea which no other eommnnity of the kind ( .1111 duplicate . Clustered along the river bank surrounded by gardens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dignity alai refinement , of a race which . in things of the spirit , is full of May-time fragrance .                     