@@493165

CORRESPONDENCE " Freedom of the Seas " SIR : Will you not favor your readers with something like a sober ; reasoned discussion of " The Freedom of the Seas " ? Germany has said that this was one of the things she was fighting for . By others it is pointed out that during long years of peace Great Britain has acted on and maintained the doctrine . The real issue , however , is the freedom of the seas in time of war . This it is that Germany is ( or was ) concerned about ? and the reciting of England 's historic great service in policing the seas in orderly circumstances does not meet the issue . Now it happens , as I am told , that Germany has stood with the United States in a certain understanding of the phrase " freedom of the seas " ; and this is that in time of war private property , which is not contraband , is exempt from seizure on the high seas ? property of individuals belonging to belligerent as well as neutral nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1856 , put it , it means " that the private property of subjects and citizens of a bel ? ligerent on the high seas shall be exempted from seizure by public-owned vessels of the other belligerent , except it be contraband . " When our President , in the second of his " Fourteen Points , " spoke of " absolute freedom of navi ? gation upon the seas , outside territorial waters , alike in peace and in war , " he may be presumed to have had substantially the same thing in mind . Mr. Wilson added , however , to the language just quoted the following : " except as the seas may be closed in whole or in part by international action , for the enforcement of in ? ternational covenants . " The exception hangs together with his idea of a League of Nations , and appears to mean prac ? tically two things : ( ) no nation going to war on its own account , i. e. , without the sanction , or at least the permis ? sion , of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to citizens of enemy or neutral na ? tions ) ; ( 2 ) the League may do something similar to this as a punitive measure against a member of it ( or perhaps any nation ) which takes belligerent action against its de ? cision or advice . In other words , things that practically all the Powers engaged in the late conflict ( unless it be our ? selves ) have been doing to the extent of their ability , they shall not hereafter have the right to do ; but the League may do or authorize the like ( I need not say I do not in ? clude enormities against non-combatant lives , such as have been perpetrated by the Germans ) in the interests not so much of any particular belligerent as of justice and its own wide-reaching aims . It is in this double form that the " freedom of the seas " presents itself as an actual problem at the present moment . Apparently the League is in part to be formed not only to enforce peace ( in the wide sense ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations not respecting it being liable to be cut off from all supplies . Whether so great a restriction on the liberty and self-determination , i. e. , the sovereignty , of individual nations is desirable is , of course , an arguable question . A minor difficulty ( perhaps little more than one of in ? ternal consistency ) is involved in such a reference as that just made to cutting off " all supplies . " " Freedom of the seas " has meant historically non-tnolestatien of private goods , which were not contraband . But one may ask whether " non-contraband " has not itself become merely an historical category at the present time . The line be ? tween contraband and non-contraband has been completely broken down by Great Britain in the recent war ? nothing that could be of any use to Germany , whether for war purposes or for the sustentation of the civil population , women and children included , has been allowed to enter . Germany has gone a step Jurther in not scrupling to destroy non-contraband ( enemy or neutral ) lives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B. Potter , of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace , has said ( The Nation , November r6 ) : ' " There are no materials or persons not part of the belligerent action of the state today ; the whole state fights with all its people and materials , its industries and trade , and the distinctions written into the law of 1909 the Declaration of London seem unreal to ? day . " That is , everything that helps a warring nation in whatever way may be ( and has been ) set down as contra ? band . But if this is so , what is the sense any longer of protecting the " freedom of the seas , " Which means the exemption from capture ( in war-time ) of what is non ' contraband ? ' WILLIAM M. SALTER . Cambridge , Massachusetts . Alsace-Lorraine Independence SIR : Your review in a recent number of Phillipson 's thoughtful work on Alsace-Lorraine recalls imPres ; sions which I formed in Alsace on visits in 1900 , 19o8 an 1911 . On all three occasions I talked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clouded , and formed the opinion that a strong feeling for independence had de ' veloped . This is well reflected in the attitude of Paul DI ' mann in Maurice Barres ' novel Au Service de l'Allemagr'e ' written in 1904 . While there was absolutely no loyalty to Germany , there was also apparent none of the enthusiasnl for a return to France which one found in the Strassburg correspondence of the Matin and Temps . The pin-pricks on the part of the Berlin ministry , which followed granting of the constitution in 1911 , intensified the ant ! German feeling . Probably the annexation to France Is now so far an accomplished fact that nothing short of ' 1.11 friendly pressure from England and America could about a plebiscite , some clever suggestions for which are contained in Brailsford 's work on The League of Nations Plebiscites , which were a specialty of Napoleon III , car ? t be said to have recommended themselves as fair expressions of public opinion , when one recalls the activity of French agents in Nice and Savoy on the eve of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make a plea for the right of the Alsatians to determine their own destiny . They are a unique people , tried as by fire , and for many generations victims of the ambition of their neighbors . One can not blame them if they say " A plague on both your houses . " One thing seems certain : If the two provinces which have suffered together for more than a generation under the hard heel of Prussian administration are now to be sepa ? rated into departments , as before 187o , and thus lose their unity and identity , there will be heart burnings east of the Vosges . Furthermore , unless account is to be taken in tariff arrangements of the commercial threads which lead across the Rhine , France may speedily have an Alsatian Problem of her own . Middleham , Connecticut . , The Dilemma of Revolutions IR Mr. Harold Williams , the English correspondent , urges suspension of judgment as to the German revo ? lution , for these reasons among others : It shows no exulta ? tion in liberty , no indignation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to attack the sanctity of Private property , or to abolish capital punishment ; it has Published no secret documents and made no heart-felt re ? cantation of national imperialism . Distrust it , therefore . Its heart is unchanged . Now all these things , which the German revolution is to be distrusted for not doing , the Russian revolution has done from its youth up ; and for its ' zeal in doing them it is damned . What shall a revolution do to be saved ? DOROTHY BREWSTER . Concerning Government SIR : In a recent number of the New Republic Mr. J. C. Dana writes that my article on constitutional revi ? si ? n ( which appeared in your issue of August 17th ) " alone 1,11ite justified " his fears " that we are becoming more po- iltically superstitious . " Gratifying as it is to have so dis- ceriulinating a student as Mr. Dana accept one 's private re- 1:ections as a sure index to the national psychology , I must , the at the risk of seeming to thresh old straw , disclaim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me throughout " assuming that if we can re-make the con ? stitution we shall thereby in some large degree re-make our ilCial order . " So far as I assumed anything at all , it was the familiar concept of legal institutions as the reflex of social forces which he sets forth in his letter . Dana 's remarks seem to represent the violent re action , now so current , to the legalistic concepts which have had vogue in this country until recently ? a reaction eilleh goes to the other extreme and spurns political and I fancy institutions as of no real account in the social process . ? nark there is something in this reaction , too , in the re . ' lc of Mr. Laski in the same issue , that a decision nullify ? ng law behind which there is a " determined public eLitlion can at best be " the barest postponement . " Wiryarest " ? The writing of income taxation into our law Was Postponed twenty years despite as determined a public lrlion as we may ordinarily hope to muster behind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the effectual national suppression of child labor , to which Mr. Laski particularly refers , have been postponed by reason of very uninteresting , but extremely important , provisions of our constitutional law no one can estimate . Surely one who has no certainty of achieving octogenar ? ianism may be pardoned for taking a mild interest in insti ? tutions that obstruct and delay , even if admittedly they do not prevent , the coming of change . Mr. Dana speaks of modifications of the state as little more than " belated records " of " social processes born of mental and moral changes . " Precisely so . But is it not worth while to con ? sider how , if at all , these modifications can be made a little less " belated " ? LEWIS MAYERS . Washington , D. C. Under the Hedjaz Flag S IR : I find you saying : " On the other hand , Great Britain . . . should submit to the imposition of interna ? tional standards of wages and hours of labor and working conditions . If such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government would be presented with an impossible choice between a sacrifice of American labor standards , to which the organized workers in this country would not submit , and a mercantile marine which would be either un ? profitable or made profitable only by subsidies . " This argument clearly implies that if shipping with good labor standards and shipping with bad labor standards exist side by side , the latter will be more profitable . If so , the pro ? posed international standards will have to be imposed by all maritime nations , even those whose competition is not now serious . If in the absence of legislation the worse standards are those which masters and men will take to , then a mere identity of legislation in America , England , France , Norway and Germany will not easily prevent Eng ? lish capital from building ships in Rumanian shipyards with German labor and sailing them under the flag of the Hedjaz with Norwegian sailors for trade between America and France , with the sailors under Hedjaz law ivhile at sea . In other words , at that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions will have to he done by the League of Nations , which shall coerce by boycott or other ? wise any state ( in the League or out ) which neglects to come into line . Against this it may be objected not only that before you can get it you must allow time for several states ? men to think twice , but also that in such an elephantine system reforms to meet future conditions will be slow in coming , and will be revolutionary when they do come . May it not be , after all , that those who give fair treat ? ment will thereby get men of so much better quality that they can , compe.te successfully ? Kipling , who is not habit ? ually a backer of trade unions against employers , has Written a story about the superior ultimate financial profit of giving the men decent living conditions , and his genius has made it look as if it were probably true to life . The story I mean is Bread on the Waters . Is it rare for a factory that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or does the success of a voyage depend less on the quality of the men than does the success of a factory ? In one respect the circumstances of the moment are fa ? vorable to the experiment of competition between better and worse conditions . In ordinary years the ships under new conditions would have to operate at first with men bred under the old conditions and therefore generally fitted to the old conditions . But now we have a great mass of labor suddenly put into the ship-handling business , labor that has never known any but the new conditions and would in most cases go back on shore sooner that put up with the old conditions . It is claimed for this labor that the human material in it is better , either by heredity or by early edu ? cation , than the average of the human material that has consented to go before the mast under the old conditions , and that this is already a compensation for the old labor 's ephemeral advantage of longer experience . However stodgily conservative the British may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now drive the new American marine off the sea in so short a time that the new American sailors will not have acquired experience as good as the old sailors had ; and if they really were of better stuff , or if the rule that better workmen are bred under better conditions does not prove false at sea , the American ships will then be running with better sailors , in general , than ships with poorer conditions can get . This matter of breeding sailors fitted to the new condi ? tions applies to captains just as much as it does to the men in the front of the ship . STEPHEN T. BYINGTON . Ballard Vale , Massachusetts . SThe South and Self-Determination IR : The importance of the point raised by President Tyler you recognized by the space given to comment upon it . In order to call attention to what seems an even more important problem , almost the converse in form of President Tyler 's , may I first paraphrase the argument ? President Tyler : President Wilson says " No people must be forced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ live . " The northern states in 1861 did under such conditions impose such sovereignty upon the southern states . Therefore , by implication the same condemnation as is meted out to Germany by universal consent in attempting corresponding impositions should be applied in retrospect to the northern states . The Editors : " The answer is manifestly that the right of national self-determination , like other rights , depends for its validity upon the purposes which the assertion of the right is in ? tended to serve , " The Converse Proposition : The northern states in 1861 did impose upon the southern - states against their wishes a sovereignty which their large area and homogenous common aim entitled them to reject by appeal to the right of self-determination . The verdict of history , by common consent , approves the policy of the northern states and confirms the military ver ? dict obtained by them . Therefore , if the history of the Civil War gives any guidance for the solution of modern problems , it . must teach some such lesson as this : That , in a problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ar ? rived at from entirely different considerations and which appears to violate the alleged right of self-determination may nevertheless be a satisfactory solution . The alleged principle of self-determination seems to have been prematurely adopted from sentimental patriots by political thinkers on account of its apparent simplicity as an approximate solution of a very troublesome problem . Its justification by simplicity immediately disappears with the addition of such modifications as you suggest . CAMPBELL . MACMILLAN . Schenectady , New York . For Manchester SIR : It is proposed by the authorities of the Manche ! ' ter Grammar School , four thousand of whose alumni have been serving with the British forces , to raise a me " morial fund of twenty thousand pounds . The money so , secured is to assist in the education of children of alunun who have died or been wounded in the war and to increase the accommodations for scientific teaching in the school . I shall be glad to receive subscriptions for this purpose from any old Mancunian who may chance to read this a.P ' peal . HAROLD J. LASKI . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : In church the other day , the clergyman ( whose name I withhold on the chance that his offense may have been due merely to thoughtlessness ) gave out the fol " lowing hymn : " ' The Son of God goes forth to war , A royal crown to gain . His blood-red banner streams afar . Who follows in His train ? " Now , sir , I protest that this is no hymn to be sung in public gatherings in these unsettled times . The Wads " blood-red banner " have acquired a sinister association with the influences that are subtly undermining our na ; tional morale , and " Who follows in His train ? nligh almost be construed as a direct invitation to join the forces of anarchy and disorder . This may seem a small model. ; but in my opinion the Church can not be too careful 1v9i to lend even a semblance of encouragement to the gang ? criminal lunatics who are trying to turn the world 111 ) ' side down . Trusting that you will use your influence to prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ONE HUNDRED PER CENT AMERICAS ' And it was announced in Washington that the UnitedStates Official Press Mission to the Peace ConferencTic consisting of sixteen employes of the Committee on P'I , b Information , has sailed from New York . The Unite States is insisting upon ? in fact , it has taken a high Pace of in the councils of the world ; it seeks to inculcate ideals 4 extraordinary significance . But before it can convince Wit nations of the world of its sincerity , America must be since America , honest with itself . We want the trill ' the plain truth ? and not the " official " truth .                     