@@465972

NATIONALITY is a hard , almost an impossible thing to disguise . Even when the same language is spoken in different countries , it requires protracted residence for the native of one to hide the evidences of his birthplace from the native of the other . There are peculiarities of usage which in no way hinder comprehension , but almost infallibly reveal origin . The most thoroughgoing and painstaking student of speech , visiting another land inhabited by men of his own race , is sure to be betrayed at times into modes of expression or mistakes of apprehension which make known to its inhabitants his foreign birth . It is in the spoken tongue , to be sure , that nationality most unavoidably discloses itself . In that the words addressed to Peter ? " Thy speech bewrayeth thee " ? prove almost invariably true . But even in the written tongue subtle differences discover it to the least observant . As there are words and phrases which indicate to the Englishman that it is an American work he is reading , so there are words and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an Englishman who is writing . The action and reaction upon each other of the usages of two countries in constant communication tends steadily indeed to efface these differences . But the time will never come when they are likely to disappear entirely . We have been so surfeited with all sorts of real and unreal peculiarities of American speech in English works of fiction that of these there is no need of furnishing further illustration . Accordingly let one be taken of the opposite character . Almost any English novel in which an American is introduced will supply examples . For instance , in them he is fairly sure to refer to his own country as " the States . " In Trollope 's novel of The American Senator the Senator visits one or two farm-houses . " I do n't think they 'd get a living in the States , " he is reported as saying afterinterviewing their occupants . In a more recent novel an American new-comer informs his host that he has just arrived from " the States . " Examples such as these could be multiplied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at once to the dweller in this country the nationality of the writer . To speak of going to or coming from " the States " is what an Englishman would say . He has a perfect right to say it . But it is something which an American would not say . Accordingly , to represent him as saying it betrays ignorance of the language as now used in this country . There was a time , indeed , especially during the period immediately following the Revolution , when the phrase was occasionally employed here . But as the sense of the unity of the nation became more and more predominant , this method of expression , never common , went out of use altogether . Accordingly , the American speaks of " the United States , " not of " the States " ? certainly not unless he has mixed so much in English society that his natural utterance has consciously or unconsciously become sophisticated , or he has so familiarized himself with English works of fiction that he has adopted without thought their peculiar phraseology . This doubtless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constant interchange of usage going on between the two countries . But in all such cases it is a borrowed , not a native mode of speech . This is one of the sort of mistakes into which a writer not familiar with the niceties of a foreign idiom is almost inevitably sure to fall . How difficult it is to reproduce with exactness the usage of another people , though speaking the same tongue , is exhibited in the earliest work which set out to represent the speech used by the uncultivated class of this country , more especially of New England . With it , indeed , the vogue of this sort of dialect may be said to have begun . It was a work which appeared in the fourth decade of the nineteenth century and was the production of Judge Haliburton , a Nova-Scotian born and bred . It was one of its author 's designs , perhaps his main design , to satirize the inhabitants of his native province , their asserted lack of energy and enterprise , their general shiftlessness , their failure to take advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are put into the mouth of a Yankee clock-maker , Sam Slick , of Slickville , Onion County , Connecticut . The place , as well as the county he came from , is as imaginary as the character himself ; but it is hardly more imaginary than a large share of the words and phrases and constructions to the use of which he is represented as being addicted . Proximity to the ' United States and frequent opportunity of meeting with its inhabitants should have made Haliburton , it might seem , fairly familiar with the language as spoken here . But certainly whatever opportunity he had was very little improved . Venturesome assuredly would be the man who should insist that a particular word or phrase or construction , however unfamiliar to him , could not be heard somewhere in a country of a hundred millions of inhabitants spread over three millions of square miles of territory . The successful maintenance of a negative of this sort would necessarily demand an amount of labor altogether disproportionate to the value of the result . What . we can safely say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people as a whole . It is exceptional , not universal . Expressions there are in Haiburton 's work with which every American would be familiar . But there are no small number which would strike most of them as strange , and a few which perhaps all of them would find not merely strange but entirely incomprehensible . In truth , Haliburton constantly betrayed his lack of acquaintance with the peculiarities of the speech he sought to represent . As might be expected , we find the Connecticut clock-maker regularly speaking of " the States . " Limitations of space prevent , however , any extended exposure of the ignorance displayed of actual American usage . Out of many examples , two may be given which will suffice to set it forth distinctly . As the first of these , this typical New-Englander is represented as regularly using ax for ash . Now ax is a form which has fallen from its once high estate . It was at an earlier period in the best of literary use , as . readers of Chaucer well know . So it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ author . It is , indeed , a mere accident of usage that all of us are not saying it now . But after the sixteenth century it was relegated to the dialects of the British Isles . In them it still flourishes vigorously . Except from the mouths of immigrants , however , it is with us hardly heard anywhere outside of scattered communities . In particular , no region of the whole country could well have been picked out in which the usage is so little likely to characterize the speech of the inhabitants as that part of it from which the clock-maker is represented as coming . There is really no likelihood at all that he himself would ever have used it ; doubtful indeed if he would even have heard it . Much more natural would it have been for him to employ for asked , not axed , but ast , which , too , has a history of its own . But far more flagrant is the other illustration of the misconception and consequent misrepresentation of the speech Haliburton was professedly setting forth . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clock-maker nor in place of than . This is a usage in which he is represented as indulging on all occasions . " The old Yankee horse , " he says , " understands go ahead better nor these Bluenoses . " Again he remarks in another place , " She knows better nor that . " In truth , examples of the employment of this conjunction in this sense can be found in nearly every chapter . Nor for than is in general dialectic use in the British Isles . Naturally it is occasionally reproduced in the literature which represents the language of low life . " You are far worse nor Dodson , " says Sam Weller to Winkle in the Pickwick Papers . Formerly , too , it was employed in all seriousness by educated Scottish writers .. But with us it is different . Venturesome it certainly would be to assert that any particular usage is not heard somewhere in this country . But if any person were disposed to take a risk of this sort , none would be much safer than that PIOT in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ native American , no matter how uncultivated . There is as little likelihood of its being heard as is the misuse of the aspirate . At all events , nor for than is so little known in the United States that the vast majority of American readers , when first meeting it in the printed page , would be disposed to believe it an error of the press . It is reported , however , to be an existing prevalent usage in Nova Scotia and New Brunswick . If so , it was from the practice of his native province that Haliburton took the word . His error was in attributing to the United States a manner of speech which , if it has here any existence at all , is not in the slightest degree characteristic . Very likely it was from this same province that he got numerous expressions whose meaning it still puzzles readers in this country to make out . This manufacture of spurious Americanisms began , however , long before Haliburton was born . It has never ceased to continue . In words assumed without reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vocabularies abounded . Nor have they been absent from the latest , though with the progress of time and the advance of knowledge they have been steadily becoming fewer . Nevertheless , old examples are liable to turn up at any time in unexpected quarters , and new ones are occasionally added to the list . In the latest and sanest of dictionaries of Americanisms , author in the sense of " editor " is enrolled . " It is no doubt American and obsolete , " says the compiler . Obsolete it assuredly is . But what authority is there for asserting it to be an Americanism , it may be asked . The reason given is that in this sense it is not found in the New Historical English Dictionary . Such an extraordinary inference is a curiously belated survival of faith in the omniscience of lexicographers which once prevailed widely . As a matter of fact , author meaning " editor " was for a long time a fully authorized word in English . It is no more an Americanism than is editor itself . The latter in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the language . Editors of periodical publications of all sorts are now born with us almost every day ; but it took more than a century to evolve the term specifically denoting them . One has only to turn over the files of eighteenth-century newspapers and magazines to become fully aware that the mysterious being who presided over these publications was then regularly designated as " the author . " It was to " the author " that communications in the newspapers were addressed . Such was the title under which he continued to flourish for decades . But upon the consciousness of men gradually dawned the unsuitability of applying this term to designate him who often did no more than supervise the miscellaneous material to be found in these publications in which he may not himself have ever written a single line . Hence various methods of relief were sought . The personage who controlled the fortunes of the forerunner of all magazines ? the Gentleman 's Magazine , the first number of which appeared in January , 1731 ? got over the difficulty , not by assuming the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not then exist , but by styling himself " Sylvanus Urban . " The other magazines , which speedily sprang up in increasing numbers , were content , however , with the time-honored designation of " the author . " So were addressed the communications to the London Magazine , which for a good share of the eighteenth century was the principal rival of the Gentleman 's . It was not till after the accession of George III . that this form yielded to the new methods of expression which were coming in . Among these was the substitution of " the printer " for " the author . " A notable instance of this appeared in the letters of Junius . The first one , which came out in January , 1769 , was directed " to the printer of the Public Advertiser . " This form of address had already been in use , and was felt to be something of an improvement . Still , it was not satisfactory . It was especially disagreeable to the one in charge , for it did not imply the existence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be hit upon , apparently in the first years of the reign of George III . In the early part of the nineteenth century it had practically come into universal use . The first instance of its occurrence in this sense noted in the New Historical Dictionary belongs to the year 1803 . But it had certainly been more or less employed a full third of a century before . The earliest examples of it which have come under my own observation are in the Oxford Magazine , conducted " by a Society of Gentlemen , Members of the University of Oxford . " This periodical began in July , 1768 , and lasted until 1776 . An examination of the communications appearing in it during the first year of its existence is interesting as showing how unsettled was usage in this particular matter . The vast majority of these were addressed to " the editors " ; many , but to a much less extent , to " the editor . " But besides these two more common expressions there was found in a few eases " the author " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dozen instances " the proprietor . " Many of the expressions erroneously put down as Americanisms have sprung from the belief that educated speech in this country is fairly represented by the farrago of words and phrases huddled together in the collections which the earlier compilers of these vocabularies put forth . Slight was the care originally exercised to separate what is peculiar to this country from what is universal in the English-speaking world . This was even truer of the brief and scattered remarks upon these expressions which appeared in early British and American periodicals . Such , however , was hardly the case with the writer who first professedly devoted his attention to the subject , though even with him it was incidentally a part of the general discussion of usage . His name was John Witherspoon . He was a Scotch divine who came to this country to become president of the young and struggling College of New Jersey , as Princeton University was for a long period officially termed . It was in 1768 that he assumed the office . At that time he was about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this country , he threw himself heart and soul into the cause of the colonies , then in the midst of those controversies with the home government which in a short time were to lead to the Revolution . He became a most ardent advocate of separation . He was one of the signers of the Declaration of Independence . Before he came to America he had written several works , and from his arrival until his death in 1794 his literary activities did not cease . Among the multifarious productions which came from his pen was a series of periodical papers brought out under the title of The Druid . They appeared in 1781 , and extended to seven numbers . The last three of them were given up to the consideration of the state of the English language in this country . Witherspoon indeed speaks of himself as having coined the word Ameri canism after the analogy of the word Scotticism . Yet even if he coined the word , he resembled those who followed him in not paying attention to what the word strictly denoted . His three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Americanisms as of questions of usage . They were largely given up to the consideration of colloquialisms and of improprieties , real or assumed , in use everywhere among the educated or the semi-educated . Only occasionally are there allusions to peculiarities of speech confined to this country . In fact , the second of these three numbers is professedly devoted to vulgarisms heard commonly in both England and America . One of these is of particular interest historically . It is the first denunciation ? or rather , the first to my knowledge ? of a construction which may now be said to have become general . Such it assuredly is in colloquial speech . It is the omission of the infinitive of the verb , leaving it to be understood from the previous clause and to be indicated by the sign to . This is a remarkable peculiarity of modern English everywhere . The example Witherspoon gave of the construction was : " I have not done it yet , but am just going to . " Such an incomplete sentence he regarded as a blemish to the language @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the older speech , though in the lack of adequate investigation one may well hesitate about making a positive assertion on this point . Witherspoon did not expressly assert that this imperfect construction originated in America ? for which self-restraint we may be permitted to express thanks . Still , it is an allowable inference , though perhaps not so intended , that even if the usage were not confined to this country , it was much more common here than in England . If this were true then ? which is more than doubtful ? it is far from being true now . No observant reader of fiction can fail to notice the frequency of this construction on both sides of the Atlantic . So far as I know , its history has never been made the subject of special investigation . Witherspoon naturally had no difficulty in pointing out numerous errors of speech often heard on both sides of the Atlantic . But in his disquisitions on usage he labored under the defect which characterizes nearly all writers on the subject . He constituted himself the final arbiter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strange to him , and more especially all that were distasteful to him , were , in his opinion , improprieties or corruptions . As regards the two countries he was impartial . It made no difference to him whether the expressions were on the lips of an Englishman or an American ; they fell alike under his censure . Some of those he condemned would not be heard now , and could hardly have been heard frequently then . They seem rather personal blunders resulting from ignorance or inattention . Others again of the condemned words and phrases are among the most fully authorized in the language . For Witherspoon was a good deal under the influence of the feeling which dictates the use on all occasions of formal speech . This really constitutes a linguistic disease . It was very prevalent in the criticism of the eighteenth century , if , indeed , virulent be not the more proper epithet to employ . It has not entirely died out now . It affected in particular the Scottish writers of that time . These insisted that the language should always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It should invariably be prim and precise . That is the ideal certain men have in mind , though naturally they do not put it in these words . What they aim at is to have every one talk like a book . There are people who seem incapable of recognizing the distinction between colloquial and written speech . They are invariably shocked because the majority of their fellow-creatures act on the principle that the language of conversation should be the language of conversation . This sort of belief was manifested constantly in the critical literature of Witherspoon 's time . For instance , in 1774 , the Monthly Review had an article on Kelly 's comedy of " The School for Wives . " The critic expressed his surprise that in " so genteel a play " such barbarisms as is n't , did n't , wo n't , and so on , were to be found . This class of linguistic prigs here represented are more than absurd ; they are exasperating . They tempt every self-respecting man to violate all the generally accepted rules of grammar in order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speech . Like such men , Witherspoon , with all his virtues ? and his virtues were manyseemed to be unaware of the fact that there are words and phrases which would be simply intolerable if found in some kinds of writing , but would not only be allowable , but in certain cases absolutely indispensable in writings of another and totally different kind . Hence he , too , censured the use of " vulgar abbreviations , " as he called them , such as ca n't , do n't , should n't , would n't , and could n't . It is obvious that none of these words present the slightest difficulty either in the matter of meaning or of origin . As regards the latter , at least , the only possible exception is wo n't for will not . This is a survival with the negative of the old form wol for will , with which all readers of Chaucer are familiar . ' Vol not , passing through various intermediate forms , like wonnot , for illustration , became at last wo n't . But common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them . He tells us that in Britain " such harsh and mutilated phrases remain only in conversation , and not even in that among persons of judgment and taste . " This , he assured us , was far from being the case in America . Let us hope that this blessed condition of things was reported by him accurately . Full confidence can not be entertained , however , in the accuracy of his representation of British usage . If really trustworthy , there is no escape from the conclusion which follows from the examination of the literature of that time purporting to represent colloquial speech , that those who in his eyes were " persons of judgment and taste " must have been alarmingly few in England itself . Nearly all of Witherspoon 's observations touch , in truth , upon points of usage . Those which treat of expressions really peculiar to the speech of America hardly exceed three or four in number . One of these is the word clever in the sense of " good-natured , " instead of the usual English signification of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the speech of this country , but the former has behind it no literary authority and has almost entirely disappeared from our speech . Another word was considerable , in the sense of " a good deal of . " Witherspoon 's mention of it shows that even at that early time its employment was frequent enough to be distinctly noticeable . Such it has remained to this day . It is easy to see how the meaning originated ; but so far it has never had the sanction of the best American literature , nor even of the poorest English . Scrupulous writers , accordingly , even if they permit themselves to use it in conversation , refrain from introducing it into their books , at least when speaking in their own person . But its very existence marks a characteristic difference between the speech of England and America . Still another word commented upon was notify in the sense of " to make known , " " inform . " " In English , " said Witherspoon , " we do not notify the person of a thing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Consequently it was improper in his opinion to resort to such a method of expression as " to notify the public . " Yet the American usage seems a natural development . " To notify the public " is not " to make the public known , " but to make something known to the public , which is indicated usually by a dependent clause introduced by that . Still there is little doubt that the omission of the to after notify has always been and still is more characteristic of the speech of America than of Great Britain . These are the only expressions in Wither-spoon 's essays which are of special importance in the discussion of usage here as distinguished from that prevailing elsewhere among English-speaking peoples . To another work ? the first vocabulary of Americanisms therehas already been frequent occasion to refer in the course of these articles . It is in some ways of special interest and importance . It is the earliest systematic effort that was put forth to collect and record the peculiarities of American speech . It appeared originally as a paper communicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enlarged and corrected edition of the vocabulary it contained came out as a separate volume in 1816 . Its author was John Pickering . In his day he had a good deal of reputation as a scholar . For about two years of his early life ? from 1799 to 1801 ? he resided in London as private secretary to the American Minister . As himself a student of language , and as one having opportunity to mix with cultivated English society , he might be supposed to have had peculiar advantages for carrying out successfully the work he had undertaken . However that may be , what he did demands special attention . His dictionary of Americanisms exerted an influence over vocabularies that followed , which , though now much less ened , has never disappeared entirely . It served especially as a model to its immediate successors . Not only were its assertions repeated , but its characteristics were reproduced . One of these characteristics is worthy of special note . This is the apparent inability of its compiler to confine himself to usages distinctive of American speech , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The work professed to be a vocabulary of Americanisms . There is no more striking peculiarity about it than the small number of Americanisms it contains . Of the more than five hundred words it included , it is well within bounds to say that four-fifths have no business to be there at all . They are no more characteristic of the language as used in America than as it is used in Great Britain or in any other English-speaking country . Like Witherspoon 's previous essays , it was rather a treatise on usage ? and a very poor treatise withal ? than a discussion of expressions peculiar to this country . We can get some conception of Pickering 's competence to decide upon words proper to be included when we find put down in a vocabulary of Americanisms such archaisms as spoke for " spoke " ; such colloquialisms as mighty for " very , " and ca n't and sha' n't ; such provincialisms as the plural housen and the preterite spew ; such grammatical blunders as lay for " lie , " and see for " saw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usages which have now become ungrammatical as went for " gone " ; such words and phrases as authoress , averse to , folks , lit for " lighted , " poorly in the sense of " indisposed , " stricken for " struck , " and for some unaccountable reason the verb starve in the sense of perishing from hunger . It hardly needs to be said that every one of these was then and still remains as much characteristic of the speech of England as of the United States . Nearly all of them , indeed , had been in use before America was settled ; some of them before it was discovered . One indeed feels frequently inclined to wonder that , while he was about it , Pickering did not include the whole English language ; at least so much of it as had ever been made the subject of remarks by writers on usage , whether they knew what they were talking about or not . Pickering 's work , in the second place , is important for the light it throws upon the mental state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered themselves the representatives of the highest culture to be found in America . At the time of its appearance there was in the matter of language a deference , especially in New England , on the part of the best-informed American to the least-informed Englishman , which it would be a compliment to term obsequiousness . It was in fact a servility which the most groveling prostration of actual servitude could hardly have surpassed . Political dependence had been overthrown by the Revolution . Its very success in that made more marked , however , the abject literary dependence that came to prevail . The attitude of men varied between boastful political self-laudation and fairly cringing linguistic submissiveness . It was a repetition on an even lower scale of the attitude which had previously been taken by Hume and his fellow-Scotchmen . Accordingly it is not for the influence which the work exerted upon later vocabularies , nor even for the information it furnishes in regard to words and usages then current , that it is now of special interest . Much more is it so for the light it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the picture it presents of the way our forefathers ? some of them at least ? thought and felt . For this reason it is that the earliest dictionary of Americanisms demands a fullness of examination which the intrinsic value of its linguistic contents would hardly justify .                     