@@430768

p 300 THE Mitchel administration in New York City is now on trial for its life , the real grievance of the complainants being that instead of merely talking and promising municipal democracy , it has actually executed an unprecedented program of government for all the people . January 1 , 1914 , was doomsday for those who looked upon the city government as something to live on , rather than under . Mayor Mitchel distinguished himself at the outset by his manner of filling the commissionerships . In just a day or so the district political leaders found out that this administration demanded something more in the way of fitness than a vote-compelling personality . Those who felt themselves ordained or slated to fill important berths in the municipal building were handed application blanks which asked a number of searching questions concerning their particular training and experience . The mortality among the practical politicians of no special ability was high , and men who knew municipal administration in its several branches were called to service . The Mitchel administration has been one of experts . This has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under both Tammany and Fusion administrations had nearly exhausted the city 's credit . By placing the valuations on property at a full hundred per cent , and by neglecting needed public improvements it had been possible to keep the debt within the constitutional 10 per cent . limit . Early in this administration the coming of the European war compelled the city to meet maturing obligations of $100,000,000 in gold at a critical time in the money market . The Mayor and the Comptroller sat down with the leading bankers of the city and took account of the city 's financial methods . It appeared that no longer could non-revenue-producing improvements be passed up to thew future for payment , but that all such charges ( after a period of transition ) must be met out of current revenues . This policy has been made law and will be in full effect next January . Because the city is now paying as it goes instead of buying brooms with the proceeds of fifty-year bonds , and because of other conditions beyond the control of the present local authorities , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in any way reflect the administration 's achievements . How to keep down expenses and still do what they wanted to do for the people was the hard problem put up to Mitchel and his commissioners in 1914 . In spite of a growing population and increasing demands and a much-expanded program of  | service , the actual running of the administrative departments cost $3,000,000 less in 1916 than in 1913 . By employing an advertising expert and putting intelligence into its methods and particularly by cutting out waste circulation , the Civil Service Commission reduced the cost of its advertising for the position of firemen from $1,003.28 in 1912 to $93.29 in 1914 and increased the number of applicants from 4810 to 7028 . The Charities Department discovered that to reach its institutions on Blackwell 's Island ten ferry-boats were employed , with crews and dockage facilities . By the simple expedient of building a nine-story storehouse under the Queensboro Bridge ( which crossed the island without communicating with it ) and providing elevator connections , it will be possible to eliminate the ferry service and pay for the cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with all its modern facilities thrown into the bargain . These are typical economies . SERVICES FOR THE WHOLE PEOPLE By far the greatest practical measure ever taken in America to secure the permanent well-being of a city 's inhabitants is the zoning resolution of the Board of Estimate and Apportionment , of July 25 , 1916 . It limits the height and-restricts the character and usage of buildings in such a way as to check the dangerous drift toward crowded , unsanitary housing conditions in offices and factories . It insures that residence districts shall remain residence districts and commercial districts remain commercial districts until the owners of property therein shall decide otherwise ? irresponsible individual invaders may no longer ruin a neighborhood at will . It goes a long way to insure the future adequacy of the transportation and sewerage systems upon which the city has spent great sums . So scientific and thorough was the investigation upon which this resolution was based , and so completely was the public taken into the confidence of the city government , that it finally was passed without the slightest opposition from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principle of regulation . In the field of public health , this administration will be known for the great advance it has made as a public teacher of hygiene and for the gradual reaching out into new fields of control , such as of conditions in public conveyances and in factories ? policies whose practical value is attested by a diminishing death rate . The street-cleaning department had made no material advances since the famous administration of Colonel Waring , twenty years before . The present commissioner reduced the cost of regular work in 1916 to the lowest figure in six years and yet increased the average wages , provided a more effective and frequent flushing of the streets , and executed a more satisfactory garbage contract . Fire losses dropped from $29,008,383 in 1911 , 1912 , and 1913 to $22,721,233 in 1914 , 1915 , and 1916 ? the result of better equipment and organization in the fire department , and particularly the cutting out of political appointments , and greatly increasing the number and thoroughness of inspections by the Fire Prevention Bureau . Upon the police department a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revelations of corruption in the department in connection with the sensational Rosenthal murder in 1912 . Thorough study had been made of the administration and the organization of the department and recommendations had been made for its improvement . Arthur Woods , Mitchel 's Police Commissioner , put into effect most of these recommendations , together with others of his own , based upon an actual experience in the department . He broke up the organization of gangsters who had killed for hire . The number of murders dropped from 286 in 1913 to 257 in 1914 , to 246 in 1915 , to 192 in 1916 . Burglaries decreased 20 per cent . Gambling has appreciably diminished . As for the " red-light " district , New York has none . The law department has broadened its scope from a routine agency for the giving of legal advice and the prosecution of suits on behalf of the municipal corporation and has brought on behalf of citizens a number of suits for the reduction of public-service rates , in one instance bringing about savings to consumers of electric current of about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Mitchel administration also belongs the conscientious , thorough plan for settling the grade-crossing nuisance on the west side of Manhattan Island , a project involving an expenditure on the part of the New York Central Railroad of approximately $100,000,000 . This great improvement , temporarily in abeyance , will  | make available to the citizens several new park areas , eliminate a long-standing eyesore in one of the best residential sections , remove the cause of many accidental deaths , and , by the establishment of greatly increased yard spaces , contribute largely to the settlement of the market problem and the reduction of the high cost of living in the city . Important plans for municipalizing a great portion of the waterfront facilities of Brooklyn through the purchase and extension of existing privately owned marginal railroads have been worked out , but not yet consummated . Within its restricted jurisdiction the administration has done much also to develop the facilities of New York for handling transatlantic traffic by the erection of a number of large new piers at several points in the harbor . Full development of the harbor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete cooperation of the State of New Jersey and of the Federal Government . The commercial interests of New York have good and honest reasons for desiring the return of the present administration . THE CHILDREN OF THE CITY The four years have brought improvements in the conditions surrounding childhood . In the July number of the REVIEW the most interesting of the Gary schools in New York was described . It remains to add that four years ago more than 100,000 children in the city were receiving considerably less than their full quota of the mere elements of an education . William Wirt , the school superintendent in Gary , Ind. , was called to New York to experiment with his plan in the great city . It was soon discovered that New York , with a moderate expenditure of money for new equipment , and by employing all the school plant all of the time , could not only meet elementary school needs for every child , but could supply lectures , auditoriums , shops , gymnasiums , playgrounds , and numerous other incidents of a liberal education , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the rich in private schools . Playgrounds have been more than doubled in number and , in portions of the city where they could not be established , the police have closed to traffic certain streets during a few hours of the day for play purposes . The policeman , by the way , has become the children 's friend and helper instead of their arch enemy as formerly . Not only the children in normal circumstances , but the orphans in asylums. , came in for a better deal . It had been the custom of the city for many years to accept unquestioningly the State Board of Charities ' certificate of fitness for the scores of institutions under denominational control as their warrant for receiving city funds for the care of dependent children . The Charities Commissioner , like the rest of the administration , decided to call a halt on this free and easy way of disposing of responsibilities . From such information as he had , he ventured the assertion that the management of many of these institutions constituted " a scandal and a disgrace . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shocking state of child neglect and abuse . This exposure , which trod heavily on the toes of some of Mayor Mitchel 's own co-religionists , put the institutions permanently on their good behavior , and the city now knows , when it makes its annual gift of $5,000,000 , just about what it is to get in return . Apart from this , the Charities Commissioner has introduced and gradually extended a system whereby as many normal children as possible are placed in private homes , the city , if need be , contributing a sum to their support to the foster parent instead of to an institution . The city now places no child of less than eight years in an institution . At Randall 's Island , where the city maintains one of the largest institutions for defective children in the country , unspeakable conditions prevailed . The administration has taken steps for the establishment of a new plant thoroughly modern in. its equip merit and manned by medical experts instead of by brutal , ignorant , under-paid political hacks . BETTER CARE FOR UNFORTUNATES The Municipal Lodging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times , was , until the winter of 1914 , a dumping ground for miscellaneous humanity in distress . A number of beds were occupied by permanent political boarders on the mailing list of Tammany Hall . The Commissioner of Charities , after some thrilling experiences with the powers that used to be , instituted a new method of dealing with these unfortunate people . He segregated them according to the causes of their dependency . An employment bureau was established for those who could work , and the sick and the criminal were assigned to appro- priate treatment . The Lodging House became , in short , a constructive agency for the salvage of human derelicts . Towards those who have offended against society the city has assumed a new and humane attitude . In 1916 the system of indeterminate sentence which had been applied with great success to juvenile offenders was extended to adults committed to the workhouse for minor offenses and to the penitentiary for more serious ones . The Parole Commission , set up under a new law , began thoroughly to investigate the antecedents of each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as might be necessary to make him a fit member of society . Many lives which would have been wrecked under the old legalistic theory of punishment have been rehabilitated . The system as a whole is , on the one hand , a boon to first offenders and , on the other , a terror to hardened criminals , who are gradually seeking more comfortable working arrangements in less progressive cities . THE CITY 'S EMPLOYEES Such are a few of innumerable details of the revolution which has been going on around City Hall Square . The public knows about it but vaguely . Little of it is picturesque ; much of it for the moment is exceedingly unpopular . But it wins in the long run , working its way down through the rank and file and out to the man on the street . The spirit of the leaders has been infused into the army of the 100,000 workers who constitute the great municipal machine . For several years there has been going on a minute and careful investigation of the nature and amount of service and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevailed until , after a minute investigation of every city office and employment , there was laid down a code of work specifications , a standard of service and compensation which has replaced the old system of favoritism and pull for increased pay and promotion . In this way the city has given a square deal to its employees and has exacted from them the same in return . For those about to enter the city offices a radically new point of view has been adopted by the Civil Service Commission . The charge that such investigation put a premium on mere " book learning " no longer holds in New York . For every office requiring special fitness and practical ability , special tests under actual work conditions are provided . More and more , also , considerations of professional merit , as determined by competitive examination , are applied to the higher officials . The commission , so far from being merely , as formerly , an instrument for eliminating political parasites and the conspicuously unfit , is rapidly becoming a highly specialized employment bureau . In its dealings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been distinguished by an eagerness for self-examination , and it has never hesitated to use the axe , even in dangerous proximity to its friends . It ruthlessly exposed the shortcomings of the coroner system by delving into the acts of its own associates elected on the 1913 Fusion ticket and , when the facts so warranted , backed a measure for its reorganization . Sixty thousand dollars a year in political patronage was thus voluntarily alienated . Within recent months the murder of a young woman which was concealed for many days , finally disclosed a weak spot in the Detective Bureau of the - Police Department . Mayor Mitchel immediately ordered the Commissioner of Accounts to investigate the facts and spare none . Out of this incident will doubtless come measures of wholesome reorganization . WILL MITCHEL COME BACK ? Reform administrations have an unhappy habit of failing to come back . But this year a brighter outlook presents itself . Tammany has been starving for eight years ; its vitality appears to have been greatly lowered . The fact is that with the growth of social needs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of looking to the city for help in all directions , the city must perform a certain amount of service for all its citizens , and unless it is performed with the utmost economy , by men who know what they are about , the treasury and the credit of the city will break under the strain . The people of New York appear to be recognizing that fact .                     