@@466062

GERMANY has long provided for the ordinary boy who is unable to go to secondary schools a training for his trade . The full significance of this fact was first borne in upon me in a certain wayside village in Missouri . A stalwart young German-American butcher , noted for the skill of his cutting and his pride in his meat , was putting up a roast . He vouchsafed the information that he was going to night-school at the University . . " What course ? " I inquired idly , watching him deftly trim , roll , and decorate two ribs of beef . " Commercial drawing , " he replied . " Do you like that better than butchering ? You are making a mighty good job of that roast . " " Butchering is a gift with me , just like art , " he astonished me by replying , and added , seriously : " They are something alike ? one helps the other . I 've been working at this trade since I was a kid , but I can cut meat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I lived in the old country , you know , I would have been trained to draw so I could be a better butcher . Every boy going into any trade gets that sort of training . " Whereat I marveled greatly . I marveled even more as time went on and my butcher remained a butcher and did not become an advertising artist . He had the whole sense of the new ideal in education : to train for a trade as though it were a profession , and to use in that trade all the correlated aid of art and science he could obtain . Drawing helped him to cut in the same fashion that it helps a sculptor to model ; the principles perceived in the flat presentation showed him truth in the full mass which was his medium . Had he lived in Munich instead of Missouri , however , he would not have been obliged to hunt up a night-school for himself in order to get this ? MATHEWS instruction after he was married and had a family . He would have had it perforce in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ages of fourteen and eighteen , in a continuation school . Fitting ' pupils for this school fits the scholar for industries and divers trades . This compulsory system of supplementary education requires part-time attendance , from eight to ten hours a week , for which the employers must pay as though the hoy were at work in the shop . Begun in various parts of Germany nearly forty years ago , it has become nationally , if not universally , an acceptedtype of education , because it possesses for the ordinary individual dynamic qualities hitherto undiscovered . As the continuation school was at first developed , it was a Sunday-school broadened from the consideration of religious topics to practical training designed to interest apprentices and make them more proficient . Sunday classes still exist in many places . The quaint working-class greeting , " Grills Gott I " may be traced partly to the seventh-day origin of these classes . As Sunday did not prove entirely satisfactory for the purpose , night courses were tried . Gradually employers were enlisted in support of further education for the common man , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by associating the primary education with direct industrial training would pay . The sporadic character of the experiments which were made in trying to adapt the idea to the needs of special localities and of country and city life , resulted in many trade schools unlike in theory and practice . Some cities have excellent public industrial schools , where the boy , upon leaving elementary work , receives in one year all the rudiments of trade training . These are not to be confused with the higher technical schools , available after the ordinary continuation work . Excellent private trade schools are carried on ) y some employers : for instance , the one n the Krupp gun-works at Essen , where he attendance of apprentices is rewired . Guilds and unions all over Gertiany have classes in the predominant ) ccupations . Another characteristic and important : ypc of continuation school is that sup3orted in part by the industry and in 3art by the community . For instance , ermany 's toys are famous . In Thuringia one may see little communities , vhich practically exist on the toy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mountain and riverside villages where these playthings are constructed find their designers , their skilled labor , their ingenious mechanicians . The answer lies in the school , or the courses , as the 7ase may he , which , supported by the industry and the community together , give the essentials of art , mechanics , construction , and business to apprentices in the shop itself . So with the endless supply of characteristic Thuringian pottery . In the little hamlets where it is made , the schools tend to retain the upcoming youth in the place , as there is no need for them to go away to secure work . German manufacturing is thus kept somewhat diffused instead of centering entirely in the towns , a fact which has obvious advantages so far as the VOL . CXXVIII. ? NH. 758. - 77 lives of the workers are concerned ; while the retention of the hereditary interest in an industry , the maintenance of the guild spirit , and the stimulating pride of craftsmanship are valuable gains . Undoubtedly the most effective work is done by the free public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alone in the fact that their standards of teaching are high , but that they perceive the opportunity and duty of the continuation school to do more than merely produce workers who shall render more efficient service to their employers . The several systems of public continuation schools definitely set themselves the task of training for citizenship , not only by offering men a reasonable prospect of Maintaining themselves and their families , but by endeavoring to instruct the individual concerning his relation to the community in the several trade capacities , his civic function , the laws which relate to him most intimately , personal and industrial hygiene , physical development , general culture ? in short , " noth-in less than educating the whole man . " The main difference between the two chief pedagogical systems used in the continuation-school work of Germany is that in the one , shop teaching is favored , while itithe other , well illustrated by the **25;207;TOOLONG of Berlin , the teaching is practically all by theory , by the book , by academically trained teachers , in class-rooms of the sort used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold that the theory of the trade is all that need be furnished when the actual shop practice occupies the rest of the time of the apprentice . The principal educators of Berlin have undertaken the preparation of trade text-books from which to teach , and , judging from the large set now completed , they seem to have done relatively practical work . To discover the educational requirements for a trade , the writers visit several shops of the business in question . For instance , in the tailors ' course , the businesses of several tailors were care-fully examined , and from these the various factors in the trade were worked out . The technical side of the science of garment-making , and the usual workroom customs and trade practices , were examined and the best selected from the comparison . Sources of materials , the way to judge their relative value , and the durability and service of cloths and trimmings , formed the basis of a survey which included incidental factors like transportation , tariffs , markets , and delivery , from which the i cost of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , judged by actual accounts of going concerns , showed exactly how much calculation was essential , how the bookkeeping was best done , the importance of incidents , what business forms and laws a tailor must know . Another section of the survey concerned the hygiene of the workroom , the effect of dust on the lungs , and the need of the tailors for physical exercise , as well as a brief outline of his civic and patriotic privileges . Upon all these facts a simple text-book was written ? that is to say , it was based upon careful observation and evidence , but usually without actual participation in the industry under discussion . However excellent they are from an academic standpoint , these lessons may or may not actually cover the practical difficulties lying between the child and the assumption of his work ; it depends upon the boy . In some trades , perhaps the tailors ' , the worker in the good shop would probably need little more than the straight theory of his work , if that were correctly imparted and interesting . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Attending an average number of classes in Berlin , it did not appear that interest was sufficiently provoked . Either the grade of intelligence of these working-children was lower than elsewhere , or the teachers were not reaching them . In the arithmetic classes a certain woodenness of example was notable , even in the applied problems dealing with the trade ; an inelasticity which might , it is true , have been merely the limitation of the present method of teaching mathematics , but which struck the observer as peculiarly unfortunate i in deadening the interest during this particularly sensitive period of the child 's education . The drawing classes were usually better , for the application of drawing to every-day work was commonly made clear and attractive . To he sure , there seemed something out of proportion in the drawing of a great deal of conventional ornament by a class of artisan dentists , but skill must perhaps be acquired before the drawing from life can take the place of discipline . The class itself was amusing , albeit a trifle grotesque . Dentistry is regarded as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been taken in addition . Before that it is a semi-professional trade . After the apprentice to a dental-surgeon has served his term ? in which he commonly does all the laboratory work ? he may open his shop as a dentist and practise without a degree . In the continuation-school course , a class in theory was reciting by rote how various fillings should be mixed , what happened chemically , and how to finish off the job . In a near-by room a class of another " year " was making color drawings from real or artificial exhibits . Practical work was left to the office . Hygiene is taught mainly by rule and chart ? by rule of thumb , so to speak . Classes in general seemed somewhat joyless and dull , somewhat disciplined and stodgy . Where the teaching was vivid , things were better , but the continuation schools for boys seemed to be in charge of masters who were either overburdened or underpaid , or both . Theoretical teaching in the trades is not so good as the shop system which Berlin uses in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tuition is remitted for those who can not afford it . In these , where there are some " higher continuation " courses , master-artisan teachers are the rule ; but in the common continuation school , theory-teaching , if not ideal , is of very positive value as against the lack of any . Prussia stands firm , moreover , for the establishment in all the provinces of some compulsory trade education , and has greatly furthered it by making her educational grants conditional in size upon the establishment by the community of some such system . Prussia has recently set the example of removing all exemptions which make it possible for favored classes of workers to escape the continuation school , and has broadened their scope so that girls arc now included ; this affects an enormous number in Berlin alone . In the instruction of girls , some of the best vocational teachers plan to give them a kind of service that will correspond to the military term for boys , during which they will receive discipline and instruction for the real work of their lives ; so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clothe , feed , and train their families properly . To count less on shining apparatus and to depend more on entirely practical and sympathetically planned direct instruction , which shall reach its end of making haus &alien; and homes , is the main idea of the instructors . There are also at present well-attended commercial courses , which seem to suffer from the same defects as our own . There is the group one might call the needletrades ? dressmaking , millinery , embroidery , and upholstery ? and others which approach but do not attack the problem of women in industry . The Munich schools have worked out the system of industrial training which undoubtedly leads the world , because it is based on demonstration teaching in work-shops . Dr. George Kerschensteiner , a member of the Reichstag , has fought a long fight to bring the Munich schools to their present splendid condition . To-day Munich has fifty-two trades for which teaching is given , and is enlarging her present plans and facilities . Seven fine buildings about the town give space for classes and for well-equipped shops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of girls receive instruction . Practical men direct almost all the subdivisions of the commercial , painting and dec- orating , building , printing , mechanical , engineering , wood and metal working trades , besides miscellaneous ones like shoemaking , wigmaking , and confection ery manufacturing . These teachers are often taken from their trade and taught to teach . Dr. Kerschensteiner would rather make a teacher out of a plumber than convert a teacher into a man of tools , although , when occasion arises , suitable teachers in the trade itself not being available , academically informed men are given furloughs in order to enter into actual practice for a sufficiently long time to master it . Some of the best teachers are part-time men who are eminent in their various lines , as , for instance , commercial photography and sculpture . The boy who works at a craft like stucco-making may get part of his instruction under an artist instead of an artisan . The foundation of trade education is laid in the day school . At about ten years of age , boys planning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to go then or later into higher schools . It must be noted that this is in reality a separation of social classes , and there is little further contact between the groups . Those not planning for " higher " education , those numerous needy " others " who constitute the real human school problem , are then grounded in the use of tools , in carpentry , metal-work , the rudiments of mechanics , and of gardening ; or , in the case of girls , commercial study , needlework , housekeeping . In the beautiful new Sieholdstrasse common school there are excellent workrooms for all these subjects , and , in addition , fine bakeries with practical modern ovens , attractive garden-plots where even horticulture is begun , and the concierge 's chickens to serve as an experimental chicken-farm , The boy who in his last elementary year really knows what he wants to do frequently obtains his apprenticeship by himself , or in answer to a request from an employer , who applies to the head teacher for a certain kind of helper . Descriptions of jobs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a premium , are posted as bulletins in this school . The parents , possibly the teacher , and well - classified information about occupations , based on the excellent census of trades and employment , are depended upon to help the boy decide . There is , it seems , practi- cally no influence exerted in the primary school concerning the choice of a trade . The management of industrial instruction beyond the age of fourteen falls to a separate board , comprising employers of various sorts , representatives of commercial bodies like the Chamber of Trades , or business associations , men from various guilds or unions , and educational experts : a membership which assures that the interests of the workers , employers , and teachers ? in short , of the public ? will be taken into consideration . These schools have their separate , " parallel " financial provision , and for Germany , where social classes are so distinctly separated , anyway , this system , which definitely breaks the contact between the coming workman and the professional man , works excellently . The teaching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is made which is not drawn , and nothing is drawn which is not made in the workshop . " Divided into three or four years , the plan requires about one-third of the time spent in the workshop , where it is easy to see that the pupil usually enjoys himself . The boys at the forge , learning to make the ornamental ironwork so characteristic of Bavaria , were evidently keenly interested in their work . The students with the miniature tools of the watchmaker ? the dainty pliers , the delicate saws ? were constructing their model watches with apparently complete satisfaction . The apprentice using the plane , the mallet , and the level , the lithographer 's helper working with the stone and prints , the boy plumber with his soldering tools , the gold and silver smiths with their hammers and annealing oven , the printer 's devil with his inks and type ? who that knows boys will not believe that they gave trustworthy evidence of really winning an education ? In this day of the infinite subdivision of tasks , even under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ segment of the process , over and over . The pleasure of progressing through the whole trade , the stimulation of their interest in the handling of the tools themselves , produces in these boys an altogether different attitude from that of the average secondary-school pupil . Working two half-days or one whole day , at the employer 's convenience , the pupils , during their first two years , usually make only parts of articles . In the third and fourth year , whole articles arc made . One of the policies of the Munich schools is that none of the articles shall be sold by the school authorities . Whoever furnishes the material ? pupil , master , or employer ? owns the article . Not only the ordinary artisan , the mechanic , or builder shows appreciation of direct demonstration teaching . The waiter , the cabman , the butcher , the grocer , the baker , are taught in the actual conditions of the work , the trades themselves co-operating . Cabmen are shown the care of horses and vehicles , the " shop " part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meat in the stockyards and in a good shop ; gardeners do their practical lessons on a special tract at the edge of town or in the English garden ; waiters , beginning their work as pompous and uniformed " piccolos , " attend their classes in rooms where service is actually given . There is a certain kinship between all these Munich apprentices and the individual who has just been thrown off a pier to learn how to swim . They are absorbed in doing it . The shoemaking class had no eyes for anything but its experimental footgear . A class who were setting up a telephone and telegraph system were su occupied and enthusiastic that they might have had a thousand watchers and still have been unconscious . A class in commercial photography was left by the teacher for ten minutes or more while we looked in on surrounding work . At the suggestion , " But you must go back ? " he smiled . " Come here and you will see that I am not needed . " He opened the door . His class , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wholeheartedly in making certain series of exposures to obtain various effects with the big cameras in the several angles of the room . This is definite proof of the pudding . The psychological basis of such training is right . It brings all the senses to the work ; it educates the motor activities ; it shows the whole process in a standard way to the pupil , and every association will help him in actual labor the rest of the week . This part of the pedagogical problem is properly solved . Last of all there is that other vital feature of the Munich schools , including libraries , lectures on the traditions of the trade , hygiene , citizenship . and culture . From the standpoint of " business , " this instruction seems unimportant ; but in reality the school takes cognizance of the social being of boys and girls , offering them stimulus and general knowledge . It is a most essential part of the new definition of education , and might be called the social-service phase of it . In Germany , particularly , where , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are long , the spending of the treasured leisure of the poor man should be judicious , and care should be taken to acquaint him with the resources which should lie to every man 's hand , giving normal influences the chance to play their part in keeping the body and soul satisfied . With restricted time , but a new financial freedom , the period of weakening parental authority attending the approach of maturity is one in which boys and girls particularly need the reinforcement of fellow-interest and well-directed insight into outside aff-airs . In the interest of this , a certain amount of the class work is in the form of excursions to see large plants , or contemporary expositions , or to great institutions Like the Deutsches Museum , where the engineer may not only sec models of machinery , but start them in motion by touching a button , so that the play of parts may be studied . The other , and possibly the more important kind of excursion , is the simple walking trip , for which the pupils elect their own leader . Personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outdoors is made inviting by comradeship . Education , which includes all the interests , even his pleasure , of the normal growing boy , which carries the child to maturity , giving him in every year the helpful interest of study related to work , which avoids the imposition of useless instruction on top of the three R 's , and yet takes account of spiritual and physical needs ? this education may justly , I think , be called dynamic . The proof that it is dynamic is that the coming citizens themselves approve of it , and that employers in general have seen that the investment in the helper ? that is , the payment of wages for time spent in school ? results in a degree of increased skill that may well be regarded as interest on the money . The great age of invention in which we live has improved everything in the way of machines . One man is now used where formerly a number of men were required ; yet the creation of new processes demands men for utterly new work ; and thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been done to improve the man himself . Machines do not work without human operation . The stupid individual causes enormous waste . Another common loss of efficiency is caused by the failure of an operative to understand the whole process , or by indifference , because from his standpoint there is no chance of progression and better pay . The tale may be logically followed in every aspect of the relation of the worker to his job . The lack of keen intelligence is a danger , first to the employer and then to the State , since the individual is likely either to retrograde or remain stationary instead of gaining ground , and in either case may become a human debit account with society . One of the marvels of German experience is that on their own behalf alone , so many wealthy employers voluntarily supported the educational attempt to improve the human factor in industry , serving personally on boards in order that the curriculum should contain real essentials . The influence of this example has gone very far . Compulsory attendance , fought bitterly in some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Of the big cities , Hamburg and Stettin are almost alone in having voluntary continuation classes , and that is only semi-voluntary , as the powerful guilds generally require apprentices to attend . Other systems have their peculiarities of shorter hours , and a different choice of trades taught , according to the industries of the place and the state of mind of employers and school-boards . There is no fixed standard for Leipsic , Strasburg , Mannheim , Crefeld , Solengen , or Dusseldorf , but all of them have good points in their systems . Non-attendance at compulsory schools makes pupil , parent , and employer liable to fine , detention , or imprisonment . Everywhere the plan is proving beneficial ? even in the " black lands " of Westphalia , where the home workers and hordes of unskilled child laborers in the enervating cutlery trades leave a large proportion with which the school can not deal . The Swiss cantons , somewhat more than half of which have compulsory and the rest voluntary continuation classes , frankly follow Munich 's type of shopschool . They vary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seventeen , allowing a gap of three years , which makes the resumption of study difficult , and fails to take note of the most receptive time of a child 's life . Switzerland , too , has excellent and appropriate trade schools of higher type ? for instance , the ? Eco/c d'Horlogerie at Geneva , where the famous Geneva watchmaking is taught . Frequently the new impetus of the lower trade-school work seems to have affected the real technical schools so that new methods or courses have been introduced . In Hamburg there is a most unusual course for seamen in the navy , who build their own ship and sail it . In divers European countries , curious sporadic courses , not strictly continuation classes , really serve in their stead . Nothing could be more characteristic of Denmark , for instance , than that novel educational institution which should make every one with even limited maritime experience rejoice ? the Skibbei Skole fur Skibs Kokke ( Ship School for Ships ' Cooks ) . This school is partly supported by the government , and teaches everything from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special foods used at sea . Well taught it is , too , as any one will testify who has eaten in the painted saloon of the curious old Iceland brig which lies in one of Copenhagen 's most fascinating canals , that interesting stretch of Holden 's alongside the government buildings . In this one-time hold , ingenious educational charts of sectional animals , fish , and fowl , decorations of mermaids , lobsters , crabs , and coral , produce a thick sea-school atmosphere that is peculiar and vaguely haunting . Tables are set in the sea style in order that the populace may help support the school by buying food at a minimum price . The merited reputation of this institution for producing competent cooks caused Norway to send commissioners to study it . Belgium has such an unclassified school in Brussels for teaching girls the making of artificial flowers , started years ago by the charitable La Fontaine . Its fees are only nominal . The free school of rural life and housekeeping at Bouchout , where girls from fifteen to seventeen buy and cook their food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by practical tasks , gardening , laundry , poultry and dairy work , is one of the many excellent schools in Europe for youngsters . Whether one calls it continuation work or not , the Swedish and Danish high schools and farm schools , involving practically no expense but board , Germany 's good winter courses of several grades , and her Ackerbauschulen , at which strong boys of seventeen not only receive free instruction , but some pay on leaving , the Ferme Ecole of France , for peasants ' sons , and her more advanced practical agricultural classes , all constitute excellent secondary industrial training , which need only to be made seasonally compulsory to be as comprehensive as the city child 's continuation opportunities . To-day , all nations are in the way of taking note of the advances made toward reducing the misery incident to child-labor . England , with her gloomy labor problems , still relies on the voluntary evening school and the technical school with debarring fees but occasional charitable scholarships , adding to these the insufficient sop of the Juvenile Department of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's occupations upon which to base its well-meant free advice . Five hundred evening classes closed recently for lack of enrolment ; the admirable technical schools do not deter at least nine-tenths of the children from turning their backs on avoidable knowledge at fourteen . Only where private firms see the advantage has England any apprentice courses which fall within the range of our present discussion courses cover-ing the essentials of trade and life , which continue the education without compelling night attendance . An active effort is afoot to obtain a law to establish free obligatory part-time education until the age of eighteen is attained , but as it is initiated by progressive social workers and not as yet substantially backed by educational or business interests , it is of very uncertain effect . Scotland has done better than England . But both in Edinburgh and Glasgow industry is intrenched , business is powerful , and it still seems to employers too long a step to install a compulsory system of part-time schools in working hours which they pay for . The Education Act for Scotland ( 1908 ) permits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such trade and industrial classes as it may desire . Edinburgh has succeeded in making these courses as vital as voluntary classes mainly available in the evening ever are . The seasonally unemployed , the child who can afford to stay a year longer out of school , may get day training , but most of the apprentices must take it at night . The Edinburgh educators naturally believe in the shop system . The eighteen beautiful workshops at Tynecastle are efficiently equipped , the teaching seems practical , and the number of trades prepared for fairly large , but they can serve students from only one section of the city . The Board is expanding the plans in preparation for the time when continuation work in daylight shall be made compulsory . The progressives frankly discuss the possibility of allowing only ha lf-d ay employment between the ages of fifteen and eighteen , which would force up wages by diminishing the supply of boy and girl labor . Industry and education have the same interest at stake . The employer complains of the average inefficiency of help and the weight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , untaught , unripe labor which society affords him . Any survey of unemployment conditions brings a conviction that , in general , education has been inefficient and insufficient , as regards the body of humanity ; that the sense of citizenship is inadequate ; that the ignorance of ordinary health laws is one of the great zeroes of the system ; and that the failure to provide elementary technical fundamentals in a curriculum planned for workers is one of the greatest causes of human misery and inequality , past , present , and future . The cost of the proper education of children is not unreasonably increased by these new developments , even if the improvement in the quality of their labor did not , according to abundant evidence , immediately increase business efficiency . When one considers that , properly directed , this system is nothing less than investment in human power , and that it involves the protection of labor heretofore exploited , it is at once obvious that nothing more important has been undertaken since elementary schools were made compulsory .       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     