@@487148

Ambassador Page appears , quite unwittingly , to have fluttered the English dovecotes by his speech at the Savage Club on Saturday night . The London Standard , at all events , took great alarm at his account of the way in which the present Administration at Washington intends to apply the Monroe Doctrine . Mr. Page will probably be surprised to wake up and find that he was threatening British financial interests in Latin America , and that he was serving an important official notice . All that he had in mind , presumably , was to give a matter-of-fact summary of President Wilson 's address at Mobile . It was in this that the new policies , so far as they are new , were outlined ; yet the English press saw nothing to be frightened at in what Mr. Wilson . said . His speech was praised for its fine idealism , though doubt was expressed if he would be able to work it out practically . Certainly , no threat to English investments in Central and South America was seen in it . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President said , to stir up an apprehension which the President himself did not excite . The nub of the matter lies in the " third proposition " laid down by Mr. Page , that " no sort of financial control can , with the consent of the United States , be obtained over those weaker nations which would , in effect , control their Government . " This was not , of course , new with the Ambassador . He was simply paraphrasing the language of the President . Mr. Wilson had said that government in Latin America by concessionaires would be looked upon unfavorably by the United States . And he plainly intimated that adventurers who fought their way to temporary power in those republics , purely for the sake of a chance at the Treasury and concessions , would not be recognized by this country . If this is , as the London Standard asserts , a dangerous " elaboration " of the Monroe Doctrine , it is plain that it had already been made by President Wilson . Looked at calmly , we think that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discerned , but also the peril . It is true that financial scheming has been at the bottom of many a South American revolution . Possession of the Executivepower by means of the army , together with a subservient Congress , has often been made a means of shameless , exploitation . In Venezuela , Colombia , Nicaragua , and elsewhere , revolutionists have seized the Government , squeezed it like an orange , and presently gone to join the colony in Paris of kings and presidents en exa Mr. Wilson is quite right in putting his finger on the wearisome repetition of this process as a great evil . If he can wisely and safely do anything to check it , he will surely be conferring a boon upon the revolution-racked countries to the south of us . And no objection lies to one of the steps he proposes to take . This is to refuse to enter into relations with any chance " President " who upsets an existing Government and fights his way to seeming power in order that he and his fellow-conspirators may feather their nests . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States to decline to sanction this means of attaining office , with Pecuniary greed stamped all over it . We could , while keeping our hands off , wait to see what happens to the usurper or dictator . We could do routine business with him as the de-facto head of the Government , but withhold full recognition of the validity of his title until his own people had had time deliberately to confirm it . This is the policy which Mr. Wilson at first sought to follow with Gen. Huerta in Mexico , though the increasing disturbances in that country , with their imperilling of American lives and property , soon led him to go further and insist upon Huerta 's retiring . The end of this diplomatic intervention in Mexico is not yet , and is probably a long way off ; but the course of conduct adopted by President Wilson at the beginning can be defended as proper and useful , and might be followed to advantage in other republics . If an unscrupulous military adventurer knows that he will not , on seizing power , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friend , " his vision of profit by ' evolution will be blurred . The case of this " idealized " Monroe Doctrine becomes much more dubious , however , when it goes on to the question of financial control , and of seeing to it that all Spanish-American governments are based upon the consent of the governed . We are at this moment having illustration of the difficulties involved in this . Passing by the Nicaraguan treaty , which in effect proposes an American protectorate , but which is now sleeping in the Senate committee , we have the Dominican affair . First of all , we are administering the finances of San Domingo . This by itself looks as if , when Ambassador Page declared that the United States would assent to no financial control which would amount to control of the Government , he meant no such control except by ourselves . It was confidently asserted that our administration of the Dominican customhouses would make revolutions in that island impossible . But they have latterly shown their head again . The last one was abandoned upon the promise of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and free election ; and , accordingly , several American " observers " are now en route to be a sort of unofficial inspectors of election in San Domingo next week . They sail despite a vigorous notification by the Dominican authorities that they are not wanted . In this kind of thing , it is obvious , there lie the seeds of mischief . Deprecating " financial control " of Spanish-American governments , we may be found exercising it . Protesting against force , we may at any moment get into a position where we shall be using force . Standing up firmly for the consent of the governed , we may presently be threatening the governed unless they consent to be governed by us . The whole policy is plainly one requiring the utmost care and discretion in the execution . One precaution , above all , is indicated . All these delicate plans and negotiations must be entrusted to men fitted by character and training to handle them . It is this consideration which heightens the folly of displacing experienced and acceptable Ministers so as to make room @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lies . SWIFTER AND SURER JUSTICE . In the December World 's Work Mr. George W. Alger shows again how an elaborate growth of law-made regulation has hampered our judges . And it is , happily , at this vicious system that those who , in the various States , are working for reform of judicial procedure , are intelligently striking . We have already seen what a gain could be made by the Supreme Court in Washington , under the American practice . One reform committee after another urged the English example , and made the familiar comparison between the dispatch of business by judges in England and in the United States . This comparison , usually invidious in appearance , is not wholly fair . It may be that , as a rule , English judges are men of more ability and vigor than ours ; and they may gain something from their assured position ; but the main reason , after all , why they do so much better work is that they have so much better tools . On this point , some of Mr. Alger 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the County Courts and the City of London Courts disposed of more than 1,300,000 cases . But judgment by default was entered in 448,000 cases , 413,000 were dismissed , 38,000 were tried by the judges without a jury ( there were 929 cases tried with a jury ) , while 404,000 cases were tried by the registers , recorders , or referees This last is the great relevant point . The English system provides for the handling of a large amount of court business by officers not strictly judicial . Mr. Alger declares that , in England , the greater part of the ,  |p3,732  orders signed by judges in non-litigated matters in New York County in 1912 , and of the 14,914 orders in litigated matters , would have been disposed of by officials not called judges . In other words , the English judges have far more assistance than ours enjoy ; the superfluous rubbish of cases is swept away before the real issue comes before them , and hence they are able to make rapid decisions . It is along this line of improvement that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for commissioners to whom application must be made to determine the nature and issues of a trial before it is taken into court at all . Thus irrelevancies are got rid of in advance , and sham defences stricken out . On one abuse in American practice Mr. Alger comments with much force . It is that of permitting a case  --  or aspects of it  --  to be passed upon by a half-dozen different judges . Lawyers will make one motion before one judge and another before another , and so on , thus compelling different judges to familiarize themselves with a case which is really on trial elsewhere . There could hardly be a more ingenious method of wasting time and energy . But in England the rules of the court require that one judge shall be assigned to conduct a given case from the beginning to the end , and all motions concerning it must be made before him . Is there any good reason why Americans should not display equal sense ? Our plight is by no means hopeless . The wheels of our chariot of justice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when Sydney Smith wrote of the Court of Chancery that it showed " a complication , formality , entanglement , and delay which the life , the wealth , and the patience of men can not endure . " Smiler words are often used of our present judicial procedure , and they are deserved ; but the way out is clearly indicated . Fortunately , a great amount of well-directed energy is now expended by committees of the bar on the problem of judicial reform . It is only necessary to make steady application of common-sense and human experience . I ? EICIISTAG ; ARMY , AND EMPIRE . The debate in the Reichstag on Wednesday of last week , on the recent scandalous misconduct of an army officer in Zabern , Alsace , is said to have been the most exciting and the bitterest in nearly twenty years . But it was not without precedent  --  unless it be in the intensity of feeling . War Minister after War Minister has stood up in the Reichstag to defy its members , denounce the radical wing , and to utter the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that its sacred honor must be upheld at any cost . In each case the Minister has either come direct from the Kaiser or spoken for him impliedly , and always the Reichstag has been helpless because of the lack of a Ministry responsible to its will . It has passed now a vote of censure on the Government  --  in itself an extraordinary occurrence  --  but nothing may happen . The garrison has indeed been removed from Zabern , somewhat to the dismay of the tradesfolk of that town ; but no Ministers will fall , unless the Kaiser yields to public pressure , because the Kaiser alone makes or unmakes them , and it is his belief , frequently expressed , that before the " gay coat " of the military the people must bow , as Gessler tried to force Tell to make obeisance to his hat . The Kaiser learns but slowly . It is precisely this independence of the Reichstag that renders the army so indifferent to popular anger and criticism . The newspapers may rage , but the army pays no attention to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Reichstag may criticise , but it is the rule that no one high up in the army loses his place or suffers for any act of official tyranny or misconduct towards the public . Lieut . Baron von Forstner , the offending Zabern officer , who gibed at the French Foreign Legion and the populace while drilling his company , is but too common a type . Oddly enough , the Reichstag is itself partly responsible for its own impotence , for , when the Ministry asks for more men , money , and arms , it votes them without hesitation . Even the Socialists made no determined fight last summer against the great levy for additional troops The Reichstag invariably cowers before the old bogeys of a French war of revenge , of hostilities with Russia or England , and authorizes what is at least a " two-Power army , " while the nation as a whole unquestionably approves . Thus the military trumphs and increases its strangle-hold on the country . As a whole , the nation approves , we repeat . But deep down , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present autocratid military regime . There is a national pride in the superb appearance , excellent physique , and drill of the army , but at the same time there is resentment not only at the overbearing attitude of the corps of officers , but at the withdrawal of so many men from industrial life , the huge waste of funds , and the fact that wnen in service the men under arms are not only there to frighten off foreign nations , but to overawe their countrymen . They are truly the props of the monarchy , though it is a gross exaggeration , of course , to say , as Gen. von Falkenhayn did last week , that without them not a stone of the Reichstag building would remain in place . For the present it is an easy - task for the militarists to rivet their chains upon the people . The army is pictured as a democratic institution ; every schoolboy is taught that but for it the German nation would never have come to pass , and could not now exist ; and the periodical war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These , despite the nation 's wonderful prosperity , steadily increase the trials of the poor , hundreds of thousands of whom can no longer afford meat save as a rare luxury . And always the army stands , by its very nature , in direct opposition to liberal progress of every kind . It would be certain to support the Kaiser if he should order the closing of the Reichstag , precisely as it ended the uprising of the people in 1849 . And it is especially deplorable that the particular excesses which have aroused the nation should have taken place in Alsace-Lorraine . Prince von Billow has recently published his regret that the German Government has made no better headway in the recaptured provinces . They form the clearest kind of demonstration of the folly of any conquest to-day . The Germans have never won the hearts or the Alsatians any more than we have those of the Filipinos . They hold these lands as we do the Philippines , by brute strength . It is true that Alsace and Lorraine have shared the prosperity of the Empire , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is but a trifle as compared to what they have cost the nation by reason of their being a chief cause of its huge militaristic expenditures . THE TOWN AND COUNTRY MUSE . Whether we like it or not , the lark and the nightingale are fast disappearing from poetry . As in Dr. Johnson 's day , the city presents a superior appeal to that of the country , and various poets are responding to its call . They have turned in part to street scenes . They note the unexpected meeting of eyes in a crowd  --  that experience which to Lowell was always so stimulating  --  the veiled sorrow of a passerby , and all the other individual semblances that lurk behind the masses ' collective attitude . Most of such written observations are still in the experimental stage ; at best are vignettes requiring a larger vision to lift them to real worth . Even Mr. Masefleld 's researches of the gutter , though bearing the authentic colors and intonations , are usually but raw material . One has only to compare one of his vagabonds with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , to feel the fundamental lack in much of such work . Yet there are features of the city which can stir the imagination to transforming power . Admitting that the chirp of the sparrow can not compensate for the lark 's wild delight or for Philomel 's sorrow , yet the city , too , has its whirr of wings and gush of song . Incidentally , it may be asked , has no city-dweller , stopping in the country , ever mistaken the note of a brook for a distant train ? One American poet , Mr. Chester Firkins , sees sufficient poetic excitement in a subway express : I , who have lost the stars , the sod , For chilling pave and cheerless light , Have made my meeting-place with God A new and nether Night Have found a fane where thunder fills Loud caverns , tremulous ; ? and these Atone me for my reverend hills And moonlit silences A figment in the crowded dark , Where men sit muted by the roar , I ride upon the whirring Spark Beneath the city 's floor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in blazing files and tiers , Kin meteors graze our flying bars Amid the spinning spheres . It was perhaps too fanciful to discover in the Brooklyn Bridge , as one poet did , a great harp which softened by the breath of the sea the city 's harsh music . Yet it illustrates an increasing endeavor to get behind the man-made metropolis and to reach its inner meaning . We commend to such writers that great witches ' caldron which lies in New York over St. Paul 's and near by the Singer building , where twilight merges into a thousand starry spaces and circling vapors cast a spell . Man builds , as man built Babel , and scarcely has he finished when his edifice is invested with a spirit on which he never reckoned and which only the seer can understand . Foreigners have wondered why our writers have done so little with the blast furnaces of Pittsburgh . Well , one poet , at least , has given us a notable picture of a smelter on a hillside , like a Cyclops , looking down on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spectacular handiwork of the city wherever found , is quickening more and more our young poets ' fancy . For Mr. Percy Mackaye the automobile can also be a Pegasus . The following lines are a portion of his sonnet on that topic : Fluid the world flows under us : the hills Billow on billow of umbrageous green Heaved us , aghast , to fresh horizons , seen One rapturous instant , blind with flash of rills And silver-rising storms and dewy stills Of dripping boulders , till the dim ravine Drowned us again in leafage , whose serene Coverts grew loud with our tumultuous wills . Mr. Stephen Phillips , though without much success , has laid hold of the aeroplane . These new tendencies are most interesting , yet whether they will change the complexion of poetic imagery it is too early to say . Mr. Firkins , in the passage quoted , has described his feelings in the subway in the terms of the older poetry , using , that is , details which have a long poetic tradition . The strict modernist would , of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is almost as archaic to liken the subway to " fanes " and " firmaments " as to sing of Greek temples and the stars directly . It is indeed a question whether the poets of the present can , even it they would , dispense with " lyric Apollo " and all his kin . Mr. Mackaye , in the one instance cited , has , it is true , confined himself to a language of motion and sound which seldom harks back . But as a general rule poetry will hardly achieve desired sweep and perspective without drawing on the poetic associations of other days , and especially of the free out-of-doors . Wherever mere man , plodding for his daily bread  --  be it in a sweltering summer of the East Side or in the humdrum of a Wall Street SCIENTIFIC MANAGEMENT OF CHRISTMAS . It has long been felt that something should be done to curb the excesses of the Christmas spirit . Beginning about a month before the 25th of December , a large part of the world falls victim to the most extravagantly benevolent impulses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , irritable persons who glare at one another and exhaust their ingenuity in efforts , usually vain , to get the clerks to pay some attention to them . The evenings of the home are given over to discussions , now and then verging upon the acrimonious , as to what presents shall be purchased and where they shall be sent . This is often varied by conjectures as to what is likely to be received , and from whom . It is an inspiring spectacle . Everybody is thinking about giving . Finally , the long-awaited day arrives . The packages are opened . The doubt whether Cousin Kate would send anything or not is cleared up . With the strain of all these decisions removed , and their consequences known , there ensues a brief period in which people give way even more completely to the impulses of good-will . They exchange greetings with some show of warmth , inquire after the prosperity of those who do them any small service , and forget , for the moment , . that business is business , and that life is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after Christmas before normal conditions are restored . Will our descendants believe that it was not until the second decade of the twentieth century that the world was aroused to the viciousness of this annual debauch of kindness ? Will they believe that it was actually necessary to form societies in order to keep our better selves from getting the better of us ? Such must be our humiliating confession . The first step towards scientific management of Christmas was the preparation of lists of gifts , so that no debt , hanging over from the previous year , should go unpaid . But this was not immediately followed by another . pulses that they gave without thinking whether their gifts were useful or only representative of sentiment . Fathers still brought drums and horns to sons who were in dire need of books on " How to Study . " Mothers still presented their daughters with dolls instead of copies of the election laws . And the amount of cards sent round , from hand-painted ones to those bought by the gross , staggers the imagination . From this intemperance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet aver us , so that we are not always absolutely sure of the distinction between the useful and the sentimental . But we are learning . The worst effect of the unregulated Christmas spirit is that it lulls our natural suspicion of our fellows . To such an extreme of guilelessness has this carried us that the Police Commissioner of a great city has thought it necessary to issue an official warning . Do n't forget , he says in substance , that this is in reality the same old lost world that it has been from the first Christmases come and Christmases go , but human nature goes on forever . In particular : , do n't pay for C. 0 . D. packages until you have taken a look at them , and satisfied yourself that they contain something that you have ordered . Do n't tempt your fellow-man by displaying what money you happen to have about you . Do n't leave the room in which a messenger has delivered a parcel until the messenger has gone . Do n't permit your cashier to hand out change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be changing . Do n't leave your automobile unguarded in the street . Now , a careful person would be more or less apt to observe all of these injunctions at any season . The point of the Commissioner 's warning is that at Christmas the individual is inclined to be so soft-hearted as to become the prey of the designing . How foolish to imagine that everybody is benevolently inclined merely because you are ! The good citizens of that town may endeavor to obey the Commissioner . But it will be a bit hard at first to look upon the person next them with one gracious and one suspicious eye . This , of course , is only because scientific management of Christmas is so new . As soon as we have had time to get accustomed to it , we shall be able to stare any messenger-boy with a C. 0 . D. package out of countenance while making him feel perfectly at home by the ardor of our greeting . We shall have no trouble in crying " Merry Christmas ! " to the obliging stranger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a tone that lets him know that we are not to be caught off our guard . It will become second nature for us to give the newsboy and the bootblack the little remembrance we have been in the habit of giving them , in a manner that tells them as plainly as words that we are not so " easy " as they may think we look . It is a high scientific ideal , but we shall manage to attain unto it . Whether it will be worth the trouble it will cost , is a question ; it might even be easier to spread a little of the better part of the Christmas spirit over the rest of the year . 