@@487211

Finance The Longer Industrial Future TARIOUS industrial leaders and financial experts have re- v cently given their views concerning the future of business in the United States . One of the most interesting prophecies has come from- Judge Elbert H. Gary , Chairman of the United States Steel Corporation , who has often made shrewd forecasts of the business outlook . Judge Gary asserts that ' a period of great prosperity is in store for this country after the readjustment of business from a war basis to a peace basis has been accomplished . After saying that no one could tell how long this readjustment process would take , Judge Gary expressed the view that the next five years would be the most progressive , prosperous , and successful five years in the country 's history . This view is reassuring , and since there is much in the present situation to support it , it is to be hoped that other industrial leaders will follow the example of those directing the policies of the steel industry and determine to ease the strain of a return to more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sacrifice of some of the profits cleared during the past four years of world war . Various industries have already made progress along these lines and although the price-cutting movement has not gone far , it has affected the price schedules of some of the largest industries , with the result that a return to peace conditions has been very largely effected . The expressions of Judge Gary , as well as similar views from Frank A. Vanderlip , of the National City Bank , and other noted financiers , account for the optimism reflected in many quarters known to be highly conservative . It is evident that the efforts made last April by the Federal Reserve Board to bring about a general curtailment of loans to non-essential industries and to borrowers upon speculative collateral has been of the greatest service to the people . Had it not been for these measures , undertaken in connection with the effort to fortify the country 's bank position through the accumulation of an immense gold reserve for the Federal Reserve Banks , underlying conditions to-day would be far less sound and we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the part of the public . - It is fortunate , therefore , that the Feneral Reserve Board has exercised a financial guardianship over the country during the period in which business was exposed to the vicissitudes of war . With the abandonment on January 1 of most of the emergency expedients which the Government enforced during the war period , various industries will be confronted with the open market conditions which prevailed before the world struggle began . The price of copper , steel and various other commodities will be influenced wholly by the law of supply and demand , and not at all by regulations intended to insure an ample supply and rush production for the Government . There is reason to believe , therefore , that these arrangements will be of assistance in safeguarding business against the uncertainties of the transition era upon which the country has entered . It would be unwise , as Mr. Hughes has said , to attempt to continue war expedients to control peace conditions . Readjustment will be more laborious in some industries than in others , owing to the unwillingness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the timid buyers who always await leadership before they can be induced to release buying orders , when prices begin to fall . The wheat growers are about the only business men who ' are not controlled by the readjustment necessities . Every farmer knows to-day the price at which he can sell his wheat next summer . This explains why he has planted the largest acreage ever devoted to winter wheat . Not so the industrial manager , however . He is confronted with the problems of a falling market and a high labor cost which will not come down Until living costs have been reduced . WILLIAM JUSTUS BOLES                     