@@493037

Where Women Disagree WOMAN suffragists are lacking in consideration . Having poured out their strength in the fall , they were repulsed in four Eastern states . Under such circumstances they should have subsided . Beaten in New York , New Jersey and Massachusetts by considerable majorities , beaten in Pennsylvania by the inertia of Philadelphia , its unpatched spiritual puncture , it was their plain obligation to stay beaten . But they decline to stay beaten . In spite of their downfall the suffragists persist . In spite of their lavish expenditures , mental and physical , they continue to draw on their resources ? resources fed by a purpose so recurrent as to seem unconquerable as naturalness itself . They are neither exhausted nor discouraged . And the very leaders who most spent themselves in unfavorable campaigns now undertake , worn but tireless , the organization of national action . The terms of that national action have just been defined by two national suffragist conventions at Washington , D. C. Outside suffrage circles those terms remain vague . Inside suffrage circles , because of the divergences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But there is no real reason for confusion , and the sharper the differentiation the better . So far as federal legislation is concerned , all the suffragists assembled in Washington met to work toward the same objective . That is the simple equal franchise amendment to the federal constitution , known to suffragists as the Susan B. Anthony amendment . Although they agree on this objective , the policies of the two organizations thereafter disagree . The smaller organization , the Congressional Union , specializes entirely on the federal amendment . It elects to disregard the process of ratification state by state so far as immediate action is concerned . It considers federal action on the suffrage amendment the summum bonum , and it believes in concentrating agitation for suffrage on the party that has power at the moment . For that purpose it believes that all women should judge the government at Washington solely with respect to its attitude toward the suffrage amendment . It believes that women should work with all parties when necessary , but it believes also that in the states where women have the vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the obdurate legislators at Washington . The larger organization , the National Association , has a different policy . And how the Union came to diverge from the National may perhaps be gathered by glancing at the National 's history . At its inception , naturally , the National Association did not concentrate on federal legislation . Itself the result of a union between state and national workers , it sought both types of enfranchisement from the start , but because the Western states offered the line of least resistance the work in the states became paramount . It was , in fact , a necessary preliminary to work on the hill at Washington . The early suffragists were pioneers . They were voices crying in the wilderness . They had in them that obduracy of disinterested principle which nothing on earth can alter , but they were not , like Messrs . Roosevelt and Harriman , " practical men . " They presented their Susan B. Anthony amendment without any reference to lobbying ? possibly with a shrewd recognition of the inutility of lobbying . But to the cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were priests and prophets . The actual fruition of the educational campaigns in the West , however , began to qualify the National 's attitude . With the increase in the number of suffrage states , moreover , the prospect for federal amendment changed , and the National came to be more than a centralization for propaganda . It began to be a centralization for federal policy . At Philadelphia in 1912 the first effort at sustained leverage on Congress was ordained . Miss Jane Addams and others brought about the appointment of a congressional committee to lobby in Washington for the federal amendment . At the head of this committee was placed a young devotee to the cause , Miss Alice Paul , who , like Miss Lucy Burns and Miss Anne Martin , had worked for suffrage with the Pankhursts in England . At Washington , in 1912-1913 , Miss Paul and Miss Burns went among the legislators on the hill , and they amplified that work by forming an auxiliary of their committee , the Congressional Union . But before the convention of 1913 this offspring of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union , in the view of the National , aimed to hold the " party in power " strictly responsible for the passage of the federal amendment . As the National had always proclaimed itself non-partisan this stigmatization of a given party as anti-suffrage was deemed unwarranted . As an appointee of the National , Miss Paul was held to account for this policy in 1913 . She declined to abandon it . After much discussion a new capitol committee was nominated by the National , headed by Mrs. Medill McCormick , to conduct lobbying in Washington on non-partisan lines . The National Board then sought was the right one . Backed by one of the former contributors to the National , Mrs. 0 . H. P. Belmont , she decided to extend the Congressional Union as a national organization for the purpose of securing passage of the Susan B. Anthony amendment . As she clung to her policy of discriminating against the party in office , the National refused to affiliate her Union . Meanwhile the effect of Miss Paul 's secession stimulated the National 's federal policy . Although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mistake to antagonize any party as such , the National proceeded by means of its workers at congress to organize pressure on individual anti-suffrage congressmen from their home districts . And an attempt at political inventiveness was shown in the formulation of another suffrage amendment , the Shafroth , which aimed to circumvent the state rights objection of the Democratic party . In 1913-1914 the Congressional Union sought to give effect to its federal policy by opposing the re-election of Democratic congressmen as such . Since it campaigned principally in the equal suffrage states , however , it found itself compelled by its logic to attack some of the ablest and strongest federal advocates of suffrage . It justified this action on the ground that no Democratic congressman had left the party caucus that condemned suffrage , while Democratic congressmen had left the party caucus because of the duty on beet sugar . Beet sugar was more important to Democrats than woman suffrage . In the eyes of Senator Thomas , who had worked night and day for suffrage at the capitol , this opposition was ridiculous , unreasoning and unjust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its political effect . Had the Congressional Union marshalled all enfranchised women against the Democratic party , its leaders might have inspired fear and a contrite spirit and a federal amendment . As it was , they caused immense irritation among the partisan women voters in the suffrage states . They seemed political fanatics to pro-suffrage congressmen , and they do not appear to have brought about any incontrovertible defeats . They assert that as a result of their efforts , however , the Democrats at Washington are much more amenable . They indicate that President Wilson voted for suffrage . Whether these results are the outcome of the anti-party policy is a point much in dispute . At Nashville in 1914 the members of the National were agitated as to the rival claims of their own congressional policy and the Union 's congressional policy . For a time a minority hoped that Miss Paul 's views might be made to prevail , but the overwhelming majority of the delegates opposed the marshalling of their forces against the party in power . Not in the least deterred by this non-partisan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activity , and in 19I5 over I50 delegates came to its convention . Of these delegates a fair proportion belong also to the National , and one of the principal objects of these members at the National convention was to deflect the National 's party policy . The resignation of Dr. Anna Howard Shaw from the presidency of the National was regarded by some as favoring this possibility . But Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt , the new president , revealed no desire whatever to assimilate the National 's policy to the Union 's . A joint conference between the leaders of these groups produced no result whatever , save a perfunctory asseveration that the capitol committees might consult over their lobbying . Whether Miss Paul and her associates will succeed in building up a duplicate suffrage organization to work in the states for federal amendment by compulsion is an open question . This , however , is to be said : the Union 's activity marks the evolution of suffrage from propagandism into national politics . And the mere fact that the National Association has put its Shafroth amendment on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effects . Whatever the prospects of the Union policy , the prospects of the National policy seem healthy . The suffragists will miss the gallant personality of Dr. Shaw , now retiring after twelve years ; but its new Board is of the sort to slave with endless endurance amid the rocks and weeds and wastes of the public as well as the political mind . As an organization of will as distinct from an organization of thought the National bids fair to remain persistent . With Mrs. Catt coming from the New York campaign , Mrs. Roessing and Mrs. Patterson taking office after their labors in Pennsylvania , Miss Ogden after her experience in New Jersey , the body promises to have vigor and inspiration and skill . With the development of different and divergent methods of advancing the suffrage cause , methods which the leaders at Washington did not reconcile , the movement is now in the throes of actual political experience . The value of this experience will be incalculable . Whether you believe the National Association intolerant , outworn , over-reasonable , or the Congressional Union intransigent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conflict the very proofs of heightened political consciousness in women . And that , whatever your own choice as to method , whatever your urgent conviction that a choice should be made , is now the salient feature of the movement nationally organized .                     