@@466687

with the nail , while Horace rocked and looked on , seemingly oblivious to the length of time it took for the hammer to achieve its destination . In his letters patent issued February 5 , 1861 , Doctor Sellers states for the first time the optical principles that make pictured motion possible . " It must be done , " he says , " by viewing in succession a series of pictures ( taken in different positions of the moving object ) . with sufficient rapidity to insure the image of one being retained on the retina until the next one is brought into view . " Thus was announced for the first time the theory of persistence of vision , on which all motion pictures are now based . Although Doctor Sellers 's kinematoscope was built on correct scientific principles , containing the elements of present-day success , it was considered , even by the inventor , little more than a toy , with the result that when the two boys had grown to where ponies and robbers ' caves were necessary to exclude all outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the garret and ocular inventive genius received no further impetus until the spring of 1872 , when half a dozen horsemen in California got into an argument that ended beyond the imaginative flights of the most gifted . The point of variance was whether or not a racehorse ever got going so fast that all of its feet were clear of the ground ar the same instant , some maintaining the affirmative and others voluble for the negative . When the matter grew personal , a purse was raised and an English photographer named Edward Muy-bridge , in the employ of the United States Geodetic Survey , was secured to settle the question by making photo-graphs of a race-horse in action , which , it was thought , would at once settle the question . Along the race-course a bat-tery of twenty-four cameras was set up a few inches apart , the shutter of each being connected with a thread and the thread in turn stretched across the track so that the horse in going by would break the thread , release the shutter , and by the collodion process plates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was made and the twenty-four plates exposed ; but even with the plates on hand the experi-menters were little better off , for they had no way of pro-jecting the pictures in such form as to give the idea of mo-tion . To Leland Stanford , Governor of California , the pictures were taken and his interest aroused to where he offered to finance further photographic efforts . The use of his race-course at Palo Alto , where now stands Leland Stanford Junior University , along with his horses and helpers , was turned over to the photographer , who made thou-sands of exposures under various condi-tions of light and background , settling the speed question affirmatively , but in the mean time turning up another ques-tion of greater interest and wider signifi-cance . A study of animal movements now claimed his attention . For seven years he conducted experiments , pub-lishing his accounts in 1879 under the title of Animal Locomotion , which aroused wide-spread interest among artists and sculptors , who to this day refer to Muybridge 's work as an authority un the subiect . The announcement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him was the matter of projection . He had in his possession some thousands of exposures , but no way to show them in an order sufficiently rapid to convey the idea of motion . This he finally succeeded in doing by setting the plates around the margin of a large disk and placing behind a light which , penetrating the plates , cast a shadow on a screen . On revolving the wheel one picture after another fell on the screen so that a person , not too demanding in scientific accuracy , could get an illusion of motion . With characteristic inventive promptness he called his machine the zoopraxoscope . The attention that these pictures attracted was as instant as it was wide . One of the invitations to recount his experiments was from Meissonier in Paris , who had been criticized for his movements of animals as displayed on his canvas . In addition to the artists and scientists present was Alexander Dumas , who , after it was over , came forward and asked for even more detail . On his return to America , M. uybridge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who offered to meet his financial needs if he would continue his experiments . On his acceptance they constructed for him a studio one hundred and twenty feet long , and , on what is now Hamilton Walk of the present university campus , he pro-ceeded with his experiments , using for subjects not only animals , but also university athletes . To record all the variations of movement , Muybridge saw that an improved camera would be necessary , and to this end he set himself , finally achieving a camera that would record an impression in one five-thousandth part of a second . Working with Dr. Edward Reichert , now professor of physiology , a dog was anesthetized , the pectoral muscles immediately over the cardiac cavity were laid open , and a series of pictures showing successive phases of the contraction and dilation of the dog 's heart were taken , making the first time movements of any internalorgan , animal or human , that were ever shown in motion-picture form . Visitors to the World 's Columbian Exposition at Chicago in 1893 were invited by numerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they never before had been permitted to gaze upon . Accepting , they saw pictures projected on a screen by means of a revolving disk , which not only showed a horse Kist coming under the homing wire , but athletes breaking the triumphant tape . However , wonder was not for long at the exhibit in the Hall , for a few doors farther on down was another exhibition of moving objects that overshadowed the zoOpraxoscope 's offering . It was the exhibition by Thomas A. Edison . For one , it was a passing out ; for the other , it was a premiere . Among the many inventors , inspired first by the zoetrope and urged to renewed activities by Muybridge 's success , was Thomas A. Edison of Llewellyn Park , but early he had determined that further progress was impossible until some other means than glass plates could be employed for reproducing the objects . Glass plates , to whatever size they might be reduced , could not be passed in front of a projecting lens fast enough to give the desired effect . So work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until such a time as a new reproducing medium could be employed . This came unexpectedly in August , 1889 , when it was announced by George Eastman from Rochester , New York , that he was ready to offer for sale a ' strip of flexible celluloid film forty feet long which could be used for photographic purposes . It was then a race between Inventors to be the first successfully to employ the one missing link in animate photography . March 14. , 1893 , Edison took out a patent on a machine that he proudly called the kinetoscope . By dropping a coin in a slot and placing one 's eyes to a hood in which was set a pair of enlarging lenses , one could , after a preparatory clatter of machinery , see a film moving past an aperture behind which a light flashed on and off in coordination with the passing of a film which revealed to an observer , fortunate in eyesight . the reproduced maneuvers of a performing bear . Crude as was the Edison machine . with its audience of one , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Quick to recognize this were two visiting showmen from London , observant of any ingenious American device that would interest English audiences , and quicker were they to bear a machine back to London , where they approached Robert Paul , a skilled builder , and asked him to duplicate the machine . On investigation Paul found that Edison had neglected to patent the kinetoscope in England . in a few weeks Paul had duplicated the machine for the showmen , and with energy more praiseworthy for promptness than ethics began building machines on his own account and selling them to whomever he could . Trade flourished to such an extent that in a short time his distribution was international , many of the orders going to Australia , New Zealand , and even to Japan . Finally word came to the ears of the Edison interests of the brisk business that Paul was doing with their product . A hurried conference resulted in two representavoc .. CXXXV. ? No. 807. - 45tives being despatched to London to see what could he done to curb Paul 's commercial ambitions . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , arrangements were made to take over the entire English distribution . Effective as this at first seemed , it merely gave the industrious Paul a had half-hour . When orders continued to pour in for which he could supply no film , he began the manufacture of his own film . Now that his financial profits were curtailed by what he considered the wholly unjust intrusion of American meddlers , he decided to manufacture , in his own name , a machine that would permit the viewing of the pictures by an audience instead of by an individual . With the same energy that he had evidenced in duplicating the Edison machine , he set to work to build a machine of his own that would throw pictures on a screen . Success attended his efforts , and the machine he dignified with the name theatrograph . With it , on March 2.5 , 1896 , at the Alhambra he gave what he thought to he the first public exhibition of motion pictures in the world . The honor might have been his had it not been for a seeming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Treasury Department in Washington was a stenographer who was to do Inure for the immediate development of motion pictures than any other person . After putting away his sharpened pencils for the day , he went home to much hammering and adjusting . Already he had taken out a few patents , which left him richer only in experience , but which had not killed his desire to experiment . When his summer vacation came , he made ready to spend it as only a boy from the wide spaces of the country could desire to spend it after a winter in the cramped areas in the city . Ahead of him by express he sent a box and , mounting his bicycle , started overland the seven hundred and twenty miles to Richmond , Indiana , the home of his parents and of his boyhood interest . On his arrival he got from the express-office the package and , going to the jewelry-store of his cousin , began to make himself at home in the rear . Lighted by kerosene , the store had not the illuminating possibilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attached a lateral , and by means of a bucket of water tempered the current to where it would meet his demands . Making casually sure that his mother and father would he there at a certain time , he asked his cousin if the curtains might be pulled down for a few moments . With the rush of business never imperative , the cousin met the demands without any apparent financial sacrifice on his part , and found a seat on the counter , while a few friends , willing to chance a lottery on any departure from a day 's routine in a small town , loafed on packing-cases . When all were seated and the curtains drawn , there was a spluttering and a grinding , while out from the wall stepped a girl clad in garments more picturesque than protective and began to execute the intricacies of the Butterfly Dance , then so popular in the far-away Eastern city of Washington . The dancer in question was Annabella , a vaudeville favorite of the day , who had been engaged by the young Treasury employee for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the audience consisting of himself and a camera . Her interpretation of the insect 's terpsichorean movements had been translated to the film and given some of the original hue by being hand-painted . The lady 's remuneration for interpreting the movements of the butterfly had been five dollars , which seemed to cover adequately all the artistry brought into play . As the spluttering grew louder and the grinding more fervid , the girl began to reproduce on the wall the movements she had executed in the boarding-house yard , lifting her brilliant skirts by means of a stick in each hand , and waving them in fancied lepidopteral imitation , so completely losing herself in her art as to forget the height reached by her floating draperies . As the dance grew more intense , the young man 's mother began to grow correspondingly uneasy , turning questioningly to his father , who , instead of being outraged at the young lady 's interpretations , seemed wholly delighted . Appeal as she might to her companion , the spluttering continued to grow louder and the grinding remained unabated , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the boy 's father did not realize the ruin that hedged his son about in Washington , she did , and , with the courage of her convictions before her , she rose up , and with lips set tight and eyes averted from the impurity of the wall she made for the door and hurried home for the purpose of meditation and consecration , while the less godly stayed to finish witnessing the first motion-picture exhibition in the world . The wayward young man , late of Washington , was C. Francis Jenkins , and the day , as attested by the Richmond Telegram , was June 24 , 1894 . At this date Robert Paul of London was still industriously duplicating the Edison Kinetoscope . It was not until almost two years later that Paul gave what he took credit for being the first exhibition of motion pictures from a moving celluloid film , the date as mentioned being March 25 , 1896 . The machine used by C. Francis Jenkins in his cousin 's jewelry-store later came into the possession of the National Museum at Washington , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department of that institution . Crude as it was , it is substantially the machine in use to-day . The arc is located behind , as shown in the illustration just below on this page , with the light passing through a condensing lens and then through a water-cell , illustrated here as a small rectangular box projecting over the edge of the supporting frame . The sides were of glass so that when filled with water , into which a little precipitating alum had been dropped , the light would pass on through , illuminate the details of the pictures , and , by means of a converting lens , project them on the screen . Later , and after the means had been used for years , it was discovered that water had no retardant effect on the heat rays , much to the amusement of the operators who had had such abiding faith in its deterrent efficacy . The film was progressed by means of a toothed sprocket at the top , passing in front of the frame aperture and taken up in turn by a toothed idler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ i resulted in years of litigation wasthe revolving disk with an iron finger at right angles , which , at each revolution , struck the film , imparting to it an intermittent motion the principle that makes motion pictures possible , for the pictures as viewed on the screen are in actuality at a period of rest , but are being replaced so rapidly by others showing an advance in action that , through the power of persistence of vision , one is tricked into believing that he sees motion when , in reality , he sees only a i number of stationary photo-graphs in different progressive positions . Both Edison and Jenkins had availed themselves of the new Eastman celluloid film , but each had worked on a different principle . Edison had sought to give his illusion of motion to only one person at a time , by means of a pair of stereoscopic lenses , while Jenkins had worked on the principle of projecting the picture on a screen where it might he the object of common interest to an audience . As witnessed daily in twenty-two thousand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the successful one . Back to Washington Jenkins returned , more concerned over his mother 's solicitations about the welfare of his soul than about his status as the immediate father of motion pictures , little suspecting that he had made history that day in his cousin 's jewelry-store . Again he took up his sharpened pencils , content with the variety offered by his note-books , until chance threw across his path Thomas Armat , who told the young stenographer that people would pay to see the machine , a statement which the young man , harking back to Richmond , was inclined to doubt . So earnestly , however , did Armat believe that he offered to hnance a demonstration . A survey of the field , where crowds might avail themselves of the opportunity to witness Annabella 's art at a modest honorarium , showed that the Cotton States International Exhibition , soon to be opened at Atlanta , was the most immediate prospect . At the south end of the Midway in August , 1895 , a building housing a Jenkins projector was opened with an announcer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wonders inside that could be witnessed for twenty-five cents . But the crowds did not come , comic as was the singing and talking artist . After he had finished his eulogy of the dancer in- side , who would display her grace before them , except that she was not there in person , the crowds laughed and passed on their way . They had been taken in by too many catchpennies to be duped again . No adventuring Jasons came to behold the girl who would dance before them and who was n't there , so on the third day a hurried conference with those immediately concerned was called , with a resulting decision that for one day the pub-lie would he admitted free of charge that those who had seen might be leaven to the yet undisturbed dough . This was done , simplifying the matter of explanation of what could be seen , for the term " motion pictures " had not vet come into use . The following day all seats were filled and the management was less sarcastic about the public 's thirst for knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later when a fire broke out and burned to the ground the first motion-picture theater . The loss was complete with the exception of one machine at the hotel for overhauling . The proprietors abandoned their project as a failure . The following March , Edison viewed the Jenkins machine in the Postal Telegraph Building in New York and signed a royalty contract for its manufacture under the name of the Edison Vitascope , abandoning the Edison Kinetoscope . Manufacture was begun at once , with the first showing of the converted machine at Koster &; Bial 's , New York , April 27 , 1896 , about a month after Paul had shown his theatrograph in London . Two months and two days later , Keith 's Union Square Theater announced that it , too , would show objects in motion , thus exhibiting for the first time in America the Lumiere machine , which showed a film depicting a rough sea at Dover . It had been a race between Lumiere of Lyons and Paul of London to be the first to get the novelty to America . Lumiere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lumiere called his machine the cinhnatographe a name yet retained in France and still in English use under an anglicized spelling . Keen as was the rivalry to be first to shuw motion pictures here , the race was in vain , for out in Indiana a young stenographer had led them all . He had not only shown them to America two years previously , but had introduced them to Broadway two months before the first importation had been exhibited . The interest aroused by the first offerings of an industry that was to have the fastest rise of any concerted commercial activity in history was mild , the pictures being looked on as another manifestation of stage trickery . It was the day of the shadowgraphist who , by contorting his fingers before a light , produced startling effects and , as a result , the audiences went their way convinced that if they could just get back to where the mirrors were that they could make a laughing-stock of the operator . The pictures were placed last on the program that the halls might be cleared quietly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trickery . No manager dared introduce them on his program earlier than the last act , where their observation might he one of volition . As the pictures began to improve there was a gradually diminishing rush for the street when the black-bordered curtain was lowered , until a hardy pioneer rented a vacant store , filled it with seats , and announced that he would offeras a lure to the passing nickels nothing but motion pictures . Before the amusement among his competitors had died down he had rented another store and added music , with a resultant activity on the part of other small showmen to avail themselves of other fortunate sites . Coincident with the demand for vacant stores , William H. Swanson was passing through a small town in Indiana when , looking out the window , he saw in progress a street carnival withits rows of tents and gaieties . Inspired by an idea , he deflected his journey to Chicago and called on Murray &; Co. , the largest makers of tents in the West . To them he explained that he wished to purchase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man 's activity had not yet resulted in such a thing as opaque canvas . His insistence resulted in a promise from the head of the firm to dve a white tent black , and with riches dancing before his eyes Swanson re-turned to Indiana , and at Boonville in July , 1897 , set tip the first " black top . " The dye in the canvas resulted in the necessary obfuscation so that pictures were soon showing to delighted audi-ences , while Swanson , enthusing over another manifestation of the power of an idea , stood in front and joyously watched the people go in . With the proceeds of the first performance he ate long and heartily , and arose the following morning to enter upon another day of triumph . But overnight it had clouded , with the result that just as the first audience was availing itself of the gateman 's opportunity to enter , it began to rain . Soon the gutters were running to the brim with his last pigmented manifestation of the power of thought . From the store show of the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the demand for motion pictures spread broadcast over the land , until each small town was to have its motion-picture theater and each city its motion-picture palaces . Manufacturers prospered correspondingly and fabulously , and actors and actresses esteemed by the public and who devoted their art to the " movies " began to draw salaries that cast into the shade the remuneration of the most popular stage favorites who devoted themselves to the stage alone . 