@@465938

IN producing the most efficient artificial light known , only about five per cent . of the energy in the coal pile reaches us . Nature is much more efficient . Many years ago the late Dr. Samuel P. Langley tested the efficiency of the firefly . His experiments were repeated not so long ago , by Drs . Ives and CobLentz . As a result of these studies , we know that the firefly 's efficiency is about : 16.5 per cent. ; in other words , that its light is well-nigh cold . Less than four per cent , is wasted in the form of heat . M. Dussaud has achieved a noteworthy result in enabling the physicist to give us a light which will be both cheap and agreeable . Paradoxically enough the cold light of Dussaud is produced at an unusually high filament temperature . Heat is necessary to produce it . Because he has devised a very simple and ingenious method of preventing the dissipation of that heat into space ; Dussaud 's light may be popularly regarded as cold . But , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , absolutely cold . COLD light enjoys five principal ad-vantages over ordinary light . In the first place there is no danger of it burning or setting anything on fire . Concentrating lenses and reflectors are employed , with the result that the lamps consume a hundred times less current than any other electric light of the same illuminating power . Again , it can be produced by any kind of electric system . Fourthly , if you can not use the city electricity , a tiny battery or an inexpensive pocket accumulator will do , or you can obtain sufficient motive power from the kitchen faucet , a gas-burner , or a petroleum lamp ; and if all these means fail , the foot or any small animal ? a squirrel in a turning-cage , for instance ? will furnish all the needed motive power , for , as has just been stated , this lamp requires a hundred times less current than the ordinary electric lamp . The fifth and final advantage is found in the fact that this light contains ultra-violet rays , obtained for the first time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is required by other methods . The full importance of this will be realized when it is remembered that these rays are being employed more and more every day in medicine and chemistry for syntheses , sterilization , and germicides . Because of these five advantages , cold light has so far been employed in the following ways : It is very useful in projecting lantern slides . Excellent dissolving views , or the sudden appearance on the screen of persons or stars , can be obtained because of the feeble Voz .. CXXVII. ? No. 758. - 29current required and the simultaneous employment of several lanterns , each provided with a very small commutator in place of a shutter , until now always used for this purpose . Where formerly two lanterns were with difficulty , brought into action , because the light had to be watched and regulated while the shutters produced rough and uneven effects , you can now , without any trouble , have recourse to as many coldlight lanterns as you like , the light requiring no regulating , and commutators replacing the shutters , the result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with an unprecedented beauty , thus realizing a veritable vision of art . Furthermore , you can produce colored shadow pictures by inserting different tinted glass in each lantern ; autochromc transparencies in natural colors can be projected with great brilliancy , and many interesting scientific experiments can be conducted . Thanks to cold light , the art of projection is going to be industrialized . Henceforth , celluloid films can be employed for projecting stationary pictures without running any risk of setting the films on fire or causing them to shrivel up , which would be the case if ordinary light were used . In this way glass negatives , which are so refractory to mechanical production , can be done away with . These celluloid negatives are cut in long strips perforated along the edges in such a way that they can be printed off by means of an automatic rotative machine . One man can run a machine that will print 25,000 of these films in a day . If transparency is employed , these tiny photographs will produce pictures of from two to three yards in length @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With sixty cents ' worth of films you can photograph in an hour three hundred pages of a book or three hundred pictures or documents . In this way the archives of the different nations could be photographed and an exchange be made of these precious records , or reproductions of the files of newspapers could be kept during centuries without any space of consequence being required , for a year 's edition of the Figaro , for instance , would be the size of a match , and its issues during a quarter of a century could be put in a cigarette-case . Something of this kind has been seen in the matter of carrierpigeons , with their microscopic messages on films ; but until the discovery of cold light these microscopic negatives could not be projected enlarged on the screen without running the risk of fire . Hence it is that we may predict that projections of this kind will be the libraries and the museums of the future , especially if instantaneous photography in natural colors is utilized . It is not surprising , therefore , that a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have just decided to make exchanges of this kind between one another . Such an exchange could not be made under the old methods , for whereas by the use of cold light a. dozen volumes of three hundred pages each can he carried in one 's vest pocket , a dozen men would be required to transport these same volumes if their pages were reproduced on glass negatives . By using two lanterns , one projecting the map of a country and the other its landscapes , you can obtain panoramic views which are quite free from any trepidation , while these perforated films make it possible for one instrument to be used in turn for the taking of views , printing positives , and projecting them . Enlargements can also be made by this same instrument . Microscopic preparations , enlarged ten million times , are projected without serious loss in definition , and scientific experiments in general can be projected without the slightest difficulty on a scale of more than four yards square . By adding to the instrument a simpleclock-work mechanism , advertising projections are rolled off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on screens in shop-windows , or out-of-doors on metal screens , on soapbubbles , on the surface of the earth , on smoke , on dust confined between two plates of glass , etc . It will readily be perceived that these little pocket lanterns , which are so safe that they can be held in the hand , can be used in a variety of ways and will do for projection what camera - films have done for photography . In other words , the old magic lantern , vastly improved by the employment of cold light , will become the handmaid of science and education , and especially an instructor of the masses . Trade will profit by them to display samples which are dangerous , heavy , or clumsy , or which , being fragile or ephemeral , will not bear transportation . It is also highly probable that amateur photographers will be only too glad , under these changed conditions , to project their negatives of favorite landscapes , familiar spots , and family portraits . Just as the kodak substituted the film for the glass plate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do away in projections with the glass plate in favor of films ; glass again yields to celluloid . Opaque bodies ? postal-cards , hook engravings , photographs on paper , etc. ? are projected on the screen and magnified to over four yards square , their colors , relief , and movement all being faithfully reproduced . This kind of projection could be utilized for the enlarging of photographs and in designing . Tracingpaper can be dispensed with and drawings can be enlarged to any desired size , so that the effect of a piece of art-work can be judged in advance . It has long been common in the insectaries of natural-history museums to study the ways and customs of these little living things which present all our own industrial activities . And here cold light comes also into play in admirable fashion . 1- have been able to project insects at work as large as men without killing them , which would have happened if the quantity of warm light necessary to produce this result had been used . Thus several thousand persons can at one and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keen interest , of the insect world . I think we may predict that some day we may , thanks to cold light , take part in watching real insect races , accompanied . by the usual betting and the exclamations of thousands of excited spectators . The application of cold light to moving-picture shows is of the highest importance . Hundreds of persons are killed every year by the fires occasioned by the present system . But with cold light there is no danger of this sort . A small , cheap lamp , whose motive power may be a little accumulator or a single battery cell , replaces the expensive , complicated , and cumbersome process now in use , and will tend , along with Edison 's new kinetophone , to make film-plays the school , newspaper , and theater of the future . Furthermore , cold light renders possible , in this connection , two improvements until now quite unknown . Because the light is cold , a film can be slowed down or even entirely stopped , thus fixing on the screen the different phases of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spectacle , at a moment when the film represents only objects that are stationary . In this last case some five or six dollars is economized per minute , for more than twenty yards of film have to be reeled off in order to project during a single minute an object of a person in repose or a landscape . Thus is obtained a practical combination of fixed and moving pictures , which produces most artistic effects . It also enables us to work two einematographs projecting alternately in order to avoid scintillation , or projecting simultaneously red and green images and reproducing natural colors , thus relieving the human eye , accustomed to receiving the fundamental colors simultaneously , from all physiological fatigue . A word now about the application of cold light to instantaneous photography . The current impressed on the tungsten filament-lamps has a voltage 150 per cent . greater than that of the current nominally employed , but it is applied only at the required instant by means of a special commutator regulated by the rubber bulb of the camera , and the same lamp may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the danger , smoke , odor , and noise of the magnesium flash-light . It can be used where the present flash-light is not permitted , and you can take as many photographs as you like , whereas after employing magnesium three or four times those in the hall are suffocated by the smoke . Again , cold light is more photogenic than any other light , and is valuable in many ways . Thus , with a hundred watts , photographs in color are obtained . Excellent results are also produced by beginning with a relatively feeble light and augmenting it progressively , which does away with the odd expression that persons often hale when photographed by the sudden magnesium flash-light accompanied by its explosion . The photogenic power of cold light is four times that of the magnesium flash-light ? that is to say , 1,200 candles of cold light produce the same results as nearly 5,000 candles of magnesium light . And , lastly , photographs made with cold light are developed much more rapidly in the bath , an important consideration in industrial photography . Cold light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and an ordinary lens you can generate a light so simple and so cheap that even a fishingsmack can afford one for signaling . In the case of beacon-lights with variable signals , the employment of a commutator obviates the need of several lenses and of a heavy revolving mechanism , which requires a solidly constructed lighthouse , costly to build and keep up . Thus , for example , a set of lenses costing , say , $10,000 , can , by the use of cold light , be replaced by a single lens worth about $20 . Cold light is also useful for military purposes , for now every soldier can have in his knapsack the apparatus necessary for optic telegraphy . For military and naval search-lights cold light furnishes divergent beams in such a mass that they constitute veritable eyes for submarines , flying-machines , and balloons of all kinds . At experiments made recently in Paris in the presence of the Minister of War , these search-lights sent forth such powerful streams of light that it was plain they could be used successfully for succoring the wounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ruins of a fire , in mine disasters , shipwrecks , etc . The important part played by search-lights in the recent Balkan War is still fresh in the public mind , and there is every reason to believe that their role will be still greater in future conflicts , when , in order to escape flying - machine reconnaissances , battles will often take place in the night . In fact , the Cold Light Works in the Boulevard de Charonne , Paris , are busy at this moment manufacturing search-lights for the French colonial service , as it has been found that instead of eight mules now needed to transport a search-light and its accessories , one or two mules suffice , a fact the importance of which can not be exaggerated from the military point of view . On the stage , cold light makes it possible for one operator to replace all those now required ? that is , one at each arc light . By placing side by side these boxes , of insignificant size and price , a single operator can , without leaving his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several different points on the stage , using , if the city electric system can not he had , a simple storage battery . Cold light can be applied in medicine . The arc or any other light must be held , on account of giving out heat , at a distance of several centimeters from the object to be illuminated , whereas a coldlight source can be brought within a few millimeters . Now , lighting power being in inverse ratio to the square of the distance , it results that a source of cold light of twenty-five candle-power at a distance of five millimeters equals five thousand candles of hot light at seven centimeters . The hand , brought in contact with these twenty-five candle-powers contained in a volume of ten cubic millimeters , becomes transparent , the flesh and bones taking on the appearance of a translucent , whitish - pink body , where the blood vessels stand out in violet blue . The human eye can bear these luminous rays only for a few seconds even when they have passed through the thickest part of the hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ withdraw the hand during the experiment , as there would be considerable danger in having the light strike the eye direct . A blood - red hue is spread over the human face by this light that has passed through the hand , and this hand , thus lighted up and made transparent , renders possible for the first time a spec troscopic analysis of the blood circulating in a sick person during the different phases of the treatment . This hand can be studied under the microscope as though it were a preparation , and can be photographed in colors or in black on . sensitive plates , one for each color ; that is to say , the flesh appears on one plate , the blood-vessels on another , and so on . Thus by the aid of colored and stereoscopic photography we arrive at topographical anatomy . Foreign bodies , as , for example , small shot in a wounded person in a shooting accident , can now be discovered , which could not have been three years ago . Such a shot appeared as a black speck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special arrangement of the apparatus it is possible to operate in the thicker parts of the body . Thus , in the case of the arm , several rectilinear fibers lying very close together were distinguished at a distance of five millimeters from the glass . Cold light has been perceived by a person afflicted with blindness , but preserving vestiges of sight which had not been suspected because of lack of a sufficiently strong source of light , or because this light , on account of its heat , could not be brought near enough to the eye . This opens up an interesting field of study and work . Now it may be possible to impart a knowledge of light to those born blind but retaining a slight . trace of vision , or to educate anew those rendered sightless by accident . The most inflammable substances , animalcula and plants which can not support the least heat , colors and crystallizations very susceptible to thermal effects , can be lighted up for study or research work with an intensity unknown to any other method . A letter can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coins and bank-bills have been discovered in a closed pasteboard box . Bodies supposed to be devoid of color , such as the roots of the lily-of-thevalley , with which the experiment was made , are found to have as beautiful and brilliant hues as precious stones . Let us now consider why cold light is cold . It is cold because of the application which I have made to the incandescent electric lamp of the principle of repose . By cutting off the current from the tungsten filaments successively and allowing them to rest , so to speak , I have obtained these two results : I have made it possible for the heat produced by the ineandescencre of the filament to dissipate during periods of rest which succeed one another at short intervals , and I have greatly increased the number of volts passing into the lamp without destroying the filament because of the periods of repose . Now , the more volts you pass into a lamp , the more light it gives and the less electricity it needs to produce a given amount of light . Consequently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I have obtained a new light characterized not only by its being cold , but also by the feeble amount of electric energy needed to produce it , since it requires a hundred times less current than the ordinary electric lamp , and is furthermore characterized by its containing cold ultra-violet rays requiring also a hundred times less electricity than the hot ultra-violet rays obtained by the usual method . I have tested this rest principle in three different ways , and in each case I have obtained cold light . In the first process I have recourse to a unique luminous source , as , for instance , a perfectly empty lamp in which a specially prepared metal filament is coiled in such a way as to constitute a real point of light . The lamp 's rest is obtained by periodic and automatic interruption of the alimentary electric current by means of a commutator . This system can be used for moving pictures , instantaneous photography in dark places without the employment of magnesium for flash light beacons , military optic telegraphy , and for illuminating the members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process I employ several luminous sources , as , for example , several lamps like the one just mentioned , which are attached to a revolving disk . The repose of the lamps is obtained by the periodic and automatic interruption of the alimentary electric current , the lamps in turn lighting intermittently as the disk brings each one round to the same point . This system is used for projections of various kinds . The third process differs from the one just mentioned in that the lamps have a continuous and not an intermittent movement . This system is best for electric advertising and the theatrical stage . The originality of these processes has been recognized by patents , and especially by German patents . I may be permitted to call attention to the fact that this principle of rest as applied to light , and the different - ways of applying it , were admitted , without a single objection being raised , by the German Patent Office , whose means of investigation are the most complete in the world . More than a year was spent in trying to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be found , probably a unique instance of this kind in the patenting of a new scientific principle . Let me now describe briefly how I came to discover cold light . The very general belief that every source of energy must have moments of rest in order to work satisfactorily led me to make the three experiments with lamps , as just mentioned , and thus revealed the laws of cold Tight . This conviction of the necessity of a period of repose for everything that exists ? matter as well as animal organisms ? is most ancient and widespread . The early Hebrews held that the seventh-day rest is needed not only by man , but also by Nature , which observes it . We know that even the heart snatches moments of quiescence between beats , and hence it can work so long and so untiringly In order to examine in a general way this idea of necessary and universal repose , I made a series of experiments , extending from 1909 to 1911 , on different forms of energy ? motion , light , heat , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principal results of these researches into cold light were laid before the Paris Academy of Sciences by M. Edouard Branly , Member of the Institute , on March 18 and June 26 , 1911 . We might compare the action of these lamps for the production of cold light to the work of a body of laborers who , without overtaxing themselves , would accomplish a maximum of exertion with intervals of repose between each effort , the number of workmen being such that one would always be at the task , so that the labor would be continuous . We would then have a scientific exposition of this principle of repose brought to bear on the social aspect of the question , which is an important one . We might also institute a comparison with what is done in the case of draught-horses , packhorses , steel springs , etc . Thus , before animal traction gave way to motor traction , the Paris omnibus horses worked only five days out of the seven ; and it has thus been found by experience that the main-springs of a watch work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cables would occur less frequently if two were used , one resting while the other is working . The reason for this is that the rest is as necessary in matter as in animal life , in order that it may recover its molecular equilibrium ; moreover , matter also seems to suffer when not afforded repose , abused Nature sometimes taking revenge , the poet tells us , by a sudden bursting forth that sweeps away hecatombs of human lives : " Diseased Nature oftentimes breaks forth In strange eruptions . " And finally , let me say a word as to why I tried to discover cold light . I did so because another very ancient and widespread belief considered light as the source of all life , the idea of eternal light being associated with that of endless life ; and at the same time this belief regarded fire ? that is , the idea of elevated heatas being associated with the idea of eternal annihilation . Here there seemed to me to be a philosophical contradiction , which I would like to dissipate scientifically , and this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I set out to prove that light could be concentrated in large quantity on a given point and for a long time without creating great heat and consequent destruction . Here was an unknown and an unexpected fact . I could watch germinating seeds , placed between a source of moderate heat and a source of cold light , turn away from the heat and lean toward the light , and I could perceive certain substances apparently dead awaken to as new and unlooked-for life under the influence of this vivifying cold light . None of my other scientific experiences ever moved me so profoundly . It would seem as though we were standing on the threshold of the Great Mystery , where Science and Reason stop short , for here we have intense light , freed from deadly heat , and existing in an unknown medium whence life will come forth some day . If such light once existed only to disappear , man has now found it again and reproduced it in his laboratories , where , drawing inspiration from Nature , he may perhaps at moments entertain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resolved .                     