@@465981

BEHIND St. Paul 's Church on lower Broadway an ancient cemetery spreads Its tender covering of green , an oasis for the dead , whn sleep restfully amid the towering structures that look down on this peaceful plot . Just inside the old iron railing that fends off the tide of Vesey Street is the tomb of one James Cooper , who died on December ig , 18ot . More than a century paSsed , then , deep in the cool earth , came the throb and stirring of a new life . Forty feet below the moldering body of James Cooper a timber bulkhead thrust irresistibly forward . It was small and strong and massive , for the soil was treacherous and burdened with the weight of huge buildings . It came on slowly and persistently , with short boards braced across its face . Just inside the bulkhead crouched two Italians . From ahead and outside of the hoards they removed infinitesimally small portions of earth , Iest the weight of the teeming world above should crush into the excavations . It was the heading of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . From far countries alien peoples are summoned to grope in darkness beneath the bones of dead Americans . There is a strange underworld in New York ? a maze of blind highways in which thousands toil beneath the feet of indifferent multitudes . Here , along viewless arteries , throbs a hidden life that is shaping in subterranean gloom the lives of others . Labor is here ? grim , indomitable , unwearying labor that brings salt sweat to the eyes and slack exhaustion to bone and muscle . Rivalry , hate , friendship , and death ? all the elemcntals ? are born here . Courage abides here . Self-sacrifice and high ambition are here , grubbing cheerfully where difficulties are grouped together in the grim impassiveness , the defiantimmobility , of material things . And , above all , a magnificent interdependence is here , a high and unquestioning confidence , that pulsates to the last and farthest heading , and fuses the whole viewless army together . Myriads tramp ceaselessly overhead , the every-day host , swayed by opposing interests , hurrying nervously in pursuit of profits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a great city ; restless , impatient , divided , overwrought . But underneath is the invisible phalanx burrowing in darkness , thrusting its hollow alleys through rock and earth and slime , spewing tip its wearied battalions to sunlight and rest , swallowing others to drain from them all that men have to give , thus to spread its hydra-headed length with relentless certitude . There is a dogged insistence about subways such as are being driven today beneath New York . A surface line is pliant , amenable , and full of easy sinuosities . But a subway is more inflexible . It goes through and not around ; and since New York underground railways are near the surface , they bisect a thousand buried and often forgotten things . They drive straight on with steel-shod indifference . What man has built man can rebuild . That is an axiom to the engineer . He pierces substructures , hotel kitchens , and the press-rooms of great printing-offices in order to hurl his burdened trains , his humanly charged projectiles , through the dismembered and rcpatched bowels of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coaxed over his highway . All those things that people use and never think of because they are out of sight are remodeled and readjusted . One only thing he swerves from ? another subway . Turn hack for a moment to the first tunnel New York ever saw ? the old Beach Tunnel and its subterranean station at the corner of Warren Street and Broadway . The station was large and comfortable , adorned with a fountain in which goldfish disported themselves , a piano , and easy-chairs in abundance . The Gothamite of the early seventies was further fortified by the fact that the fare was twenty-five cents , and was assured that this impost was " to prevent too great a crowd . " The tube itself , a brick cylinder , stretched from Warren Street to Murray Street , and through the tube , fitting almost as closely as a bullet in a rifle barrel , the car was projected by the thrust of compressed air . A laborious process was this compression , effected by steam-driven air-pumps on the surface . Internally , the car was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easy-chairs and gas-lights , a luxurious projectile like that pictured in Jules Verne 's journey to the Moon . For a year or so New York was amused and interested in that diffident metropolitan manner which has always characterized New York ; and then , simultaneously with the waning of public support , the Beach Tunnel relapsed into a slimy and forgotten tube . Now come underground . Remember that meantime your population has grown from a million and a half to five millions ; that your lines are gorged with traffic and are carrying , on the earth and over the earth and under the earth , about the same number of millions every day ; that your business center has shifted only slightly , but that the gigantic , sprawling city has swallowed up farms and towns and villages , and covered them with laminated rookeries that daily emit hordes who demand instant carriage to the panting , throbbing end of Manhattan Island . The increasing thunder of the city traffic roared above the Beach Tunnel till , within the last few months , an Italian drove a pick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , another tale is being told . The Feet of a multitude of laborers shuffle noiselessly through the soft gray sand . Overhead still surges the traffic , but pavements are shorn away and the populace streams over a false skin ? a structural epidermis ? supported by a gigantic framework that gropes for foot-hold far below the street line . Through chinks and crevices streams the sun , darting thin shafts of light . Above , stuck like stalactites to the palpitating roof , is a maze of pipes ? water , steam , and gas . Coils of cables writhe into the darkness , and iron ducts , in naked sus- pension , mark the position of invisible car-tracks . It is a revelation of buried utilities . And for its boundaries this strange territory has the foundation of monstrous buildings whose massive footings are cut and shaped , poised , balanced , and underpinned to make way for the coming surge of humanity . There are weird sections of ancient walls whose courses still bear the imprint of vanished hands , and queer insights into basements and sub-basements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ away is this , a procession of exposure , ruthless and insistent , as if some inflexible hand had torn away the coverings behind which men had been hiding for years and revealed a thousand vital processes that were secretly sustaining all the visible evidences of life overhead . There were suggestions of murder and mystery , of engine-rooms and reeking sweatshops . One could peer through gaps in the masonry and see the submerged tenth toiling in speechless haste , oblivious to the coming of the subway and to everything except the pressure of a grim necessity . There were contrasts unending between these buried , grimy , airless chambers and the tall , shining structures that sprang skyward from their unlovely depths . Here in the gloom the citizens of the Old World seem gathered together from far countries at the call of the new one . There is a segregation of labor , a curious nationalization of occupations . Scandinavia toils at timber-work and framing ; Hungary dives into wet and shifting ground ; Italy is omnipresent in straightforward shove/-work ; Austria makes a distinctive selection of steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indifference ; Ireland swaggers through the sweating ranks ? for the Irish can handle men . And over all abides the control of American brains and courage , and that sixth sense of adaptability which is the backbone of good engineering . Lines are strictly drawn ; something elemental and atavistic defines the aristocracy of toil , something deeper even than nationality or creed . Up above in the sunlight there are no more clearly recognized social strata than govern this abyss . The aristocracy itself is Hibernian , or of Hibernian origin ? the men who get things done but do not do them with their own hands ; for there is that in the swing and power and activity of public works that calls irresistibly to the Irish . Follow , then , at a respectful distance mechanics , steam-fitters , and the like ? a shrewd circle , carrying peculiar responsibilities of life and safety . The timber men move in their own orbit , as do the small , swarthy shovelers from Naples and Genoa and the plains of Lombardy , then the wet shovelers , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , all this is not because of the gradations of wealth or birth that obtain up above , but because underground a man 's rating is his ability to work , and he is sorted out and socially labeled because of what he does , and not what he has . His standing is established by the value of what he has to sell . Six miles north , on Lexington Avenue , is another subterranean army ? one out of many . From Ninety-second Street stretches either way a clanging quarry , roofed in with a thundering roadway . The walls are micaceous schist , hard and crystalline , and the dump-cars boom along the dimly lighted construction tracks . At the tunnel heading a steam-shovel grubs and grunts , reaching out with uncanny intelligence and stertorous panting ? a mechanical superman that must be dismembered piecemeal to release it from the cavern of its self-made tomb . High up , the air-drills perch like mosquitoes on the rock face , chattering the sharp staccato of driven steel ; and once in forty-eight hours the thud of dynamite compresses the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York being honeycombed . North and south beneath the new Municipal Building stretches a long , gleaming artery , practically complete . This is the Centre Street loop , linking the Brooklyn Rapid Transit with the focus of the hive . Here , as elsewhere , at the strategic point rest the foundations of a skyscraper ? a structure not yet planned , but the coming of which is commercially inevitable . Hostages to the future are these ponderous abutments ; and when the undreamed structure does soar heavenward there will be no disruption of the new loop to anchor its framework firmly to the earth . There is something stirring in the contemplation of these prophetic footings , something eloquent of the superb confidence that animates the restless world beneath which they wait . Here in 175o stretched the questionable waters of Collect Pond , beneath whose deposit of ancient slime now curves the Centre Street loop . To-day the city has chosen ' a portion of the old site of the pond as the location of its new court-house . Turning to the larger view , it must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or not , that the color of men 's lives is primarily influenced and ultimately dominated , in evidence of which consider the present condition of the northern and eastern flanks of New York City . New communities have sprung up wherever the subways and Elevated have penetrated . At Intervale Avenue , twelve miles north of Wall Street , a realty company provided funds for a subway station ( the title of which is vested in the city ) , and thereby profited . At 19ist Street the Subway is beneath a hundred feet of solid rock , but a vertical shaft wins to the surface , and around the shaft mouth a new city has arisen . Now , all this means that , owing to the attenuated length of Manhattan Island , passengers have to be carried an inordinately long distance . The average is approximately six miles for each single fare , and there is nothing unusual in a single journey of fifteen miles . In fact , five cents will carry you from Atlantic Avenue , in Brooklyn , to z42d Street , a distance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without parallel in any city in the world . The work at present being performed by the combined systems is equal to moving the entire population of St. Paul over to Minneapolis twenty times a day ! Does this stimulate the imagination ? As to the future , it is evident that if a city doubles in size it will require four times its transportation capacity , the reason being that not only must twice as many people be carried , but they must also be carried twice as far . Have you ever thought of that ? The burden of planning extensions falls heavily on those responsible for them . Lines built to develop new districts do not pay at the outset , but it should satisfy John Smith to know that the completed " dual system " will care for three thousand million passengers per year . Have such figures , after all , any real significance ? Is it simpler to say that the contemplated equipment will do the equivalent of giving the whole population of North and South America twenty trips every year , each trip six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statements with a certain mental detachment , as if the contemplation of them compelled a merging of one 's individuality in a huge and formless mass . But the ebb and flow of the human tides in New York City is neither formless nor impersonal . It is an immense current , dominated , morning and evening , by the law of economic gravitation , furrowed and wrinkled by the cross ripples of a multitude of business exigencies . The residential focus is many miles removed from the business center , if , indeed , the former can be said to exist at all , since the whole countryside contributes . A morning vertical descent , an astonishingly rapid horizontal projection , a swift snatching up to some lofty tier of offices ; the whole cycle reversed at sundown . And to facilitate it all , a closeness of shops and industries which , lest the precipitate cave-dweller should seek what he needs in sunlight , have followed him underground to parallel his subterranean coming and going . As the hull of a ship is covered with barnacles , so have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Like a vast barometer , the subways record every modulation and fluctuation of city life . In the come and go of graded labor the pick and shovel leadthe monkey-wrench ; the saw and chisel rise earlier than pencil and pen ; the Semitic tide that every day is sucked into the great clothing factories flows in huge waves that inundate the trains before eight o'clock , and ebbs in weariness at five minutes past six . These are the human gulf streams that nourish Manhattan . To this add those emergency services which are demanded for special occasions . A baseball match involves emptying the ball-grounds of forty thousand people in forty minutes . During the Naval Review of October , 1911 , the Manhattan subways and Elevated carried thirteen million souls in a week without accident or delay to a single individual . Train shot after train through the great tube like bullets through the smoking barrel of a Maxim ? a triumph of skill and organization . Above all , it is evident that science has joined hands with invention to secure safety for Subway passengers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used above ground were here tried and found wanting . With express trains chasing one another every one hundred and two seconds , time itself took on new attributes . Ten seconds was something to fight for . Half a minute would demoralize a system . And so , because air brakes , per se , , were not quick enough , electricity was coupled to air to hasten its action ; and because block systems left the merest possibility of failure , a mechanical trip automatically stops the train that defies the warning signals ; and because Death himself has ridden with the motorman and laid his chill fingers on the controller handle , an agency as inflexible as Death has been devised to assume the mastery should the grip of the guiding hand loosen and falter . To these add the despatcher suspended in silent authority in a glass-walled cabin , hurling his trains shuttle-like through the gleaming causeway ? the arbiter of precious seconds , the ultimate regulator of speed and safety . Truly it is a human cycle acting with mechanical certitude , a mechanical kingdom animated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years been a mooted question . So far as New York is concerned , it was assumed at the outset that the constant passage of innumerable trains would displace sufficient air to insure comfort . Rut the construction of the original lines resulted in a four-track way , along whose length the air was merely churned and agitated by a procession of trains traveling in opposite directions . Add to this the fact that the natural currents reverse themselves in and out of the Subway according as the air on the surface is warmer or colder than that underground , and you arrive at a conundrum difficult of solution . The last decision that governing extensions under way ? is a reversion to the old principle of a piston and a cylinder . There will he no more four-track subways with lines separated only by a row of steel columns . Each track will lie in its own walled-in causeway , which we may call the cylinder . The trains , all traveling in one direction in each cylinder , will be the pistons , driving ahead of them to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at other points . There is also , curiously enough , such a thing as too perfect construction . In building the first Subway every precaution was taken to keep out water ? in fact , a water-proof skin was provided . Now , whatever keeps water out will keep heat in ; and it has since been determined that much of the heat is due to the friction of brake-shoes on wheels and wheels on tracks . So , in the new construction , only such water will be excluded as is absolutely necessary , and the more permeable construction thus obtained will permit of the escape of a larger amount of heat . Water thus admitted will be conducted beneath the tracks to convenient points , and thence pumped out . To build a mile of four-track subway in earth excavation , complete with roadway , signals , station finish , etc. , may cost either two million or seven million dollars , or any intermediate sum . It is a question of local conditions . The same thing in rock may cost three to four millions . Ordinarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York the rock dips sharply from the surface on its way down-town , and the congested work is in earth , where the maintenance and support and reconstruction of sewers , pipes , ducts , vaults , and other invisible structures is a huge item of expense . To remove a wagon-load of earth involves an outlay of about six dollars . This on the face of it seems i enormous , but included in the six dollars is the contingent risk to the contractor . He assumes all responsibility of damages . A mile of single-track subaqueous tunnel costs approximately two and a half millions ? again dependent on local conditions , the character of the soil penetrated , and the working air pressure , which latter limits the duration of the working shift . In no other metropolis of the world are similar expenditures contemplated for traffic purposes , and here one touches elemental reasons . Not only is the physical conformation of New York without a parallel , but nowhere else may be found a public so dominantly insistent , so temperamentally avaricious , on the subject of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the irreducible minimum , no matter what prodigality of the same fleeting commodity may ensue . To illuminate this , consider an actual occurrence . An Englishman who recently dropped in at a friend 's office on Twenty-seventh Street was asked to dine . At the nearest Subway station they took a local train to the Grand Central , there dived across the platform into an express , which disgorged them at Seventy-second Street , where they entered another local that finally deposited them at the door of the Gothamite 's apartment on Broadway and Seventy-ninth Street . Followed then a smoke , a refreshing drink , and a most leisurely dinner . Half-way through his dessert , the Briton looked at his host . " I 've been wondering why we took three trains to ger here ? " " Why ? We saved four minutes ! " The Briton pondered . " I say , " he questioned , thoughtfully , " what are you going to do with them ? " In contemplating these tremendous undertakings , this vast underworld in the making , that contrasts so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know so much more , great questions arise . Is the profit other than that of transportation ? Are deeper and greater things involved ? Do these enterprises rouse civic pride ? Broadly and largely it must be admitted that the civic pride of the average New-Yorker is an attribute which varies inversely with his proximity to New York . In London , Paris , or St. Petersburg he is full of it . The best achievements of foreign peoples arouse in him only a twinkle of interest , but much more than a twinkle of unfavorable comparison . He stalks through Europe ablaze with civic pride . It flames higher and higher on his approach to " God 's own country , " and culminates in a perfect eruption at the sight of the Statue of Liberty . In twenty-four hours it is extinguished . A crowded Subway reduces him to desperation . He does not know , and he does not care . He only knows and cares that it is a " rotten service . " But underneath his feet toils an army of peace , neither known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the throbbing arteries through which will course the life-blood of the city . Do these things express the people ? In spite of the fact that the people already control , and will shortly own them outright , it hardly appears that they are an expression of the people themselves . To the outside observer New York seems sharply divided into two sections . One is very small but astonishingly skilful ? enormously creative and powerful , swaying the affairs of millions and expressing its resource and constructive ability in huge undertakings and towering structures . The other is a teeming mass , flowing back and forth in blind , unquestioning obedience to factors not of their own devising , the psychology of which they never even guess . Is a skyscraper a demonstration of the men who inhabit it ? Is it not rather a demonstration of the power and courage and skill of the few ? That , after all , is the question that confronts those who attempt to analyze these extraordinary physical evidences of virility . Are deeper things than transportation involved ? Undoubtedly ? yes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be flung open . There will be celebrations and congratulations , and New York will be mightily pleased , and in six months will take everything for granted ? except interruptions to the service . But in the making of all this there will have been constructive citizenship , a welding together of a multitude of workers who will never afterward be quite the same as if they had not labored here . The indifference of New York will not touch them . They will have been infused with the superb confidence of the New World . On the subject of citizenship one fact is very apparent ? never more apparent than when , from a Subway shaft-house , you survey the motley crowd surging restlessly along Broadway and then penetrate to the hollow spaces below . The blood and brains of this undertaking are practically unknown to New-Yorkers . But far beneath their feet is being evolved in muck and slime and turmoil as fine a type of citizen as any country can ever produce . These are the men who arc doing the work . In the murky @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , clean of mind and clear of eve , carrying cheerfully on youthful shoulders the burdens that in older countries are only intrusted to those of twice their age ; forgetful of self in the larger question of service ; whose vision is steadfastly fixed on one ultimate aim , from which it never wavers . These are the men who will profit most by the " dual system " ? the men who built it . They will not be in evidence during the celebrations . They will be standing back with the rest of the crowd , while orators pronounce panegyrics , and John Smith , with a burst of civic pride , realizes that the system is in working order . And not far distant are the multitudes who , finding that the earth herself can not yield what they demand , will forsake the honeycombed city and traverse the unsullied air-lanes overhead . 