@@465728

THE modern public health-officer is distinguished by his essentially religious attitude toward life . The peculiar character of his responsibilities compels him to visualize the community RS a whole , to concern himself not so much with individual eases of disease , or indeed ultimately with disease at all , as with the economic and social conditions that are at the foundation of public health . The aggregate life inevitably acquires for him a certain heightened value , as if it were the material God had given man to build a world with . " The modern spirit of social religion " so runs a recent bulletin of the New York City Health Department ? " demands the reduction of the death-rate , the extension of the vigorous working period , the prevention of misery , suffering , and inefficiency . " Men in their organized social and political relationships have acquired for this newer type of public health-officer the dignity of co-workers with God in His creative evolution . Tnterestingly enough , it is the State of Pennsylvania , with its many scars of economic and political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new temper in public health work . There , as elsewhere , the present State health organization sprang from the discovery of the parasitic and preventable nature of communicable diseases ; but there , as elsewhere too , the mastery of the communicable diseases has brought the service face to face with the facts that epidemics find their channels of least resistance among the poor , and that back of all disease , whether communicable or not , stand adverse social and economic conditions whose remedy demands the cooperation of an enlightened statesmanship . The km creating the present State department dates from 1905 , and followed the stamping-out of a Statewide epidemic of smallpox by certain members of the existing staff . To apply to an communicable diseases the technique which had won public confidence in the fight against smallpox was , accordingly , the department 's first obligation . Tn one of his earlier addresses the Commissioner . Dr. Samuel J. Dixon , pledged his department to " a Pennsylvania in which there shall be no typhoid , no scarlet fever , no meningitis , no malaria , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or woman shall languish with tuberculosis ; a Pennsylvania in which no children shall die of diphtheria . So long as any of these diseases exist , they are a reproach to the State , because the method of eliminating them is known . " But his programme did not stop here . " To go hand in hand with the people through the darkness of ignorance and disease into the sunlight of right living , " was , he said , the further aim of the department . And this larger purpose carried his vision beyond the traditional limits of the medical service : " The creation by the people of governmental agencies for the preservation of the public health marks a new conception of governmental responsibilities . " The chart and compass of the department is the Bureau of Vital Statistics kept by the State Registrar , Dr. Wilmer R. Batt . Before the Registrar always lies a working map of Pennsylvania . Day by day , and week by week , there flow in to him records of births , marriages , and deaths , and ? what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value ? records of present sickness . From his point of vantage , he looks out upon the aggregate life of the State . At any moment he is able to advise the Commissioner as to the level of life in the commonwealth , he knows where the cases of illness are , and his current analysis of the flux of life and death reveals the strongholds of disease and registers the efficiency of the attacking service . Group'ed about the Commissioner and the Bureau of Vital Statistics ? the scouting wing of the department arethe various fighting divisions : the Divisions of Medical Inspection , Laboratories , and Biological Products , aimed primarily at the conquest of diphtheria , smallpox , and kindred infections ; the Divisions of Tuberculosis Dispensaries and Sanatoria ; the Division of Sanitary Engineering , charged with the cleansing of streams and the elimination of typhoid and other filth diseases ; and , merging and going in advance of them all , the Division of Educational Publicity , which , through newspaper " talks , " leaflets , public lectures , and traveling exhibits , takes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ co-operation of an enlightened public opinion . The technique of the department is illustrated by the campaign it has organized against diphtheria . Among the wellto-do , who could afford competent physicians and commercial anti-toxin , diphtheria had lost its old terror ; through the work of the German scientist Behring , its cure had long since been established . But in the State at large , the ease mortality before 1905 fluctuated between forty and fifty per cent. ? that is. from forty to fifty among each hundred who contracted diphtheria died . Obviously , diphtheria was essentially a problem of poverty , and it was to the poor that the department turned . Pennsylvania was not without able private physicians , neither was it entirely lacking in efficient local health boards . But the swift , pell-mell , anarchistic exploitation of its rich mineral resources had bred the mental attitude of the mining camp that stakes life lightly on the chance of quick wealth . There was abundant evidence that the death-rate from diphtheria was high ; but how widely the disease was distributed , precisely where the centers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out . The community had not awakened to the importance of such knowledge . The law of 1905 not only requires the reporting of all cases of diphtheria ( as of other communicable diseases ) by the attending physician , but equips the department with adequate police power for its enforcement . The moment a case is reVOL . CXXIV. - NO , 745-86ported , the department sees to the establishment of quarantine either through the local authorities or , in their absence , directly . If the patient can afford competent medical care , well and good ; if not , the department supplies the treatment . It supplies anti-toxin from its own laboratories , supplies it through its own physicians , and takes full responsibility for the result . In the Division of Medical Inspection through which this curative work is done , there are sixty-six medical inspectors ; one hundred and five deputy medical inspectors , who have power to take charge of all suspicious cases that appear in railway stations or on trains ; six hundred and seventy local health-officers distributed throughout the State ; and , since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the schools . To facilitate and give additional accuracy to the work of this division , the department operates laboratories in Philadelphia for special microscopic investigations and the manufacture of biological products . From these laboratories diphtheria anti-toxin is distributed to the poor through six hundred and fifty-six stations located at strategic points in the State . Every precaution is taken by the Bureau of Vital Statistics to prevent the spread of the disease through faulty diagnosis or the occurrence of death through improper care . A record recently came to Dr. Batt 's desk in which a physician attributed the death of a little girl to acute iniocarditis , with toxic neuritis as the secondary cause . These terms were suspiciously vague . " Will you kindly state , " Dr. Batt immediately demanded , " whether the poisoning indicated by the word toxic was accidental or otherwise ? " The physician explained that the case had been in charge of another doctor until a few days before death . " When I was called in , the child had been subject to throat trouble , and a few weeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of supposed tonsilitis . This might have been diphtheritic . " It was apparent from this confession that a case of diphtheria had been improperly diagnosed , and that - whether deliberately or not the cause of death had not been accurately described . A departmental inspector was on the ground at once to trace the history of the case , to disinfect the house where the death had occurred , to see to the enforcement of quarantine , to immunize any who might have been exposed to infection , and generally to forestall a fresh outbreak of the disease . The extent to which the department will go in preventing the spread of contagion is shown by its discipline of an unruly local health board . It happens that the case before me has to do with scarlet fever , but the method of procedure would have been the same had it involved smallpox , diphtheria , or any other of the infectious diseases . Certain physicians in one county had stirred up antagonism against the ruling health board on the ground that they were subjecting the people to undue hardship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a result of public criticism the board resigned . The first act of the incoming board was to order the local health-officer to disinfect the houses in which scarlet fever had existed and to lift the quarantine , although the quarantine period prescribed by law had not expired . The local health-officer notified the State Department . Commissioner Dixon telegraphed the secretary of the local board that " if the several premises are not immediately replacarded and the quarantine regulations observed , summary action will be taken at once against the several members of the board . " The law reads : " Any person who shall violate any of the quarantine restrictions imposed by this act ... shall , for every such offense , upon conviction thereof in a summary proceeding before any magistrate or justice of the peace of the county wherein such offense was committed , be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than fifty dollars ( $50 ) , or more than one hundred dollars ( $100 ) , to be paid to the use of said county , or to be imprisoned in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or more than thirty days , or both , at the discretion of the court . " It is well known that the State department does not hesitate to use its police powers in enforcing the law . The result of Commissioner Dixon 's telegram was that the local board requarantined the infected premises the next morning and made further action on his part unnecessary . " It has been the experience of the department , " the Commissioner 's secretary writes me , " that prosecutions instituted for welldefined violations of the health laws increase respect for the department among the people and promote efficiency in the service . In few if any instances have these prosecutions created antagonism or ill feeling even on the part of those who are required to pay fines or costs . " Formerly the case fatality from diphtheria in Pennsylvania fluctuated between forty and fifty per cent . From October , 1905 , to and including December 31 , 1910 , the department treated 27,318 poor patients for diphtheria , and of this number only eight and one-half per cent . died ; it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these less than two per cent . developed diphtheria , and of this two per cent . only six per cent. , or less than one-ninth of one per cent . of the total immunized group , died I The State 's Registrar calculates that in a little more than three years " the State Department of Health 's free distribution of anti-toxin has saved over eight thousand lives , at an average cost of seven dollars each , and prevented contagion in several thousands of cases at an average cost of two dollars . " Similar progress has attended the campaigns against tuberculosis and typhoid fever . One hundred and fourteen dispensaries for the use of the tubereulous poor have been opened in various parts of the State , and the Health Department operates one large sanatorium , and has acquired sites for two more . The Division of Sanitary Engineering is rapidly extending its supervision over the drainage systems and water supplies of the commonwealth , with the result that there is good ground for predicting that in ten years typhoid will have become a rare disease . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods of the department are in all respects above criticism . In its handling of the difficult problem of tuberculosis , for example , the best experience of other communities does not appear to have been adequately considered . The one point upon which experts are agreed is that the most effective means of preventing the spread of tuberculosis is the segregation of advanced cases , and that hospitals for the care of such cases should be near the centers of population . In Ohio , Minnesota , Connecticut , and New York , for instance , laws have been enacted for the establishment of county hospitals for consumptives . It is held that advanced cases should not be removed far from their homes , both because of the physical strain attending travel , and also because in their last days they have a right to be near their friends . Whether the remote sanatoria in Pennsylvania can be made to serve the needs of these advanced cases remains doubtful . Moreover , the rapid extension of the dispensary system has resulted in inequality of standards , and persistent labor will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efficiency . Nevertheless , no State has grappled with its health problem so boldly as Pennsylvania . On all hands communicable diseases are being brought under control . In reviewing the first three years of the department 's work , the Commissioner is able to show that , in addition to the eight thousand lives saved from diphtheria , the deaths from tuberculosis have been reduced by a thousand annually , that the typhoid death-rate has been more than cut in two , and that " at least fifty thousand people have been , spared each year from the ravages of acute disease . " And yet the general death-rate has made no corresponding decline . The mastery of communicable diseases has hardly more than played upon the surface of the State 's health problem . Obviously , back of these communicable diseases causes have been at work to impair the commonwealth 's fundamental vitality . In the absence of statistics covering a sufficiently long period in Pennsylvania , one is led to infer that there as in the Registration Area ? the group of States ( up to 1880 Massachusetts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with a little mere than half the nation 's population ) whose mortality statistics are accepted as accurate by the Federal Census Bureau ? there has been an actual increase in the death-rate from accidents and from the diseases usually described as " degenerative , " whose causesare traced by experts to unintelligent habits of living among all classes , and especially to adverse social and economic conditions among the poor . We have been so greatly impressed during recent years by the conquest of infectious diseases and the lengthening of the average life , that we have overlooked the fact that the full span of life has not been lengthened , and that in certain important age groups the deathrate has actually gone rapidly up . The most striking fact revealed by a comparison of the mortality statistics of the Registration Area for the census periods ending in the years 1880 , 1890 , and 1900 , together with the average for the years 1906 , 1907 , and 1908 , is that while there has been an encouraging decline in the deaths per thousand of population in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been true . For example , in the age group under twenty , the total number of deaths in each thousand of population within the group has decreased 18 per cent. ; between twenty and thirty , 12 per cent. ; between thirty and forty , slightly more than 2 per cent . But after forty the index shifts sharply from progress to retrogression . In the age group between forty and fifty , the number of deaths in each thousand of population within the group has increased 13 per cent. ; between fifty and sixty , 29 per cent. ; and in the group above sixty , the increase has been about 261/2 per cent . And when a further inquiry is made into the causes of these surprising phenomena , it is found that since 1880 the death-rate from cancer has increased 104 per cent. ; from the so-called " degenerative " diseases ? affections of the heart , blood vessels , and kidneys , " dropsy , " and the like ? also 104 per cent. ; and from accidents . 48 per cent . To say that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the average life , which carries an increasing number into the advanced age groups , is fallacious , because it is not the actual number of deaths only , but the death-rate within the group , that has increased . The fact that the mortality from the " degenerative " diseases in the age group between forty and fifty ? the years of ripe - experience when social usefulness should be at its maximum ? has increased by 60 per cent. , shows that living conditions are fundamentally wrong . This is the view of Mr. E. E. Rittenhouse , president of an important life-assurance society , under whose authority the facts here stated were recently published . " It is apparent , " he says , " that the business , social , and domestic conditions which make such heavy demands upon brain , nerve , and artery , must be corrected , or a greater degree of bodily resistance must be built up . Just as in business life we draw largely upon modern invention and the resources of science to increase efficiency and reduce waste , so we must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the care of our bodies and the systematizing of our lives . " And reflecting upon the traditional indifference with which we Americans tolerate human waste . he takes the essentially religious attitude that increasingly characterizes men whose obligations compel them to visualize the aggregate life of the community . " Perhaps , " he observes , " we can best make for efficient longevity by bearing in mind that life is a trust fund , which should neither be hoarded with parsimonious and sterile solicitude , nor expended with lavish and futile extravagance . " The problems presented by this analysis of the mortality statistics of the Registration Area are not health problems in the traditional and narrow medical sense , but they are health problems nevertheless . They involve the social and economic factors that underlie all disease whatsoever , undermine the vigor of the body politic , and make disease possible ? defective education , unemployment , low wages , child labor and the sweating of women , had factory conditions , insanitary housing , the turbulence of our business and industrial methods . Their solution demands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administrative methods shall be determined , not by market quotations and trade balances only , but also , and indeed primarily , by the currently registered level of life in the community . The Pennsylvania Department of Health realizes that , as time goes on , it will serve the community quite as much by guiding social legislation as by combating communicable disease . One whosees the chart in Dr. Batt 's office in Harrisburg on which he has diagrammed the functions of the department is struck by the importance he attaches to such matters as wages , housing , the nature and conditions of employment . The new meaning of public health is transforming the public health-officer from a sanitary policeman to a counselor of state . Because the modern health-officer has developed a technique for the accumulation and constructive interpretation of the social and economic facts that are at the basis of public health and should be at the basis of legislation , Federal as well as State , there is a growing conviction on the part of economists , social workers , the newer generation of public men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a place in the national councils . It was this conviction that led Senator Owen , of Oklahoma , to bring before the Sixty-first Congress a bill for the establishment of " a Department of Public Health under the supervision of the Secretary of Public Health , who shall be appointed by the President a Cabinet officer . " Following the introduction of Senator Owen 's bill , public hearings were held that were not confined to the rooms of Congressional committees . Opponents and advocates of the measure carried on a heated debate , by no means free from acrimony or misrepresentation , which resulted in confusing the public mind both with regard to the scope and efficiency of the existing Federal Public Health and Marine Hospital Service , and also with regard to the new functions which the enlarged service contemplated in Senator Owen 's bill would be called upon to perform . The history of the Public Health and Marine Hospital Service goes back to July 16 , 1798 , when Congress passed an act for the relief of sick and disabled seamen . Since that time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among the foremost national health services in the world . Its commissioned corps consists of a hundred and twenty-nine medical officers under a Surgeon-General attached to the staff of the Secretary of the Treasury . It operates twenty - one marine hospitals and one hundred and forty-one relief stations for the care of seamen . It administers the national quarantine laws and regulations , and to this end mainthins forty-three quarantine stations in the United States and its possessions . It is responsible for the medical inspection of immigrants ; it enforces the law regulating the sale of viruses , serums , and toxins in interstate traffic , and for this purpose has established the official standard units for diphtheria and tetanus antitoxin ; it furnishes medical treatment to officers and crews of the Revenue Cutter Service , seamen employed on the vessels of the Mississippi River Commission , on the vessels of the Engineer Corps of the Army , keepers and crews of the United States Life-saving Service , officers and seamen on the vessels of the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey , and non-enlisted seamen on the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for enlistment in the Revenue Cutter and Life - saving Services , and of the men who seek licenses as masters and pilots in the merchant marine . And it maintains an extensive hygienic laboratory for the investigation of infectious and communicable diseases and " matters pertaining to the public health . " The recent growth of the Federal Health Service has closely paralleled that of Pennsylvania , and for similar reasons . A majority of the States are still inadequately equipped for handling the acute sanitary problems that arise with sudden epidemics . When such epidemics baffle the local authorities , the tendency is to turn to Washington for help . The strength of the Public Health and Marine Hospital Service , both with Congress and with the people , is due principally to its splendid efficiency at such critical times . Famous examples of the capacity of its experts are the conquest of yellow fever in New Orleans by Surgeon J. H. White , the eradication of bubonic plague from San Francisco and the Pacific Coast by the present Surgeon-General , Dr. Rupert Blue , and the cleansing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Surgeon L. L. Lnmsden . It is perpetually being said by the overardent advocates of a national department of health that while the Federal govern. - ment hurries to the assistance of hogs sick with cholera , of sheep afflicted with scabies , or cattle dying of Texas fever , nothing is done for the poor mother languishing with tuberculosis . Such a statement is as misleading as the favorite declaration of the opponents of a national health department , that its creation would give the Federal authorities tyrannical powers over the personal liberties of the people . Under the Constitution , the Federal healthofficers may ordinarily enter no State except upon the request of the State authorities ; and while , in theory , the national government must intervene when the inability of a State to control disease makes a local epidemic an interstate menace , scrupulous care is always taken to keep the Federal police power in harmonious subordination to the police power of the States . On the other hand , whenever the citizens of a State appeal through their elected officers to the Public Health and Marine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Heretofore , the chief obstacle to satisfactory co-operation between Federal and State health-officers has been the perversion of a perfectly normal instinct . When it is remembered how recently the possibility of a famine was the greatest of all menaces to public health , it is not surprising that the people should have made tho protection of their food supply their first concern . An adequate food supply is at the foundation of the possibility of health . But time and again the commercial interests of various communities have taken advantage of this normal instinct to prejudice the public mind against essential health measures , on the ground that to admit the existence of contagious disease would hurt business . A classic instance is that of San Francisco and the bubonic plague . In 1000 a case of plague was discovered in the city . Under our treaty agreements with foreign nations we were obliged to publish the fact . But the leading citizens of San Francisco were immediately up in arms . They denied the existence of the disease ; they sent delegations to Washington to prevent appropriate action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attitude was expressed by a judge , who , in declaring illegal the quarantine of the infected district by the city health department , said : " If it were within the province of this court to decide the point , I should hold that there is not now and never has been a case of plague in this city . " In the mean time , members of the Federal Health Service persevered in publishing the facts and in safeguarding foreign and interstate commerce . By 1907 , when a fresh outbreak of the disease occurred in San Francisco , public opinion was ripe for an appeal to Washington . Immediately the Federal Service took charge of the situation , and organized a campaign that has not only eradicated the plague , but has also revolutionized methods of public sanitation along the entire Western coast . As a civil army for combating disease , the Public Health and Marine Hospital Service needs nothing but increased appropriations to meet every demand that can constitutionally be made upon it . It has thoroughly mastered the technique of handling epidemics , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If it had more money at its command , it would gladly make itself the center of information on the best methods devised for the handling of conventional public health problems , But the ablest minds in the service keenly realize that the conquest of infectious and communicable diseases , while the large , crude , immediate task , hardly more than skims the surface . They , too , have been led by the peculiar character of their responsibilities to visualize the community as a whole ; for them , too , the aggregate life of the nation has acquired a heightened value as the material God has intrusted to the people to build a civilization with . They clearly foresee the time when medical research will have increasingly to be directed to those adverse social and economic conditions that stand back of all disease , undermine the national vigor , and make disease possible . They understand that the problems that the new knowledge is bringing to the front will require the co-operation of a new type of socialized statesmanship for their solution . To the observer in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obliviousness of our politicians to the newer social and economic questions that have arisen in our national life . The issues that are principally debated in Congress are essentially the same as those that have filled Congressional Recurds for generations . It is a strange anachronism that of a little less than six and one-half hundred millions appropriated by Congress in 1010 , more than five hundred and nine millions should have been for military pensions and preparations for war . An examination of the Federal budget , of current legislation , indeed of Presidential messages , gives little hint that our public men are aware that we have ceased to he a nation of small farmers , merchants , and independent mechanics ; or that there are such things in the United States as a criminally high infant mortality , ruinous child labor , the sweating of women , an increasing prevalence of poverty , unemployment , and crime . Except for the " trust " investigations and an interminable wrangle over the tariff , Congressmen and Senators take little cognizance of the fact that the nationalization of our industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In . England , Germany , and other European countries the nationalization of industry has been attended with the development of national health programmes in the form of insurance against sickness , invalidism , unemployment , and old age , In the light of experience with legislation in America , it is doubtful whether any similar action will be taken by our government except under the pressure of an enlightened public opinion . To-day we are grossly ignorant of the state of our human resources . Even the national birth and death rates are unknown . Sporadic investigations by philanthropic societies and various Federal departments make it certain that tuberculosis and kindred diseases , child labor , unemployment , and the like are impairing the national vitality ; but our information is too scattered and imperfect to compel remedial action . The attitude of our statesmen toward human conservation is as complacent as it formerly was toward the conservation of our material resources . And it is probable that this ruinous complacency will continue until a department has been created with facilities adequate to the continuous accumulation of facts for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              