@@493112

THE human I background of President Wil- son ' s reception in France is both dramatic and paradoxical . He goes as the chief of a great nation whose intervention in the war was in instrumental in bringing victory to the Allied cause . ' 218 conduct of the diplomatic propaganda of the Allies and his insistence upon a peace whose dura-ability would be based on a union between power and magnanimous justice furnished a needed and 4.1utary moral reenforcement to the military exer ? t434S , of the Allied nations . His personal prestige arnong the peoples of Europe as the spokesman of their interests is enormous and unprecedented . His reception in France will be one of the most mag ? 41ficent ever granted by any nation to the political Wilson 's ef of a friendly power . Yet just before Mr. wilson 's arrival the official censor of the nation ' hich is giving to him this enthusiastic greeting Passes prominent interview ? the longest interview from America published in Paris since the war began ? t11 aminent American opponent of the Presi-1 dent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? lentative of America 's public opinion . At this writing only the fact and not the contents of the inter ? view with Nicholas Murray Butler has been pub ? lished in the American papers , but if the fact is true the giving of the interview and its publication in France is surely prophetic of a Peace Conference which will be the opposite of peaceful . It means that Mr. Wilson 's opponents in this country will go to any extreme which is necessary to impair the President 's prestige and the success of his ambitious and lofty plans . It means that the President 's opponents abroad are likely to take advantage of the divided public opinion of America in order to prevent his policies from being carried out . It means eventually a line-up throughout the world of liberal and popular as against Tory and class opinion for and against a victory at the peace table of power politics . We trust that such a conflict will not develop , but if it does develop will the Ameri ? can people back up their President or will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no duty more important than that of pre ? venting a disagreement and seeking a fair under ? standing between their own country and the British commonwealth . It only requires a little forbear ? ance on both sides and a little honest consideration by each of the other nation 's fundamental interests to reach an understanding . Winston Churchill , for instance , is quite right in testifying to the positive contribution made by British sea power to the progress of western democratic civilization . He is quite right in insisting that British sea power shall not be emasculated as long as the spectre of militar ? ism continues to haunt the highways of international intercourse and to keep alive the old dangers to the freedom of nations . The control of the seas should remain for the present in the hands of a fleet which is predominantly British . But it is a pity that Mr. Churchill did not add to these perfectly true state ? ments some recognition of the validity of the Ameri ? can counterclaim . During the war the British mari ? time supremacy has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which were affirmed by the former American doctrine of the freedom of the seas . If these precedents are sustained , as in our opinion they should be sus ? tained , the neutral no longer has any commercial rights during war as against a belligerent . But in that case nations which do not control the seas are entitled to definite safeguards against the possible abuse of sea power , and there is only one way in which such safeguards can be created . The na ? tion which controls the seas in the declared interest of popular freedom and national security should seek and accept a definition by a league of free na ? tions of the purposes for which this power of life and death over other maritime peoples should be exercised . The League of Nations is not for the present a substitute for British sea power , but it is a necessary antidote to British sea power . The League of Nations and not sea power must write the maritime law of the future . ANYONE who is in doubt as to the reasons why European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace conference will find them in a leading article of the London Daily News of December 6th . That journal is as well informed as to the trend of events as any in Europe , and much better informed than any journal in America . " Is there anyone , " it asks , " who is watching the move ? ment of events who can say that the omens are favorable ? It is true that the President 's fourteen points have been formally adopted , with one signi ? ficant exception , but the acceptance of the letter is nothing . It is the acceptance of the spirit that mat ? ters . And in what quarter do we see signs of that ? An election is imminent in this country , but in the appeal to the electorate by the members of the Coalition government there is an ominous absence of any considered or worthy reference to the supreme issue before the world . . .. Meanwhile are the omens better in France or Italy ? In all the world who are the statesmen who are backing not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Can we name one ? Can not we name a score who are subtly working against that policy ? " One champion of democracy against all the adepts in the policies of craft and power : that , to put it plainly , is the present balance of international forces . Will President - Wilson prevail , or , if de ? feated , will he come out into the open and acknowl ? edge his defeat ? Or will he yield the spirit and make a victorious show out of the letter ? Much history will turn on the answers to these questions . F President Wilson eventually makes up his mind 1 to appeal directly to liberal sentiment abroad for the support of his policies , he will not by any means be the first to go behind the constituted authorities of a foreign state to the parties in op ? position . The opponents of the Wilson policies are counting on employing precisely those tactics . TheY expect to avail themselves of Republican criticism in America to back-fire the President . On this point it is worth quoting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least chance of getting any treaty ratified which is repugnant to the sentiments of the Republican party . We take it that the opinions of the Republican party rnaY fairly be summarized by saying that they are framed in unreserved support of Great Britain and France . It is well to understand this situation , as it enables us to approach the Peace Conference with all confidence . It gives ourselves and the French a position of greater power , which we must neither abuse nor fail to use . " In other words , the British and French , or rather , Lloyd George and Clemeo ' ceau , can use Wilson when they find him useful , and go beyond him to the Republicans when that is profitable . That is indeed a position of great power , if it is true that there is no American view ' independent of the political sparring of Republicans and Democrats , which finds support among Eur ? ' pean liberals just as British and French imperialism find support among American Bourbons . GRANT that a thoroughly impartial inter ? tional commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war ; that if he had willed otherwise , the peace would not have been disturbed . Would this justify us in demanding his extradition for trial ? Had we any such thing as 3 body of international law , written or unwritten , outlawed war , or defined the crime of making War Or did we live under an insane and immoral inter- national system that treated war itself as perfectly lawful , whether defensive or offensive ? And shall we not continue to live under such a system unless the peace congress is bold enough and holiest enough to establish institutions placing a ban on war ? It is worth noting that those who are el : ing most loudly for the punishment of the Kaiser 3 the author of the war are the very men who Weremost bitterly opposed to general international arh4 tration , who insisted most strongly that in any arb : tration treaty we might make , all questions of honor and vital interests must be reserved . Who was to determine whether a specific dispute involved tike national honor and the vital interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ht in his judgment Germany 's honor and vital iate ir ; ests were involved ? We may not like to admit t ' but there is not the slightest justification in exist . ing law for the punishment of the Kaiser , as a maker . There ought to be ; there will be in future if the peace makers do their work . But for tfe , present it is more important that the nations frain from establishing precedents of retroactN . The New legislation than that they wreak vengeance upon any particular representative of the old regime . THE proposal to punish the Kaiser and other German leaders for atrocities in the con ? duct of the war , stands on an altogether different footing . International law , while refusing to go behind the fact of war to the rights and wrongs of it , has established at least some fairly definite rules expected to mitigate its horrors . Deliberate bombing of hospitals , barbarous treatment of pris ? oners and the like have long been recognized as crimes , differing in no essential respect from crimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Wholesome precedent if after a war a universal assize were set up to hear and determine all charges of this character . But such an assize ought not to confine itself to hearing charges against the enemy . If there have been criminal acts on our side , we ought to insist upon justice being meted out to their Perpetrators , rather more strictly , perhaps , than to the enemy criminals . Not only the general wel ? fare , but our own fair name is at stake when we Permit crimes committed in our cause to go un ? Punished . We may believe that our conduct of the war has been irreproachable ; or if we make more generous allowance for the community of human nature , we can still affirm our conviction that all the charges that can be brought against us or any of our Allies , including even Russia of the unre ? generate days of the Tsar , bulk as nothing by the side of German frightfulness . But the greater our faith in our own record , the more imperative the requirement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into war-crime an impartial matter . Else the Punishment will be vengeance , not justice . IT was a malicious and shabby proceeding on the part of the Department of Justice to give Publicity to the names of those writers and college Professors whom some irresponsible German , be ? fore American entrance into the war , classed as friendly to his country . Some of the men named were pro-German in the sense of being anti-Ameri ? can , but most of them were patriotic Americans who Wished American national interests to be asserted against Great Britain as well as against Germany . 4 Peculiarly unjust attack is that upon Albert Bush ? nell Hart . All that he did to deserve it was to pro test somewhat vehemently early in the war against the way a in which the British were stretching their right to hamper neutral commerce with Germany . But almost all American business interests , news-Papers , international lawyers and politicians were littering at that time similar protests . It was not until later , when Germany began to use the sub ? illarine as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dangerous conse consequences of carrying too far the controversy with Great Britain and to take refuge in a benevolent neutrality . Professor Hart and many of his fel ? low-sufferers have a right to resent the publication of such a list unless at the same time accompanied by a statement of the facts and an exoneration of the men whose loyalty is beyond suspicion . THOSE Germans who bear the picturesque name of Spartacides are revolutionary so ? cialists , who desire the complete overthrow of the present moderate Socialist government and the sub ? stitution therefor of a Soviet government of sol ? diers and workmen . They want a dictatorship of the proletariat , even at the cost of a bloody social upheaval . They are not chiefly interested in terms of peace or in the friendship of the Allies or even in the temporary fate of Germany ; what they want is a world proletarian revolution . Whether or not they will succeed we do not now know , for we are totally ignorant of the relative strength of the two opposing groups . All the forces of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably be relied upon to support a moderate government anxious to secure bread and work and peace for Germany , and these cohesive elements are much more powerful than in Russia because Ger ? many is more highly developed , intelligent , disci ? plined and industrialized . The present disorder and uncertainty , however , aid the forces of revolu ? tion and the economic conditions also favor that cause . If the millions of soldiers , about to be dis ? banded , are unable to secure jobs or food , if eco ? nomic distress spreads throughout the republic or if the terms of peace are so onerous that these de ? mobilized but armed men become desperate , the chances of a successful revolutionary uprising will not be inconsiderable . With Russia in the hands of the Bolsheviki , with central and eastern Europe on the verge of famine and with several of the nations about to be created already fighting among them ? selves for territory , a victory for the Spartacides in Germany , even if only temporary , would render a settlement of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult . THE cost of living in Philadelphia has in- creased 67.17 per cent since 1914 , while the salaries of Philadelphia teachers have increased not one per cent . In the desperation of trying to ad ? just these two conditions to each other the teachers and their sympathizers are forwarding a bill which provides for a temporary increase in the salaries of Pennsylvania teachers for the next two years . After that time the charter of Philadelphia can be revised to raise more money for schools but meanwhile the minimum wage of Philadelphia 's most important profession is $600 a year .                     