@@444500

To get a fair idea of what President Wilson 's administration has done , the conditions under which it has had to work should first be considered . This is a matter rarely taken into account , the usual assumption being that as a matter of course settled means exist by which the President can discharge his constitutional functions . This is a common error . The means never have been settled , but have varied from time to time ? always without attaining permanent system . Administrative policy has been formulated by makeshifts devised from time to time ; and it so happened that President Wilson took office at a time when actual practice had been revolutionized and conditions were wavering and confused . It is the duty of the President to give to the Congress information on the state of the Union , and recommend to their consideration such measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient . ' There is no provision as to the form in which he shall present his measures , or the mode by which he shall get them before Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then no standing committees to intervene between the recommendations of the administration and the action of the House . The House exercised its functions of criticism and VOL. 117 - NO. 5 control through the Committee of the Whole . When the sense of the House was ascertained , a select committee would be appointed to prepare the bill ; which usually meant that the select committee 's work would be done for it by the administrative department concerned . The system was precarious , as it rested merely on traditional practice ; and it soon broke down under pressure of party spirit . In ceasing to rely upon the administration for the drafting of measures , Congress had recourse to committees , and thus originated the peculiar system of standing committees which has had such a monstrous development . With Jefferson 's advent to office , it became party usage to allow the administration to pick the chairmen of important committees . This system of guiding legislation by private arrangement between the administration and the standing committees lasted until John Quincy Adams 's administration , when it was ruptured by party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all recognition of the legislative initiative of the President simply as the President . The President may exercise an actual initiative of masterful authority , but he derives it from an extra-constitutional source ? his position as head of his 578 THE RECORD OF THE ADMINISTRATION party and its national leader . The connection between the executive and legislative departments ? without which business could not be carried on ? is supplied by party organization . This is the prime cause of that massive development of party machinery peculiar to the United States . The President 's position as the national leader of his party may be nominal and titular rather than real and actual , and his legislative initiative be correspondingly abridged . It was on the wane for many years , largely owing to some developments in Congressional procedure . It has been computed that it would take over sixty years to consider in regular order the bills introduced in a single session . The inconveniences of the situation were counteracted by the growth of an autocratic system of control in the Speakership . The process was the acme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill to be passed he would not recognize any one to move its consideration . It became a regular practice for members to visit the Speaker to explain the purpose for which they desired recognition and to get his consent . In addition , through a small Committee on Rules , of which he was a member with such colleagues as he chose to appoint , he virtually controlled the time of the House . This committee always had the right of way , and at any time it could bring in a special order fixing the time when any given matter should be taken up by the House and also the period to be allotted to its consideration ; and nothing else could be considered until action had been taken on the report of the committee . The development of this autocratic power , which was not the work of any one speaker and which went on no matter which party was ascendant , tended to displace the initiative which the President exercised as a party leader . There was a period when the chief seat of authority in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of undertakers embracing the Speaker and some leading chairmen of committees in both Houses . This system of rule was suddenly overthrown by the parliamentary revolution of March 19 , 1910 , which took away from the Speaker the power to appoint the committees , ousted him from membership in the Committee on Rules , and made his functions simply those of a moderator . The party caucus then became the seat of Congressional management . By a caucus rule adopted on January 19 , 1911 , committee appointments are made by the Committee on Ways and Means . The Committee on Rules now acts under caucus direction in reporting the special orders under which important legislative business is necessarily transacted . Under the old system the President had to negotiate with a group of undertakers . Under the new system he must work through the party caucus . The new system is more public than the old ; but it is more extensive . Under both systems the House becomes an instrument for registering party determinations of policy arrived at outside of the chamber . The deliberative function of Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imperfectly there . I Suchwere the conditions with which President Wilson had to deal in making his legislative recommendations . He had exceptional qualifications for his task . Public affairs had been his lifelong study . His intellectual development has had such singular unity that by consulting his article in ' the International Review on ' Cabinet Government in the United States , ' written when he was a Princeton senior of twentv-three , one will find in embryo the constitutional views that run through all his books and essays . The fullness of knowledge which he possesses would not , however , of itself be politically efficacious . Literary pursuits do not usually make for political capacity , as they cultivate habits of thought rather than habits of action , and are apt to establish characteristics of aloofness and idiosyncracy . Woodrow Wilson 's career was rather peculiar in that to fondness for books he united fondness for people , and his social contacts were broad , numerous , and diversified . The situation of the scholar who is transferred from the study to the political arena is apt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's case practical politics was a congenial sphere , in which he could move with ease and opportunity . Since he has this skill , which he derives from his character , his knowledge and his forensic ability put weapons in his hands which he can wield with great effect . His career as Governor of New Jersey had been marked by vigor of initiative . He took an active part in shaping measures and in conducting legislation ; he attended party caucuses , and on one occasion at least he served as a member of a committee appointed by the caucus to prepare a bill . These activities were carried on under steady fire from a faction of his party that not only opposed his views , but questioned the propriety of his behavior . He defended his conduct with unruffled temper , dauntless courage , and unfailing resources , and he needed them all , for , although his behavior was thoroughly constituional in every sound and proper sense , he was disregarding old traditions . The complaint was frequently lodged against him that he was unwilling to allow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to his practice of going on the stump and appealing to the people when measures that he was championing stuck on the legislative ways . It will appear from this that he takes the view that the duty of recommendation involves the full exercise of the authority and influence of the executive office ; whereas the view has been prevalent that all it means is that the Congress may be requested to take the subject into consideration . President Wilson 's selection of the members of his Cabinet should be judged with respect to the conditions noted in the foregoing . Considered from that point of view it displayed political sagacity . Elements of individual capacity , expert knowledge , and caucus good-will entered into it , but the ruling principle of choice was manifestly party influence . It showed that President Wilson was not moved by his personal preferences , but was controlled by the obligations of his trusteeship . That he acted wisely was soon displayed by the spirit of mutual confidence and hearty cooperation promptly manifested in the relations between the White House and the party leaders in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's advantage that he did not approach the solution of his legislative problems in any doctrinaire spirit . He held views of tariff revision and currency reform that were in general accord with the beliefs and principles of his party , but he had not committed himself on details . It may be remembered that in his speech in reply to the formal notification of his nomination to the Presidency he remarked that he did not know enough about currency reform to be dogmatic about it . With clear views as to principles and objects , he met the party leaders with an open mind in respect of details and in an attitude of deference to their knowledge and experience . It would be a complete misconception 580 THE RECORD OF THE ADMINISTRATION of the situation to imagine that he had a programme to impose upon Congress . His position has not been dictatorial but instrumental . He takes part freely in party deliberations , is open to suggestions and advice , and exerts his influence to arrive at sound conclusions ; but the most characteristic feature of his administration is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from whatever source derived , to promote action . He does not stand aloof or remain inert at any stage of the legislative process with respect to party measures . The natural desire of the Congressional leaders to avail themselves of his great capacity for service is the true explanation of his extraordinary influence with Congress . His personality stands out from the open way in which he accepts his responsibilities , and it is not sufficiently observed that his party associates have had much to do with shaping those responsibilities . The tariff bill is a good instance of this . The measure was put in provisional shape by the Ways and Means Committee before President Wilson was seated in the White House . The call for the extra session was in pursuance of the policy favored by the Congressional leaders , and he promptly entered into cooperation with them in settling details of the measure . By March 25 , a complete draft was in his hands , and he announced his readiness to support the measure . He recommended it in the address which he personally delivered to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This matter of the mode of delivering a message appears to be the only one as to which President Wilson has acted of his own motion in making an innovation . His decision to restore the practice of Washington 's time was the subject of some censorious remarks by party associates , particularly in the Senate ; but the fact that he was entirely within his indi vidual rights could not be questioned , and the arrangement was acquiesced in without active opposition . The practical significance of Presi. dent Wilson 's advocacy of the tariff bill was not fully revealed until the Senate began to ride over the House in the usual fashion . The bill passed the House on May 8 , and the Senate kept it under consideration for about four months . Agents of business interests flocked to Washington to exercise their customary privilege of writing the tariff schedules through the agency of senatorial prerogative . But they were amazed to find the situation singularly intractable , and they laid the blame upon President Wilson . They were not wrong about that . The President publicly declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the pending bill , and that he was not looking for or accepting compromises . ' Eventually he startled his opponents by directing public attention to the tariff lobby , remarking , ' It is of serious interest to the cons. try that the people at large should have no lobby , and be voiceless in these matters , while great bodies of astute men seek to create an artificial opinion and to overcome the interests of the public for their private profit . It is thorough . ly worth the while of the people of this country to take knowledge of this matter . ' Probably no other presidential utter-ance ever had such a tremendous reverberation throughout the country . The discomfited lobby resorted to a campaign of personal calumny which is still furtively pursued , but the bill was saved . It passed the Senate toward the close of September ; an agreement between the two Houses was soon reached and on October 3 the bill became law . For a disinterested judgment upon the character of the measure the reader should consult Professor Taus- // sig 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Act ' gave little evidence , if indeed any at all , of the sort of manipulation which had affected the details of the Tariff Acts of 1895 , 1897 , and 1909 . ' The instrumental character of the President 's activity was as strikingly displayed in the passage of the Federal Reserve Act . As in the case of the tariff bill the Democratic party leaders in the blouse had wisely made an early start . A preliminary draft of the measure was made before President Wilson was inaugurated . The details were considered in conference with the President , with the result that when the bill was submitted to the House it ranked as an administration measure which he would do all in his power to promote . He signified this by making it the subject of a special message . The tariff bill had been out of the House for over a month and was on its weary way through the Senate , when , on June W5 , 1913 , the President addressed Congress in behalf of the currency bill , making a frank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . This feature of his address is particularly interesting as a revelation of his ideas of the constitutional function of his office . He said : The committees of the Congress to which legislation of this character is referred have devoted careful and dispassionate study to the means of accomplishing these objects . They have honored me by consulting me . They are ready to suggest action . I have come to you as the head of the government and the responsible leader of the party in power , to urge action now , while there is time to serve the country deliberately and as we should , in a clear air of common counsel . I appeal to you with a deep conviction of duty . I believe that you share this conviction . I therefore appeal to you with confidence . I am at your service without reserve to play my part in any way you may call upon me to play it in this great enterprise of exigent reform , which it will dignify and distinguish us to perform and discredit us to neglect . ' This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the probability is that the measure could not have been passed , and that still another of the temporary patchworks and vicious compromises that have characterized Congressional treatment of the currency question would have been the result . One piece of patchwork legislation in the past , that had the effect of creating a vested interest of enormous influence adverse to sound financial legislation , was the lowering of national bank capital requirements so as to call into existence a host of petty banks whose activities were more akin to those of a pawn-shop than to proper banking functions . The system of currency supply was limited , expensive , and oppressive to an extent that engendered continual dissatisfaction and complaint , caused periodical stringency and occasionally produced desolating panics . Incidentally the situation acted as a nursery of demagogues , to whose activity and influence it was the habit of ignorant politicians to impute the unrest of the people ; whereas , as Burke long ago pointed out , the career of the demagogue is not a cause but an effect of the public uneasiness . But any step toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition in every Congressional district , in much the same spirit in which people doing a lucrative business from their ownership of wells and pumps might oppose the entrance of a conduit from a reservoir . The teachings of experience had , however , educated banking interests in favor of a system of currency supply based upon assets , in place of the old system of bond-secured supply . But banking interests were committed to the principle of one central institution as a source of currency supply , to be controlled by the member banks and to be essentially a bank of banks . In opposition to this the administration favored a system of district reserve banks operating under public control . Issue was thus joined for one of the greatest battles of our political history . The opposition to the administration measure was active , extensive , and powerful ; attempts to manipulate its provisions were numerous and persevering ; but its features were subjected to no serious change . The success of the administration in passing the Federal Reserve Act is to be attributed to the care taken to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purpose . Early in September , 1913 , when the case in support of the measure had been fully prepared , it was submitted a : , the Democratic party caucus . Two weeks of sharp discussion followed behind closed doors , where , in the privacy of a party conclave , members gave expression to any doubts , scruples , or objections entertained . A change of system so great and radical as that proposed by the bill supplied matter for wide-ranging criticism ; but as a result of patient explanation and mature consideration a hearty agreement was reached , and the bill .. =a , s assured of steady and united party support in the House . The legislative machinery controlled by the Committee on Rules acting under caucus instruction was now set in brisk operation . On September 9 an elaborate report upon the provisions of the measure was presented to the House by the Banking and Currency Committee . Debate upon it began the next day and it passed the House on September 18 by a vote of 286 to 84 , the majority in its favor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House . This emphatic approval of the meas. ure by the representative assembly ap . parently did little , however , to smooth its passage through the Senate or to abridge the veto power which particular interests may exercise through that body . That the bill was preserved in its original character was due to the inflexible determination of the President . Although the House Committee that prepared the measure had given a long time to public hearings , additional hearings were allowed by the Senate Committee , lasting until October 25 A month of committee consideration followed , then came three days of can . cus consideration , and at last , on December 1 , the bill was reported to the Senate . The delay was due chiefly to the opposition of banking interests clinging tenaciously to the old project of one central bank for currency emissions under banking control . Vehement opposition to the pending measure was expressed by associations of bankers . The opposition was sufficiently influential to cause a party break in the Senate , one effect of which was to divide the Banking Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the administration bill with amendments , and the other reported a substitute measure . When the struggle was at its height , the attitude of banking interests became rather menacing , conditions being mentioned without which they would refuse to do business under the law . Tremendous pressure was exerted to induce the President to consent to a compromise , but he would not budge from the position he had taken in support of the House measure . When it became manifest that either the essential features of the House bill would have to be accepted or else currency reform would fail of enactment at that session , the banking opposition began to subside . // The situation had reached a crisis when the president of the largest bank in the country performed a timely public service by avowing to the Senate Committee that the House measure was based upon sound principles and that much of the opposition was due to the selfishness of some and to the ignorance of others . Thereafter , evidences of willingness to accept the situation and make the best of it began to appear . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , now moved on briskly to enactment . Senate debate began on December 1 , the final vote was taken on December 19 , the Committee of Conference reached an agreement on December 922 , and the President signed the bill the following day ? a notable Christmas gift from the Democratic party to the nation . The value of the measure in opening souree3 of currency supply adjusted to business requirements and in providing means for coping with financial panics is generally conceded ; but it is doubtful whether there is due appreciation of the far-reaching importance of the principle of public control asserted by the bill as successfully championed by the President . If the new system had been surrendered to banking control it would probably have been ably and successfully managed as a means of currency supply , mainly concerned with the interests of the banking business . But the banking business in this country falls short of a proper discharge of the banking function as regards either extent or economy of service . Only the intervention of public authority can correct the conditions , and the creation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that purpose . While the Federal Reserve Act was on its way through the Senate , measures for regulating business conditions were being put in shape . The matter is one to which President Wilson had giv en great attention and which he had discussed in public addresses more frequently than any other political issue . He had strongly condentned the mere penalizing of corporations , visiting upon innocent shareholders the sins of their servants . In opposition to this mode of dealing with the trust problem , he had insisted that guilt is personal and that penalty should be personal . But this method necessarily requires that responsibility shall be definite , whereas the existing Anti-trust Act was so vague that occasions might arise in which business men were at a loss to know what would be lawful and what not . To give precision and definiteness to the law was the aim of the measures promoted by the President . Shortly after the passage of the Federal Reserve Act he brought the matter forward in a personal address to Congress , on January 20 , 1914 . In this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be explicitly and item by item forbidden by statute in such terms as will practically eliminate uncertainty , the law itself and the penalty being made equally plain . ' But in addition he held that the business men of the country desire something more than that the menace of legal process in these matters be made explicit and intelligible . They desire the advice , the definite guidance and information which can be supplied by an administrative body ? an inter-state trade commission . ' Pursuant to these recommendations the Clayton Anti-Trust Act and the Trade Commission Act were passed . Not until the courts have interpreted the provisions of the Clayton Act may its practical efficacy be computed , but it is unquestionably a sincere and painstaking attempt to deal with a problem which presents such peculiar difficulty in this country as to suggest that the root of trouble is the imperfect development of the sovereignty of the State under our constitutional system . It would follow that improvement of administrative authority is now the greatest need , and the creation of the Trade Commission initiates a policy that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commission is to be constructive and not destructive . It is known that business men are already resorting to the Commission for information and advice , thus introducing a practice that has long been followed by corporation management in other countries . The fact is generally recognized that the Wilson administration has been signalized by the passage of a singularly large number of measures of the first rank , but little notice has been taken of the fact that it has been quite as notable for administrative improvement . Achievement of this character does not impress the popular imagination , but it is of immense public value . Space will not admit of details , but examination of department reports ( particularly those of the Department of Justice and the Department of the Interior ) will disclose impressive instances . II While President Wilson was engaged upon this programme of reform , which had been his principal concern as a student of public affairs and with regard to which his Cabinet had been framed , he was confronted with difficult external problems . The serious nature of one of these problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less pressing . Whatever opinion may be held of the situation in the Philippines , it is manifest that the policy of assimilation has been a failure . The Filipinos remain stubbornly averse from becoming American citizens and are insistent upon the restoration of their independence . At one time hopes were enter tained that an American interest could be built up , and the Federalista party was founded ; but it was never more than an official contrivance and soon collapsed under popular antipathy or indifference . For three successive sessions of the legislature no appropriation bills were passed and disbursements were made by the edict of the governor . general , in amounts and for purposes designated by him . The chronic dis . affection to our rule that pervades the islands was inflamed to a perilous ex. tent and the situation was full of menace . In dealing with it Mr. Wilson was unfortunately not in a position to correct the governmental system ; but he made administrative changes that soon produced a better state of feeling . Since then relations between the government and the assembly have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the appropriations are made in a constitutional manner . The internal discord invariably characteristic of the kind of government we have imposed upon the islands has not been wholly eliminated , but it has been less mischievous . A radical change of policy has been made in the Moro country , in which a formidable revolt was going on at the time President Wilson took office . The country had been under military rule , but the army is too massive and unwieldy an instrument for the ordinary tasks of government . It could put down insurrection , but could not maintain order . Periodical outbreaks took place , the suppression of which would be attended by a shocking butcher 's bill . The details might be exploited in the United States for political effect , and considerations of this nature hampered the military authorities . During the presidential campaign a large insurgent band was encamped about ten miles from the army headquarters in Jolo and practically ruled the island , // while our troops remained inactive . After the change of administration the More country was taken under constabulary control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not get a chance to organize . The native constables are constantly mixing with the people , and hearing the gossip . Now , if a datto begins sacking rice and collecting munitions with a view of making a foray , he will not have more than started before the constabulary are on the scene wanting to know what is going on . As a result of this policy the country has been kept in order , and industrial tendencies have been developed that discourage the predatory spirit . Newspaper readers will perhaps have noticed that the More country has not been a source of exciting news during the present administration . Administrative handling of the situation in the Philippines has been attended by successes that are really of great value although unobserved in the United States . While the serious nature of the Philippine situation has received little or no attention , there has been keen solicitude as to possible entanglement of this country in Mexican affairs . The assassination of President Madero precipitated a crisis at the outset of President Wilson 's administration , and the course pursued antagonized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States and in Europe generally favored the recognition of General Huerta , and there were strong reasons in favor of such action . According to international law recognition of Huerta was no more than acquiescence with a de facto situation , without approval of the mode in which that situation was established . There are abundant precedents for such action , which is favored by the great practical convenience of having some authority that can be held to ac count for injuries and offenses . But the present convenience may be dearly purchased , since it puts a premium on the revolutionary game that will keep attracting fresh players . This consideration evidently governed President Wilson 's policy . His refusal to recognize Huerta clouded all that dictator 's negotiations for the disposal of concessions and franchises , and eventually starved out his government . It is clear that the episode has greatly reduced the value of the stakes of revolution , and if the Wilson policy should become recognized as the settled policy of the United States , the financing of revolutionary movements will cease to be attractive . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Apart from the Huerta episode the Mexican policy of the administration presents only one feature of permanent interest ? the adroitness with which the situation was turned to account in improving our relations with other American countries . The behavior of the administration toward Mexico has conformed throughout to well-recognized principles of international law , and presents no novel features . There is , however , a blatant strain of sentiment which apparently holds that the United States is a most favored nation to whose case the ordinary rules of international morality do not apply . Germany was censurable for taking advantage of the weakness of China to seize territory there some years ago . Austria was censurable in moving against Servia in disregard of the feelings and interests of other powers . But America , in view of her moral superiority , may do as she pleases without fear of consequences . Such pretensions are , however , resented by other nations , and when the administration resorted to force in its dealings with Mexico alarm and anxiety were felt throughout the Americas . 586 THE RECORD OF THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the internal affairs of Mexico , it was equally resolved to uphold the honor of the flag . The action of Mexican officials at Tampico in taking a number of our sailors from a navy launch and refusing to make suitable amends and apologies for the act of violence , led to the occupation of Vera Cruz by our national forces in April , 1914 . General Huerta was at first defiant , but his position gradually became untenable and he left the country in July , 1914 . The leading South American states now took occasion to ascertain the intentions of the United States , the movement taking the form of an offer of mediation by Argentina , Brazil , and Chile . The situation was one of delicacy and , if mishandled , might have been mischievous . President Wilson extracted from it the opportunity for a signal stroke of statesmanship . He cordially accepted the offer of mediation , declaring , ? This government will be glad to take up with you for discussion in the frankest and most conciliatory spirit any proposals that may be authoritatively formulated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prophetic of a new day of mutual cooperation and confidence in America . ' The President 's acceptance of South American mediation was denounced by some as a blow to our prestige as a nation ; but those who do not render judgment from the standpoint of immediate prejudice saw that it was a masterstroke of policy . The Springfield Republican with entire truthfulness declared : ? ' The incident is worth hundreds of tours of South American capitals by our Secretaries of State , with innumerable banquet speeches on Pan-American solidarity . It is worth dozens of Pan-American conferences . For an act like this crystallizes fine words and eloquent periods into a landmark of Pan . American diplomacy . It establishes a precedent ; possibly it opens an era . ' The acceptance of this mediation was followed by the A. B. C. conference at Niagara Falls , which , although without definite result , brought about understandings that contributed to the in. stallation of the Carranza government , to whose authority Vera Cruz was transferred in November , 1914 . Since then the authority of the Carranza government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , up to the time of this writing , with sufficient efficacy to suppress disorder and outrage , some cases of which have involved the death of American citizens . But the Carranza government provides an authority that can be held to account , and it has given evidence of readiness to accept its obligations and of energy in fulfilling them to the best of its ability . Public opinion seems now to be settling down to the conclusion that President Wilson has successfully handled a difficult situation , and if one may now venture to anticipate the verdict of history , it may be said that his incidental diplomacy displays that highest quality of statesmanship which is able to convert an untoward event into an advantage . Apart from the diplomatic entente produced by it , the Mexican policy of the administration presents no novel or original features ; but incidentally there have been revealed weak and discreditable characteristics of our politics that will be a growing peril as our national interests expand . In other nations it is a salutary practice to keep the management of foreign relations out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress there is a strong disposition to make it a football of the electioneering game . It is not the habit of the American people to pay much attention to what is said in Congress , for the reason that public policy is formed outside of it . Hence the newspapers usually give only brief reports of its proceedings , and this apparently tends to make Congressional utterance the more strident , so as to gain attention by sheer vehemence . It is true that , although violent in speech , Congress is habitually moderate in action ; but meanwhile it fails to perform its proper function of clarifying public opinion , and serves rat her to confuse and to mislead . The effect becomes really dangerous in emergencies arising in our foreign relations , as they do not usually present simple questions in ethics and readily admit of misrepresentation . Thus it has been exhibited as a gross inconsistency that American citizens have been warned to keep out of Mexico while at the same time they have not been warned to keep off vessels sailing uncler a belligerent flag ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a government to order its nationals out of a country in a condition of anarchy is as common a precaution as roping off a danger-zone at a fire , and it involves no abridgment of rights of citizenship . There are abundant precedents on this point supplied by the practice of every civilized country . The only place where people have a full and unqualified right to be is in their own country ; and if for any reason they choose to expatriate themselves , they have only such privileges of travel or residence as are provided by treaty stipulations or conceded by international law . The high seas are , however , the common property of nations , and the right to use them as such is not suspended by war , although it is then qualified by belligerent rights . But travel or residence in a foreign country is not a right but is a conditional privilege . No authority holds that our government is bound to claim for our citizens the right to go where they please and stay where they please in Europe . If they do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right to expect anything more from their government than that it will insist that they shall be dealt with according to law , and that reparation shall be obtained in case of violation of rights secured by treaty or acknowledged by international law . As a matter of fact , probably many more Americans have gone into the European war area than have gone into Mexico since the outbreak of civil war there ; but there has been no outcry in home politics over their troubles , and in respect to European affairs opposition to the policy of the administration has followed lines different from those followed in respect of Mexican affairs . The administration has been censured on the one hand for lack of manly virtues , as shown by failure to make an energetic protest against the invasion of Belgium , and since then for failure to give expression to the moral disapprobation of this country for the acts and policies of the Germanic powers . On the other hand , it has been criticized for insistence upon the right of American citizens to the use of the sea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is desolating Europe . On the latter point it is not disputed that the position of the administration has been distinct and positive . Germany was notified that ' American citizens act within their indisputable rights in taking their ships and in traveling wherever their legitimate business calls them upon the high seas . ' Great Britain was notified that in so far as the interests of American citizens are concerned , the government of the United States will insist upon their rights under the principles and rules of international law as hitherto established , covering neutral trade in time of war , without limitation or impairment by 588 THE RECORD OF THE ADMINISTRATION Orders in Council or other municipal legislation by the British Government , and will not recognize the validity of prize court proceedings taken under restraints imposed by British municipal law in derogation of the rights of American citizens under international law . ' In maintaining this position the United States has been , and still is , involved in serious controversies with Great Britain regarding property rights and with the Germanic powers regarding human rights . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conclusions , even if space admitted an examination of particulars . Our correspondence with belligerent governments relative to neutral rights was enough to fill two large printed volumes up to October 15 , 1915 , and the mass has much increased since then . It is manifest that the behavior of the belligerents on both sides has been affected by the insistence of the United States on neutral rights , and that even the frantic ruthlessness of Germany has been checked . Examination of the record will show that never before during a European war has so much respect for neutral rights been successfully exacted . While refraining from any attempt to compute results , as being at present impracticable , it is nevertheless possible to discern the general policy pursued . It is a policy that is not new , going back as it does to our national beginnings . It is a policy that has always at the time been repugnant to chivalric ideals , but it has always been approved by history as sound and proper . It was fully expounded by Alexander Hamilton in his Pacificus ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ censured for not going to the rescue of France just as the present administration is censured for not going to the rescue of Belgium . The cardinal principle of this policy was thus stated by Hamilton : ? ' Under every form of government rulers are only trustees for the happi. ness and interest of their nation , and can not , consistently with their trust , follow the suggestions of kindness or humanity toward others , to the prejudice of their constituents . ' If this principle of trusteeship be accepted , it follows that it is not the business of the President of the United States to avenge the wrongs of Belgium or to put this nation in a position of moral approbation or disapprobation of any other nation . His proper business is to uphold , protect , and defend the rights and interests of the United States . Hence knight-errantry , how . ever noble its ideals may be , is quite inadmissible . A policy of knight-errantry has received such distinguished championship that the notion seems to have become somewhat diffused that perhaps it might have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a belief . It has been made perfectly clear that Bismarck 's policy of breaking the sticks one at a time has been discarded and that it is the present policy of Germany to try to break once and for all the entire fagot of her international problems . All her pron. arations were made with that pY of which the invasion of Belgian essential feature . It is not least likely that an undertaking th , was not deterred by the risk of forcing England into the war could have been affected by anything the United States could say or do . Nothing would have happened save an impairment of the ability of our government to act with effect in maintaining American rights and interests . But although our government kept within the bounds of its own duty , it went as far as that duty permitted in attempting mediation . On August 5. // 914 , just as hostilities were beginning , President Wilson sent a cable message to all the belligerent powers in which he said , ' I should welcome an opportunity to act in the interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time that might be thought more suitable , as an occasion to serve you and all concerned . ' Only formal ac-know ledgments were received from the belligerents , but this offer of service still stands , and it is well understood that President Wilson 's attitude is one of constant readiness to act for the restoration of peace whenever an opportunity arrives . In connection with the European war new issues have been developed in our domestic politics , and they are now engaging thought and action . Their trenchant influence has already been displayed by a break in the President 's Cabinet , and new party formations may eventually result from them . But at this writing they are still in the nebulous stage , and no exact survey of them is practicable . Hence this examination of the policy of the administration will not be carried any further , and therefore it only remains to attempt some assessment of constitutional value for the period that has been considered . Viewed from this standpoint , it may be remarked that the action of the Wilson administration in dealing with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now seems to have . The instructions of history enable one to say with confidence that the policy pursued will be regarded as prudent and sensible , and conforming to well-settled principles of national behavior . And likewise the storm of detraction through which it has had to move exhibits nothing new , but has been the common lot of our presidents in time of great public excitement . Where the Wilson administration has most strongly marked our constitutional system is in the changes introduced in the relations between the President and Congress , in furtherance of the legislative programme supported by the President in respect of our domestic problems . How deeply the thoughts and desires of President Wilson were bound up with these problems is abundantly attested by essays on public affairs contributed by him to this magazine in the days of his literary activity . The outbreak of the European war was undoubtedly a most untoward event , restricting his activities and abridging his opportunities in moulding political structure . In a letter to a friend in the Senate , before his inauguration as President , he wrote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in mind when I get to Washington will be conferences with my legislative colleagues there with a view of bringing some budget system into existence . ' That immensely important matter has not , however , made any visible progress as yet , although it has been the subject of some conference with party leaders . Nothing more than a provisional estimate of his career can be attempted now . The record is far from complete . He is not yet quite sixty years of age , and he is in the fullness of his mental powers and his working capacity . His typical characteristic as a statesman is , however , definitely settled and distinctly manifest . He applies himself to his tasks , not in the spirit of a gladiator , or of an experimentalist , or even of a reformer , but always in the spirit of a trustee . He regards his office as one of such power and responsibility that inaction on public issues would be culpable , but he is constantly mindful of the fact that the power is not an individual prerogative but is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he makes an energetic use of the influence of his office to promote action , it is always with respect to measures to which his party is committed and in the exercise of his recognized function as the party leader . If distraction of sentiment or vacillation of purpose enfeebles party policy in Congress , he has an effective resource in that he is quite able and willing to appeal to public opinion so as to bring its instructions to bear upon the situation . Thus while he moves forcefully he moves cautiously , testing the ground for each step he takes , like an elephant crossing a bridge . But while his temper and method are strictly constitutional , he conceives it to he the President 's duty to take an active part in shaping the details of legislation , in promoting action and in enforcing party discipline . He has set up such high standards of constitutional propriety and he has established such cogent precedents that the character of the presidential office will be permanently affected . It will be practically impossible hereafter for any one who takes office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can acquit himself of his legislative obligations merely by requesting Congress to take matters into consideration . Our constitutional system is yet to be democratized ; has yet to attain its definite form . When the time comes for history to display the process , the methods of Wilson 's administration will appear as the mark of a new era.                     