@@488339

SIR : One hears , these days , not a little vociferous condemnation of the principle that " might makes right . " There is a brutality about it that seems to cancel , without mitigation , every gain that civilization has made , every refinement with which it has succeeded in covering man 's native savagery- . But there is at least this consideration to be urged in its favor  --  that , other things being equal , it is better to have strength than weakness survive . In a civilized state , to be sure , there is a tendency to add gradually to the survival value of every one concerned . But if a choice must be made , then society must prefer health to disease , strength to weakness , intellect to dulness , skill to failure , in its elimination of the unfit Perhaps we should not all care to live in a Nietzschean world , but there could be worse ones . Among these worse ones would be a world in which weakness made right . Who does not know families in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a child who happens not to have a robust constitution ? He learns to base his claims to preference on the very fact of his comparative incapacity . But while the abstract principle that weakness makes right would be ridiculed alike by the biologist and the philosopher  --  and even , no doubt , by the indulgent parents just referred to  --  it may well be heralded as the surprise of the hour to hear that very doctrine urged by the high diplomats of the land of Nietzsche and Schopenhauer ! No one asserts , of course , that Germany is weak ; far from it . But even the strongest nation might quake before a world in arms , and be tempted into the use of unwonted logic . And such has been the case . German diplomacy has long consisted in the opportune rattling of the sabre ; but when her might seems more than matched , her Treitschkean logic weakens into a plea of extenuating circumstances . This anomalous doctrine first came to light at the time of the invasion of Belgium . From the standpoint of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed the very apogee of irresponsible power . It must have looked as if the big nation broke its promises towards the little one solely because it had the necessary men and cannon to enforce its will . But it is well to remember that the reason given for tearing up the scrap of paper was not based upon the consciousness of power at all . On the contrary , it was a confession of weakness . The Germans went through Belgium , not simply and solely because they were able to resist all opposition there , but explicitly because they were not then able to cross the French frontier farther south . It was " military necessity " that led to the breaking of the treaty , and that necessity consisted of a range of powerful fortifications along the German frontier of France . The invaders therefore felt justified in repudiating their moral obligation towards neutral Belgium , because they were not powerful enough to live up to their promises and still win . There is no talk here of superman , no " ' Wine zu Macht " ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same strange plea is made for - the illegal and murderous use of the submarine . According to the treaties still in force among the great nations , a man-of-war may stop and search a merchantman of the enemy , and , if it be found to carry contraband , either tow it into port or , when all on board are transferred to a place of safety , send it to the bottom . Germany 's conduct in this matter has , by common consent , been in open and ruthless contravention of her solemn promises as recorded in the accepted treaties . And what apologies were offered ? They may be boiled down in principle to three . Of these the first two are so absurd they can scarcely be meant seriously ; and the third is , in a veiled form , only the astonishing plea of weakness above referred to . ( 1 ) It is said the treaty fixing the rule of search and capture is so old as to be obsolete . This involves the novel idea that treaties fade like cheap photographs in the light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Louisiana is more than twenty years older than the treaty in question . What should we think of the claim that France was ROW at liberty to repudiate it ? On this principle the Declaration of Independence and the Magna Charta are automatically nullified beyond redemption ! ( 2 ) It is said the invention of the submarine has modified the conditions of naval warfare . Doubtless . But it is unprecedented in the history of ethics or jurisprudence that the invention of a machine by which one could break the law with ease and convenience should be urged as a justification for so breaking it . The invention of revolvers greatly facilitated the project of murder , but the plea that that invention had " profoundly modified the conditions " of social intercourse would not accomplish much before a judge and jury . There remains , therefore , only the third ground of justification , which ran as follows : The treaty demands that the unarmed ship be hailed and asked to surrender . The submarine is necessarily a slow boat , and if it stops to parley the prey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stopping and searching the merchantman , and find contraband . It can not tow the capture into port because Germany has no open port to receive it . On the other hand , the submarine is so small it can not possibly take on the passengers and crew of the captured ship . The only alternative is to sink it at once with all on board . In other words , again , Germany is not powerful enough to get her large and swift naval units past the British blockade , and this was to exempt her from the promise to give due warning , or to rescue passengers and crew ; she is not strong enough on the sea to keep her ports open , and this excused her from adopting the alternative of capture . This is a direct appeal for special dispensation on the ground of her Insufficient strength . It is as if a man should claim the right to use a revolver in a boxing match because , forsooth , he could not defeat his opponent any other way ! The idea that might makes right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worse . It is obvious that the Teutonic demand upon our country to discontinue shipments of arms and ammunition rests , at bottom , on the same form of logic . Indeed , it is so obviously a plea of weakness that Germany seems to have been too proud to take formal diplomatic responsibility for any representations on this Point . She wisely let Austria do it . The whole point of the case is that our shipments benefit only one side . Why ? Simply because the Teutons have not sufficient naval Power to protect such commerce with them . As Austria has made no pretensions in naval armament , the plea does not sound Quite so . abject in coming from her . But the principle of it is unaltered by the change of signature . Thus in a third instance a moral exception , a special dispensation of rights , a readjustment of universal obligation , has been invoked by a great nation on the ground of weakness ? of its unfitness to survive in the established order of duty . Can that be the voice of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conquests , glories , triumphs , spoils , sunk to this petty measure ? The prerogative of power has given place to an inverted doctrine of survival  --  the defiant dignity of the superman to . the quibbling desperation of moral weakness . BENJAMIN W. VAN REFER . State College , Pa. , October 13 . AMERICA FIRST IN 1783 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : There is a striking clause in the charter of a college in Virginia , the wording being due somewhat perhaps to the facts that the institution began business in 1776 and was chartered in 1783 ? under the very British name of Hampden-Sidney College , where the father of President Wilson was professor for a few years many years after . The words sound well , and the tradition is that Patrick Henry put them together : " That in order to preserve in the minds of the students that sacred love and attachment which they should ever bear to the principles of the present glorious Revolution , the greatest care and caution shall be used in electing such professors and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so elected unless the uniform tenor of his conduct manifest to the world his sincere affection for the liberty and independence of the United States of America . " A. J. M. Prince Edward CO. , Va , October 15 . THE CHIEF CAUSE OF TEM EASTLAND CALAMITY . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : lint : - What we do assert is that if the officials who passed upon the subject had taken their stand sternly upon the principle that the lives of passengers must not be exposed to danger  --  that the margin of safety must be far greater than that afforded by the supposition of no lapse over occurring in the care with which the ship was managed  --  the disaster never could have happened . And the reason that this was not sternly insisted on was that to do so would mean a heavy loss to certain particular persons who had invested their money in the ship , etc. , etc . In a recent number of the Nation I find a most timely and ably written article , entitled " The Chief Lesson of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which appears to have been provoked mainly by the general horror of the disaster attending the accident to the ill-fated steamer , and partly by the entangled statement of Capt . Eames , a former master of the vessel , in which he is represented as saying , that although " the ship itself was thoroughly seaworthy . . . she was cranky , like all lean-hull vessels , and required constant watching , " etc . The grave and important lesson the-Nation appears to gather from the lamentable event , and the chief cause of the deplorable disaster , is attributable to what the writer finds to be a characteristic fault of the American people , in their " unwillingness to enforce strictly and unbendingly any general rule or principle , when such enforcement inflicts immediate pain or loss which it is disagreeable to contemplate , while the consequences of non-enforcement are remote and indefinite and may seem in the particular instance to be improbable . " The Nation declares that " the whole story of the Eastland 's past indicates that the " thought of danger was present , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to continue in that line of business , " and significantly inquires : " Why did they dismiss this thought ? " The pertinent and truthful conclusion is then reached , that the officials who passed upon the matter failed to take their stand sternly upon " the principle that the lives of passengers must not be exposed to danger , and-the reason they did not do so was , because such a course would mean , a heavy loss to certain particular persons , who had invested their money in the ship , " etc. , etc . And this faulty tendency in the American mind is illustrated by reference to the case of the murderer Holt , and to the atrocious conditions that led to the sinking " of the Slocum . The excellent editorial in the Nation suggests the opportunity to emphasize what the present writer considers the chief cause of the sad experience which befell the unfortunate Eastland , and which has directly , so the writer believes , contributed to many of the most appalling calamities- occurring in navigation during recent years , particularly in American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctrine is no longer held by thoughtful people , that the evils inflicted on mankind are the result of any kind of providential dispensation , but they are regarded as largely attributable to personal carelessness , negligence , lack of foresight , or downright wilfulness . In the wisdom and experience of the ages , in order to provide remedies to correct such dispositions , and compensate those who are injured by them , certain rules of conduct have been evolved and formulated the principles of which are familiarly known as common law . These constitute the supreme social code governing all English-speaking people , and their wise and beneficent operation is everywhere acknowledged . Through prudent legislation these principles of the common law have been gradually modified in their governing power and tendency to correspond with the changes wrought by the growing wants of society , having always in view the greatest good to the greatest number . Along with these principles of the common law have appeared numberless forms of corporate enterprise , some of which have grown to such colossal proportions , theyhave succeeded in subordinating the general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secured the enactment of laws providing for their especial profit or advantage , at the expense of the general mass of mankind . One of the wisest and most beneficial doctrines of the common law is that a shipowner is liable , in full , for all damages caused by the negligence of his employees . And such is the general maritime law , as declared in Foster 's Federal Practice , Vol. 2 , p. 593 . Yet the application of this profoundly wholesome doctrine has been entirely frustrated by the mal-legislation of the Congress of the United States and the Parliament of Great Britain , in which is illustrated , not merely the " unwillingness to enforce strictly and unbendingly " the general rule of the common law by the people of the United States and Great Britain , because such a course would mean a " heavy loss to certain particular persons , who have invested their money in ships , " but from the confessedly deliberate design to favor shipowners , to the detriment of all the rest of the world who become the victims of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their money in ships . " The rule of the common law , relative to the negligence of ship-owners , was observed as the governing principle in all cases of navigation , up to March 3 , 1854 , when the Congress of the United States passed an act , avowedly designed to encourage shipping , by extending all possible protection to vessel-owners , entitled " An Act to limit the liability of shipowners , and for other purposes . " And the limitations of liability- and exemptions contained in said act were enlarged by additional legislation by Congress , through the acts of June 26 , 1884 , and June 19 , 1886 , now embodied in sections 4282 to 4289 of the Revised Statutes of the United States . Similar provisions are contained in the English Merchants ' Shipping act of 1894 , 57 and 58 Victoria , chapter 60 , in which ship-owners are limited in their liability to an amount calculated at a specified number of pounds per ton of the vessel , and considered in its entirety the English law is less favorable to the ship-owner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acts of Congress . The origin and policy of this vicious legislation , which the Nation appropriately designates as a characteristic fault of the American mind , and which appears as a like affliction in the British disposition , is naively declared and explained by the late Mr. Justice Bradley , in the leading case of Norwich N. Y. Transportation Company vs Wright , 13 Wallace , U. S. , 104 , in which he says : The great object of the law was to encourage shipbuilding , and to induce capitalists to invest money in this branch of industry . Unless they can be induced to do so , the shipping interests of the country must flag and decline . Those who are willing to manage and work ships are generally unable to build and fit them . They have plenty of hardihood and personal daring and enterprise , but they have little capital . On the other hand , those who have capital , and invest it in ships , incur a very large risk in exposing their property to the hazards of the sea , and to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ additional losses and damage to an indefinite amount , etc , etc . The extreme wickedness of this iniquitous legislation , which the learned jurist laboriously endeavors to palliate by inept and honeyed sentiment , is not discicised by the casual reading of the insidiously worded sentences , inwhich the draftsmen have striven in vain to clothe it . The following is a type of the general tenor and substance of the several enactments referred to : The liability of the owner of any vessel , for any embezzlement , loss , or destruction by any person , of any property , goods , or merchandise , shipped or put on board such vessel , or for any loss , damage , or injury by collision , or for any act , matter , or thing , loss , damage , or forfeiture done , occasioned , or incurred , without the privity or knowledge of such owner or owners , shall in no case exceed the amount or value of the interest of such owners in such vessel , and her freight then pending . One would suppose , from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ familiar principle of " respondent superior " which runs through the common law of master and servant , or principal and agent , the negligence of the master and other officers of the vessel , whose negligence may be the proximate cause of loss of the vessel , or of loss of life or property occurring therefrom , would be attributed to the owners of the vessel . Now it is to protect the owners of the vessel from this beneficent provision of the common law that the atrocious Congressional legislation mentioned above was designed . The glaring evils resulting from such legislative enactments are not fully manifest , except when the courts attempt to apply their maleficent features to cases as they arise . Upwards of one thousand persons , whose brief obituaries filled five pages of the Chicago Tribune , lost their lives through the evident criminal carelessness of somebody . That being the case , each personal representative of the several unfortunate victims of the accident would doubtless obtain a judgment for several thousand dollars against the owners of the vessel , and all the property of such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the exemptions afforded the owners by the provisions of the act of Congress limiting the liability of the owners to the present value of The Eastland , which is comparatively worthless . In the proceedings to ascertain the causes leading to the dreadful destruction of life on the vessel , the general trend of the testimony shows that knowledge of the criminal negligence from which the accident is believed to have happened is not attributable to the owners of the vessel . Should this be the conclusion at the final hearing , then the damages accruing to the representatives of the thousand or more of unfortunate sufferers from the disaster can never be recovered from the owners of the Eastland , even in the face of the confessed negligence on part of the officers that caused the accident , although the possessions of the owners of the Eastland be reckoned in millions , except to the extent of the present value of the vessel , unless it can be shown that the owners had knowledge of its unseaworthy condition or knew of the negligence that caused its misfortune . These conclusions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States , in the trials of all the actions for damages resulting from the loss of lives in the destruction of the Titanic . Arid such has been the uniform judgment of the highest courts of the country , ever since the enactment of the unwise laws passed by Congress for the protection of ship-owners from the just and reasonable principles of the common law . The unwarranted character of " such legislative principles is further apparent when you undertake to apply them to other forms of business in which common carriers are engaged . For instance , in the case of a railway company , if loss of life or property occurred on one of its trains through the negligence of its employees operating the same , and the liability of the company should be limited by law to the value of the car on which the accident occurred , unless the company had knowledge of the negligence that caused the accident , would not such a law deserve and receive the fierce denunciation of every lover of justice ? Would it not be universally recognized as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companies as against the lives and property of those entrusted to their care and custody ? Does not such legislation esteem the property rights of the common carriers above the lives and property of those committed to their safe-keeping and transportation ? Is not such legislation a direct encouragement to the carelessness of ship-owners , and does it not operate as a premium on their negligence ? There never was a more opportune time for the repeal of such obnoxious laws than that offered to the next Congress , by an amendment to La Follette 's Seamen 's act , Which the shipping interests of the country are threatening to denude of its many chief merits . EMMET W. BAGGY . Paducah , Ky. , September 10 . " WHILST . " To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : Mr. William Lyon Phelps informs readers of the Nation for October 14 that " Englishmen almost invariably write ' whilst ' and Americans ' while . ' " To find out what evidence is at hand for this surprising statement , I turned to nine English books and two English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in each , examples of " whilst " in only one. * My brief investigation did not convince me that " whilst " is as nearly dead in England as it is in America , but it did make me sure that " whilst " is not " all but universal in contemporary English books . " The examples I happened upon are the following : " While the gruel was arriving at maturity , she wrapped the covering , " De Morgan , " When Ghost Meets Ghost , " London , Heinemann , 1914 , p. 5L'i ; " Ile was to go there at once , while the flue weather lasted , " Trevena , " Arminel of the West , " London , Alston Rivers , 1909 , p. 206 ; " While he was at school he worked hard , " introduction by " H. S. " to " Lapsus Calami and Other Verses " of J. K. Stephen , Cambridge , Bowes &; Bowes , 1912 , p.v ; " While companionably , all the way run the grass-grown cuttings , " C. G. Harper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Chapman &; Hall , 1912 , p. 186 ; " While we discussed the thickening traffic  --  we heard , " Kipling , " Actions and Reactions , " New York , Doubleday , Page &; Co. , 1909 , p. 149 ; " While carefully dropping some dilute carbolic acid . . . he found , " Masefield , " Multitude and Solitude , " New York , Mitchell Kennerley , 1911 , p. 264 ; " The light had been turned out while Huggins was reading , " Wells , " Kipps , " New York , Charles Scribner 's Sons , 1905 , p. 140 ; " While one they eye , " Hardy , " The Dynasts , " New York and London , Macmillan , 1904 , p. 7 ; " While waiting for that answer , it had become Mr. Pendyce 's habit , " Galsworthy , " The Country House , " New York and London , Put- 