@@430772

 | Till very recently the American people have been quite indifferent to the problems and possibilities of foreign trade development . It is true that the tariff has been one of the most persistent issues in our political history . But , for a century at least , the tariff was regarded almost solely from the standpoint of internal policy ; it was a convenient and fruitful source of revenue , an agency for the upbuilding of domestic industry , a safeguard of corporate profits , or a mere political bugaboo : Rarely was it considered with reference to the possibilities of trade promotion or of larger international relations . Nor is the explanation of this apathetic attitude hard to find . We were long a nation preeminently agricultural and pastoral , producing a surplus of raw materials and foodstuffs which found a ready market abroad without highly specialized selling devices or nicely formulated government policies or agencies . Such commodities sold themselves . Wheat was much the same whether grown in Dakota or Siberia ; price was the chief consideration , and a hungry world competed for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case of cotton our position was even more secure , for cotton was well-nigh a natural monopoly . We had little to fear either from competition of sellers or from tariff discrimination . Our rising manufactures , sheltered by an American tariff , long found abundant demand at home among a people rapidly increasing and steadily advancing their standard of living . Capital was not tempted to seek investment in foreign fields , and our people had no imperialistic or colonial ambitions . Today there is manifested a lively interest in the subject of foreign trade . This interest has been slowly growing during the past two decades , and it has received a sudden impetus since the outbreak of the European war . It has been expressed in governmental action , in private trade organizations , in newspaper and periodical articles , in books fresh from the press , and in the curricula of our universities . While the tariff is still viewed and treated primarily as a feature of domestic  | policy ? even as a local issue ? each recent revision has embodied some provision looking toward the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reciprocity clauses and the Payne-Aldrich law its maximum and minimum arrangements ; and the Underwood tariff specifically authorizes the President to negotiate trade agreements " wherein mutual concessions are made looking toward freer trade relations and further reciprocal expansion of trade and commerce . " Accomplishments under these clauses have been negligible ; but their enactment reflects a changing sentiment and a widening vision . This shifting emphasis is even more strikingly revealed in certain other forms of legislation . The Panama Canal , for example , was constructed primarily to remove a great physical barrier to our maritime commerce . Our government 's large share in promoting and financing the Pan-American Union was prompted in no small measure by the hope of better trade relations with the Latin-American republics . The consular service has been reorganized and strengthened with a view to more efficient aid to exporters . A federal Department of Commerce has emerged with representation in the cabinet and with more specialized organization for improving trade statistics , studying conditions abroad , and serving American producers for foreign markets . One of the most approved features of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establishment of branch American banks in foreign countries , which will enable our exporters to South America to meet their European competitors on more nearly equal terms . The new Federal Trade Commission is authorized " to investigate trade conditions in and with foreign countries where associations , combinations , or practices of manufacturers , merchants or traders , or other conditions , may affect the foreign trade of the United States . " In the interest of more adequate transportation facilities , our government has recently thrown aside tradition and precedent , and admitted foreign ships to American registry and made appropriations for government purchase of merchant vessels . These measures have been enacted in response to a slowgrowing popular demand fostered by rising export interests . They have been supplemented by private organization and ac- tivity . The World 's Fair at Chicago stimulated the movement for the great commercial museum at Philadelphia , designed largely to assist American manufacturers and merchants in securing foreign markets . The Standard Oil trust , the steel trust , the harvester trust , and other large-scale exporters have long had highly specialized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , rubber , and automobile interests , for example , have turned their attention increasingly to the foreign field . The National Association of Manufacturers is among the older associations of independent producers which have emphasized the advancement of export trade . Today perhaps a half-dozen major organizations , representing enormous financial , manufacturing , and commercial power , are at work in behalf of American trade and industry in lands beyond our national borders . Three of these which will be discussed more fully in another part of this paper , are the Chamber of Commerce of the United States of America , the National Foreign Trade Council , and the American International Corporation . The oldest of the three has just celebrated its fourth anniversary . One of the latest evidences of this newly awakened trade interest is a series of twelve small volumes just published by the Business Training Corporation of New York City , entitled , " A Course in Foreign Trade . " They were prepared under the direction of the Chief of the Federal Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce by some seventeen more or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extension work . A surprising number of fledgling periodicals are also seeking to stimulate and satisfy interest in America 's commercial opportunities . What is the explanation of this trade awakening ? At bottom it is due to the shifting emphasis in American production . We have become increasingly industrial and less predominantly agricultural . This change has come with progressive rapidity during the past generation . Inevitably it has been reflected in the make-up of American exports . With the doubling of the population , with the exhaustion of the unoccupied arable lands , with more and more of our people living in cities and devoting themselves to non-agricultural pursuits , with the rising competition of newer agricultural and grazing areas in Argentina ,  | Australia , and Canada , foodstuffs have assumed smaller and smaller proportions in our export trade , while the percentage of manufactures has increased by leaps and bounds until in 1914 they constituted 47 per cent of the total . This is the more noteworthy since that total had doubled twice between 1880 and the outbreak of the present European war . At the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , unlike grain and cotton , ' do not sell themselves . With them , price is not the sole factor , but form , appearance , convenience , terms of sale , and methods of packing are quite as important in determining demand . Moreover , factories , unlike fields , have no natural limit of output ; and , if the exportation of American goods is cut off by adverse tariffs or unfavorable selling and shipping conditions , the export of similar goods from some other country may well be correspondingly increased . Consequently the growing proportions of the manufactured exports lead to added interest in foreign tariffs and in exporting facilities . Finally , the European war has brought the American people to an unprecedented pitch of enthusiasm for trade development . During the past two years our exports have vastly increased in value , reaching in the calendar year 1916 an aggregate of five and a half billion dollars . Despite some increase in the value of imports , our favorable balance for the last calendar year was considerably over three billion dollars , a sum passing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least the momentary distinction of being the world 's greatest exporter . This vast increase is due mainly to manufactures exported to Europe at war prices . But with the partial breakdown of European financial and commercial relations , we have also increased our trade with South America , Canada , Asia , Africa , and Oceania , and have dreamed of permanently supplanting the Europeans in some of these fields . Especially have we hoped large things from our temporary advantage in South America . This hope is the stronger because of the present commanding position of the United States in the world of international finance and the possibility of our retaining a larger measure of financial leadership after the war than we had ever enjoyed before .  | At such a time it is fitting that we should take stock of our more important trade-promoting institutions . These may be roughly classified as public and private , although several of those falling within the latter group represent varying degrees . of governmental cooperation . 1 . Public trade-promoting institutions . Perhaps no department of our government can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation . The Bureau of Mines in the Department of the Interior , for example , has issued a bulletin on United States coals available for export . Similarly from the Department of Agriculture comes a bulletin on our foreign trade in farm and forest products . It is not practicable in this article , of course , to go into the relation of each department to the great enterprise of trade extension . The oldest , and in some sense the basic , agency in this field is the consular service . Originally undifferentiated from the diplomatic service and charged primarily with the protection of American of citizens and property in foreign parts , consular officers have gradually been given other functions including those of active commercial agents . They study the needs of the population in the districts in which they are stationed with a view to advising American producers and exporters of trade opportunities in those regions . By the reorganization act of 1906 this service was placed on the high road to efficiency , though not entirely beyond the reach of political influence . It is under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Department of State . Through the State Department all consular correspondence is conducted . Through it , other departments and bureaus make requests for investigations along lines in which they are interested . In it , instructions to consuls are prepared , consular reports received , expurgated of matter whose publication is for state reasons deemed inadvisable , and finally turned over to the persons , bureaus , or departments concerned . The exploitation of these reports is chiefly the work of the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce in the Department of Commerce . Consular reports cover the widest range imaginable ; but as affecting commerce they relate largely to foreign ' trade regulations , including tariff changes , sanitary laws , patents and trademarks , and to pe- culiar demands of the local market as affected by styles and prejudices , crop shortage , transportation facilities , practice as to credit , packing requirements , effective advertising methods , and contemplated industrial projects by governmental or private enterprise . During recent years our government has also followed the French practice of utilizing the services of consuls on leave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ published in advance , and afficial conferences are arranged with business men interested in trade with the countries in which these officers have been stationed . The duties of consuls are , however , so varied that trade promotion can not receive anything like adequate attention at their hands . In fact their service to commerce is not so much in the nature of direct aid in gaining foreign markets as of assisting representatives of American export houses who are sent abroad and of conserving within their several districts a spirit of good will toward the people of the United States . By far the most important work of the government in behalf of trade is carried on through the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce . By this Bureau , lines of investigation are formulated , data gathered , results tabulated and published , and information made available for congress , for administrative departments , and for business men . It works abroad through a three-fold force ; consuls , commercial agents , and commercial attaches . As we have seen , the consuls are attached to the State Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labors in the interest of trade are largely placed at the service of the bureau of foreign and domestic commerce . To render more direct and specialized assistance , provision was made in 1905 for a number of so-called commercial agents who are now under the immediate direction of this Bureau . These constitute a corps of traveling officers each with a single subject for investigation . The commercial agent is not accredited to a particular country nor stationed permanently in a definite locality ; he is sent out by his department as occasion or opportunity may offer , to collect detailed information on some subject in which he is an expert . For example , one was detailed to report on by-products of coke ovens in Germany ; another , to study conditions of our trade in textiles  | in Asia and Europe ; still others specialized on trade in cottonseed products , machinery , lumber , canned goods , chemical products , boots and shoes ; while a special force was assigned to Latin America to report on financial developments , banking opportunities , and trade possibilities in selected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employed by the Bureau ; but this number is by no means commensurate with provision made for similar work by leading European countries . After years of agitation , a corps of commercial attaches was created within the Department of Commerce in 1913 to supplement the trade efforts of consuls and commercial agents . They are appointed by the Secretary of Commerce , under civil service rules . They are accredited to the embassies and legations of the United States in the capitals of the countries to which they are assigned . Unlike the commercial agent , the commercial attache is therefore more or less permanently stationed in a given locality , and his attention is not confined to a single line of trade interest . Unlike the consul , he devotes all his time to commercial problems , and he reports directly to the Secretary of Commerce . Moreover he is not merely to learn and report fully what is being done in the commercial field in his district ; but , in the words of Secretary Redfield , " to help build upon this foundation the affirmative structure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not done , to determine what is needed , and point out the way to get it . . . . The attache should be alert to find out the weak spots in our competitors ' commercial armor , and advise how our business men may get a thrust therein . He is to do creative and not imitative work . " Thus far at least ten attaches have been appointed . They have been assigned to London , Paris , Petrograd , Berlin , Buenos Aires , Rio de Janeiro , Santiago ( Chile ) , Lima , Peking , and Melbourne . It is significant that four of the ten have been stationed in South American capitals . This service is too new to judge of its effectiveness ; but the type of men thus far appointed is very reassuring . They include the former Chief of the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce , and others specially qualified through consular experience , economic training , special government in- vestigation , or active participation in engineering , manufacturing , financial , or exporting activities . The Bureau of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publication on commercial subjects . Not only does it prepare and issue statistics of exports and imports ; but it provides the business and educational world with a varied and increasingly specialized literature ranging from slight pamphlets to pretentious monographs and bulky annual volumes . For example , statistics of exports and imports are furnished in brief on a folder promptly distributed each month , more completely but also more tardily in the Monthly Summary of Commerce and Finance , and in much greater detail in the annual volume entitled , Foreign Commerce and Navigation . Consular material is given to the commercial public by means of Daily ' Commerce Reports in which are listed consular officers on leave of absence , latest trade opportunities , and other items of most immediate importance to manufacturers and exporters ; to these are very frequently added Supplements to Commerce Reports , consisting of more detailed information from some particular consulate ; and from time to time are issued Special Consular Reports made up of extracts from reports of many consuls upon some particular subject of trade interest . A Tariff Series gives the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by countries and by leading commodities ; this information is kept up to date by means of supplements , and of a special series called Foreign Tariff Notes and gleaned from the Daily Commerce Reports . The results of the work of commercial agents and other investigators reach the public through the Special Agents Series and the Miscellaneous Series . A World Trade Director gives the names of importers in all parts of the world : the Statistical Abstract of Foreign Countries , an annual publication , shows in terms of American currency , weights , and measures , the imports into and exports from each country of the world . A monthly sailing dates bulletin indicates the sailings from the principal ports of this country to the principal ports of the rest of the world . Confidential circulars call attention to current projects abroad involving purchases which may prove of interest to American  | business men . Branch offices of the Bureau have been established in several of the larger cities , through which local commercial organizations and business firms may be kept informed of the material and services available @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its publications than is ours ; and , whatever shortcomings our government agencies may have , they can not be charged to a sparing of the printing press or of the postal service . 2 . Private trade-promoting institutions . For many years there was lacking in America that close coordination of governmental and private effort which has contributed so greatly to the effectiveness of European agencies . Of late there has been increasing evidence of attempts to correct this defect . Growing cooperation and interaction between private trade bodies and public agencies is well illustrated in the origin and work of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States of America . In 1907 , Oscar S. Straus , then Secretary of Commerce and Labor , called a conference of representatives of chambers of commerce , boards of trade , and other trade organizations . Its purpose was the creation of an organization which should serve as a connecting link between the Department of Commerce and Labor and the business world . The result was the formation of the National Council of Commerce , which " was to keep the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial and commercial interests and in turn to keep the latter in touch with the plans , activities , and results of the Department 's efforts in the promotion of the commerce of the country . " In two short years , this Council went out of existence ; it had failed chiefly because too many of the constituent bodies had purely local rather than national interests and partly because of red tape which hampered active and personal cooperation between the Council and the active workers in the Department . In 1912 a similar call resuited in the creation of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States of America , a body like the National Council in purpose , but of greater promise because in its make-up 191 organizations of broad national interests predominate . It is a " national clearing house for business opinion . " It tests " the business sentiment of the country upon important matters  | which would be affected by legislation " by means of a referendum vote ; and the practically unanimous vote of its 627 constituent organizations in favor of commercial attaches gave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The secretary of the Chamber writes : " It is our practice to follow all the policies and activities of the government which in any way affect business relations with any foreign people . We do this regardless of whether or not these activities are of a diplomatic nature and conducted through the Secretary of State , or are of a purely commercial nature and carried on through the Secretary of Commerce . Furthermore , whenever an opportunity develops for an agency which represents the commercial interests of the whole country to act for the advancement of international commercial relations the National Chamber proceeds immediately , sometimes obtaining valuable publicity in foreign countries for fair presentation of American interests and characteristics whenever misrepresentations have been circulated , sometimes acting as intermediary to present to foreign governments suggestions which will facilitate reciprocal trade , taking up with commercial organizations in foreign countries questions about which there may be cooperation among chambers of commerce , encouraging the organization of American chambers of commerce in foreign countries , etc . On the other hand the National Chamber gives a complete service of information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) has gone so far as to offer its members a plan in detail for a selling campaign of certain kinds of manufactures to those foreign countries about which it has now the most expert of personal information . " It should be borne in mind that the Chamber of Commerce of the United States of America does not devote itself exelusively to overseas trade . Its purpose is to coordinate official and private activities affecting commercial advance both domestic and foreign . In this respect it differs from the National Foreign Trade Council , a permanent body created in 1914 " to endeavor to coordinate the foreign trade activities of the nation . " It differs also in origin , since here the initiative came , not from the government , but from business associations . It grew out of a national foreign trade convention held at  | Washington and attended by several hundred delegates reprerenting nearly a hundred commercial and industrial organizations . Government officials cooperated heartily , but business men took the lead . The tariff had just been revised upon the so-called " competitive theory " ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national banks ; the Panama Canal was completed ; and exporting interests sought conference and a permanent agency through which they might conduct investigations and make their collective judgment felt in shaping the foreign trade policy of the nation . The functions of the Council are primarily investigatory and advisory , rather than directly serviceful to exporters . From its office in New York City have appeared a number of useful studies among whose titles are , " South American Handbook , " " Commercial Treaties of the United States , " and " Ocean Shipping ? the Basic Principles of Marine Transportation . " Sixty days after the formation of the Council , the outbreak of the war precipitated an entirely unexpected group of commercial problems . The Council took a conspicuous part in the investigation of shipping congestion , in the shaping of provisions for war risk insurance and for expeditious transfer of foreign-built ships to American registry , in promoting cooperation among exporters and importers engaged in the Latin-American trade , in formulating recommendations concerning a discount market and dollar exchange . It participated in conferences called by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been held annually since 1914 , the second at St. Louis and the third at New Orleans . The membership of the Council is made up of officers of leading chambers of commerce and of concerns typifying " big business " ; the United States Steel Corporation , the International Harvester Company , the United States Rubber Company , the Amalgamated Copper Company , the Baldwin Locomotive Works , the NilesBement-Pond Company , the International Mercantile Marine Company , the Westinghouse Electric Company , the General Electric Company , the Galveston Cotton Exchange , the American Manufacturers ' Export Association , the American Asiatic Association , the Robert Dollar Steamship Company , the National City Bank of New York , and many others .  | Among the individual corporations which have been most active in promoting American banking and investment facilities abroad , is the National City Bank of New York . It has put stress on its foreign trade department , manning it with some of the ablest financial , commercial , and statistical experts . It has been cooperating with leading universities in the training of men in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantage of the provision in the Federal Reserve law which authorizes large banks to establish branches in foreign countries . Of its first six foreign branches , five are in South America and one in Cuba . Its special interest in the LatinAmerican field is shown also by its publication during the past two years of a monthly magazine called The Americas , which is devoted mainly to short articles and news items concerning industrial , commercial , and financial conditions and tendencies in the republics to the south . Closely affiliated with this bank , though involving other financial groups as well , is the American International Corporation formed in 1915 with a capital stock of fifty million dollars . It is not a banking project , but is to promote trade relations with different countries which will help make a world market for our products ; to finance and promote the development in foreign countries by American engineers and manufacturers of great public and private undertakings ; to assist in financing and rehabilitating industries in foreign countries ; and to undertake such domestic business as seems advantageous in connection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about a greater use of American capital in foreign industries and enterprises , and so lay a surer foundation for American trade with countries in which European investments have previously aided in directing trade to Europe . Such a move is peculiarly timely of course , since the great destruction of capital in Europe is likely to limit foreign investments from that quarter for some time to come . The institutions and agencies , public and private , selected for brief description in this paper perhaps amply illustrate trade-promoting activity in America today . What is the probable outcome of this unprecedented expenditure of capital , energy , and talent ? This question carries far into the field  | of speculation , a field always hazardous for the economist and never more so than in these war-racked days . It is obvious however , that much of this extraordinary enthusiasm is born of the war . In the words of the chairman of the Foreign Trade Council : " One week of European war did more than ten years of academic discussion to convince the American people that foreign trade is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ return of peace will doubtless come much disillusionment and a subsidence of present feverish interest . The nation will have profited by its sustained attention to trade problems during the war . Through legislation and private initiative , it will have secured , more promptly than in normal times , improved banking arrangements , more effective government trade-promoting service , added experience in cooperation among exporting interests , a firmer grasp of the requisites for successful trading , and a more intimate knowledge of trade conditions , especially in the less industrial countries of the world . All this should strengthen us for post-bellum competition , ? fit us perchance to be peace-makers instead of peacekeepers as we have been in the past . To what extent we shall be able to retain our increased trade of these war years is , of course , problematical . There is , however , no solid ground for expecting that we can hold more than the slightest fragment of it . About 90 per cent of the two billion increase in annual exports in the fiscal year 1916 is clearly due to demands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent represents added markets which are potentially permanent. * With the return of peace will come the reopening of direct trade with the Central Powers and a new demand for materials for the industrial rehabilitation of Europe . But our participation in this trade revival will be restricted by protective tariffs and customs unions already in the making . Moreover , Europe will be a poorer customer after the war than before , because of the reduction in men and  | equipment which the war has entailed , and because of the weakened position of France and England in the field of international investment . The 10 per cent represents our trade gains in two years in Latin-America , Africa , Oceania , and all Asia except Asiatic Russia , whose share of American exports has suddenly jumped from one million to 130 million dollars because of the shipment of supplies to European Russia over the Siberian railway . This 10 per cent of our total increase means varying percentage gains for these different regions , e. g. , 19 per cent for Oceania , 44 per cent for South America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these increments we shall doubtless hold because of advantages accruing from the Panama Canal , from improved banking and investment facilities , and from business connections made under cover of war . But before assuming a large measure of permanence for them , we must remind ourselves that long-established trade connections are not lightly broken ; that where we have less than a dozen branch banks , Europe has two thousand ; that these lands of agriculture and mining are more naturally complementary to European industry than to our own ; and that European nations which have gone to war largely over commercial rivalries will not relinquish their hold upon old established markets without a bitter struggle for which they will still be better equipped than we are . After the war , our trade both with Europe and with the newer areas may well show advance over previous peace records . But if , in this advance , it keeps pace with European rivals , many serious obstacles must be removed or surmounted . We shall still lack adequate shipping and , banking facilities . We shall still lack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in other branches for service abroad . We shall lack tradition and practice , if not machinery , of scientific tariff making . We shall still be at a disadvantage in the negotiation of commercial treaties because of the changing of our commercial creed with each passing national election and because of the difficulty of securing the ratification by both houses of trade agreements making concessions which would appeal to foreign negotiators . We shall still be industrially too atomistic ? too lit- tle given to effective cooperation between business and business , and business and government . Meanwhile the more highly nationalized industrial machinery of European countries , will , under governmental sanction and direction , drive hard into the competitive field . Probably we shall be too unready to meet competition by means of more efficient organization of production . We have hesitated even to permit exporters to form cooperative exporting organizations , lest they become dangerous combinations . With our vast and growing home market , which still takes normally 90 per cent of our manufactured products , we may continue to regard export trade as a side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made over by the war ; the traditional American point of view will persist . There will be a somewhat clearer appreciation of foreign trade possibilities , but we shall be unready to pay the price which European people will pay for their fullest realization .                     