@@493072

Sovereignty and Centralization IT can never be too thoroughly emphasized that the founders of the American Constitution did not intend to create a complete system of government . They took the states for granted , and it was upon their complex foundation that they attempted to build . What they attempted was essentially its supplement , the binding together of certain strands which the withdrawal of British sovereignty had grievously untied . Yet , as the event was to show , it was no easy matter to achieve a working efficiency for the new instrument of sovereign power . If we can say to-day that the interests of the American nation are supreme , and that the old states ' rights theory of sovereignty is largely obsolete , we have to remember that a Civil War was needed to give it its death-blow . For the Constitution was doubtfully imposed and regretfully accepted . Men found it difficult to understand that two jurisdictions largely coor ? dinate can work towards a similar end . They imagined that coordination meant antithesis , and drew a distinction between state and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where men believe there is enmity , its appearance may with certainty be predicted . In the result we may utter our requiescat over the grave of localism . Nationalism , then , is triumphant . The natural question any statute must now raise is not whether Missouri or Alabama will benefit from its en ? actment , but whether the United States will so benefit . But there is another aspect of this unified sovereignty about which certain doubts may be ex-pressed . It stands for centralization ; that is to say it changes the whole character of the federal idea . It may be , indeed , that this centralization is essential to the future of the United States . It may be that until the power of the latter under ? goes a further concentration , it can never ade ? quately be exercised . The interests of the whole may so uniquely transcend the interests of the parts as to give their separate claims little or no validity . Yet even an observer handicapped , as I am , by an alien tradition , can not help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fundamental disunity of circumstance . When I am in Kansas , I know that I am not in New York . The problems , even the thoughts and the desires , are different and affect people differently . Is it wise to make Washington a kind of Hegelian harmonization of these dif ? ferences and say that Congress can transcend them in a federal statute ? In the result , as every states ? man must know , what are called the " interests of the Republic " in New York will probably be called " discrimination against the Middle West " in Kansas . And that is intelligible , even if it is rarely praiseworthy . For while action in Kansas would have attempted to cope with the difficulties of the Middle West , action at ' Washington aims ? since a balance of interests must be struck ? at their genial evasion . Surely this suggests the existence of a problem which has aroused less attention than it deserves . The growth of national government , with the consequent strengthening of its sovereign character , leads , as I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is true not of America alone . The whole history of England , Maitland once remarked , could be brought under the rubric of the decline and fall of the sheriff . One of the resultant and funda ? mental problems Great Britain will have to face when its reconstruction comes is precisely this . Its local life will have to be made real . It will undergo revivification . Its units of local gov ? ernment will have to be made real . They will have to receive a sovereignty that is something more than an anaemic reflex of the central power . An interest in local problems will have to be aroused not less keen and vivid than the interest in national problems . Nor is this less true of France . Her local group-life has been sacrificed to the absorptiveness of Paris ; with the result that since the fall of Napoleon France has been striving to regain the local creativeness now stricken with impotence . The vigorous self-government of the modern German city derives from the at any rate partial admission by higher authority that its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was there remembered , as in England and France it has been forgotten , that the tissue of the civic parts changes more frequently than the tissue of the national whole . Since in the latter countries an adequate nutrition of final responsibility was not provided , the result has been in a real sense death from starvation . I know well enough that nothing like this stage has been reached in the United States . Yet the difficulty is ominously near . No kind of working compromise has been reached between the states on the one hand , and the federal government on the other . Each has gone its own way , often al ? most wilfully duplicating the work of the other . The state , it is assumed , must do what the federal government has not done ; the federal government merely acts as the bracket to a series of algebraic symbols . The possibility of a cooperation is not considered . The lines of demarcation are never made plain . It is never adequately realized that both are overcrowded with business , that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world , waste an ounce of energy in this complex age . Congress , of a certainty , can not give proper attention to local problems . It is , moreover , all the more difficult to obtain a rapprochement with a Consti ? tution uniquely inaccessible to amendment . It may be admitted frankly that the centralization of the modern federal government has won some tre ? mendous victories . An Englishman needs no con ? vincing that the victory won in 1865 for union , and , implicitly , for centralization , was a victory for the beneficent forces of the civilized world . He may well stand amazed at the quality no lessthan the volume of work performed by such centralizing agencies as the Interstate Com ? merce Commission . He has no doubts as to the past . It is about the future that he must feel uncertain . For there are many able thinkers in the United States who are convinced that where national thought is , generally speaking , superior in quality to state thought , where it is temporally in advance , national , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sovereign , in fact , should show his powers of self-assertion . Where he is in posses ? sion of a progressive idea which fails to obtain sanction in a backward state , then he should use his reserve power in compensation for its reac ? tionary character . It is , of course , easy to sneer at people who cling to the ideas of the mid-Vic ? torian age . It is easier still to remember that there is outside the state government a federal power which pays no heed to regional opinion . State government and state opinion must , so the re ? former urges , he overridden if progress is to be made . A typical instance is that of prohibition . Re ? formers in Maine do not see why they should suf ? fer for the stupid inability of New York to con ? trol its liquor traffic . Congress , they say , should legislate for the nation , and prevent either the enactment of anomalies , or the retention of so pathetic an ancestralism as a taste for beer . Now I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benefit from its more acute perception ; reputable authority assures me that the contrary is the case . But the real question to which I want an adequate reply ? more convincing than rhetor ? ical statements of the case for prohibition ? is whether America will not gain more from the slow self-struggle of New York to intelligence , than from the irritating imposition from without of a belief to which it has not been converted . I can not avoid the emphatic opinion that in this , as in other matters , nature is not saltatory . Politi ? cally we probably gain more from the slow , and often painful erosion of prejudice by education , than when we attempt its elimination by more drastic methods . It is , of course , annoying for those of us who consider we have found the truth ; but if we are to have democratic government we must bear with the inconveniences of democracy . . The traditional separation of powers in Amer-ican government has been assailed as often as it has been explained . Yet I believe it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like Pro , fessor Dicey , federalism of any kind appears.but a step on the road to centralized government ; it is , in his own phrase , the union which proceeds unification . I am a frank medievalist in this re ? gard . It seems to me admirable that a country which , in certain aspects , is one , should yet adopt its governance to suit the severalty which is no less characteristic of other aspects . In a democ ? racy , , the surest guaranty of civic responsibility seers to lie in the gift of genuine functions of gov ? ' ernment no less to the parts than to the whole . No doubt , on occasion , the dissipation of sover ? eignty will result in conflict . But even without it there is conflict of a kind far more wasteful , since it in nowise depends upon principle . And anyone who reads the reports of the United States Su ? preme Court for the last twenty-five years will realize that the national powers have not been extended without opposition and that Washington has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that the expansion no less than the contraction of the central power should al ? ways have been planless and unthinking . It has de ? pended always ? witness the recent embarkation upon the governmental regulation of railway wages ? upon the haphazard accidents of momentary events , instead of upon a scheme of considered and inherent policy . It has grown without thought of local needs or of local personality . Had the sov ? sovereign federation given respectful recognition to those other sovereigns , no less real , which we call the states , there would have resulted no less an impulse to creation than an economy of effort . It is the fashion to regard federalism as the merest pis alter and to hope piously for the time when a more adequate centralization will render it unnecessary . This seems to me to neglect certain obvious lessons to be drawn from other experience . In education , for example , we have learned that the more pupils per teacher , the less efficient , on the whole , is the instruction . Commercially , Mr. Brandeis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to be physically incapable of successful administration . I would urge that a similar law of diminishing returns applies also to the sphere of government . It becomes more and more obvious that we must recognize certain nat ? ural units of political administration , but also see to it that we do not duplicate that power . It is admitted freely that the result will probably derogate from the unique sovereignty of the whole . Yet that is surely but a theoretical derogation from which no practical consequences ensue ; and I am pragmatist enough to contend that it is there ? fore no derogation at all . I can imagine no more fruitful political thinking than that which should attempt to read for our own day the due lesson of the failure of certain emperors who , because they took the whole worldfor their field of vision , gave Voltaire the material for the most admirable of his gibes . We seem in genuine danger of going back to an ancient and false worship of unity , to a trust in an undivided sovereignty as the panacea for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather on the conference of final responsibility where there is the willingness to assume it and the capacity to assume it wisely . Only thus can we prevent Wash ? ington from degenerating into Dublin Castle . In the end , maybe , the ways of attainment will be as difficult as the objects at which they aim ; but the good of the universe is manifold and not single . We are as travelers breasting a hill , and we reach its summit by a thousand devious paths .                     