@@465915

IN the destiny of a great manmust be found not only the measure of his original gifts , but the measure of his preparation for his tasks . But we give up the vision of the superman with reluctance , and because we arrive more readily at what a man 's disciplined powers may be over the main-traveled road , we instinctively look for the hall-mark in matters of education . The unblazed trail of the self-taught man is difficult to follow ; but for one who makes the attempt to retrace it there are rewards ? inspiring discoveries of unsuspected powers of the human mind to select what it needs , and to nourish itself and grow on the unconsidered . Before the age of twenty-two Lincoln spent many months ferrying at the mouth of Anderson Creek , and be made two voyages to New Orleans . The great water highway then swarmed with leisurely traffic . Equipped and opinionated men from the East and South were on every boat , and every river settlement had its quota of the educated . Clay and Jackson were magnets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marquis de Lafayette slept at the Hermitage in 1825 , and opened the ball in the tavern at Kaskaskia , Illinois . The newspapers that circulated in southern Indiana were printed in Cincinnati and Louisville , flourishing cities of twenty and ten thousand people by 1830 . From that date the Louisville Journal was edited by the brilliant journalist and Clay 's biographer , George D. Prentice . There was nothing of national or seetional importance that was not reported and commented upon in the Western press , and public sentiment responded quickly to the current happening . Published accounts of the opening of the Erie Canal in 1825 , and of the projected extension of the National Road to the Mississippi . set the region north of the Ohio ablaze with hope of conquering its distances , plunged it into public extravagauce , and made a sharp cleavage in parties on the question of Federal aid for internal improvements . In 1826 an impetus was given to educational progress by the establishment of Robert Owen 's colony at New Harmony , Indiana . The principle that maintenance of free schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wabash . It is a mistake , however , to suppose that this idea was new in the West . Settlers who were ambitious for their children were from the first attracted to the old Northwest Territory because public land had been set aside for the support of public schools . For quite fifty years these lands produced little or no revenue , but for this the people refused to wait . District schools were kept open , intermittently , by subscription ; academies sprang up in the larger towns ; educated missionaries importuned the East for money and university-trained men to build up denominational colleges . In 1825 Illinois placed a local-option schooltax law on its statutes . It began to be suspected that pedagogy was a science . The theories of Pestalozzi were tried out in the shops and fields of New Harmony . Cincinnati had a teachers ' college , and that city very early became an important publishing center for school - books and standard and religious works . In 1826 Cincinnati printed and distributed about one hundred and fifty thousand copies of common-school texts . With @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ray 's arithmetic a little later , the West began to originate its own text-books , and to improve on those that had been supplied from the East . A scarcity of school books in central Illinois in the early thirties has been assumed from the circumstance of Lincoln 's having walked six miles to get a copy of Iiirkham 's grammar from a German farmer . It proves only his poverty . Any text in use could have been bought at the store of William Manning in Springfield . In December , 1831 , this merchant advertised in one of the earliest numbers of the Sangamo Journal " a large assortment of the most approved school-books , among which are the following . " Four spellers were listed by title , two readers and a speaker , Murray 's grammar , Walker 's dictionary , five geographies and an atlas , a United States history and a compendium of ancient and modern history , an arithmetic , an algebra , a work on penmanship , a Latin granular , and Hall 's Lectures on Schoolkeeping . The phrase " among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partial list . New Salem had a good school-house and a resident schoolmaster of unusual attainments and teaching ability , an indication that the town had ambition and resources above the necessities of living . And central Illinois had three higher institutions of Iearning ? Illinois College , at Jacksonville , twenty-five miles south of New Salem ; Mcliendree College , at Lebanon ; and Shurtleff College , at Upper Alton . All three are flourishing to-day , and they had their alumni among Lincoln 's contemporaries . Illinois College opened in the fall of 1830 as a fullfledged college , with Dr. Edward Beecher for its president , and a faculty of four graduates from the Divinity School at Yale , No allowances were made for the pioneer youth 's supposed lack of advantages . The entrance requirements and the four years ' work in the classic languages , mathematics , and philosophy were practically identical with those of Yale at that day . But as there was little money in that region , all these infant institutions were obliged to smooth the financial path to learning . That Lincoln @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems less likely than chat he made deliberate choice of another line of study . At any rate , with three colleges at his door , seeking students and anxious to make things not too hard for ambitious young men , we find Lincoln living in the precarious ways of a self-supporting student , but ' busying himself with the same materials he had used in Indiana ? delving in a few good books . reading newspapers , waylaying men , and " practising polemics . " The original mind is pre- eminently selective . But had not Lincoln 's interests and powers been brought to more abundant sources of the kinds of knowledge he needed , it would be difficult indeed to account for his transformation from the farm-laborer and river-boatman of 1331 to the lawyer . public speaker , and political leader of 183G . Lincoln had never lived in is town , and it is very certain that he had had no such neighbors and friends as he found in New Salem . Settled in 1825 , the place was abandoned in 1840 . With " never more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was the voting precinct and the trading-place for farmers over a radius of several miles . Besides a saw and grist mill , an eight-room tavern , four stores , and half a dozen crafts shops , the town had two preachers , two doctors , a schoolmaster , a postmaster , and a justice of the peace . Typical of a region where East and South met , Massachu-setts and North Carolina , Indiana , Kentucky , and Tennessee had all contributed to its population . Mentor Graham was of Scotch origin ; Jack Kelso , who loaned the British poets to Lincoln , Irish ; Henry Onslot , the cooper , bears a German name , and Dr. Francis Replier a French one . The permanent business men of the place were able and energetic . When a steammill was set up two miles down the river , opening wider opportunities , they migrated in a body , and they became the leading merchants , physicians , churchbuilding ministers , and factory-owners of Petersburg , the county-seat of Menartl , in the ' 40 's and ' 50 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in New Salem . worked his way through two years of college in Jacksonville , and became a local financier in railroad-building days . David Rutledge was , admitted to the bar . Even without direct testimony to the fact , it might have been surmised that such a village , in that day and place , would have had a literary and debating society in which to give Lincoln an opportunity to satisfy his passion and cultivate his talent for thinking on his feet . Oratory had been a cult in America from the time of Patrick Henry . Ti Webster , Clay , and Calhoun was found the expression of national genius at a time when imaginative literature had only made a beginning in Bryant . Irving . Cooper , and Poe . But the dawn of letters was hailed by the lyceum movement that swept the country , after 1825 , with an ambitious programme for self-improvement ? lectures on literature , history , science , and political economy ; cultivation of the arts of conversation and debate ; the founding of libraries , natural-history museums , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of apparatus , of scientific observation and experiments . Lincoln read a remarkable paper on " The Preservation of Our Political Institutions " before the Young Men 's Lyceum of Springfield in 1837 . As the star debater of the little group that met once a week in the public room of the Rutledge tavern , he had an appreciative audience , and it was there that his fitness for public service is said to have been first remarked . Of books , besides school-texts -- and he " tackled another science " when lie had completed the study of grammar ? Lincoln found in New Salem Shakespeare , Burns , Rollin . Gibbon , Volney , and Voltaire , and the Statutes of Illinois . Blackstone was dropped at his feet from an emigrant 's wagon . Arnold states that he had considerable knowledge of physics and mechanics ; Dr. - Browne. that he was versed in the natural sciences ; William G. Greene is quoted as saying , rather loosely , that Lincoln learned " a hundred other things . " His knowledge in any field then cultivated need have been limited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and it is not on record that Lincoln was ever refused the loan of hooks . Of Mr. Greene 's texts in Greek , Latin , and mathematics he seems to have made no use , but among the junior and senior year texts of Richard Yates , who was graduated from Illinois College in 1835 , were all the works of Paley , Butler 's Analogy , a natural philosophy , probably Olnisted 's that was used in Yale ; an intellectual philosophy , probably Enfield 's abridgment of Brucker 's Critical History of Philosophy ; a work on astronomy , one on logic , Blair 's rhetoric , and the political economy of Jean Jacques Say . And Illinois College had a reference library of fifteen hundred volumes . This list is given , not to prove what further books Lincoln read , but what were accessible to him . If Richard Yates loaned his college texts to Lincoln , the fact has not been recorded . Lincoln seems never to have been in Jacksonville before he was admitted to the bar , although he walked nearly as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not know how much use he made of the private library of belles-lettres of Edward D. Baker in Springfield . Lincoln himself says that he had not read Plutarch 's Lives before 1860 , although he knew its interest and value . One must conclude that , contrary to popular opinion in the region , everything printed that came to his mill was not grist to Lincoln . But this fact presents him in a new aspect . He did not take only such an education as be could get , wresting it from scant materials , but from ample resources he took what he needed for his definite purposes . He took an elective course in the university of life . We have no quarrel with his results , and the explanation of them must be sought in the materials he is known to have used . Of newspapers Lincoln was less a reader than a student . He read every paper that , as postmaster , passed through his hands . In her Domestic Manners in America ( 1832 ) Mrs. Trollope testified to the universal reading and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West : " The American newspaper is more or less of a magazine . . . The lawyer between briefs may pick up a comparison of Scott and Bulwer , and the pig-sticker and wood-cutter may make some pretense to polite learning . The best writers seem to find no more dignified way in which to employ their talents than in editing the newspapers and periodicals with which the country is flooded . " An Englishwoman of the upper class , Mrs. Trollope was not in sympathy with an educated " peasantry . " But what . she said was true of both East and West . The best writers could not make a living by devotion to the muse . Had not Bryant found a berth on the New York Evening Post or some other paper or periodical , he must have sought employment less agreeable to him and less serviceable to his generation . Such men as Prentice in Louisville , Lovejoy in St. Louis and Alton , and John Howard Bryant in Princeton ( Illinois ) , wrote leaders that widened the intellectual horizon and elevated the taste @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influence and dignity everywhere , and the equipment and personality of the editor were far more marked elements of success than they are to-day . Judge James Hall forsook the bench to edit the Illinois Intelligencer in Vandalia , long the most influential paper in the state , and to conduct The Illinois Monthhi Magazine . Modeled on the New England Magazine and the British reviews , with some features of the American Journal of Science , it was filled from them , in part , by the use of a competent pair of shears , but largely by an indefatigable and talented editorial pen . Such a periodical was a surprising thing to find in the little fiat capital in the woods of Illinois in the early ' 30 's . For the purposes of this inquiry examination was made of files of the Vandalia Intelligencer , the San game Journal , the St. Louis Times , and the Edwardsville Advocate of the fourth decade , but Lincoln also had the Louisville Journal in New Salem , and New York , Boston , and Cincinnati newspapers circulated in the region @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . Western papers were patterned after those of the East , and from the number of credited items the editors seem to have had extensive exchange lists , as indeed they must have had in order to get out papers at all , with their limited means and their remoteness from the sources of news . In appearance and contents these papers ware all much alike . Set solidly in wide columns , usually in agate type , with single-line heads , and with no display advertisements ; and with no space required for the retailing of crimes , scandals , or local gossip , a good deal of news and comment was packed into their four pages . The proceedings of Congress and an account of a state convention in Kentucky were given first place in The Intelligencer for January 28 , 1832 . Had there been a speech of Webster , Clay , or Calhoun to report , that would have had precedence . At times political news crowded everything else out . It was , of course , colored by partisanship . but every shade of opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the West . Second place in this issue was given to an admirably written sketch of Stephen Girard , who had died a month before . An editorial on the English Reform Bill was credited to an Eastern exchange . A half-column was given to the difficulties and problems of the new Spanish-American republics . Local news dealt with public improvement and National Road meetings , end a call to form a state lyceum . The editorials were on the elevation of Judge Taney to the Supreme Court bench , the National Road , the lyceum movement , and an epidemic of influenza . At a time when Congress was not in session ? October 7 , 1831 -- the newspaper more nearly approached the magazine , with fiction , literary essays , and book reviews . In The Intelligencer , for example , three columns were given to a variety of foreign news , and one to report of outbreaks among the slaves . Such matters as poems by Byron and Mrs. Ilemans and descriptive bits from Irving and Scott were used by Western papers for fillers , often without credit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Lincoln 's indifference to American writers of the period could not have been due to entire ignorance of them , for the press made much of them , and he came to know John Howard Bryant well in 1836 . He may not , however , always have known the authorship of verses and prose extracts . The poem " Oh , why should the spirit of mortal he proud ' ? " was printed anonymously in a Western paper . Much of the verse of the time was marked by this tone of elevated gloom ? inspired , no doubt , by the success of " Thanatopsis . " Newspapers and periodicals were deadly serious , often dull and pompous , never amusing . A joke in one of them was as rare as a blue moon . Lincoln 's quick sense of the comic does not appear to have been characteristic of his day and place . As one goes through a file of one of these papers the large interests of the time emerge and fix the attention . Education , transportation , and the development and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The very early and intelligent attention paid to foreign news is surprising , and may well qwq been well advised to listen to Elder Cartwright in the pulpit or on the stump at every opportunity . In the Elackhawk War Lincoln came in contact with a number of men of conventional education , and one of striking personality and conspicuous position . A true Jeffersonian Democrat , Governor John Reynolds shared the food and the camp-fire of the volunteers he commanded . An alumnus of Knoxville College , Tennessee , he could read books in four languages , write racily in one , and talk in three ? English , French , and the vernacular In the arena of politics , where he had been for twenty years , he was an encyclopedia of information on questions , personalities , and practices in Illinois . Governor Reynolds may very well have confirmed Lincoln 's ambition to go to Vandalic . He could also have heard much that was convincing on this point from W. L. D. Ewing , for whom he voted for tnited States Senator two years later ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to study law ; and from Sidney Breese , who was already of the permanent nucleus of able men in the state capital . Any of these men could have told Lincoln that at one time or another nearly every Mail in the state who was worth knowing could be seen in Vendalia . In that winter was held the third of a long series of educational conventions in Illinois that were remarkable for the number of distinguished men , who were not educators , who took part in them . In this one John J. Hardin and Lincoln sat as delegates , and Douglas acted as secretary . Governor Joseph Duncan , who had framed the local-option school-tax law of ten years before , no doubt gave to it what time could be spared from other duties . So also did Judge Lockwood of the Supreme Court bench , one of the founders of Illinois College . Ewing , the new Senator , was there , and Thomas Ford , a future Governor , and the man who was chosen by the Historical Society to write the first history of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the stage . " Colonel Pierre Mdnard , who had had a hand in every public undertaking since coining out to Kaskaskia from Canada in 1799 , still kept in touch with affairs . Lincoln could have come to know all of the hundred or so of men who were in Vandalia on public or private business , in the assembly , in the Supreme-Courtroom , in the office of The Inielligencer , which was a sort of gentlemen 's club , and in Governor Duncan 's hospitable library . The little town of eight hundred people afforded no amusements . Diversion was found in discussion and in attending lyceum lectures . On Sundays the little churches , the school-house , and every available public room were crowded by audiences who listened eagerly to a score of preachers of learning and eloquence . Younger than most of this group , Lincoln was in no way distinguished by his early poverty or his struggles for an education . There were then few favored sons of fortune in the West . These were the standards by which Lincoln measured himself , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years later a thousand men , strangers to the place and to one another , surged through the streets of the little capital and clamored for local and personal advantage . Most of these new men were lawyers from Chicago and the northern counties , an aggressive breed , but the lawyers and law students who were already in the country were not submerged by them . Lockwood . Breese , Hardin , Yates , Ewing , Stuart , Logan , Baker , Butler , Lincoln , an.d Douglas forged to the front . Indeed , Stephen T. Logan , who came to Springfield in 1833 , and who directed Lincoln 's law studies , remained at the head of the Illinois bar for two decades . Ten years older than Lincoln , a man of university training in Kentucky , he was one of the few lawyers in the West who never entered politics . Such was Lincoln 's second law partner . His first was John T. Stuart , who came from a university in the blue grass of Kentucky and a law-office experience in Richmond , Virginia . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Baker , Speed , Herndon , and Edwards ? are well known . By 1840 the stage was crowded with men of whom the nation knew little , with the exception of Douglas , before 1800 , and much thereafter .                     