@@487216

To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : In The Year 's Work in Classical Studies for 1916 , Professor P. Giles of the University of Cambridge gives an amazed account of a paper by Professor Hrozny of Vienna ( Mitteilungen der deutschen Orient-Gesell , schaft , No. 56 ) , in which , with the support of 0 . Weber and Eduard Meyer , he maintains certain recently discovered Hittite cuneiform inscriptions to be in an Indo-European language , of a type apparently most nearly akin to Latin . They all seem to be unaware that Professor George Hempl of Stanford University , some years earlier than Hrozny and much more fully than he , had shown the strongest reason to believe that Hittite cuneiform and pictographic inscriptions are not only Indo-European , but Greek of an archaic form , thus carrying back our knowledge of Greek to about 1400 B. C. FIemprs articles appeared in the Transactions of the American Philological Association , XLIV ( 1913 ) , in the Nation , Sept. 9 , 1915 , and in the Fluegel Memorial Volume ( Stanford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to feel an interest today in the early history of such a political keystone as Asia Minor ; if Greeks ruled Asia Minor thirty-three centuries ago , should Turks rule it now ? But it is regrettable to see Britain and America still awaiting the philological cue from Germany and Austria , and ignoring similar work by an American scholar . We may disapprove the frenzied assaults in our schools on German intellectual things , but it is not necessary to be unfair to our own men of learning in order to be generous to foreign scholars . JOHN S. P. TATLOCK Stanford University , November 14 The Jews and Yiddish To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : In the letter from Dr. Philipson ( November 2 ) relative to my article , " Yiddish Books and Their Readers , " which appeared in the Nation of October 12 , certain statements are made which I should like to correct . From the general trend of my argument it was obvious that in contrasting the American and Jewish literary tastes I had reference to those Jews only who read @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not under discussion . Dr. Philipson has rightly inferred that I regard the Jews as a separate racial or national group , endowed or afflicted with specific traits or characteristics , and not merely as a sect held together by no other ties than their faith . It is nothing short of preposterous to deny that the Jews constitute a genuine psychological group when throughout the world they are considered and spoken of as such . Untutored persons share this common point of view , together with the most cultured of writers , in singling out such and such a person as a Jew , the thought of creed not entering the mind for one moment . Times without number have I heard the racial distinguishing mark affixed to Jews for the purpose of identification or specification . Perhaps Dr. Philipson and his school yield to the same impulse in their unsophisticated moments . Dr. Philipson 's concluding sentence is worth analyzing . He says : " My American nationality and my Jewish faith are not mutually exclusive , quite the contrary ; the contrast is not between American and Jew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Christian . " He does not seem to realize that a contrast is only a difference thrown into relief for a particular purpose . The emphasis as a whole to be laid on a given contrast would depend on its significance . Conflict does not necessarily arise in every case where there is a contrast . Some of my best friends are those with whom I could seldom agree in matters of taste . What unites us as friends is our common ideal , the general outlook on life which we both share . Fair-haired people may conceivably live on amicable terms with dark-haired individuals , and , indeed , they may love each other in spite of the contrast in hue . Paradoxical as it may seem , it is nevertheless true that occasionally there is greater danger in two persons being alike than in their possessing different temperaments . A. A. RoBAcK Cambridge , Mass. , November 10 While We Are Still Drunk To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : While they were drunk , says Tacitus , the Germans of eighteen hundred years ago used to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But they postponed decisions till the morning after , when they were sober again . Apropos of the many " red-blooded and patriotic " suggestions now being made as to penalizing the Kaiser by hanging or some similar inconvenience , it may appropriately be urged that we Americans have shown ourselves , in the past , too soft-hearted to punish public malefactors . No man was responsible for widowing and orphaning more Northern families than was Robert E. Lee . Red-blooded statesmen like Ben Butler , of Massachusetts , urged that he be hanged ; and the New York Tribune , on May 1 , 1865 , expressed its inflexible patriotism as follows : " Robert E. Lee is one of the men who deliberately determined to betray his country . While meditating treason he retained his commission . When he made the plunge , he made it with his eyes open . Such a man is more guilty than any other . " That Lee was allowed to live is scarcely more deplorable and astonishing than that the " Great Criminal , " Jefferson Davis , also escaped the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for his life , and President Johnson fully intended to hang him . But his trial was not held till two years later , when the war intoxication of hate , grief , vengeance , and victory had begun to pass away ; and he was set free . Some red-blooded , and patriotic journals raged against this action ; yet throughout the press , as with the people , there was a strong undercurrent of pleased relief . Sober after-thought caused the New York Tribune to remark ( in striking contrast with the spirit of the quotation given above ) that his liberation would be " hailed as a victory for common sense " ; and its virile editor , Horace Greeley , actually signed his name at the head of a list of gentlemen who would cooperate to secure the Confederate President 's release . It was common remark among the journalists , gathered from all parts of the country at Richmond to report the proceedings , that the act of releasing Davis had done more for " real peace and reconstruction " than all the armies or statutes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of eighteen hundred years ago sometimes departed from their wise custom and decided certain pressing questions while they were still drunk . It is not certain , however , that these decisions were among their wisest . HENRY W. LAWRENCE , JR . Middlebury , Vermont , November 21 A Microscopic State at the Vanishing Point To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : In the general dissolution of monarchical forms among the mid-European States , the tea-pot tempest in Liechtenstein is welcome as contributing a mite of humor . One recalls Heine 's delightful description of the revolution in Dusseldorf in 1806 , when all the burghers waked up one morning ready to say " Good morning , father , " and found that the paternal Elector had vanished in the night . This tiny state , in length only a good half-day 's walk , hangs on the side of the Rhatikon . Alps . Its village capital , Vaduz ( vallis dulcis ) , bears a name that most people must have thought belonged to the realm of Cockaigne unless they had happened to stumble across it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the self-annexation of Liechtenstein to Switzerland vanishes the last one of the microscopic States which gave Central Europe its crazy-quilt appearance before the Napoleonic wars had mediatized three-fourths of Germany 's rulers . There is a trace of humor in the fact that the little State has been technically at war with Prussia since 1866 . In that year , together with the South German States , it followed Austria into the war for the German hegemony , and was simply overlooked at the peace of Nikolsburg . ROBERT H. FIFE , JR . Middletown , Conn. , November 25 Cleopatra 's Capital To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : While renewing my subscription to the Nation for the coming year , I am minded to call your attention to a slip in con-junctions in your issue of October 12 , where you say that " Haifa or Acre had been taken " by General Allenby . As a matter of fact he took both cities on the same day . Acre is several miles ( two hours and a half by carriage ) from Haifa , with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Acre are not two names for the same city , as your paragraph seems to imply . Acre is the ancient Ptolemais , the city besieged by Sennacherib and Esar-Haddon , the city to which Cleopatra came to be its queen . Titus and Vespasian , Baldwin First and Richard Coeur-de-Lion , were all in turn its conquerors . St. Paul also visited Ptolemais . Boston , October 18 FRANCIS E. CLARK The " Giving " of Colonies TO THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : There is published in your issue of November 16 ( page 588 ) a note from Mr. Bertrand Shadwell , Chicago , in which he suggests that the German East African colonies be " given " to Belgium , and thereby relieve the United States of the odium of having anything whatsover to do with them . This opinion shows that Mr. Shadwell has remained altogether impervious to the direct and most obvious significations of the great currents of public opinion throughout the world with - respect to the destinies of small and subject nationalities and racial groups . In the first place , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Belgium as an indemnity , as if they  --  their souls , bodies and native lands  --  were indeed negotiable and transferable at will by the more powerful nations . This is " force , force , without stint or limit " with a vengeance . Such a disposition of these colonies would betray an international hypocrisy so colossal as to constitute a subversive irritant against the peace of the world . ROBERT T. BROWNE Brooklyn , November 17The Soviets and the Classics To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : In the Nation for November 16 , Mr. A. R. Williams throughout his interesting article , " The Red Fleet in the Baltic , " noticeably makes reference to the Soviet Government as a democracy . By definition and derivation a democracy is a Government of the people . But the Soviet apparently claims to be a Government of the proletariat and is therefore by its own claim no democracy , whatever it may be . The Greeks , who gave us the term democracy , had also a term which they used to draw a distinction between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ namely , ochlocracy . This term might properly be applied to the Soviet . If the Greeks can give us a term for the present Russian Government , the Romans can add a description . Cicero has this in his De Republica , Scipio : " When all is in the power of the people , when the populace inflict punishment on whomever they will , when they drive off , seize upon , hold , destroy whatever they will , can you then deny , Laelius , that such a Government is a republic ? For all things belong to the people , and we claim that a Government of the people is a republic . " Then Laelius : " But I would deny nothing more quickly than that such a Government is a republic . For I do not agree that there was a republic at Athens when there were tyrants there , nor do I see how the name republic is any more suitable in connection with the domination of the populace . For there really is no people even , Scipio , unless as you have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conception of law and justice ; but such a Government as you have just been presenting to us is as much a tyrant as one supreme person would be , and is even more hideous , for there is nothing more monstrous than that wild beast which takes to itself the outward appearance and the name of a people . " G. A. HARRER University of North Carolina , November 20 Sticking to the Goats To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : I have been a life-long reader of the Nation and mere words could not express the pleasure , satisfaction and profit that I have derived from its weekly visit . But if all this was true before , and words were inadequate to express appreciation , how truly have you laid all your readers under an increased debt by the new , the glorified , the super-Nation of the last three months . The clarity of vision , the balance , the broad-gauge sympathy that manifests itself in each succeeding issue makes us , your readers , as proud of your effort as ever you of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Martial " To A Windy Lawyer " sum up better than reams of hyperbole of laudation what the Nation is doing in real international , constructive thinking , and explains why it endears itself to all thinking men and women . Says Martial : " My suit has nothing to do with assault , or battery , or poisoning , but is about three goats , which I complain have been stolen by my neighbor . This the judge desires to have proved to him ; but you , with swelling words and extravagant gestures , dilate on the Battle of Can nae , the Mithridatic war , and the perjuries of the insensate Carthaginians , the Syllae , the Marii , and the Mucii . It is time , Postumus , to say something about my three goats . " We who are benefited by the sage comment and clear constructive thinking of the Nation are rendered doubly grateful by the knowledge that you stick like a pup at a root to the issue of " the goats . " W. J. REm Boston , October .16 High Brow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No organ of public opinion in American life can boast a nobler record in the fearless utterance of the truth in the championship of the right than the Nation . Perhaps you are in part responsible for the spirit that prompts this ejaculation . Your recent editorials , while fearless and illuminating as ever , have engendered a spirit of protest . They incline me to ask , " Who will show us any good ? " The most prominent political figure in the nation finds it expedient to " play politics " and you apparently throw him into the moral discard . Mr. Daniels , who many think has proven himself a fairly efficient secretary of the navy under trying conditions , you dub " a North Carolinian Cassandra " ( by the way , when did Priam 's daughter change her sex ? ) . Mr. Lansing is merely " a capable diplomatic official , " who is unequal to the demands of the coming peace conference . Mr. Burleson is a " cheap Texas politician . " Mr. Gregory is a " narrow partisan lawyer . " Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though not without good qualities , has committed the unpardonable sin of being a temperamental Southerner besides damning himself forever in the eyes of the nation by segregating colored clerks at Washington ( pace spirit of Charles Sumner ) . Republican leaders hardly fare better at your hands . I infer that Mr. Lodge often impresses you as a political snob while apparently only a kind Providence keeps Mr. Roosevelt out of jail . Granting that all this is true , in whole or in part , I submit it is rather discouraging , at all events to those of us who would like to believe that there is good in human nature . Can we not have just a bit less of this high brow pessimism and more of the human note that " makes the whole world kin ? " JNO . M. MECKLIN                     