@@493062

The Religious Revival : I I ONE of the indisputable things about the war so far as Britain and France goes ? and I have reason to believe that on a lesser scale things are similar in Italy ? is that it has produced a very great volume of religious thought and feeling . About Russia in these matters we hear but little at the present time , but one guesses at a parallelism . People habitually religious have been stirred to new depths of reality and sincerity , and people are thinking of religion who never thought of religion before . But as I have already pointed out , thinking and feeling about a matter is of no permanent value unless something is thought out , unless there is a change of boundary or relationship , and it is an altogether different question to ask whether any definite change is resulting from this universal ferment . If it is not doing so , then the sleeper merely dreams a dream that he will forget again . . . . Now in no sort of general popular mental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religious excitements . This has been the case in all periods of religious revival . The number of people who are rather impressed , who for a few days or weeks take to reading their Bibles or going to a new place of worship or praying or fasting or being kind and unselfish , is always enormous in relation to the number whose lives are permanently changed . The effort needed if a contemporary is to blow off the froth , is always very considerable . Among the froth that I would blow off is I think most of the tremendous efforts being made in England by the Anglican church to attract favorable attention to itself apropos of the war . I came back from my visit to the Somme battlefields to find the sylvan peace of Essex invaded by a number of ladies in blue dresses adorned with large white crosses , who , regardless of the present shortage of nurses , were visiting every home in the place on some mission of invitation whose nature remained obscure . So far as I was able to elucidate this mission , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a satisfactory end of the war was to be brought about by convergent prayer and religious assiduities . The mission was shy of dealing with me personally , although as a lapsed communicant I should have thought myself a particularly hopeful field for Anglican effort , and it came to my wife and myself merely for our permission and countenance in an appeal to our domestic assistants . My wife consulted the household ; it seemed very anxious to escape from that appeal , and as I respect Christianity sufficiently to detest the identification of its services with magic processes , the mission retired ? civilly repulsed . But the incident aroused an uneasy curiosity in my mind with regard to the general trend of Anglican teaching and Anglican activities at the present time . The trend of my impartial inquiries is to discover the church much more incoherent and much less religious ? in any decent sense of the word ? than I had supposed it to be . Organization is the life of material and the death of mental and spiritual processes . There could be no more melancholy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Catholic churches at the present time , one using the tragic stresses of the war mainly for pew-rent touting , and the other paralyzed by its Austrian and South-German connections from any clear utterance upon the moral issues of the war . Through the opening phases of the war the established church of England was inconspicuous ; this is no longer the case , but it may be doubted whether the change is altogether to its advantage . To me this is a very great disappointment . I have always had a very high opinion of the intellectual value of the leading divines of both the Anglican and Catholic communions . The self-styled Intelligentsia of Great Britain is all too prone to sneer at their equipment ; but I do not see how any impartial person can deny that Cardinal Vaughan is in mental energy , vigor of expression , richness of thought and variety of information fully the equal even of such an influential lay publicist as Mr. Horatio Bottomley . And one might search for a long time among prominent laymen to find the equal of the Bishop of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of tawdriness that this latter gentleman 's work as head of the National Mission has left upon my mind . Attired in khaki he has recently been preaching in the open air to the people of London upon Tower Hill , Piccadilly , and other conspicuous places . Obsessed as I am by the humanities , and impressed as I have always been by the inferiority of material to moral facts , I would willingly have exchanged the sight of two burning Zeppelins for this spectacle of ecclesiastical fervor . But as it is I am obliged to trust to newspaper reports and the descriptions of hearers and eye-witnesses . They leave but little doubt of the regrettable levity and superficiality of the Bishop 's utterances . We have a multitude of people chastened by losses , ennobled by a common effort , needing support in that effort , perplexed by the reality of evil and cruelty , questioning and seeking after God . On Tower Hill the Bishop seems to have been chiefly busy with a wrangling demonstration that ten thousand a year is none too big a salary for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see involves . So far from making anything out of his see he was , he declared , two thousand a year to the bad . Some day when the church has studied efficiency , I suppose that bishops will have the leisure to learn something about the general state of opinion and education in their diocese . The Bishop of London was evidently unaware of the almost automatic response of the sharp socialists among his hearers . Their first inquiry would be to learn how he came by that mysterious extra two thousand a year with which he supplemented his stipend . How did he earn that ? And if he did n't earn it And secondly they would probably have pointed out to him that his standard of housing , clothing , diet and entertaining was probably a little higher than theirs . It is really no proof of virtuous poverty that a man 's expenditure exceeds his income . And finally some other of his hearers were left unsatisfied by his silence with regard to the current proposal to pool all clerical stipends for the common purposes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if bishops must dispute about stipends instead of preaching the kingdom of God , then they are bound to face it . The sooner they do so the more graceful will the act be . From these personal apologetics the Bishop took up the question of the exemption , at the request of the bishops , of the clergy from military service . It is one of our contrasts with French conditions ? and it is all to the disadvantage of the British churches . In his Piccadilly contribution to the National Mission of Repentance and Hope the Bishop did not talk politics but sex . He gave his hearers the sort of stuff that is handed out so freely by the cinema theatres , white-slave traffic talk , denunciations of " night hawks " ? whatever " night hawks " may be ? and so on . On this or another occasion the Bishop ? he boasts that he himself is a healthy bachelor ? lavished his eloquence upon the Fall in the Birth Rate , and the duty of all married people , from paupers upward , to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of conduct and a very important department , but it is n't religion ! The world is distressed by international disorder , by the monstrous tragedy of war ; these little hot talks about indulgence and begetting have about as much to do with the vast issues that concern us as , let us say , a discussion of the wickedness of eating very new and indigestible bread . It is talking round and about the essential issue . It is fogging the essential issue , which is the forgotten and neglected kingship of God . The sin that is stirring the souls of men is the sin of this war . 2 The common clergy of France , sharing the military obligations and the food and privations of their fellow parishioners , contrast very vividly with the home-staying ministries of the various British churches . I met and talked to several . Near Frise there were some barge gun-boats ? they have since taken their place in the fighting but then they were a surprise ? and the men had been very anxious to have their craft visited and seen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if he could still arrange that , had been decorated for gallantry . Of course the English too have their gallant chaplains , but they are men of the officer caste , they are just young officers with peculiar collars ; you never see them among the men , men among men , as you see the French priests . There can be no doubt that the behavior of the French priests in this war has enormously diminished anti-clerical bitterness in France . There can be no doubt that France is far more a religious country than it was before the war . But if you ask whether that means any return to the church , any reinstatement of the church , the answer is a doubtful one . Religion and the simple priest are stronger in France to-day ; the church , I think , is weaker . I trench on no theological discussion when I record the unfavorable impression made upon all western Europe by the failure of the Holy Father to pronounce definitely upon the rights and wrongs of the war . The church has abrogated its right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opinion of the Frenchmen with whom I discussed a remarkable interview with Cardinal Gasparri that I found one morning at Amiens in Le Journal . It was not the sort of interview to win the hearts of men who were ready to give their lives to set right what they believe to be the greatest outrage that has ever been inflicted upon Christendom , that is to say the forty-three years of military preparation and of diplomacy by threats that culminated in the ultimatum to Serbia , the invasion of Belgium and the murder of the Vise villagers . It was adorned with a large portrait of " Benoit XV , " looking grave and discouraging over his spectacles , and the headlines insisted it was " La Pensee du Pape . " Crossheads sufficiently indicated the general tone . One read : The good Cardinal would have made a good lawyer . He had as little to say about God and the general righteousness of things as the Bishop of London . But he got in some smug reminders of the severance of diplomatic relations with the Vatican . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Holy See in its Consistorial Allocution of January 22nd , 1915 , invited the belligerents to observe the laws of war . Could anything more be done than that ? Oh 1 ? in the general issue of the war , if you want a judgment on the war as a whole , how is it possible for the Vatican to decide ? Surely the French know that excellent principle of justice , Audiatur et altera pars , and how under existing circumstances can the Vatican do that ? The Vatican is cut off from communication with Austria and Germany . The Vatican has been deprived of temporal power ( another neat point ) . . . . So France is bowed out . When peace is restored the Vatican will perhaps be able to inquire if there was a big German army in 1914 , if German diplomacy was aggressive from 1875 onward , if Belgium was invaded unrighteously , if ( Catholic ) Austria forced the pace upon ( non-Catholic ) Russia . But now ? now the Holy See must remain as impartial as a mascot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Le Journal contained an account of the Armenian massacres ; the blood of the Armenian cries out past the Holy Father to heaven ; but then Armenians are after all heretics , and here again the principle of Audiatur et altera pars comes in . Communications are not open with the Turks . . . Audiatur a altera pars , and the Vatican has not forgotten the infidelity and disrespect of both France and Italy in the past . These are the things , it seems , that really matter to the Vatican . It is the most astounding renunciation in history . Indubitably the Christian church took a wide stride from the kingship of God when it placed a golden throne for the unbaptised Constantine in the midst of its most sacred deliberations at Nicaea . But it seems to me that this abandonment of moral judgments in the present case by the Holy See is almost a wider step from the church 's allegiance to God .                     