@@465398

TEN years ago the editor concluded the hundredth volume of this Magazine with an article portraying its growth during half a century ? the circumstances determining its original type as a popular illustrated monthly periodical , of which it was for twenty years the sole example , and the conditions through which it was developed , the original type persisting in every successive transformation . The transformations had been as wonderful as those of civilization itself in that wonderful half-century of which this Magazine had been intimately and comprehensively the mirror , keeping abreast of the time in all that related to national expansion , world-exploitation , new scientific discoveries , and Arctic , African , and Asiatic exploration , while within its own special domain of literature and art it had been a stimulus as well as the reflection of every advance . Having been always so near to the mind and heart of the American people , their home companion everywhere , even in remote Western pioneer settlements and mining-camps , always meeting their intellectual need for entertainment and in the lines of their aspiration , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . During twenty of the fifty years then included in the editor 's retrospect Harper 's Magazine had held the field alone . Its contemporaries were in no sense its competitors ; with the exception of Putnam 's Magazine and the Atlantic Monthly , they were miscellanies , limited in aims and scope , and they were not illustrated . It was the artist 's pencil that enabled Harper 's Magazine to exercise so many and so various functions for popular information and entertainment . It was indispensable to the travelling contributor , who , because he was an artist , could not only depict what he saw , but could see what would escape the eyes of other men ; it served the teachers of science , the explorer , and the archeologist ; it supplemented the novelist and shortstory writer , helping to the acute visual-ization of scene and character ; and , apart from all these uses , in the hands of a long line of artists , from Porte Crayon down , it contributed abundantly to the amusement of readers . Without the service of the artist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what they were ? a continuous world-exposition . During those twenty years the intimacy of the Magazine with the American people was firmly established . Its readers , scattered over a continent , were especially grateful because its contributions were not confined to American sources , but included the best from minds abroad . When other illustrated magazines entered the field , it was only stimulated by the rivalry of the best of these to new degrees of excellence . The competition brought on the golden age of woodengraving , in the glories of which this Magazine had its full share . This transformation was followed by a greater one when , through the rapid progress of the co-11 ' 1bn , , in enterprise and culture , the Magazine was released from the comparatively elemental obligations it had assumed of an educational character , and was able to meet its readers on a higher plane of human interest , and thus more amply , because more creatively , illustrate its original type . No magazine , nor indeed any form of periodical publication , can , or should , shirk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a magazine if it can render such service illuminatively rather than formally , and if it can devote itself mainly to the literature of power rather than to that of information . And as to the informing article it is a question of method , the method being determined by the audience . Thus American readers of the Magazine to-day , who know other lands and peoples either by actual observation or through easily accessible books , do not demand articles of travel like those which , merely for information , they needed forty years ago . Their demand now is upon the writer 's creative imagination for individually original impressions . This is also true of the essay ; addressed to a more widely cultivated audience , it makes a greater demand upon the writer 's imagination and the reader 's sensibility than it made a generation ago . Many years elapsed after the appearance of Darwin and Spencer in the world of science before thoughtful people generally could be brought to understand the import of terms which are now the a b c of common speech . The keen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the scientific investigator 's laboratory for his fresh deliverances scarcely existed when Jacob Abbott was writing popular-science papers for this Magazine . Now not only is the general sensibility fully quickened into urgent expectancy , but the theme itself offers , instead of the formal lesson , an exciting romance . So it is in every appeal to the reader ? even in fiction . We pass from the stage where the writer teases the reader and perhaps plays with him , posing as his didactic master or showman , to that in which the reader teases the writer , challenging him to his best in matter and style , scorning his mask , intolerant of tricks , accepting nothing at second-hand . It is in this process that the Magazine ? and the whole popular press ? gets its evolution through release from crude conditions , through higher opportunity . It is by the same process that the better statesmanship gets its vantage-ground . But the release is gradual . Indeed , it is only during the last decade that the largest opportunities of the Magazine have been fully realized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advance , but here the high open ground . So the editor , tenderly and with no abatement of old appreciation , puts back upon the shelf the hundred volumes in black covers with gilt lettering and takes up the score of new volumes since issued , brightly bound in green and gold . From the old caption ? Harper 's New Monthly Magazine ? the word New has dropped out . The editor remembers that he used to lay particular stress upon that word , as indicating the dawn-like freshness of each Number . But though the word is absent , the newness is there , more characteristic in an absolute sense of each successive Number than in the old series . Even more pertinently the omitted adjective might designate the series of twenty volumes now under review . There is no break in the continuity . The original type persists , only more freshly and interestingly . There has been such a readjustment of the varied elements of interest as increases the variety and at the same time secures better economy and proportion . Interestingness is the dominant note @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thoughtful readers at every point of essential and vital interest , without undertaking the functions of daily or weekly journalism . But it must be timely . Its field is the living Present . What now , insistently , continuously , and as part of the great living human movement , concerns these thoughtful readers , must constitute for them the main interest of the Harper type of magazine . Such a magazine must not only forego certain momentary advantages associated with interests the most poignant , such as are excited by a battle or an earthquake ? where indeed it can not be abreast of the time , but can only follow the perfectly competent Daily or Weekly ? but it must absolutely repudiate that which is only objectively or accidentally timely , as it must that which is of merely theatric interest . The real timeliness of the Magazine is evident in other ways . No other periodical , for example , is so timely in laying before its readers the latest disclosures in science , archaeology , and exploration , in the imaginative creations of literature and art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; for the deeper our sense of the living Present , the deeper also our historic sense . The kind of timeliness aimed at by Harper 's is not defined by what it excludes . A certain kind of interest is surrendered by the omission of the exciting timely topic and by withdrawal from the picturesque processional and pageantry of occasional celebrations . We may minimize the sense of loss , since so much , in any ease , is bound to be lost through anticipatory publication of the affair in its most popularly interesting features , but beyond that inevitable loss something is still missing , and there is at least a feeling of regrettable aloofness from the general anxiety or rejoicing . For the thoughtful reader , beset on every side by conversational and journalistic tumult , this aloofness becomes a refuge , and he is grateful that at least in one magazine he finds a retreat upon which is cast no shadow of the overwhelming event . While this repose may yield an almost positive satisfaction , yet this interval of rest is vacuous and insignificant if not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the topics displaced . The principle of selection is positive , with results that commend themselves to readers for positive values which , in a just appreciation , more than compensate for those surrendered . The comparison of values has reference wholly to kinds and degrees of interest , both the kind and degree depending upon the extent and depth of culture on the part of the audience not less than upon the resources of the Magazine ? its lofty aims and standard counting for the largest of these , and , next , such breadth of scope and variety of appeal as must naturally invite and engage creative genius in literature , science , and art . Then , given the favoring conditions offered by an adventurously progressive epoch , the world lies open to its choice . Clear vision alone is necessary to determine its selection and the spontaneous organization of all the forces and elements at its command . A magazine , in this fortunate situation , is not a planned machine , but a living organism , open to the main currents of the world 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circle of interests created by these same currents in them . Interestingness , from this point of view , that is , in an appeal to a developed sensibility , is the central aim of the Magazine . By a developed sensibility we do not mean one breathing only the highest and rarest of atmospheres in attenuated refinement , one formally or technically educated , or one having special exaltation in a literary , aesthetic , or any other sense ; we mean , just what we have intimated , one open to the main currents of the world , sharing the modern world-sense of truth , beauty , humor , romance , faith , and all the real values of life , in the plain human course . During the past decade the Magazine has had chiefly in view a full response to this high order of interests , and in its accomplishment of the purpose has shown that intensively reflective concentration which , after a period of great expansion ? often eccentric and wasteful ? has been the distinctive characteristic of the decade itself . The fact that during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than at any other period of its history is sufficient evidence of the popular approval of its course in the new lines I have indicated . In the field of science , where the newness of disclosure is most definitely apparent to the reader , the advanced method of the Magazine in the treatment of the themes presented has been as fruitful as laboratory investigation itself has been . Since the discovery of radium , the successive revelations resulting from the study of radiant phenomena , which , apart from their service to hospital work , have revolutionized physical science , have been promptly expounded to our readers by those who have made them ? by Sir J. J. Thompson , Sir William Ramsay , Ernest Rutherford , Professor Soddy , and John Jobs As these men right from the laboratory , so , fresh from observatory work , eminent astronomers , like Lockyer , Darwin , Newcomb , Pickering , Ritchie , and others , have directly communicated their novel disclosures . The wonders of magnetism , photomicroscopy , synthetic chemistry , and even strange curiosities of physics have had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , other writers like flenry Smith Williams and Robert Kennedy Duncan , men familiar with recent developments of science and recognized as competent authorities , have investigated the investigators and their laboratory work , co-ordinating the latest results . Professor Duncan has several times visited Europe for this purpose , and contributed articles of great importance to industry as well as in the interests of pure science ? articles which have made volumes . In the nearly related field of Archaeology direct contributions have been made by Jacques De Morgan , W. M. FlindersPetrie , Giacomo Boni , Charles Waldstein , Friedrich Delizsche , and other only less distinguished writers . From its earliest years the Magazine held the foremost , and for a long time a solitary , position in the field of Exploration ? notably Polar and African . This primacy it has retained , only , in the period we are now reviewing , its articles have been confined mainly to such as definitely contribute to the advance of scientific knowledge or add singularly interesting chapters to the record of adventure . For its notable additions to our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ranges never before known to the world , Sven Hedin 's Tibetan series holds the first place ; and this was communicated to the Magazine long before the explorer 's return to civilization . To even indicate the range covered in these few years by contributions from explorers , and especially those from travellers in comparatively unknown regions , would take more space than we can spare . To whatever field it should be assigned ? to that of exploration , of archseology , or of scholarly research ? no modern discovery , excepting that of the New World , has been so surprising or of such human interest as that recently made by Charles William Wallace , Associate Professor of Literature in the University of Nebraska , who , with the assistance of his wife , has brought to light from the millions of documents filed in the Public Record Office in London official records which give us our first authentic picture of Shakespeare as a man . The account of this discovery , in a recent Number of the Magazine , not only gives the poet a distinctly located @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but associates him with a love-story and a suit at law growing out of it and discloses his neighborhood in such a way as to indicate his familiar contacts with fellow playwrights and partnere in the Globe Theatre management , and even to intimate that he must , just on his way to that theatre , have sometimes on Bread Street seen and been seen by Milton , then a young child ? and all this during the years when he was writing such plays as Hamlet , Macbeth , Othello , As You Like It , and Twelfth Night . Henry W. Nevinson made a dangerous journey into an unfrequented part of West Africa , and contributed a series of papers which are not mere sketches of travel , though , even as such , compelling attention , but sociological studies , exposing the horrors of the new slave trade on the Congo , and arousing to action the manufacturers of Great Britain . A later series from the same writer depicted the atrocities of Russian military officialism in the Caucasus . Sociology ? especially the study of social conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The experiments in behalf of employees undertaken by humane employers , the aims and careers of social economies established by special communities , the evils of child labor in factories , have been described by sympathetic writers ; and in recent years still more attention has been given not only to the evil economic conditions , but to organized effort for their relief . Closely associated with social conditions , but important also as scientific contributions , have been the frequent articles from specialists on medical and surgical progress . Dr. W. W. Keen 's papers have been surprising revelations of the rapid advance of modern surgery , and not less important have been those recounting the progress made in the prevention of infectious diseases , by Dr. John C. Torrey , Dr. M. A. Starr , Dr. Ayers , and other specialists . The new lines taken by the Magazine have surely in these ways brought it into even closer intimacy with the people than in its early period , more nearly touching their solicitudes and sympathies . Grover Cleveland 's contributions , embodying the simplest but most profound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seem like farewell addresses of a later Washington ? appeals to the national consciousness . President Hadley 's and President Eliot 's papers in the interests of public education reach the same high plane . President Woodrow Wilson 's " History of the American People . " published serially , was a liberal education to the people : presenting the American past in a living picture , fraught with timely suggestion and monition . The historic scene is ever present in the Magazine in every shape excepting that of formal narrative . It is the background and atmosphere of the ultramodern travel sketch ? of the essay ? of social and literary reminiscences ? and of a great deal of fiction . It is the very substance of John Bassett Moore 's articles on American Contributions to Modern Diplomacy ; of revised sketches of historical characters ; and of innumerable curiously interesting episodes in the affairs of state or in the lives of memorable personages , freshly brought to light by newly discovered documents or correspondence , Professor Thomas R. Lounsbury 's two series of Language papers , treating of English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a general need , and have aroused more discussion than anything else ever contributed in this field . I have given so much space to a summary , which , after all , is merely suggestive of the varied texture of the Magazinie , apart from fiction , mainly to show the distinctively modern pattern of it all , as meeting an equally distinctive modern expectation . But also it is made evident that the space gained by the exclusion of ephemeral matter has been fully occupied , not by stories , but by timely and substantial articles , yet so much more novel and interesting than what they have displaced that they constitute the more romantic half of the Magazine 's contents . The development of the short story has been , with the exception of those early examples furnished by Poe , Irving , Hawthorne , and the elder Dana , coeval with that of this Magazine , which gave it its strongest stimulus and a generous hospitality . At the end of the Magazine 's halfcentury this species of fiction had a worldwide recognition as peculiarly an American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the general esteem , reversing the English situation , in which the novel held an overwhelming superiority , the short story being almost negligible in the comparison . It seems strange to us now that , with so many American writers of short fiction in the field , there should at that time have been in a Number of the Magazine so many serial novels and so few short stories . Yet the new decade opened with three serial novels , by Mrs. Humphry Ward , Israel Zangwill , and Frank R. Stockton , occupying more than one-third of the Magazine , as against about the same number of short stories , with , of course , the minimum of space as compared with any other class of matter excepting poetry . It was a remarkable disproportion due to a traditional estimate of the importance of serial fiction , the readers , too , probably accepting it as a matter of course . Considering the large number of readers who , with the serial before them from month to month , and really tempting them ? for it was always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ read it uninterruptedly in book form , it might well have seemed that the custom would be more honored in the breach than in the observance . At any rate it was determined that there should be but a single serial at one time in the Magazine . It was thus that room was gained for a variety of short stories . Whether because of the opportunity offered them , which appeared like a solicitation , or because they were waiting their chance , a multitude of short - story writers at once emerged in full array , eager to occupy the land opened to them . Every month seemed to bring a fresh recruit . Some writers of the older group advanced in excellence and often rivalled the new ones in surprises , but it was the later group that developed most of the new variations in the recent evolution of the short story . Here a number of new English writers blended their varieties with those of the new Americans . But the American writers multiplied tenfold as compared with the English . Thus it happens that to-day every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of exceptional and varied interest . In this variety Romance stands forth prominently ; where Hewlett stood alone a few years ago there are now six or seven writers , English and American , eminent in the same field . Humor has been from the beginning a leading feature of the Magazine , accentuated in the " Drawer , " but also a prevailing element throughout .. The greatest of living humorists writes only AN ANNIVERSARY RETROSPECT . for the Magazine , and how far he is removed from the old style of professional humorists is evident in the spiritual meanings of so much of his fiction . Among Americans there is more of a sense of the play of life than ever before ; hence of late it has entered more largely into the representation of life in the short stories of the Magazine . As for the serial novel , it represents a kind of continuity from Number to Number , if such a representation is necessary in a well-organized magazine . But , like everything else in the Magazine , it is not a question of necessity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be , published serially in Harper 's Magazine unless it has the highest rank in the art of fiction , and even the greatest of names is not in itself a temptation . The name may as well not be known , as in the case of " The Inner Shrine , " which , without any knowledge of its authorship on the part of its readers , either in serial or book form , yet achieved in both forms a wonderful success . Certainly the serial novels published in the Magazine during the last ten years ? Mrs. Humphry Ward 's , Mary Johnston 's , Mrs. Mary Wilkins Freeman 's , Alice Brown 's , Gilbert Parker 's , Booth Tarkington 's , and Mrs. Deland 's ? have sustained the indispensable test . To American readers Mrs. De/and 's longer fiction , like her short stories , has had a strong appeal through her sympathetic quality , her simple and plainly idiomatic style , the inevitable course of her drama , and her power to create living personalities . Any one who considers reflectively and interpretatively the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its affiliations with literature , the artists often anticipating the writers , initiating new variations in the evolution of the creative imagination . Rossetti is an obvious example . Dnt Manrier as an artist gave the prelusive note to his own work as a novelist . The history of the Magazine is illustrative of the leadership and prophetic suggestion of the artist . Even when his office , as an illustrator , seemed to be merely subservient , his complementary service was necessary to nearly all the varied undertakings of the Magazine ; hut , from the first , he was more than this , else the rapidly developing art of photography VOL , CXXL ? No , would have soon supplanted him . For a long time he contributed graces , felicities , humor , and a sense of realness , not always so apparent in the text even when he happened to be the writer of it . He has fully kept pace with the growth of the literary art in this country , and has always given it an enhancement by his own . He made the advance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became his weapon against the woodengraver ? so far as his own drawings were concerned . Wood-engraving has not been displaced , but its office to-day is most appreciable in the reproduction of the best examples of the painter 's art , old or new ? such as is given in this way in almost every Number of the Magazine . It is creative work , and only possible to a master engraver , like Henry Wolf . In commenting upon the artist and his work in the last ten years , we encounter the same difficulty as in dealing with the writers of short stories ? there are so many of him , and of her . At the beginning of this period a comparatively small number of artists furnished the illustrations of the Magazine , but they were the acknowledged masters of their art . The transformation of the Magazine , especially through the prominenee given to imaginative literature , proved an exceptional opportunity and incentive to promising young artists ? it is impossible here to mention even those who have won eminent distinction . Color printing has given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and has become a regular feature in every Number . The process has reached a degree of perfection which permits the reproduction of the artist 's work in all its charm of form , tone , and atmosphere as well as of color . In a period when , to many , it seemed that Poetry had quite abandoned mankind , this highest form of expression in art has been especially honored in the Magazine . More poems have been there published than in any other former decade , and they have generally been poems of distinction . During the period under review poems have appeared in the Magazine contributed by such writers as Swinburne , Aldrich , Howells , Woodberry , Dobson , Van Dyke , Hardy , Watson , Cawein , and Fanny Kemble Johnson . The late John B. Tabb was a frequent contributor . The rare genius shown in Josephine Preston Peabody 's poetry long ago won deserved recognition . Of the many lyrists who have made the last decade musical for our readers it is impossible to make individual mention . But that there is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is shown by the quality of the songs as well as by the number of the singers . It is also remarkable that so many of our best prose writers are also writers of verse . This is not only true of those as well known in fiction and other imaginative work as Howells , Thomas Hardy , Mrs. Deland , Alice Brown , Mrs. Freeman , Richard Le Gallienne , and Arthur Symons , but of those eminent as publicists , scientists , and scholars , like President John II . Finley , John Burroughs , Professor Henry A. Beers , and Ernest Rhys . At the beginning of the decade the only editorial department remaining in the Magazine was " The Drawer " ? the " Editor 's Easy Chair " and " The Editor 's Study " having been discontinued some years before . These two departments were revived . If the restoration of a piece of Magazine furniture , which had been set aside with reverent sorrow but was still so vividly remembered that it seemed like a living thing , needed justification , that need was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to its old place for its occupation by Mr. Howells , already a veteran occupant of the readers ' affections . To have regularly once a month the familiar but ever fresh and novel expression of his mature genius , not in views and opinions of men and things , but in the terms of his creative vision and feeling of life , was to have , unsealed , the fountain of perennial delights ? such delights as were to be accounted among the highest satisfactions promised by the Magazine 's renascence . Meanwhile the readers of the Magazine have had the full benefit of Mr. Howells 's creative work in the short story , the farce , the poem , and in his many essays on English social atmospheres and manners , furnishing the best examples of that new order of travel sketch which , in the course of this review , I have attempted to show as distinct from the older , more superficial , and formally descriptive sketch , in that it gives real pictures and fresh individual impressions , with a dominant psychical control of all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sympathetic novelist , not producing a systematic order , but creating a harmony . Yet from all such work the reader turns with new zest to listen to the looser harmonies of the Chair , so full of grace , so wisely modulated ! There is a kind of orchestral harmony in every individual Number of the Magazine , not so evident in the early period , when each form of the literature presented was more sharply outlined in distinction from the others . Now , each often partakes of the essential quality of another . The scientific article has its romance and surprises in common with fiction . The essay may be dramatic , or , in the form of a travel sketch , it may be poetic , or a scene from the comedy of life . In everything there is the interest of a story . When this orchestration is over , and before its tension is fully relaxed in the fun of the Drawer , it has during the last ten years been permitted to the conductor to appear without his baton , in the restored Editor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where originally Mr. Howells sat , its windows overlooking the Charles River , and where , after him , Charles Dudley Warner quaintly commented on life and current literature . The review of books is no longer a function of the Magazine ? that office being so well performed in the newspapers and special literary periodicals . The new Study was intended to bring the Magazine , through its editor , into closer touch with its writers and its readers . The editor thus became the interpreter of the Magazine in the new lines it had taken ? an office which he has enjoyed and which , he trusts , has given some pleasure and satisfaction to his contributors and to readers generally . The expert contributor may have come , through this kind of interpretation , to be better understood by his readers . At least a kind of common consciousness has been established and more and more intensified among those directly engaged in the making of a new literature and those concerned in the relation of the modern magazine to this creation . Since the editor was so evidently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may have been better assured of a cordial welcome or at least of a careful consideration ; they may have seen more clearly that it was the thing offered that counted , not the name back of it ; and old writers , whose earliest recognition had been won through their contributions , may have felt more at home with a magazine which spoke to them , and spoke of them in grateful appreciation . Readers too , new and old , were not left out of this homely atmosphere , and , from being so intimately addressed by the editor , many of them have freely talked back . As the writers have surprised him by their disclosures of new qualities , thus helping him to fresh interpretations , so the readers by their communications have suggested themes . For example , the course of the last three or four essays in the Study was originally determined by a letter from a reader in Cleveland , Ohio , who made an earnest protest against the feminization of current magazine fiction , pleading for stories having a distinctly manly tone and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " manly tone and attitude " generally whatit had been in the past of civilization and literature , and what the modern feminization really means . He would probably have come to the consideration sooner or later ; but here was a living voice , immediately prompting it . That is what the Stinly is for ? to evoke living voices and to be one itself . The personal side of the communication is of lively interest also . In one way the editor naturally has more chances with writers and artists than with readers ? he sometimes actually meets them ; and he will be pardoned if he here alludes to one memorable occasion of such a meeting , during the decade , with some two hundred and fifty of them , on the eve of his seventieth birthday , when the counting-room of the Franklin Square establishment was turned into a banqueting hall for his reception of men and women who , as Carolyn Wells so happily phrased it , were the " living Index of Harper 's Magazine . " The impersonality of the editor had always seemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and had more and more , in recent years , come to seem just and fitting , since it never could mean unipersonality in the case of a periodical demanding , in its complex economy , equally complex associative effort . Even in the Study , where individual expression conveyed , as it was meant to , something personal in the tone and manner of the communication , yet , in its matter and essential meaning , the editor always felt himself to be representative rather than individual . as much so as in all other editorial functions ; and he was always glad that the close neighborhood of the Easy Chair emphasized the idea of association . So , on the occasion he has referred to , while impersonality was dissipated by his individual appearance and by its being his birthday , yet all the other circumstances made the affair repre-sentative and associative . The editor addresses the readers of the Magazine every month , but he can not meet them in any such assembling . The writers and artists appeal to them , but can not by direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principle of selection and the plane and lines of development divine as best they can the tastes and interests of the audience they desire to reach through the resources of literature and art at their command , but can have only one assurance of success ? the prosperity of their undertaking . If the selection follows the individual tastes or interests of any of those engaged in the making of the Magazine , it is likely to be eccentric and certain to fall short of a catholic scope . It is liable to the same perils if it follows the expressed demands of individual readers . The thoughtful audience is collectively wiser than any individual . Thus in ways that are better divined than studied out , all the elements concerned are spontaneously but reflectively brought into harmonious association . Because the Magazine has won so much space for distinctively creative work , the note of spontaneity in it is dominant , and surprises abound ; there is weather in its atmosphere , free play of the elements , and a varied temperament.It is a living organic part . of our @ @ @ 