@@466242

IT happened in the days when Mirabeau B. Lamar was President ? of the Republic of Texas . In the greater republic , which was shortly to take Texas to its bosom , the uncertain rule of the courtly Martin Van Buren was shadowed by the approach of the pathetically brief tenure of William Henry Harrison . People still talked of the brilliant ceremonies attending the marriage of Queen Victoria to her idolized Prince Albert a year before , and they still contrasted the stately reception given to the ashes of Napoleon the Great with the ignominious failure of Napoleon the Little at Boulogne . At Paris the last of reigning Bourbons , Louis Philippe , concerned himself with vast fortifications which were to prove futile against the Prussians a generation later . For the time being the Napoleonic pretender was worse than a failure . He was ridiculous . The Bourbon lilies waved unscathed . Rut the echoes of the Boulogne dauirle had not passed away when the Bourbon- lilies were again assailed ? not by a sickly Napoleonic eagle , but by the whetted appetite of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early in 1841 that the devil saw fit to enter into certain Texan swine . Had these swine preserved the tradition of the steep place and the sea all would have been well . But , instead , their diabolical obsession impelled them to pillage the corn bestowed upon certain horses which were the horses of the Count de Saligny , agent and accredited representative of France to the Republic of Texas . Out of the forays of these accursed pigs grew , like rank weeds in the tropics , assault and battery , and diplomatic correspondence of increasing acrimony which was disseminated in Mexico , although Mexico needed no spurring against us under Santa Ana , nor dues she now . Then came the formal with-Pos CXXX. ? No , 778. - 77drawal of the representative of France , the transfer of the embittered porcine argument to Paris , a rebuke from Guizot , Minister of State , fairly bellicose in tone , the rumor of a hostile French fleet at hand , a tentative effort to enroll the fleets of America and England in defense of the Texan swine , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a threemillion-dollar loan which Paris bankers had been about to grant to the Republic of Texas . Assuredly the corn appropriated by these wretched pigs was the costliest ever known . Assuredly also the performances of de Saligny and of Mayfield , the Texan Secretary of State , rank high among the curiosities of official stupidity . Now , the story of the swine which trod the lilies of France underfoot begins with M. de Saligny- 's first relations with Texas when he was negotiating , in 1839 , with J. Pinckney Henderson in Paris regarding French duties upon Texan cotton and Texan duties upon French wines . This acquaintance with Texas , and apparently also a certain speculative impulse , must have worked together toward his appointment the following year as the accredited representative of France in Texas . Arrived in New Orleans , he is heard of in connection with certain land grants , and a little later there is a tale of counterfeit money which he seems to have received from natives and to have paid to natives on the principle , doubtless , of rendering unto Caesar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his residence in Austin it was as the " paying guest " of a certain Richard Bullock , an innkeeper . Presently he established the Legation of France more fittingly in a house with quarters for his servants and a stable for his horses , which it was a duty of these servants to keep supplied with corn . Unhappily he was still in close proximity to Bullock , and Bullock 's preference in the animal kingdom was for pigs . According to the custom of those simple times ? a custom not unknown even in old New York ? the pigs roamed at will . Their will was to eat . The temptation of the corn in M. de Saligny 's stable was potent . Their appreciation of the sanctity of a foreign Legation was nil . Therefore the pigs invaded the stable , and , growing bolder , even the house . Therefore the servants of M. de Saligny wearied themselves in chasing these marauders and in building fences with a vast consumption of nails . But the fences were not pig-proof and neither was the temper of M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the instant execution of trespassing pigs . That was enough . His servants armed themselves for slaughter and took swift reprisal upon Mr. Bullock 's swine . To the Bullock mind this probably meant not merely the loss of property , but also a blow at a cherished pastoral usage lung peacefully observed . His remarks were vehement , his pro-cedure violent . Without loss of time he proceeded to fall upon Pluyette , a servant in de Saligny 's household , and his demonstrations led to the official beginning of the War of Swine . It was on February 59 , 18.41 , that M. de Saligny , drawing toward him his best and most official paper , wrote a letter , surcharged with emotion , and directed it to J. S. Mayfield , The Honorable Secretary of State of The Republic of Texas . The following extract exhibits its character : STIR , It is with profound regret that I find myself forced to call Tour attention to facts of an extremely grave nature of which this city was this morning the theatre . From information entitled to credit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the details of this deplorable affair . One of the people belonging to my house , Mr. Eugene Pluyette , when passing in the street , was without any provocation on his part , assaulted by a man named Bullock , a resident of this city , who having first assailed him by throwing stones , then threw himself upon him with a stick , at the same time making use of all kinds of menaces and atrocious imprecations . My domestic after having repulsed successfully the attacks of Bullock , wished , with a moderation worthy of praise , to pursue his way ; but this miserableman without the sang froid , and presence of mind of my domestic , undertook to follow him , and the affray was commenced again in a more serious manner . These acts , Sir , constitute one of the most scandalous and outrageous violations of the Laws of Nations , and they assume a much more serious aspect when , it is considered that they are but the realization of menaces made a long time in advance , and that ( as I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two different times been preceded by occurrences of the same nature . This was the prelude to a diplomatic correspondence ' which the author of Alice 's Adventures in Wonderland should have turned to account . The Honorable Secretary replied at infinite length in sonorous but involved phrases like these : Mr. Saligny , Charge d'affaires of France , may upon all occasions contemplate with the most entire assurance that this Government entertains a lively sense of the necessity of adhering rigidly to those rules of international law , which so distinctly , and justly regulate and mark that intercourse , and comity which so deservedly distinguish all civilized Nations and that the President would witness with peculiar and profound regret any infraction of those well established principles , which might in any possible contingency , in the remotest degree disturb the harmony and friendly relations ( an object which Texas will ever foster ) existing between this Government , and the Government of France , which Mr. Saligny has the distinguished honor so eminently to represent . Actuated by these considerations , and moved by the reflection that the Magnanimity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period in our revolutionary struggle , to become the first European power to recognize Texas as an independent Nation and entitled to rank amongst the Nations of the Earth , this too an important step for the interest of the Republic , it is borne in mind was greatly facilitated by the zeal , and interest you so disinterestedly manifested in her welfare , and advancement , in representing so forcibly , and favorably to your Government the resources , of the Country , and the moral and physical capabilities of the people for self government . The President has therefore directed that the proper Law-officer be instructed to institute an employ into the facts , and circumstances attending the occurrence mentioned in your note , and take the necessary legal measures for an examination of the case before the judiciary , and have its action thereon , as may be consonant to the laws and usages of Nations . But the grandiose official ruined the effect of his eloquence by finally intimating that a list of M. de Saligny 's servants should have been given at first to the Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ de Saligny pounced upon the implied criticism : Now in the matter under consideration , it would not only be impossible to deny that Mr. Bullock knew Eugene Pluyette to be one of the domestics of my house ; but it can no less be doubted , and the Texian Government ought to be informed of it as well as any one it may concern , what course to pursue in this affair , that it was even on account of this quality of Domestic of the Charge d'affaires of France , that Pluyette has been three times on the part of Mr. Bullock , the victim of infamous and premeditated outrage . I will not conclude this note without representing to you again , that it is a matter of extreme urgency for the interests of our respective Governments that the attempts of the said Bullock which has tic rendered him liable , should receive a prompt and exemplary punishment . This individual who has by no means restrained himself , as you remark in your instructions to Mr. Jewett , to provoking Mr. Pluyette , but who has attacked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sometimes with a stick , and even with a hatchet , inflicting upon him each time wounds more or less serious , has since yesterday , again used towards him horrible threats . And the letter closes with a renewed request for prompt and energetic action . Mayfield , ready letter-writer that he was , replied with references to " prescribed forms and rules , " adding that " the Republic of Texas having directed to the utmost of her authority an investigation into the alleged outrage , Congratulates herself that she has done all that duty requires That chivalrous and magnanimous France could demand , " etc . M. de Saligny was requested on the morrow to lay before Judge Hutchinson of the Supreme Court any evidence at his command . Once again M. de Saligny 's sense of diplomatic proprieties was outraged , and thus he made his hitter reply : If the Texian Government , which ought , it seems to me , to be perfectly apprised of the true cause of this odious violation of the Laws of Nations ; which can not be ignorant of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not succeeded in procuring upon facts known to everybody , sufficient evidence , I should take pleasure in transmitting through you all the declarations necessary to enlighten the conscience of its Tribunals . I would even consent in the case in which you have made the demand , that my domestics should be heard by their simple declarations . But as to permitting that they should appear as witnesses before the Judicial authorities of this Country , particularly when it relates to a question in which the dignity of France is deeply concerned , I could never do that without completely forgetting the obligations which are imposed on me . The pigs were in the background . Even the truculent Bullock was overshadowed by the new controversy over diplomatic usages . " The Laws of Nations , " wrote Saligny , " prevents sic not only a Foreign Minister but even his domestics from being called under any pretext whatever before the Tribunals of the country where he resides . " His domestics should be heard , " not as witnesses , but by simple declaration . . . . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been com-mitted three different times before a great number of people . . . . France , less than any other nation perhaps should expect to be insulted by Texas ; and besides , since the outrage of which she has to complain , has been unexpected , odious , and in its character derogatory to her dignity , you can therefore the better understand , that in her just indignation , she should insist that it should receive a prompt and signal punishment proportioned to the enormity of the offence . " Thereupon the tireless Mayfield " begs leave to repeat that it is most true that the Texian Government could not if she desired it , do anything to render vain or nugatory the imprescriptable laws and usages of Nations " But meantime Judge Hutchinson had held his examination , and the district attorney reporting thereon stated that " as regards the affray of February 19th Mr. Bullock has been strictly dealt with according to the laws of our Republic . " The character of the testimony which was forwarded to M. de Saligny is eloquently set forth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ club in his hand . The servant had a contusion in the head . " Bullock was ordered to give sureties to appear at the next term of court . With this de Saligny expressed tempered satisfaction . Peace seemed at hand when suddenly a new storm was precipitated by the maladroit Mayfield at a most inauspicious moment . For from London Gen. James Hamilton , Texan agent to England and France , was writing that he had concluded a contract with the Bank of Lafitte for a loan which would be worth between two and three millions to the Government of Texas , and he needed only the guarantee of the French Government , of which he had a " fair prospect . " It was at this time that Mayfield saw fit to present to de Saligny a " memorial " from the recalcitrant Bullock demanding that the former should settle certain accounts . With fiery eloquence de Saligny repudiated the charge of failure to pay his debts , recapitulated various offers of settlement , and repeated his own story of the obsessed swine . He pictured his servants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nails in repairing fences broken by the thievish invaders . One day declared de Saligny three pigs entered even into my bedroom , ate some of my linen , and destroyed some papers . Another time a dozen of these animals rushed among eight horses to eat their corn and the frightened horses upset the whole stable and kicked a groom , who barely escaped half-dead . Then following the example of several of my neighbors I ordered my servants to kill the pigs that came into the courtyard , but this order did not apply specially to the pigs of Mr. Bullock . They did not carry on their backs the name of their master and it was impossible to distinguish them from the others . Five or six were killed . Did they belong to Bullock ? I do not know . And then follow aspersions upon the Bullock veracity and further insistence upon the reparation due to France . He inclosed the report of an arbitration upon the Saligny-Bullock account containing the following remarkable bill : Ugation de France For " digging Flora 's grave " and " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the arbitrator stated that de Saligny had already paid the larger part and had attempted to arrange the balance . But Bullock was not only obdurate , but obstreperous . Again he broke out in an act of violence which is described in a cry to high heaven from de Saligny dated March z5th . France has been insulted again he begins ; this time in the very person of her Representative . Yesterday as I was about to enter the house of the Charge d'affaires of the United States this innkeeper Bullock rushed at me in a threatening way and insolently warned me not to enter his house . I calmly replied that I was going to Colonel Flood . " It is false , " said he . . . . He shook his fist at me . I warned him to he careful . He seized me by the collar , then violently by the arms . However , disconcerted by my sang froid , he finally left me . . . . In the presence of such facts , Monsieur , I shall be tempted to believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than a civilized and friendly nation , if the Government of Texas , rousing itself from its inconceivable lethargy does not immediately take the most energetic measures to punish these outrages , to prevent new ones , and to give to France emphatic satisfaction . To this bitter outcry is added a threat of asking for his passports . Meantime Hamilton was at the crisis of his financial negotiations in Paris , which depended upon the approval of the French Government , and other delicate negotiations were pending in Mexico . But the fatuous Mayfield proceeded to reply at interminable length in a vitriolic letter . De Saligny had refused to pay Bullock 's board hill . He had refused to allow his servants to testify . The Government had acted promptly . It had passed a law to punish disrespectful words spoken to a foreign minister , even though in this case the minister spoke disrespectfully of the Secretary of State . The Secretary of the Treasury had redeemed three hundred dollars of counterfeit money to protect de Saligny 's reputation . The latter had presented a bill to Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vituperated members who voted against it . M. de Saligny , " with high consideration , " was informed that his passports were in readiness . Thereupon relations were suspended , and Saligny , forwarding the correspondence to his Government , awaited instructions . But the busy Mayfield clung to his ink-pot , for he saw the specters of the departed swine enlisted in the ranks of Mexico . Here , as elsewhere , a literal transcript is given : It is understood Mayfield writes to the chief clerk of the War Department on April 3d , 18411 that Mr. Saligny has stated : that he had drawn up a representation intimating the willingness on the part of this Government to countenance , Mr. Bullock , in alledged outrages against him and his household , and an unusual lethargy in using its powers to bring him to punishment , for these alledged outrages , if guilty , and that this representation was to be despatched to the Minister of the French Government at Mexico , and would meet , the Hon. James Webb , upon his arrival there ; who has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Recognition , of Independence , Amity , and Commerce , with that Government ; thereby tending to cripple the Negotiations of Judge Webb , the Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of this Government to Mexico , under the convention concluded with England . You will confer on this Department a favor , and upon the country a service , by furnishing it , all the information in your possession or that has come to your knowledge ; touching the subject mentioned . Next the demon in Mayfield 's ink-pot instigated him to write at vast length to McIntosh , iCharge d'Affaires atiParis , and these were among the agreeable statements which the unhappy McIntosh was instructed " to represent to the King and Government of France : " De Saligny on his arrival had paid a teamster in counterfeit money which was made good by the Texas Government . He had refused to pay his board bill to Bullock . He had caused the property of Bullock to be " repeatedly and as it is said most wantonly and maliciously destroyed , " and , drawing a veil over the intrusive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the dissatisfaction had its origin in the defeat of Saligny 's Franco-Texian bill , and the part which I took as a member of Congress in the discussions . " Thus Mayfield continued with an increasing venom which blinded him to the humor of his closing adjuration to " present these things to the Government of the King with all the delicacy which the occasion requires . " By May the battle of the pigs was raging in Paris to the horror of poor Hamilton , whose loan had been positively promised by Lafitte &; Co. , subject to the consent of the French Government . Now , the Minister of Finance , M. Humann , was the brother-in-law of de Saligny . Mayfield , therefore , was attaching the brother-in-law of the man who could control the proposed loan . Hamilton wrote from London of " an unexpected check . " Lafirre announced unfavorable official comments and deferred the subscription . There was much unprofitable correspondence , but the rampant swine dominated the situation , which grew worse and worse . On July i6 , 1841 , Hamilton inclosed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Guizot , then the Minister of Foreign Affairs , " in consequence of an article I saw in the Paris papers that a squadron of French Brigs was fitting out for the coast of Texas in consequence of a difficulty which had taken place between the President of the Republic and the French charge d'affaires , M. de Saligny . " Since M. Guizot was a distinguished advocate of peace as well as diplomat and historian , General Hamilton probably felt that his appeal would have a favorable hearing . Meantime McIntosh in Paris had received Mayfield 's communications and had become infected by their verbosity . On July 4th , a date selected perhaps with significance , he addressed to Guizot a deliverance of portentous length , asking for de Saligny 's recall . The battle of the pigs was fought again . De Saligny had vituperated officers of the Texan Government . He had intermeddled in foreign and domestic relations . He had pressed the Congress for a grant of three million acres of land in which he was deeply interested . He had declined to communicate with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the people , who he believed would sustain him . He had interfered with the foreign relations of Texas by attempting to produce difficulties in her negotiations with Mexico . And so he continued with a diffusiveness and lack of tact worthy of Mayfield himself . For a time Guizot took no apparent notice of the letter and the mass of documents accompanying it , and on August 12th McIntosh rashly recalled the affair of the swine to his attention . Then . indeed , he received a reply . " I have seen , " wrote Guizot , " with painful surprise , that the representative of France in Texas , when subjected to insults and injury from a low wretch , has demanded in vain many times that the Government of Texas should take steps to make the inviolability 7 of his person and character respected . " Thus the letter went on , meeting charges with poignant counter-charges of insult , injury , official neglect of Saligny 's complaints , and official indorsement of the sanguinary Bullock . " Therefore , " Guizotwrote in his indignant peroration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. de Saligny , imputa- tions vague , devoid ofproof , without any appearance of truth , the Government of the King regards itself , on the contrary , as deeply insulted in the person of its agent , and reserves the right to seek from your Government the just reparation to which it is entitled . " For once McIntosh 's pen was checked : " After mature reflection I concluded to reply in a short and general manner . " He also reported another rumor that a French squadron had been ordered to the coast of Texas , which , however , was denied . It is not surprising to find the chances of Hamilton 's loan reported to be discouraging . Thus matters stood , with an inter-ruption of relations , with rumors of a hostile squadron , and with ? the French loan moribund . But presently election-time came in Texas , and a new administration headed by Houston succeeded the government of Lamar . It was quite time to call a truce to the battle of the swine , and in January , 584z , Jones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ McIntosh which were radically different from those of Mayfield . They breathed deep regret . They disclaimed the abusive language of which de Saligny had been the object . They emphasized " satisfactory explanations , " and assurances that " the present Executive will , in good faith , exert every facility in his power to punish according to the sacred principles of law the outrages complained of by M. de Saligny , who has given so many valuable proofs of his friendship for the Government and people of Texas and for whom the President and thecitizens of this country as a community entertain an exalted personal regard . " To de Saligny an apologetic and conciliatory letter was sent by a messenger who called upon him in . CV Orleans . The affronted envoy still nursed his wounds . There had been delay in the amends . He hinted at the much-quoted French squadron as " in the Gulf of Mexico subject to his orders . " But at last the olive branch was accepted . By April de Saligny was reinstalled in the French Legation , which had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his correspondence regarding the claims of French citizens and claims of his own for certain Texas bonds which had been withheld after his purchase . As to the latter , the results seem to have been painfully unsatisfactory , for three years later , in 1845 , Smith , then Secretary of State , is writing de Saligny that the Treasury Department can not liquidate his claim , and that , if he wishes , the matter will be presented to Congress . But this and the correspondence of the following year is unimportant . The war of the swine was inky but bloodless , save for the death of the pigs and the chastisement of M. de Saligny 's servant by the bellicose Bullock , who appears to have come off relatively scot free . There was no attack by a French squadron , but there resulted very definitely the loss of the French loan . On the one hand the wounded dignity of France had been maintained most ardently by de Saligny , and doubtless impressed upon Guizot by de Saligny 's brother-in-law , the Minister of Finance ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stupidity of the Texan official correspondence , and also , judging from the local press , the rally of Texas in defense of Bullock and his pigs . It was opera bouffe ; it might have been tragedy . Was this the origin of the . nacre cochon of French billingsgate ? But there is another side . Were these pigs possessed of the devil , or were they really the saviors of Texas ? If they had not invaded the stables of the French Legation , General Hamilton would probably have floated the Texan loan in Paris . In Lamar 's administration the public debt of Texas had increased from $r , 887 , - 526 to $7,3oo,000 , and securities worth at the outset sixty-five to eighty-five cents on the dollar had depreciated to fifteen and twenty cents . With the French millions in hand at that hungry period , what limit would have been set to inflation , extravagance , over-speculation , and subsequent disaster ? It was only a few years later that William M. Gouge wrote in his Fiscal History of Texas : Nor will it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saved by the cackling of geese , so Texas was saved by the squeaking of pigs . If the loan had been obtained , it would have been used in establishing a national bank , by which every dollar would have been made to look like ten . The result would have been that the debt of Texas , instead of being twelve millions , would have been twenty-five , thirty , perhaps forty millions . The most intelligent Texans agree in opinion that this would have been the result . All honor , then , to Mr. Bullock and his pigs ; and this heretofore much-despised animal must be regarded hereafter as possessed of classic interest . If his figure , carved in marble , should be placed over the entrance of the Treasury of Texas it would serve as a memento to future ages of his having been the salvation of the Republic . These are strong words . Were Mr. Bullock 's pigs malefactors or the saviors of their country ? Let us discreetly remember that their forays and their martyrdom were within the borders of Texas . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sovereign state of Texas to award a monument or ignominy to its historic swine .                     