@@466942

tion . The government looked upon every university student as a rebel and limited his freedom in the most unscrupulous manner . A great many students found the university atmosphere intolerable , and all those who had the means and desired more freedom looked for their education abroad . In 1914 the number of university students in Russia was only 39,027 . However , even if it were possible to present complete and exact figures , they would not convey the passionate longing for knowledge among the people . In the empire of Nicholas II , where men and women were compelled to acquire their instruction in underground cells , and where many preferred to pass as illiterate in order to avoid persecution , statistics are well-nigh meaningless . To get a true meaning of the yearning for knowledge one would have to go to the records of the secret police . Therein would be revealed the cultural aspirations of the Russian people and the attitude of the adtocracy . When speaking of Russia one must always bear in mind that the government of the czars preferred a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a man who signed with a cross to a college professor . The fact that there were women who did not hesitate to inscribe themselves on the police lists of professional outcasts in order to gain residence in the university towns illuminates the entire situation . An instance of the autocratic government 's zeal in furthering education among its subjects is furnished by Peter Kropotkin in the North American Review for May , 1901 : While even now we have in European Russia only one school for each 2,230 inhabitants , and while only one child out of twenty or thirty children of school age goes to school , the Ministry of Popular Instruction for years in succession under Alexander II returned every year to the state exchequer one-half of the poor allowance of 4,000,000 rubles a year for the primary schools . The more free a region of Russia is from the direct influence of the Minister of Public Instruction the better it stands for education : this may be taken as a general rule . Thus , the province of the Don Cossacks , of which the Cossack territory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the greater number of the best schools , primary and secondary , forbuys and girls alike . Again , the provinces which have local self-government ( Zeinstvos ) have nearly twice as many schools , in proportion to their population , as the provinces which get their schools from the Ministry . Kropotkin thus makes it quite clear that in Russia every element , excepting the central government , has been endeavoring to further education . Under the reign of Nicholas II the Ministry of Public Instruction dared not return to the treasury money which was assigned for education . But it did the next best thing in blocking the way of public enlightenment ; it turned the money over to the Holy Synod and hence to the clergy . Presumably , the money was given to the clergy for educational purposes . But the clergy in Russia is overworked , very poor , and ignorant , and no competent teachers were provided . The only individuals who derived any benefit from the budget thus spent were the uneducated deacons and others of their kind . Of course , all that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was doing something toward general enlightenment . The various Procurators of the Holy Synod were so persistent in their policy of obstruction that they earned the of Russians , conservative and liberal alike . It is , therefore , not singular that Kropotkin 's criticism of the government 's attitude toward education was answered , not by the Minister of Education , but by M. Pobiedonostseff. then Procurator of the Holy Synod and a notorious , reactionary . We thus find that of the three elements responsible for public instruction in Russia ? government , clergy , and popular bodies ? the element which labored with most success was the one which represented the people ? the " Zemstvos most notably . The Russian people have a passion for knowledge . All they need is free scope for their natural impulses . The Russians are fortunate in this much , that those among them who have had the advantage of an education have the desire to share their knowledge with those who wish to acquire it . Going back to figures , let us assume for the moment that after twenty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent . only . This would mean that at the very worst there were at the time of the Russian collapse some 50,000,000 literate men and women in Russia , or lo , 000,000 more than the entire population of France . The true number is probably nearer roo , 000,000 ; surely a sufficient foundation upon which to build a modern democratic state . Well , one will say , what of that ? What is their measure of knowledge ? If we can tell a man by the books he reads , then we shall find the task of gauging the intelligence of these Russians rather simple . There are in Russia numerous popular editions of books upon all conceivable subjects . These books range in price from one copeck , or a half-cent , to ten copecks , or five cents . Take , for instance , the Universal Library . It supplies a complete , paper-bound volume for five cents , of which paper and print are both excellent . Its catalogue shows not only all the important Russian writers , but also what is best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Hammer , " publish works on economics , agrarian problems , and social science . These books sell for half a penny to two cents . The sale of these books , enormous though it is , does not measure their circulation . In Russia , - as a rule , books are not considered private property . The one who has the means to secure possession of a volume is sufficiently recompensed by the pleasure of serving others . It will never occur to a Russian that the book he has read is too serious or otherwise unsuitable for his friend , the laborer , whom he is educating . All he might say is , ' Here , read it , brother , and we will talk it over . " Thus we find that in Russia the little that has been done by the government has been supplemented by an army of volunteers whose zeal not even the scaffold could destroy . It is largely through the efforts of these missionaries that literacy in Russia has risen , as I quoted above , to probably so per cent. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ critics of Russian ignorance . The Russian people have acquired knowledge largely through their own endeavors and fn spite of the impediments created by the government . The Russians have shown in their cultural labors an unmistakable unity of purpose . Vot . CXXXVILL ? No. 524. - 35 It is my point , therefore , that a true understanding of Russia would check off against the heavy percentage of illiteracy the great progress that has been made by the people toward self-education under the most discouraging circumstances . As against the loo , 000,000 who can not read or write we must set off the 75 , - 000.000 who have achieved literacy in the face of great odds . But more than that , we must be cautious in judging a nation 's capacity for free government from this factor of literacy alone . There is , undoubtedly , a huge army of illiterates in Russia . But have we any right to infer that these masses have no civic viewpoint , or that their conception of social and economic values differs radically from that of the educated portion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her yielding to bad leadership , what of Germany and Austria ? Surely illiteracy was not re-sponsible for the subservience of the Prussian people to the will of the Kaiser and his Junkers . Indeed , the activities of the militarists of Central Europe have tended to destroy cultural standards . Shall we hail the gods of a culture which inspired German professors to justify the sinking of the Lusitania or the slaying of children from the air ? When one recalls all the lies and perversities manufactured in Germany these last four years we are ready to revise our opinions as to the connection between literacy and the moral qualities . Lack of popular education is not the principal cause of the present chaos in Russia , but rather certain facts of the national history and character . A brief examination of social , economic , and political conditions before the war would demonstrate beyond all doubt that the Russians were peculiarly susceptible to the teachings of collective ownership and the communist ideal , even when carried to excess by the Bolshevik adventurers . In order to grasp this outstanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good many years into Russian history . There we find not only an explanation for present events , but a basis for firm hope , a sure ground for believing that the Russian people possess the elements and capacities of democratic government . The Mir , or village commune , took on its present form with the abolition of serfdom in 186i , but its roots go far back into the Russian past . The commission which had the land question in hand at the time of the emancipation was mind-ful of the peasants ' established mode of living . It was fearful of the consequences of an excessive economic dislocation and set itself to make the transition as easy as might be . During serfdom the peasants on each estate cultivated the land assigned to them in common . The commission maintained that this method of land tenure was peculiarly appropriate to Russia . Thus the abolition of serfdom did not materially affect the relations of the peasants as among themselves . The liberated peasants continued to hold in common the land allotted to the Mir , or commune . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the peasants as the price of freedom . The motive of the government is only too obvious . Individual ownership would have made the collection of the tax extremely difficult . The peasant was poor and the product he derived from the land assigned to him was scarcely sufficient for his mere sustenance . Similarly , his poverty made the individual ownership of agricultural implements impossible . Thus the communal system of land tenure was found equally advantageous to the government and to the peasant . It is true that there were ways by which the individual householder could separate from the Mir . After he had paid his share of the redemption tax the land was his . Likewise the Mir could he dissolved by a vote of two-thirds of the householders . Nevertheless , prior to 1905 , the number of peasants who severed their relations with the commune was very small . On the other hand , there were numerous instances where individual landowners adopted the communal arrangement . The peasant 's opinion of the Mir can best he expressed by his numerous proverbs . Such as , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judgment . " " If the Mir gives a whoop , the forest will groan and bend . " " All for one and one for all , that is the Mir . " According to Mr. J. V. Bubnoff , as recently as the year 1905 , out of 19,000,000 ? peasant households and 124,000,000 acres of allotted lands , only 23 per cent . of the peasants and 71.3 per cent . of the lands were under the individual holding plan . The agrarian reforms from 1905 to 1912 furnish all interesting illustration of the attitude of the Russian peasant . The new laws abolished the ever-burdensome redemption tax and gave the peasants more land . These innovations were directed at breaking up the solidarity of the village commune . The peasants were in every way encouraged to withdraw from their communes or to dissolve them . Yet very few took advantage of the opportunity . Apart from the fact that they were very Boor and unprepared for a radical economic change , there was unmistakably the pull of the ancient tradition of the Mir . We gather from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic thought , as individualism is in western Europe and with us . This collectivist way of living is traditional for the peasant . He is not aware of being a socialist or communist . All he knows is that for centuries he worked the land , paid his taxes , and shared the harvest in common with the other members of the Mir . This solidarity has found praise even with conservative students of the Russian people , like Leroy-Beaulieu . It would have been extraordinary if the spirit of collectivism in regard to the land bad not found an echo in industry . And so we find that industrial co-operation is highly developed in Russia . Most of us know something of the Mir . But how many outside of Russia have heard of the Artcl , which is even more characteristic an institution ? The Artel ( association ) is another term for the collective ownership and operation of industry . It is one of the oldest and most wide-spread institutions in Russia . The most ancient of these is the famous fishing Artel of the Cossacks of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 20.000 men whose work was carried on under conditions of absolute equality . The fishing-waters , as well as the necessary equipment , were owned in common . The proceeds were divided equally among the members without regard to special skill or any other considerations . The association as a whole was divided up into groups , or minor Artels , of perhaps a score of workers . Each group had its " Elder " who supervised the work ? and looked after the accounts . The various branches had complete freedom of action , though they shared expenditures and profits . The organization of the Artel was much simpler than that of the Mir . There were no written agreements . Slacking was dealt with by admonition and in chronic cases by expulsion from the Artel . No admission fees were required . All that was required was the capacity and willingness to work . A rather disjointed organization , one would say . On the contrary , it was almost militaristic in the unquestioning obedience rendered to the Elder who was elected annually . Apart from the duties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free agent . I have described the most powerful of the Artels . But this scheme of association was by no means restricted to the fishing industry . As a rule , small groups of men engaged in active labor organize themselves into an Artel . Although the various Artels prefer the communal mode of living , their general characteristics vary . Some associations , unlike the one I have described , do not own their equipment . In that case , by general agreement the wealthier members of the Artel , who supply the necessary implements , receive extra recompense for their property . Again , there is the Artel which is hired by an employer , or a person who supplies the capital . The Artel members share their earnings in common . The significance of these organizations is best expressed by Leroy-Bea ulieu : It may be said that , in certain respects , the Russians , thanks to the Artel , have known and carried into practice the principle of co-operative societies before the very name became the fashion in the West . Co-operation has flourished in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1865 . In 1870 a consumers ' society was established at the Kynov Works in the Urals , the region of the powerful fishery Artel . Societies were soon created in other factories . In January , 1914 , there were overio , 000 consumers ' societies in Russia , with a membership of 1,500,000 . Three years later the number of societies had risen to 20,000 . Prior to 1905 the co-operative societies were as a rule created by employers for the worker . The temporary liberties acquired by the peasants and workers after the revolution of 1905 released their energy . They became deeply interested in the co-op : erative associations . As a result , in 1917 there were 8 , ozo co-operative societies in the villages and 522 urban , or working man , societies . The advantages that these societies open to the villager will be clear to any one who knows to what extent the peasant lives at the mercy of the shopkeeper . The rapid development of the con-sumers ' societies in the villages stimu-lated the establishment of credit asso-ciations . There are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ somewhat in their business man by supplying their needs through The The loan and savings societies , which were organized as far hack as 1866 , are more popular among small tradespeople . The peasants are too poor to belong to them , because every bor-rower is required to be also a subscriber . The credit associations , on the other hand , do not call for any subscription and are for that reason the most preva-lent among the peasants . In 1916 there were in Russia 11,768 of these credit associations and 4,239 loan savings socie-ties , with a membership of to , 000,000 householders . Apart from advancing money and receiving deposits , the credit associations act also as purchasing agen-cies . They supply their members with whatever commodities they require . However , their sphere of activity is lim-ited to small property-owners . Laborers who possess neither land nor cattle are not admitted . According to J. V. Bub-noff , " the leaders of these societies are mostly peasants , sometimes illiterate , who have the assistance of a bookkeeper . It must be noted that the initial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government . But like everything else in Russia , their rapid development caused apprehension in official circles , where every concerted effort on the part of the people was feared . Nevertheless , the two credit societies have succeeded in contributing 470,000,000 rubles to their aggregate capital of 800,000,000 rubles without the assistance of the government . This throws a new light upon the peasant 's capacity for leadership and the coinrnunal spirit of the Slav peoples in general . But if to some extent , we were all more or less cognizant of the fact that the Russian people have had experience in local self-government and mutual aid , we are still to learn that they are capable of concerted national solidarity . This aspect can best be illustrated by the activities of the Russian masses in the development of the following national organizations : The Union of Cooperative Credit Societies , the Union of Co-operative Consumers Societies , and the Union of Co-operative Wholesale Societies which is concerned with the supply of agricultural and other implements and the finding of markets for agricultural and manufactured products . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In The Moscow Narodny Bank ( The Moscow People 's Bank ) 85 per cent . of the 4,000 shareholders are the co-operative societies . All these institutions were created mainly through the efforts of the Zemstvos . The name Zemstvo ( provincial council ) has taken on a much more than provincial meaning , in view of the unity and accomplishments of this truly national institution . Its long experience with local as well as nation-wide conditions makes it the most competent institution in the empire . The Zemstvos , created in 1864 , were originally concerned with education , public health , fire insurance , and rural conditions in general . This gave them the opportunity for studying the psychology and capacities of the people . It is , therefore , not at all singular that in time of need this intimate knowledge should have given the Zemstvos a weapon against the autocracy . Since the revolution of 19os , and particularly during the first three years of the war , the Union of Zemstvos was the only competent organization in Russia . Its efforts for theprosecution of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A few words about the origin and growth of the Zemstvos will explain the powerful influence they have exerted in the past and their possibilities in the future . The Zemstvo is the modern offspring of the assemblies of nobles which were created by Catherine II . The assemblies were made up of titled people ( tchinoviiiks ) , landowners , and those who possessed an academic education . They were concerned with local or provincial affairs only . But they soon lost most of their prerogatives through their utter indifference and incapacity . Nevertheless , they were compelled to meet every three years and discuss local conditions . This function and the right of petition remained until the emancipation of the serfs in 1861 , when they were transferred to the newly created Zemstvos ( 1864 ) . The abolition of serfdom and the legal organization of the Mir destroyed the nobles ' monopoly of representation in the assemblies . With the winning of land the peasant acquired the right of participation in the assemblies . Henceforth the representatives of the Zemstvos were gathered from three classes ? the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Each class elected its own delegates . Until very recently the functions of the Zemstvos were largely local . This must be ascribed not to the ignorance of the peasants or their indifference to national affairs , but to their slender budgets and the restrictive measures of the government . For all that , the Zemstvos succeeded in affiliating themselves with every progressive element in the empire . The ability with which the Union of Zemstvos utilized their resources during the war is shown in the report of its general committee under Prince Lvoff , published in 1916 . It began with Red Cross work . This was followed by commissariat and other military work . It supplied 173,000 hospital beds , whereas the War Office furnished only 16o , ocio . The Union of Zemstvos maintained so hospital trains with more than 22,000 berths . It looked after the feeding of 300,000 laborers engaged in construction work in the rear of the army . It provided the army with 3,200,000 tents and more than 35,000,000 garments . In 1916 the Union of Zemstvos was commissioned to furnish all the warm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4,000 , coo refugees on the southwestern front . The work of the Union of Zemstvos was so commendable that it was asked to take charge of all the relief i work in the Caucasus , in which connection it supplied is , 000 hospital beds ? a similar number being supplied by the Union of Towns ? and undertook the maintenance of roads for transport . In the Caucasus alone on January 1 , 1916 , there were establishments operating under the supervision of the Union of Zemstvos . For all Russia during the first year and a half of war the Union of Zemstvos collected more than i5o,000 , - oco rubles . I have tried to show what capacities there are in the Russian people for democratic co-operation , t- , 1 serve as an offset against the backward state of popular education which is so readily quoted as the great reason for Russia 's collapse and her unfitness for free government . It is clear that the Russian people are capable of united effort and that they are not without a national consciousness . What the Slav @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revolution occurred at any other time , when their immediate participation in international affairs was not required , they would have managed well enough . Nor would the Bolshevik experimentalists have had them in their grasp . Herein lies the tragedy of Russia to-day ? her failure to recognize how closely related was her newly acquired freedom with the cause of the Allies . No matter whether the Allies restated their war aims , as Russia desired , or not , it was her duty to fight for the preservation of her own i liberties . Had the pernicious influence of Lenine and Trotzky not beclouded this all-important need , Russia would have been safe from the clutches of the Kaiser . The Bolsheviki not only prom-ised the Russians peace ; they assured the people that if they laid down their arms the war must stop everywhere . With the credulity characteristic of all popu-lar masses the Russians believed . It must be acknowledged that the Russian masses were peculiarly susceptible to the Bolshevik preaching . To a great majority of the peasants the authority of Nicholas II , though somewhat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The overthrow of the Romanoffs must have been to them a miracle . Here , then , was this accomplished miracle reinforcing the Tolstoyan aversion to war which is a Slav trait , to say nothing of the misery and disorganization caused by autocracy 's incompetence . And here were Lenine and Trotzky begging them to accept peace , land , freedom , bread , for themselves , and at the same time to put an end to the slaughter in Europe . The purely materialistic appeal was tremendous . People have been known to be tempted by much less . Let us recall for how many years the American voter was lured by the " full dinner-pail . " It is necessary to keep all this in mind in order to view the situation impartially . The important thing is not to forget Russia 's achievements in the internal sphere because of her failures in the international sphere . The key to an understanding of Russia 's internal affairs lies in recognition of the fact that the Slays think collectively where we think individually . What may seem Utopia to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him communal ownership of land , as well as co-operation in industry , is a commonplace . This was recognized abroad king before the revolution , but there is a regretable tendency to forget . The first Duma , in 1906 , turned over all the land to the peasants . It matters little that during the reaction which ensued this law was not acted upon . The important thing is that the peasants came so near getting what they have so long and so passionately desired . Now they have the land , and with it liberty . What use will they make of the precious gifts ? An impartial study of Russian conditions and history will show that although the nation is lost to the Allies ? and to herself ? for the moment , given time she will yet become the reserve nation for world peace and liberty . All that Russia needs is time . 