@@430801

 |p849  THE air-fighter 's risk ! Against what extravagant odds do they daily venture forth to offer combat ! Deadly , efficient enemies above ; countless missiles of death below ; the delicate balance of their machines in flight ; an overlooked defect in construction , in material , in engine power , or fuel ; nature , with its fogs and snows , gales of wind and holes in the air ? all unite against the life of the dauntless air-fighter . History never recorded similar heroism against such desperate odds . Furthermore , all this amazing science of war-flying is in the hands of boys and youths . Rarely do we find a successful airman forty years of age . LieutenantColonel Piccio of Italy , with a score of seventeen aeroplanes brought down to date , is the only ace in the world who has reached this age . On the other hand , fully a score of celebrated fighting aces are under the age of twenty . It is a young man 's game , and solely by the experience and inventions of these young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perfected . Rivaling in romance the exploits of the knights of King Arthur , the daily flying sorties into the countless perils of a hostile and watchful enemy sky bring to us frequent revelations of human endurance , human adroitness , and superhuman mystery that pale by comparison the wildest fiction of fancy . Every nation engaged in this unhappy war has its conspicuous airmen . Regardless of nationality , however , the self-same extraordinary characteristics are found in every person who has attained fame in this new and spectacular fourth arm of warfare . Major Raoul Lufbery , now aged thirtytwo , son of Edward Lufbery of Wallingford , Connecticut , is the ace of aces in the American Escadrille , and for that reason , if for no other , is to us the most interesting American figure in aviation at the present time . At seventeen Lufbery left home for a glimpse of . the world . He ran over France , Algeria , Tunis , Egypt , Turkey , and the Balkans during the next four years , working at any job that came his way , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was satisfied . Returning home in 1906 , and finding idleness insupportable , he entered the regular army in 1907 , and was sent for two years ' service in the Philippines . Here he distinguished himself as a marksman , and won the first place in his regiment in rifle practice . After completing his service he roamed over Japan and China and India . During his travels he ran across an aeroplane exhibition flight in Saigon . Marc Pourpe , the famous French trick flier , was barnstorming the far East . He gave Lufbery employment as mechanic , and thus occupied in a new and fascinating pursuit , Lufbery continued his aeroplane education for three years under Pourpe . This experience lasted until the beginning of the Great War . While performing in China , the two aviators were struck with the unusual warmth of their welcome and the repeated  |p850  invitations they received to prolong their stay . They were overwhelmed with gifts as well as with praise , and received many marks of royal favor . Their hosts examined the strange bird again and again , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measurements and drawings , and excitedly discussed the problem with one another , while the two foreigners examined the new gifts that had been lavished upon them . Finally the secret of this prolonged hospitality was out . Pourpe and Lufhery were conducted in state to a neighboring city , where the Chinese experts had all this time been constructing their first aeroplane . It was far more marvelous to the airmen than was the original . Upon approaching the inclosure , the aviators saw the admiring populace roll back , disclosing to view a gorgeous spectacle ? the first Chinese aeroplane . Stepping nearer to study the magnificent creation , they heard the subdued roar of the engine above the riotous clamor of foreign tongues . Politely examining the framework and multicolored fabric , they found the spars , struts , and flooring to he constructed of light bamboo . The beautiful fabric was the lightest of tissue-paper . The roar of the engine continued . Placing an ear against the engine hood , Pourpe tried to fathom this mystery . The propeller stood motionless , a splendid production of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the healthy manifestations of engine power within . Several coolies anchored the impatient machine to earth by holding desperately to its framework with all their might . The crowd was pressed back , and the airman cordially invited to climb into the seat . He demurred politely , and inquired , with gestures , as to the character of the motor and the fuel . And could he examine the spark plugs ? The engine hood was reluctantly removed . A huge swarm of angry bees was buzzing madly within the glass cage , rivaling in the intensity of their fury the noise of Pourpe 's own powerful motor . The Chinese had estimated conscientiously the amount of weight that could be carried by one bee and after carefully weighing the new aeroplane , their mathematical experts  |p851  had inclosed enough bees to carry the whole weight , adding a few extra bees to give a small margin of extra horse-power for emergencies . But Pourpe was dissatisfied with the soundness of these arithmetical calculations , and declined to fly , much to the disappointment of his new friends . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the famous N. 23 , and for several months he took a conspicuous part in the nightly bombardments of near-by German factory towns . Until his death he always kept his American friend Lufbery by his side , first as mechanic and later as gunner . Upon the death of Pourpe in December , 1914 , Lufbery applied for permission to fly , vowing to avenge his death , and after a few days at Pau the American mechanic was breveted , and was enrolled in a squadron of bombardiers . In June , 1916 , he was taken into the American Escadrille , and given one of the fast-flying Nieuports , armed with a rapid-fire gun . At last the restless and courageous Lufbery found his true vocation . His success was rapid and real . On July 31 he brought down his first aeroplane , one of four Aviatiks that had imprudently attacked him . Within a week he bagged an- other . The third fell in flames five days later . On October 12 , 1916 , Lufbery shot down his fifth aeroplane , and received the official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Croix de Guerre and the 1MIedaille Militaire . Later he was decorated with the English Distinguished Service Medal . Many miraculous escapes from death gave Lufbery a high reputation among his enemies . Frequently he returned to his aerodrome , his wings literally riddled with shot and his clothing torn into shreds by the missiles of the enemy . But he has never been injured either in combat or by the frequent perils of landing . In June , 1917 , he was commissioned lieutenant . Lufbery now has his seventeenth official success . At least six other machines have been brought down by him that could not be homologated . In this American hero , as in the intrepid airmen of France and England who have won conspicuous success in aerial combats , we find the dominant characteristics of painstaking thoroughness and ever-present prudence in all the particulars of his work . He is also a crack shot . Quiet and calm , Lufbery  |p852  talks little and thinks much . He possesses cold prudence , which insures his smallest details of preparation as well as protects him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air against overwhelming odds . Raoul Lufbery was recently named a chevalier in the Legion of Honor by the French Government . On November 7 , 1917 , he was commissioned a major in the aeroplane service of the United States , and was made commanding officer of that most celebrated American ' Flying Corps , the Escadrille Lafayette . The first enemy aeroplane ever brought down by another aeroplane in warfare is credited to a Russian flight officer , Captain Nesteroff . The story of this first encounter between enemy aviators serves as a comparison to illustrate t h e tremendous advance made in war aviation since August , 1914 . It was only a month after the beginning of hostilities that the Russian and Austrian armies found themselves facing each other across the trenches . Aeroplanes from both sides had been sent across the line to examine the enemy 's position and map out his defenses . At this period of the war the bond of sympathy between airmen was so strong that enemy pilots waved one another cheerful greetings as they passed in the air , and all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respect for his fellow-aviator , be he friend or foe . This extraordinary state of friendly hostility was recognized by army generals and tolerated for two reasons . Aviation was too new to be judged by ordinary military standards , and , moreover , no armament for offense or defense had yet been devised or suggested for these already over-risked airmen . Therefore they must remain friendly , for there were no ways of making themselves hostile . Captain Nesteroff was sent out on the morning of September 3 , 1914 , to investigate the Austrian position along the opposite lines . In crossing no-man's-land he met Lieutenant Baron Rosenthal. an Austrian pilot , sent over the Russian lines by his command for the same object on which Captain Nesterofi was bent . The two enemy pilots sheered in close to each other and waved the customary airman 's salute . Both then proceeded to carry out their observations . Returning first with nothing new to report , Captain Nesteroff found his alien friend still circling over the Russian lines . Nesteroff approached nearer . Neither aeroplane was armed , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began to find his rival 's nonchalant investigations irritating and insupportable . He must invent some means of putting an end to them . He determined to collide with him in such a way that the Austrian would be wrecked while he escaped injury . Nesteroff was a celebrated pilot . He had been the first Russian airman successfully to perform a loop the loop in an aeroplane . He had accomplished this feat weeks before Pegoud had first startled France with its performance . Flying deftly alongside Lieutenant Rosenthal , the resolute Russian pilot suddenly tipped his aeroplane and struck the tip of his right wing across the end of the left wing on the Austrian 's machine . But the result was not what he had expected . Instantly the two machines swung around and collided , nose on . Thus rammed together in a fast embrace , the two aeroplanes fell as one . Rosenthal 's engine caught fire . Before the two aeroplanes struck the ground both were ablaze . Rosenthal was killed by the crash , and Captain Nesteroff lived only long enough to explain to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ died with the sad distinction of knowing he had brought down the first of the appalling list of brother-pilots later to be demanded as a heroic sacrifice to this monstrous war . Lieutenant Hohndorf , the famous German ace , though a Swiss by birth , was placed by the Germans in 1913 as a spy in a French aero school , under Alfred Liger , instructor . One morning he was caught by Liger measuring new aeroplanes , which were envied by Germany , and entering their measurements in a notebook . When officers came to arrest him an hour later he had flown literally . A year later the French aviators heard of Hohndorf again . The German newspapers announced in April , 1914 , that Hohndorf had performed the first loop the loop by aeroplane ever seen in Germany . The Swiss pupil had turned wholly German . On September 13 , 1917 , Hohndorf was shot down in combat over his own lines . He ranked fifth among the German aces shortly before his death , with a total score of twelve enemy airplanes to his credit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , three French airmen , ascending in Nieuports , saw a German machine crossing their lines and disappearing to the south over Chalons . The three Frenchmen took up the pursuit , and with their swifter machines , gradually overtook their enemy . He observed his danger as they neared him , and , swinging around to the left , tried to defend himself as he manoeuvered to regain his lines . Two of the French machines , in their eagerness to cut off the Boche , suddenly darted directly into each other . Both fell out of control for several thousand feet until a fortunate slant of wind separated them and hurled them far apart . The two pilots miraculously recovered control of the machines and both landed safely , but in somewhat damaged condition , within their own lines . In the meantime the third French pilot , who was Sergeant-Major de Terline , continued the chase . Terline had already brought down three enemy aircraft . He was eager to secure his fourth and fifth , which would establish him as an ace . The day before he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever fly over his lines and get back to safety . If he used up all his cartridges , he said , he would ram the Boche rather than let him escape . In his faster machine he quickly reached the desired position behind the fleeing German . He pulled his lanyard as he flew along and poured a continuous stream of bullets through the enemy machine , but the Hun would not drop . A running fight ensued until both machines were above the trenches . Here Terline expended his last magazine of ammunition , and found his enemy was still unhurt . The German pilot , evidently discovering his opponent 's predicament , turned to attack him . Not dreaming that another human being could contemplate an act so heroic and so suicidal , the German pilot saw Terline head directly at him and come  |p854  furiously on at full speed . To the onlookers below the German made no effort to escape his peril . The two small fighting-machines crashed together , and telescoped into one compact mass of wreckage , dropping swiftly to earth within the French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but would never gain his fifth . What the name Orville Wright is to America , such is the reputation in France of the celebrated aviator Roland Garros . At present Garros is a prisoner in a German camp . Before the war broke out , Garros undoubtedly occupied the most conspicuous position in French aviation among pilots and inventors . Every air contest of importance in Europe found him entered and usually a victor . He was first to fly over the Mediterranean Sea . With Beaumont or Pegoud or Brindejonc de Moulinais , he shared the prizes of the great European circuit , the race from Paris to Rome , from Paris to Madrid , and in 1911 he won the Grand Prix d'Anjou . At the mobilization of the air forces of France in August , 1914 , Roland Garros was in Germany . Scenting the possibility of danger , he did not wait to collect his belongings , but , evading his acquaintances , took the first train to Switzerland and hastened on to Paris . Upon his arrival he reported for service in the air service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 23 , which then contained besides himself several other celebrated airmen , Eugene Gilbert , Marc Pourpe , Raoul Lufbery , Maxime Lenoire , and Captain de Beauchamp . During this early phase of war aviation crude methods of air tactics were in vogue . Aircraft were found to be in little danger from gun-fire below , for the percentage of hits was ludicrously low , and they could not mount machine-guns because of the danger of breaking their own propellers with their own bullets . In February , 1915 , after many weeks of patient experimenting , Garros petrified his aeroplane enemies by suddenly appearing among them with his new invention . He synchronized his machine-gun with his propeller , so that the bullets would issue forth only when the blade of his propeller was out of the way . His success was instant and immense . France immediately set about duplicating his invention upon all her fast fighting machines . It was a decided point of superiority over the Germans . In eighteen days Garros brought down five enemy aeroplanes and permanently established a new reputation as the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a strange fatality Roland Garros himself , in June , 1915 , fell a prisoner into German hands , and his new device was captured and imitated by the Huns . His capture was due primarily to his daring and precise methods in bomb-dropping . He invariably returned from these expeditions crowned with success . Depots . bridges , factories , and supply stations he set on fire and destroyed always by the same exact methods . Approaching his object at a height of ten or twelve thousand feet , Garros would cut off his motor and descend in circles through the defending shells until his machine was only a hundred feet or so above his target . Pulling back his lever , he released his bombs so near the roof of the building , that a miss was almost impossible . Then switching on his motor , he braved the shots from below and made his perilous way back to camp . On June 14 , 1915 , Garros descended upon a convoy of supplies entering Courtrai . He dropped his bombs upon the train with his customary precision from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a moment the effect of the explosions , he turned on his spark . But the engine did not start . ' The cylinders were too cold , or perhaps his spark-plug was imperfect . Frantically he worked his throttle and nursed along his machine , endeavoring to put some life into his motor ; but it was hopeless . His aeroplane dropped heavily to earth in the very midst of his enemies , and he was made a prisoner before he could even set fire to his machine . He is still alive , but is carefully guarded  |p855  far within the interior of the enemy country . One of his comrades , Pinsard , subsequently suffered the same fate , and occupied the same prison with him ; but Pinsard , perhaps less carefully guarded , was later able to make his escape . Captain Ercole , a young aviator from Naples , Italy , is the hero of one of the saddest stories recounted by the intrepid air pilots of the Italian service . Early one morning in the spring of 1916 , Ercole left his side of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attack the enemy supply depots at Durazzo . He piloted one of the huge twin engine machines carrying over half a ton of explosives as well as two gunner passengers , Brigadier Mocellin and Captain Corbelli . Arrived at their destination , the long line of Capronis dropped down one by one over each target , and let go their bombs . took control of the machine , while Ercole placed himself behind the gun . Enemy aeroplanes were about , and each pilot waited only to see the effect of his attack before heading for home . Ercole 's machine was the last in line as the returning Italian . squadron winged its way swiftly westward . Captain Corbelli , who sat guarding the rear with his machine-gun as they flew homeward , soon notified his companions of the approach of a Fokker fighting-plane from below . Brigadier Mocellin , inexperienced in shooting from aeroplane , signaled Ercole to take the forward gun , and he himself They watched the darting little Fokker manceuver around and above them for its attack . Suddenly terminating his circles , he dived , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Both fired simultaneously .  |p856  Ercole felt himself struck at almost the first shot , and crumpling up , he fell in agony to the floor . The next instant he felt another body fall upon him . With great suffering , he extricated himself sufficiently to discover that Brigadier Mocellin lay dead beside him . Ercole 's left arm was fractured , and streams of blood were flowing down his face . The aeroplane , selfguided , was plunging headlong almost vertically down toward the sea . Ercole looked about him . The Fokker had vanished . Perhaps it , too , had been destroyed . At any rate , it was gone . His own squadron had likewise disappeared in the distance . But why did not Captain Corbelli jump to the controls ? Ercole miserably dragged himself back along the floor to investigate . There , to his horror , he found Corbelli lying face up in his seat , a bullet through his heart . The unguided machine was diving to certain destruction . Ercole crawled back to the pilot 's seat and feeble grasped the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ straightening out the course of the aeroplane a few hundred feet above the sea . Ahead of him appeared land . It was the only chance . Without knowing where he was headed , he cut off his motor and with one supreme effort negotiated the rough hillside successfully and came to a quiet stop . Unable to move , Ercole sat patiently in his seat , waiting for help . His two dead comrades lay where they had fallen . He could only gaze upon them and wait . In the midst of this misery , when all his prayers were for human company and much-needed succor , he suddenly heard rifle-shots and distinctly felt a succession of thuds through the body of his aeroplane . An Albanian soldier was standing fifty yards away , deliberately aiming at him with an automatic rifle . Spurred into activity , Ercole got to his aeroplane gun and turned it upon h i s newest enemy . The Albanian fell . In the distance other soldiers appeared . running toward him . Torn between duty and the horror of the necessary sacrifice , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from securing his aeroplane . Ercole prayed to his slaughtered comrades for a last forgiveness , set fire to the machine , and painfully crawled away to the shelter of some bushes . The Albanian soldiers arrived and surrounded the blazing funeral pyre . They pointed out to one another the two dead men within . When the last flame died away , they shook their heads regretfully and retraced their steps . Ercole 's presence was not even suspected . After a week 's wandering , with wounds uncared for , and almost without having tasted food and drink , Captain Ercole appeared one night before an Italian sentry at the border . He was delirious with fever and in a critical condition , but after medical treatment , he was able to tell his remarkable story and describe to his com-  |p857  rades the mournful end of the two officers , Brigadier Mocellin and Captain Corbelli . During the first months of the war a Belgian biplane containing pilot and observer experienced motor trouble while behind the German lines and was compelled to come down . Pointing her nose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they might glide without power back to their own territory . But it was soon discovered to be useless , for the wind was dead against them . Leaning over the edges of their cockpits , the Belgians saw the earth rising nearer and nearer , while the speed of their craft continued distressingly slow . Everybody seemed firing at them . The German trenches appeared , and they crossed them less than thirty feet above the enthusiastic riflemen below . Their own trenches were two hundred yards distant . The machine struck midway in no-man's-land and stopped . Ducking through the hail of bullets , both men succeeded in escaping to their trenches , thanks to their comrades ' fire , without a scratch . Unhappily , though , they had had no time to set fire to their machine . Two days later Captain Jaumotte , the pilot of the stranded aeroplane , learned that his machine was still there . For two nights the Belgian soldiers had so carefully guarded it that the enemy had been unable to reach or destroy it . Jaumotte determined upon a rescue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two mechanics and two gunners and suddenly appeared in front of the abandoned aeroplane . While the gunners worked their machine-guns , Jaumotte and the two mechanics , protected by the armored car , busied themselves with the disabled engine . The German soldiers , stupefied by this incredible audacity , could only watch it through their periscopes . Every time a head appeared , the motor - car gunners raked the trench with their machine-guns . In fifteen minutes the work was completed . Climbing into his seat , Captain Jaumotte signaled the mechanic to turn over the propeller . The engine roared , and with one wave of his hand , the audacious pilot swept away over his own cheering trenches , while the mechanics clambered back into the motor-car with their tools and returned home to their aerodrome . For this feat Jaumotte received a citation from the Belgian Army .                     