@@487045

Notes . Chatto &; Windus are publishing a handsome edition of Stevenson 's " Prayers Written at Vailima , " illuminated in missal style by Alberto Sangorski ; also his " Virginibus Puerisque " and other essays in type designed by Herbert Horne , and in pocket form " Father Damien " and " Talk and Talkers . " Bret Harte 's " Salomy Jane , " with illustrations in color by Harrison Fisher and Arthur Keller , is in the hands of the same house . Dr. Gollancz , who has been appointed director of the Early English Text Society , has induced the society to issue , as a memorial to the late director , Dr. Furnivall , the founder of the society , facsimiles of great MSS. of old English literature . Donations to the fund may be sent to Dr. Gollanes at King 's College , London . " The Life and Times of the Right Honourable Cecil John Rhodes , 1853-190:1 , " by Sir Lewis Mitchell of the Executive Council of Cape Colony ; " Edgar Allan Poe : A Critical Study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publication by Mitchell Kennerly . Somewhat later will appear a series of essays entitled " Interpreters of Life , " written by Prof. Archibald Henderson of the University of North Carolina , on George Meredith , George Bernard Shaw , Maeterlinck , Wilde , and Ibsen . Admiral Paulding , U. S. N. , is the subject of a biography by his daughter . Rebecca P. Meade , announced for early publication by the Baker &; Taylor Company , who will also issue " The Paper of Lending Library Books , " by Cedric Chivers . Richard W. Hale of No. 60 State Street , Boston , American secretary and treasurer of the Selden Society , advises us that the delayed volumes of the publications of that society for 1909 and 1910 are expected before the ' end of the year . Longmans , Green , &; Company have become agents in the United ' States for the sale of the publications of the University of Manchester . The same firm has arranged with the trustees of William Morris for the publication of a collected edition of his works in twenty-four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and fifty copies . B. W. Dodge &; Company will publish this month " The Memoirs of Prince John de Guelph , " and " When Cattle Kingdom Fell , " by J. R. Stafford , a story of Western life . " Hidden Water , " by Dane Coolidge , is in the press of A. C. McClurg &; Company . Wallace Irwin is publishing with B. W. Huebsch " The Teddysee , " an epic of " Big Noise . " T. Fisher Unwin has in preparation " The Unfolding of Personality , " by H Thiselton Mark At the first meeting of the new session of the British Academy , on November 16 , Prof. W. P. Ker will deliver the first Warton lecture , on " Thomas Warton and the Poetry of the Middle Ages . " A " Scots Dialect Dictionary , " compiled by the Rev Alexander Warrack , with an Introduction by W. Grant of Aberdeen , will be Issued before Christmas by W &; R. Chambers . The third volume of papers bearing on the war of 1870 , which are published by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is one of a series of probably twenty volumes , which are to be issued in the next ten or fifteen years There were 83 Rhodes scholars from the United States in residence at Oxford during the academic year 1909-10 , with 79 from the colonies and 12 from Germany . Jurisprudence was the course of study pursued by the largest number , and a student from Washington , F. D. Metzger , gained the highest honor in it , natural science and history being the subjects ranking next in popularity . The Berlin Academy has commissioned Dr Kuno Meyer of Liverpool University to arrange for the publication of the manuscripts of the late Prof. Heinrich Zimmer , the well-known Celticist . Their subjects are , roughly : the earliest Irish literature ; Patrick ( a work embodying exhaustive investigations ) , the Celts and the Urbevblkerung , treating of the Zablensystem Zeiteinteilung , matriarchy , polyandry , etc , the so-called Celtic spirit in English and French literature ( in opposition to Matthew Arnold ) ; the abuse of the term Celtic ; notes on Irish and Welsh grammar , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be printed by the academy in their original form ; the unfinished papers are to be edited by Dr. Meyer and brought out in the Zeitschrift fur Celtische Philologle ( Max Niemeyer , Halle ) One dramatist 's method of starting to work on a play is suggestive of Freytag 's formulas of rising and falling movements , climaxes , and catastrophes As described by Vanderheyden Fyles , in an article entitled " Dramatists at Work " in the November Metropolitan , Eugene Presbrey first draws a diagram . He begins with a line representing the desired rise and fall of dramatic interest . " The effect suggests the record of a fever patient 's temperature on a trained nurse 's chart ; the previously blocked-out acts  --  three , four , or five  --  corresponding to the hours on the chart Then Mr. Presbrey returns to his starting point and traces lighter lines representing the different characters , and showing here they rise and fall with the main story ; where meet ; where separate ; where cross , where end . " But this is a very individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way , not only of begin ning , but even more , of ending , the final form of the play often not being determined until after actual presentation before an unconsciously collaborating audience has disclosed its real weaknesses . Pinero is another exception ' " The peculiarity ( and confident daring ) of the system lies in the fact that the playwright finishes each act as completely , as irrevocably , as though it was a drama in itself . . Once he regards it finished , he has it printed and turns to the next act " The extraordinary amount of knowledge displayed in Dante 's works has been as puzzling to his commentators as the like phenomenon in Shakespeare 's plays . Brune , in his " Life of Dante , " explains that " by study of philosophy , theology , astrology , arithmetic , and geometry , by reading histories , by turning over many and varied books , by vigil and sweat in his studies , he acquired the knowledge which he was to adorn and expound in his verse " , but this is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in " Notes on Dante 's Education , " in the last number of the Oxford avid Cambridge Review , thinks it may be safest to assume that the poet was - almost entirely self-taught " That Brunetto encouraged him in his studies , as Brune tells us , is likely enough , that he actually gave him instruction is improbable . " How long and at what time he studied at the Universities of Bologna and Padua are uncertain , despite the testimony of Boccaccio as to the former and of Benvenuto da Imola as to the latter Boccaccio 's words are not precise ? " The first elements , as above set forth , he got in his own native city , and thence , as to a place richer in such food , he repaired to Bologna , and when already verging towards age he went to Paris " Benvenuto is more definite . " In his youth he studied natural philosophy in Florence , Bologna , and Padua . " But , while certain passages in the " Commedia " support the last quotation in its reference to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having studied at Padua " in his youth . " The probability is " that he went there in 1306 " His statements that Boethius 's " De Consolatione Philosophim " and Cicero 's " De Amicitia " were unknown to him until he was twenty-five years old , and that he had not previously studied philosophy at all , make it plain that he had received no learned education in his youth , but do not necessarily preclude the possibility of his having been at a university . Much would depend upon what he studied while he was there For Petrarch 's little-known " Secretum " Prof J. H Robinson , in the Romanic Review , claims the distinction of being the earliest example of honest and comprehensive self-analysis that we possess In three short dialogues : between St Augustine and himself , Petrarch reveals the bitter conflict in the breast of the " first modern " between temporal ambition , a doubting desire for literary fame , and the medieval view of life as a mere probation Augustine points out the dangers of Petrarch 's inability to carry through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pass that , as many things brought into a narrow space are sure to interfere with one another , so your mind is too choked up for anything useful to take root or grow . You have no settled plan , but are turned hither and thither in an amazing whirl ; your energies are the people of Virginia to the point of secession . even at the cost of half her domain . " An extensively illustrated volume of folklore and historical fact concerning peoples of the eastern Pacific has been compiled by F W Christian . It is entitled " Eastern Pacific Lands : Tahiti and the Marquesas Islands , " and comes this week from the press of Elliot ' Stock , who also announces " The Oak , its Natural History , Antiquity , Folk-lore , etc , " by Charles Mosley . Henry Frowde has put out a fourth edition of Spinoza 's " Ethic , " translated by W. Hale White and Amelia Hutchison Stirling . Of the excellent translation nothing need now be said . In form the book has the solid attractiveness common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one criticism is here deserved : the absence of the number of the " part " from the running titles makes it difficult to refer to any desired proposition . In the preface , Mr. White has used Freudenthal 's " Lebensgeschichte Spinoza 's " to make some additions to the biographical part , and has revised the critical part . For those who wish to read the " Ethic " as Goethe read it , for its philosophical stimulus , and not as an historical student of metaphysics , Mr. White 's introduction will be helpful We think , however , that , for any purpose , he waives too lightly the letter in which Tschirnhausen asked Spinoza how he derived the various manifold world from absolute unity and mere extension . That question Spinoza never properly answered , indeed could not answer , and there runs through the whole of the " Ethic " a sophism which quite vitiates its intellectual , though not its moral , value . He who would comment fruitfully on Spinoza ought first of all to lay bare this sophistical union of the absolute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then to show where the metaphysical sophism ends and the ethical truth begins . Another volume in that stream of amateur biography that is pouring from the British presses and finding its way to this country R. Ellis Roberts tells us in the preface to " Samuel Rogers and His Circle " ( Dutton ) that his purpose is to reduce the material in the books of Sharpe , Dyce , and Clayden to convenient bulk , and to add interest to brevity . The design is laudable , and such a work , undertaken by a man trained in literature and biography , might have been highly entertaining . Mr. Roberts 's telling of the story is spoiled by a considerable amount of superfluous and , at times , very amateurish commenting on things in general . It scarcely seems necessary , for instance , in a life of Samuel Rogers , to say , even if the remark were not rather childish in itself , that " the true history of Hellas will never be written unless some one has sufficient imaginative sympathy to describe Socratic or Aristotelian philosophy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second part of the book consists in a number of chapters of mingled gossip and criticism about - various friends and acquaintances of Rogers . The gossip is often amusing , and shows considerable reading , the criticism is for the most part at once pretentious and empty . We may seem more severe upon this volume than its failings , if compared with those of its kind , demand . But something ought to be done to stem this flood of amateur biography that England is producing  --  fortunately no doubt because the source-material is not abundant here , little of it comes originally from this country These books , printed in bulky form , and sold at exorbitant prices , are probably doing as much to demoralize the book trade as any other one cause . It is more difficult to write a good biography than a goad novel , yet apparently any English man , or woman , who can make grammatical sentences will turn jauntily to writing the life of any one about whom he has read a few books , or of whom he has seen a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by the University of Chicago Press , of the first volume , chronologically considered , of Prof. W. C. Bronson 's " English Poems , " this admirable series of selections was brought to completion . Each of the four volumes has been noticed heretofore in the Nation , to wit : The Nineteenth Century , February 13 , 1908 , p. 151 ; The Restoration and the Eighteenth Century , July 16 , 1908 , p. 53 ; The Elizabethan Age and the Puritan Period , April 28 , 1910 , p. 420 ; Old English and Middle English Periods , September 8 , 1910 , p. 214 . In addition it may said that the series , which aims chiefly , to meet the needs of survey courses in college , is consistent throughout in following the methods of selection and editing which were a part of the original plans . Its superiority to Ward 's " English Poets " lies mainly , we should suppose , in its greater range and in the fulness of its notes . W. Max Reid 's " Lake George and Lake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Waterways series , in which heretofore have been included volumes on the Hudson , St Lawrence , Connecticut , Niagara , Mohawk , Ohio , Colorado , Columbia , and Mississippi Rivers , with other volumes dealing with the Great Lakes and Narragansett Bay . Some of the writers have been well equipped for their tasks , notably Mr Dellenbaugh , who wrote of the Colorado River , and Mr Hulbert , whose theme was the Ohio . Mr Reid , before writing his present volume , had already contributed to the series the volume on the Mohawk , and had published " The Story of Old Fort Johnson , " that fort being the early residence of Sir William Johnson . Mr Reid has collected a considerable mass of historical material . Unfortunately , this industry has not been allied with literary skill in using the material for book purposes . His volumes have been scrappy and disconnected chronicles . It has been possible to dip into them at almost any point and scarcely suffer for want of knowing anything which has ' gone before . Chronology in narrative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been strikingly absent In the present case by means of illustrations , handsomely reproduced , and with large type for the text , an attractive volume has been produced The lack of anything like digestion of the material before the product was printed is illustrated in various chapters indiscriminately arranged one after the other . The reader finds himself entertained in one chapter by an account of Israel Putnam , in another by one of " Old Bill Harris . " The story of Ethan Allen 's exploit the author leaves to the hands of Judge Thompson , author of that famous book of an older generation , " The Green Mountain Boys . " Material taken from Judge Thompson 's book serves as two regular chapters of Mr Reid 's Strange inaccuracies , or solecisms , not only of diction , but of actual fact , are met with . We are told that " to Columbus and other adventurous Spaniards ( sic ) is given the honor of the discovery of America , " and then reminded that a party of Basque fishermen probably visited the American coast before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whose visits , if made at all , antedated those of fishermen by centuries . Sir William Johnson is represented as superintendent of the " Five Nations , " although the Iroquois in Sir William 's time comprised " six " nations . The reader will have no excuse for forgetting the drowning of Corlear , inasmuch as he is informed of it In three places  --  on page 48 , and then , as he turns over the leaf , on page 49 , and once more on page 100 . The Bay of Fundy is presented to us as " the Bay of Fonda . " The British ambassador has his name spelled " Brice " The scene of Champlain 's famous battle with the Onondagas is not indicated , although it has been accurately identified . Richard Watson Gilder 's recollections of Grover Cleveland , which have now been published in book form ( Century Co. ) , make little pretension to a biography ; they are rather , as the author styles them , " a record of friendship . " This friendship extended over more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Gilder puts down we see the workings of Mr. Cleveland 's mind 1.11 ) 011 many of the problems which vexed him It has been said that Mr. Cleveland often expressed his surprise that no one had risen to defend him ; this Is borne out to some extent by his letters which are quoted in this volume , although he modestly averred that he was not anxious to have an autobiography " on exhibition . " There is , too , the note of despondency so often found in his letters . Writing from Princeton in July , 1905 , he said : Mr. and all the forces about him have lately importuned me , in season and out of season , to write , say twelve autobiographical articles , offering what seems to me a large sum for them ; but I have declined the proposition I went so far ( for I softened up a bit under the suggestion of duty and money ) as to inquire how something would do like talking to another person for publication ; but that did not take at all . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , but the disapproval of merely a hint that the " I " might to an extent be eliminated made it seem to me more than ever that the retention of everyhing that might attract the lovers of a " snappy life " was considered important by the would-be publisher There is a circle of friends like you , who I hope will believe in me . I am happy in the conviction that they will continue in the faith whether an autobiography is written or not . I want my wife and children to love me now , and hereafter to proudly honor my memory They will have my autobiography written on their hearts where every day they may turn the pages and read it . In these days what else is there that is worth while to a man nearly sixty-eight years old ? " Abraham Lincoln and Other Addresses " ( Century ) has the charm of the clear style and the dry wit of which the Hon. Joseph If Choate is so consummate a master . They were delivered to English audiences whose acquaintance with American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therefore , be expected that the lectures on Lincoln , Franklin , and Hamilton should contain much new or original matter . A cheerful optimism is the prevailing spirit of the addresses on the Supreme Court , and on education . The Constitution , as interpreted by the Supreme Court , has fixed the principles regulating the respective spheres of Federal and State power with accuracy for all times . Owing to the general adoption and the complete success of the elective system an undergraduate can develop his talents to the highest degree ; our people are sober and economical , and the education received in the common schools enables every citizen to judge with some degree of intelligence of the great problems submitted to him , and has made them industrious readers of the best literature . A cheerful picture indeed But when he delivered his lectures Mr. Choate was American ambassador , and although an ambassador is no longer to be defined as one who is sent to lie abroad for his country , he can scarcely be blamed if he presents only the bright side of things With @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arthur " ( Scribners ) Howard Pyle completes the fourth and last volume of his illustrated transcription of Malory 's famous history . Mr. Pyle has done his task of literary adaptation skilfully and with evident enthusiasm His pictures , executed broadly with the pen , have a gravity befitting the theme . In fact , the pictures and ornaments deserved a better typographical setting than this over-heavy quarto with its stamped margins But the book is chiefly intended for young readers , and had to be kept within a price possible for the average fond father . In this romantic vein and in the somewhat archaistic technique he properly affects for these drawings , Mr. Pyle has no rival among our illustrators The rugged simplicity of his manner fits a theme that oddly enough captured the morbid fancy of Aubrey Beardsley . As decorations Mr Pyle 's cuts are less notable than the Bea'rdsley travesties . In everything that makes for sound illustration only the handful of Arthurian designs in the pre-Raphaelite Tennyson bear comparison with the best of Mr. Pyle 's inventions William Henry Brewer , professor emeritus of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at his home in New Haven , aged eighty-two . He graduated from the Sheffield Scientific School in its first class , that of 1852 Continuing his education abroad , lie studied at Heidelberg , Munich , and Paris , and later received the degree of A.M. from Yale , 1859 , Ph D from Washington and Jefferson , 1880 , and LL D. from Yale . 1903 . In 1858 he was appointed professor of chemistry and geology in Washington College , Pa In 1860 he was first assistant in the geological survey of California , and in 1863 was made professor of chemistry in the University of California In 1864 he came to Yale as professor of agriculture in the Sheffield Scientific School , and was active in that position until 1903 , when he retired . Professor Brewer had been a member of the National Academy of Science since 1880 From 1892 to 1909 he was president of the Connecticut Board of Health , and from 1894 to 1909 was president of the Arctic Club of America He was also a member of the Connecticut Academy of Sciences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Society of Nationalists , the Society for the Promotion of Agricultural Science , etc. ; and held several Important government positions , being on the topographical survey of Connecticut ; on the commission on cereal production in the United States in connection with the tenth census ; on the United States Forestry Commission in 1896 , and on the scientific survey of the Philippine Islands in 1903 . Chief among his published works is the " Botany of California . " Sir Clifton Robinson of England , who received his knighthood from King Edward five years ago , in recognition of his services as a builder and organizer of traction lines , died last Sunday , at the age of sixty-two . He was the author of several treatises on tramways For one of these , " The World 's Tramways , " he received the silver medal of the Society of Arts in 1902 Science . Prof. SLOphane Leduc 's " Theorie physicochimique de la vie at generations spontanees , " which has been translated by Dr. W. Deane Butcher , will shortly appear from the press of Messrs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by Samuel Parsons , is the work of a man accustomed to do rather than to talk . Its brief and almost dry presentment of the results of more than a score of undertakings of the most - varied kinds is a record of achievement rather than an explanation of methods ; it is only seldom that Mr Parsons pauses to show either principles or processes . Nevertheless , the book is suggestive . Its illustrations , from photographs and plans , are worth much study ; and its chapters on evergreens and rhododendrons are valuable for their advice and lists of varieties Perhaps the most needed chapter in the book is on a Japanese tea garden , with suggestions calculated to bring hesitation to those ' who have yearnings toward imitation of the characteristically foreign Several years ago the Swiss government Published a wall map of their country for school use , which was then and still is the finest work of its kind An " Atlas fur Schweizerische Mittelschulen " has now been issued , which enables Switzerland again to break former records in educational cartography The atlas is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and is to be ordered through the " Sekretariat der Konferenz der kantonalen Erziehungs-direktoren " in Zurich . It contains 133 pages , with an extraordinary variety of maps , some 280 in number , mostly physical and political , but showing also language , religion , industries , geology , and products . The intelligence in planning and the skill in executing the work are admirable . Projections and scales have been systematically chosen and are conscientiously indicated The color schemes for altitudes on the relief maps , for temperatures on the climatic maps , for density on the population maps , and so on , are uniformly graded through the entire volume . Cities are not crowded in to 1111 blank spaces , but are critically selected , and their names are Printed in a different sized type to indicate their population . A great number of inset maps show districts of special interest . The large scale relief maps of parts of Switzerland are unusually effective in representing form . A little corner map of Swtizerland , set into the maps of distant lands , illustrates relative areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be compared with that here set by the little mountainous republic of Europe ? The mathematico-astronomical public will welcome the appearance of the third volume of Sir George Howard Darwin 's " Scientific Papers " ( Cambridge University Press , Putnam ) . The title of the volume . " Figures of Equilibrium of Rotating Liquid and Geophysical Investigations , " fairly indicates the general nature of the content . or the fifteen papers included , the first , which . deals with the question of geological changes on the earth 's axis of rotation , discredits a current view of geologists regarding the causes and effects of the glacial period Time has deprived the second and third papers of the relatively ' little value they originally had The same can not be said of the next four , which have to do with the figure of the earth Before its completion the ninth paper was virtually superseded by PoincarCe now famous memoir on the equilibrium of a rotating fluid mass , a fact that Darwin was prompt to see and prompt to own . The chief of the remaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the great French savant , whose genius thus accompanies and interfuses that of Darwin in this third volume as did Kelvin 's in the two preceding ones . " Education in Sexual Physiology and Hygiene , " by Dr. Philip Zenner ( Robert Clarke Company ) , is described as " a physician 's message " on topics whose presentation to the young is much discussed 3ust now , both here and abroad A considerable part of this little book contains talks to school children and to college boys , as actually given by the author They are said to have been directly productive of good results , There is also a general , though very brief , discussion of the scope and method of such instruction which may well be helpful to those who are interested in these questions .                     