@@493081

December 29 , 1917 THE NEW are not even vouchsafed an answer explaining why the request is refused . Finally they are threatened by the British Prime Minister with being deprived of any benefit which they would obtain by the aPPlication to the Russian front of the principles for which the Allies are fighting elsewhere . Surely this will prove to be a disastrous diplomacy . Every reason which impels a democratic nation to fight against an autocratic Germany impels it also to fight for the friendship of a republican Russia . In order to keep that friendship it is not necessary to join With the Bolsheviki in seeking peace with Ger- , , 111 , allY . It is only necessary to consider the sensi- bilities of a suffering and overwrought people and to explain to them in a formal proclamation what the war aims of the Allies are , and why they can not discuss peace either on the Russian formula or on 411Y basis suggested by Germany . By so doing they would strengthen the party in Russia favorable to their own cause and policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of literally Ptesenting Russia to Germany they would be placing obstacles in the way of a German triumph , even if they did not prevent immediate peace negotiations , would build up in Russia the founda-tlens for an ultimate pro-Ally recovery . The Germans and Their Government NO phase of President Wilson 's assault on the his military system is more peculiarly s ? Wu contribution to the propaganda of the War and is more necessary to the success of Ameri- e n th4- Policy than his reiterated distinction between veet German government and the German people . ' e there is none which has been received with ansa onderstanding of its significance and purpose abl:44 1 with less appreciation of its peculiar service- , 1'ttY both as an instrument of victory in the war 1,1 , ' as a guaranty of security for the coming peace . 41e , 1te Majority of American , French and English 1 n'sPapers and publicists in their war polemics tierethe distinction both in letter and in spirit and visit vt on the Germans as a people the same con- thio.nation which the President has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Lonitsti limes frankly parade their scepticism as to e lictrilth or value and their opposition or indiffer- a e to the war diplomacy which President Wilson ! pbased on it . Powerful political leaders such as ex N fesident Roosevelt share this scepticism and diat13uasize this opposition . Hence , although the irietion is implicit in Lloyd George 's proffer of , der terms to a democratic than to an autocratic e . MailY and in Mr. Balfour 's proposal to render Germany either powerless or free , the disposition on the part of so many influential agencies of opinion in the Allied countries to misunderstand , ignore or oppose it has very much impaired Mr. - Wilson 's success in using it in his war diplomacy . Opposition to the distinction has recently been stated by high European authority in the follow ing language : " The attitude of the leaders of the German empire will change according to the depletion of resources and indispensable raw materials and the extent of the food supply . The question of a more or less democratic form of the constitution is secondary . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manoeuvres which will give to Germany a democratic appearance in order the better to save her place in the world and to settle to the best advantage . A unified Germany under a new and more democratic form of government would be as imperialistic and as possessed with the idea of Germany hegemony as under William II . It is not true that the German people are innocent of the crimes of their rulers . Their final strategy to deceive the Allies and obtain a status quo ante peace with complete amnesty may be the Emperor 's abdication . " There is a measure of truth in this criticism which any statesman would be foolhardy to ignore , and to which President Wilson has assuredly allowed due weight . But it is based none the less upon a misunderstanding of the nature of the distinction and a lack of sympathy with its underlying political purpose . Let us trace this misunderstanding and lack of sympathy to its source . In distinguishing between the German people and their government , Mr. Wilson manifestly is not calling attention to an actual fact . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the war . They can not be exonerated from conniving at the misdeeds of their rulers , and in so far as they can be made to suffer during the war for their connivance they , unlike the suffering population of the Allied countries , are getting no more than their deserts . All this is sufficiently obvious , but it is not conclusive as a criticism of Mr. Wilson 's policy . He is not pretending to recognize an already existing separation . He is aiming to achieve a separation which can be made effective in the future , and which in so far as it is effective will form the one perfect fruit of victory by the Allies in the war . He is trying to furnish to his countrymen a reason which will justify them in continuing to fight against an aggressive and malevolent Germany , but which even in the bitterness of conflict will prepare the way for the future admission of a different Germany into a society of nations . The degree of complicity in the misdeeds of their rulers of which the German people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinction . Their responsibility differs in kind and in amount from the responsibility which can be properly fastened on their government . The German people have no legal control over the German national army , navy and foreign policy . They had not accepted this disfranchisement without protest . Ever since the formation of the empire a large minority of the electorate had been agitating with increasing success to obtain such control . The steady growth of the Socialist minority undoubtedly predisposed the ruling class to save its traditional domination by gambling , while there was yet time , on the chances of war . Its ability to adopt such an abominable course depended upon the irresponsibility of the government with respect to the German nation . It could work in secret . It could use its over-lordship at home as leverage to secure over-lordship in Europe . It was not obliged to be as frank with its own people as a government would have been which rested on popular or parliamentary consent . It could demand from the German nation on the pretext of national defense an amount and an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becoming a serious threat to the security of the neighbors of Germany , and which , as the violation of Belgium proved , was planned and worked out in detail as a means to secure a preponderant position in the world . Better than any other government of a great European nation except Russia , the German rulers were enabled by the forms of the constitution to conceal behind patriotic professions sinister ambitions fatal to the peace and security of Europe . President Wilson is consequently going to the root of the matter in asking the German people to assume a larger measure of control over the army , the navy and the foreign policy of Germany . The question of a more or less democratic form of the constitution is primary , and not , as Mr. Wilson 's critic declares , secondary . If the ruling class can be made to yield control over the German army , navy and foreign policy , the foundation of the whole plan of European domination will be knocked from under . An autocracy which can not carry things with a high hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abroad . Its overthrow would be a clear indication of a new and better disposition on the part of the German people . It would be a clear evidence of an attempt in good faith on their part to give increasing security to Europe by winning increasing self-government for themselves . There is of course no way of guaranteeing to France and Russia the future civility of a democratized Germany . If Frenchmen prefer to believe that a unified Germany under a new and more democratic form of government would continue to be " imperialistic , " their misgiving can not be disproved in advance of an actual test . But before yielding to such misgivings they would do well to realize how serious and costly are its implications . It would lead either to the ultimate extermination of Germany or the permanent mai ' tary organization of the world . Are we - willing to believe that owing to some depravity inherent to German human nature it would pervert demo ' cratic institutions and use them as a screen for a conspiracy , planned and shared by a substantial majority of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world ? Are we willing to believe that democracy in Germany would not Work as it has worked elsewhere , and provide safe " guards against an imperialistic policy in Europe . Few Americans certainly will yield willinglY to such beliefs . Democracy , as they well know ' can not get away from the mania for publicity , and publicity would be fatal to an imperialist conspiracy to obtain the hegemony of Eurqe . No nation could allow its imperialist designs to see the light of day without creating obstacles t ? their realization ; and if they did not see the light of day in a democracy , it would be no more than an autocracy in disguise . A German parliament which controlled the army and navy and foreign policy would like all parliaments be compelled t0ci explain the reasons of military preparation an consequently either to adjust expenditures to at frank policy of defense or else to give soffiejell warning to the world of what it was trying to The conspiracy , if there were one , could be e-tected and could not be acted on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have not , to be sure , proved to be a perfect safeguard against hill ) eriao ism in foreign policy . Neither has the ostensl ? , 1 popular or parliamentary control of foreign 13 ? 110f always resulted in its clarification for the benefitthe the public and the sympathetic adjustment Of of national armament to it . Englishmen did Ili , know previous to August , 1914 , just what the 516 , tary responsibilities of the country on the c ? , 11to nent were and how much of an army was needeale , redeem them . But if the government of a tuat mocracy does possess imperialist designs it ? 00 least be frank about them ; and no governmentla be frank about a policy of world domination . ern , the past democratic and parliamentary g ? 1 " the ments brought with them enough respect fort rights of other nations and enough publicity botao national policies to prevent such governments tru , of cherishing and planning to carry out a kind December 29 , 1917 Imperialism which went so far as to threaten the balance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the experience of the present war , people and parliaments will be much more alert and anxious than formerly to know what the foreign policy of their country is and to prevent it from becoming offensive . There would still remain the danger , suggested by the President 's critic , of the hypocritical assumption by Germany of democratic inoffensiveneSS merely as a manoeuvre to escape from her existing predicament . We can not take this danger very seriously . There is a sincere and powerful movement in Germany on behalf of an effective Parliamentary control over foreign policy and its instruments . If the Reichstag once obtained such control , it would not surrender its new powers except as the result of a coup d'etat and probably ? f civil war . But what if this suspicion should be justified ? What if Germany should merely Pretend democracy and should prove , after a moderate settlement , to be as dangerous as ever to the peace of Eurr-pe ? President Wilson 's program Provides a final safeguard against such a contin , PncY . The anti-German alliance could then put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other ' 3 ' the German nation , of refusing to admit Ger1441Y " to the free economic intercourse which must inevitably spring out of the other partner- ships of a real peace . " In this as in other re- ' Pects the most effective protection against the in- definite endurance of a dangerous and malevolent ermany consists not only in resisting and if nec- and in punishing any indication of a stiff-necked unrepentant offensiveness , but also in convey-g to the German people a sense of how much eY Will gain by placing their government under r nPular control and by qualifying for admission ii t ? the partnership of nations . a lt is precisely by offering to the German people if real contrast between what will happen to them i they behave well and what will happen to them they 0 they continue to behave badly , that President 0 ; Ison hopes to create a distinction , which now has htilY an incipient existence , between the German reop le and their government . The ordinary mill-t 4rist and the ordinary pacifist would not offer to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ e11,1c1 crush and punish them for their past mis- d cis and seek future security by depriving them 04 cfar as possible of the power to repeat the gehn of " .. The latter would acquiesce in the triumph the German ruling class in Germany and in the " ? rld force or because he fears the growth h of to , because he is unwilling to employ resist f Militarism at home in America more than he fears in Germany . But President Wilson alleviates Conditional Economic War W HAT distinguishes the statesmanship of President Wilson from that of the other leaders of the Allied cause is not a more pacific tendency , not a greater reluctance to use drastic means of attaining the ultimate objects of war making . The distinguishing characteristic of President Wilson 's statesmanship is nothing but superior rationality . The President desires a stable peace , but not more ardently than other Allied statesmen . He desires to attain this end at the least cost to the world ; so also do the other statesmen . But the President can always be counted upon to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scrutinize carefully the means to be employed for their attainment . More than any other statesman , he recognizes the potency of political forces as instruments for the accomplishment of international designs and understands how to use them . It will be difficult for the historian of the future to account for the fact that America , after a century of isolation and amateur diplomacy , should have produced the one statesman capable of handling with skill the delicate moral factors involved in effective war policy . The contrast between President Wilson 's methods and those of his European confreres is strikingly illustrated by the different employments that have been made of the project of economic war upon Germany after the peace . In the Paris Economic Conference our European Allies defi 