@@487075

SIR Mr Fite 's constructive suggestion for the training of teachers , published in the Nation September 7 , has already been answered in your pages ( October 12 ) , but should be further disentangled from the innuendos of his preface He attacks indiscriminately the staffs of about 300 departments of education in colleges and universities , and of about 275 in normal schools in the United States alone These men , according to his accusations , pretend to exude mystically a specific prepcsterous " quality , " attract an undesirable type of student to the university , make deplorable school legislation , offer snap courses without content , contribute nothing to productive scholarship , read banal and inane literature , and make themselves ridiculous by resort to anti-pedagogical methods of teaching instead of adopting the correct pedagogical treatmeat , which the author himself proposes in his cited illustration The subject matter of educational branches of study is either wanting or thin Educational psychology has no distinctive field , despite the views and works of James , Hall , Ribot , Sanford , Meumann , Whipple , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Colvin , etc. , despite also the numerous investigating contributors to important and flourishing foreign and American journals of educational psychology . The statement is made that there is a large Herbartian following . I find from an examination of the work at Harvard , Columbia , Michigan , Wisconsin , Illinois , Texas , California , and Missouri that this is strikingly in opposition to the whole trend of emphasis . In regard to the training of the professors in education I find that in these eight institutions the instructional staff in 1907 included twenty-eight Ph.D . men , as against four for 1897 , when education courses were given by the departments of philosophy , toward whom Mr. Fite evidently thinks these professors have become ungrateful offspring . These Ph.D . men may be " mill products , " as Mr. Fite suggests . The majority of them happen to have been turned out by large philosophical departments . I may add that now graduate students of education are supplementing their educational training largely by taking minors in economics , sociology , history , political science , and psychology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happens to cite experiments which were carried on in what he would call laboratories of pure psychology . In fact , studies in attention , in imagery , in memory processes , in individual differences , in learning , in skill acquisitions of all sorts , in habit forming and breaking , in reading , in number , in language , and even in the ordinary thinking processes  --  all pedagogical problems , are yielding increasingly practical results . In lamenting the fact that educational treatises on formal diScipline have failed to see the crucial point of the controversy , our critic appears not to realize that Miinsterberg 's most recent pedagogical book , " Psychology and the Teacher , " and monographs by Meumann , Colvin , Judd , and others have stated and elaborated the relation of the problem to " conceptual activities . " He fails to concede that educational psychology with reference to this one question in general points ( contrary to his assumption ) toward the possibility of transfer of training , and that it alone has launched an era in experimentation , especially under actual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inquiry into and a professlonal desir to possess scientifically grounded educational convictions . Laymen refer , to Thorndike 's and Woodworth 's first experiment with surprising ignorance of the general character of later experimentation . Prof. Paul Shorey ( in the School Review , November , 1910 ) , whose chief contention is in the main I believe correct , shows the same lack of information in this particular . Now for the constructive programme of the author himself , after having told us that " college pedagoey is unfamiliar with any noble ideas . " It is this : education is " a subject whose problems are so complex and so broadly involved in all the problems of social order , civilization , and of life itself ? " that we should hold it off for the graduate school , and not broach it to any undergraduates , virtually all of whom in nearly every State must teach before they can afford to pursue graduate work . How would this definition and this policy do for philosophy ? Why not ? As to the author 's estimate that nine out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their ranks , I hope and believe it is not true . However the same thing might have been said , in fairly recent educational history , of the modern language professors , the teachers of the vernacular itself , the scientists , the historians , the economists , or the sociologists . The protective tariff argument of Mr. Fite points definitely in quite a different direction . I respectfully refer the readers to an admirable pedagogical study , " The Administration of the College Curriculum , " by President W. T. Foster . No one more sensitively than the writer realizes that we are as yet feebly grappling with the great problems which Mr. Fite himself well suggests . We welcome all , including the Carnegie Foundation for Teaching , who are seriously and constructively bent upon clarifying the conception of professional equipment for teachers . We desire the Socratic not the Aristophanic attitude . CHAS . HUGHES JOHNSTON . University of Kansas , November 1 . DR . JOHN BASCOM . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : Kindly permit a few words respecting the life and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ columns , and to whose penetrating judgments of men and things your readers have frequently been indebted . The death of Dr. John Bascom , which was noted in your issue of October 5 , removes a great teacher . Dr. Bascom began his work as a professor of rhetoric in Williams College nearly fifty-six years ago ; after nineteen years of work in that college he was called to the presidency of the University of Wisconsin ; for fourteen years he occupied that responsible position , making a notable contribution to the life of the university , and through that to the life of the State ; then he returned , in 1887 , to his home in Williamstown , where the remaining years of his life were spent . A lectureship in sociology in the old college occupied a few of those years ; but for the most part the period was serenely spent among his books , with the companionship of the noble trees planted by his own hand , the wild flowers , whose haunts he knew so well , and the Berkshire Hills , whose beauty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to whose conservation from the hands of the spoiler he devoted the last years of his life . I am permitted to quote the following discriminating words of Dean E. A. Birge of the University of Wisconsin . who was associated with Dr. Bascom during the entire period of the latter 's presidency : Dr. Bascom came as president to the University of Wisconsin in 1874 and continued in that position until 1887 . He brought to a new institution the best traditions of the New England college , embodied in a powerful and inspiring personality . He had an intellect exceptionally broad and incisive ; a high and pure character ; unusually direct and vigorous speech . His thought and his teaching were addressed to philosophy , by which he understood the rational structure of the world and of society as a basis for conduct . He had an intuitive grasp of the mental and moral attitude of the undergraduate , and he understood how to call into life that which was best in him and to make it able to control his future . In those days there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or even an organizer , as one whose personal power fitted him to take the lead in class-room , faculty , and State  --  one who would be regarded as the spiritual head of an institution whose func tions were regarded as primarily spiritual . This position Dr. Bascom filled with exceptional success . After his return from the West his leisure was employed in philosophical and sociological studies , and several volumes appeared , among which a treatise on the philosophical basis of sociology , another , " The Words of Christ , " and another , " The New Theology , " are most important . His last is a treatise on " The Goodness of God , " of slender dimensions , but of great breadth and insight . Dr. Bascom 's life in the old - New England town was full of good fruit . Philosopher and prophet as he was , the farmers all knew him and believed in him ; in all local affairs he took an intelligent interest ; he was never absent from town meeting and his word was most influential . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acres on the crown of that noble mountain have been placed , for the perpetual use of the people of the State , was largely his project ; until a few months ago he remained at the head of the commission . To the day of his death he was physically and mentally alert ; he was on horseback two days before he died ; several reviews and articles for the newspapers were waiting to be finished on his table . ? y WASHINGTON GLADDEN . Columbus , 0 .. November 14 . DECORATIVE VERSE . TO THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : A teacher of literature , in this part of the country at least , has constantly to fight ? against the popular impression that poetry is a gentle , decorative , and feminine art like " fancy work , " unworthy of serious attention from a practical man . This is especially true in a coeducational college , where the girl students , especially those incapable of thought , tend to flock into the literature courses . There they expect to be agreeably entertained , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exertion . As I read the review of recent verse in the Nation of October 26 , I thought how perfectly most of the verse quoted fits in with this popular impression . Fourteen volumes by different authors are noticed in the review , - and there is a short quotation from each . I am impressed with the sameness of these bits of verse , with their graceful decorative quality , and with their almost total lack of vital interest . With the exception of perhaps three pieces , one of Iyhich is an echo from an older poetic school , I think all these poems might easily have been written by a single author . They all have a gentle elegiac-idyllic strain , where very often " pure description takes the place of sense . " Smoothly turned lines , vague classical reminiscences , more or less pretty nature descriptions  --  these recur in poem after poem , Even into Mr. Palmer 's ode on Marcus Aurelius the " nature " note intrudes in the remarkable comparison of the stoic Emperor to an " unvexed oriole . " To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Is it not true that the verses quoted in your review are representative of a prevailing tendency ? Why is it that our poets are concerned chiefly with things that are pretty and decorative , but not vital ; with feelings that are soothing an &; becoming , but not passionate ? Ford Madox Hueffer , in his reminiscences , expresses the opinion that the divorce of poetry from life is due to the influence of the Pre-Raphaelites , and that Rossetti sounded the knell of English poetry when he wrote " The Blessed Damozel . " The Pre-Raphaelite influence is perhaps responsible to some degree ; but should we not look further back ? I suspect that Keats , more than any other poet , is the source of this flood of decorative verse . We are suffering from a degenerate form of his worship of outward beauty , which takes for its creed and misinterprets the famous text about beauty and truth . HOMER E. WOODBRIDGE . Colorado Springs , October 29 . QUARREL OF THE CONSONANTS . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR . The " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Professor Havens has recently revived ( the Nation , October 26. ) , must forfeit his title to originality in favor of no more modern a person than Lucian of Samosata . The " Account of the Trial of the Letter Y , alias Y " is ? an ingenious adaptation to English of the ancient 's " Trial in the Court of the Vowels , " wherein the letter sigma brings suit against the letter tau for usurping the former 's rightful place . " I am driven from Thessaly ( Thettaly , forsooth ! ) , " cries the irate consonant . " Ocilaicraa is now mare clausum , to me . . I have never a Irciacrcaos to hang myself on " ( The Clarendon Press translation , Vol . I , p. 26 ) , The Greek document , like the English , is a plea for conservatism in orthography , JAMES HOLLY HANFORD Simmons College , November 13 . NOT NEWS AND NEWS . TO THE EDITOR OF THE NATION ; SIR. : A parallel which may have been present in Dana 's mind when he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that afforded by a passage in Thomas Paine 's " Age of Reason , " Part I , chapter xvii : The story of the whale swallowing Jonah , though a whale is large enough to do it , borders greatly on the marvellous , but it would have-approached nearer to the idea of a miracle if Jonah had swallowed the whale . The same question suggests itself in Paine 's case Was it consciously or unconsciously that he reproduced the form of the ancient apothegm ? Novembef 10 LETTERS OF JOHN BRIGHT To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION ' SIR : A life of my father , John Bright , is shortly to be written by Mr. George Macaulay Trevelyan . There must be a large number of letters , written by my father , to Charles SUmner , Charles Francis Adams , and W. H. Seward , during the American war . I should much like to have the opportunity of seeing whether some of them are worth quoting in the biography , but I do not know who has them . Perhapsthis letter , if printed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who have them . J. A. BRIGHT . One Ash , Rochdale , England , November 9.                     