@@487153

When the Stock Exchange , during the past week or so , suddenly displayed renewed activity , with an advance of 3 to 5 points ' in prices , there were reasons why the movement attracted unusual attention . The advance began and continued in the face of a deficit in New York bank reserves , with money rates on the Stock Exchange up to 8 per cent. , and with news of trade reaction and reduced employment of labor reported from many sections of the country . A rising stock market , therefore , seemed on its face to mean either that all the above-named unfavorable influences had been expected and were fully prepared for , or else that the watch-towers of finance had discerned on the horizon signs of a turn to better things . This was more fairly to be inferred , because a rise in Stock Exchange prices is usually dependent on the facilities for credit which Wall Street at the moment appears conspicuously to lack . It is no new phenomenon , to be sure , for the market to advance in the face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But on most occasions of the sort , the achievement was made possible because our markets drew on London , which was bound to meet our needs for increased credits and for new gold reserves , both because of our merchandise export balance and because of our robust bid for money . This year our country has the export balance  --  all things considered , it is exceptionally great  --  and our market has made the bid for money . But the London reservoir of gold and credit has been all but shut to us  --  not , by any means , as in such years as 1905 and 1909 , because we had already exceeded our rightful line of borrowings , but because Lombard Street can not spare the cash . Instead of Europe carrying Wall Street on its back , as happened on those earlier occasions , New York has this year most unmistakably been carrying hard-pressed Europe . This being so , and credit resources for the use of the Stock Exchange being to so great an extent blockaded both at home and abroad , it was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past eight days , may have meant more than a rise in an ordinary season would have done . When markets make a showing of the kind , Wall Street must have some definite explanation , and this week it discovered one which contented it . At Washington , the financial interests long ago found themselves fallen on evil days . The legislator who desired to " draw " the public had only to denounce ttie Interests from the floor of Congress . The legislator who pleaded for cautious action on a " regulation bill " was at once suspected of accepting retainers from the Money Trust . Corporation officers , if they appeared in a House committee-room to advocate a pending measure , were apt to find that they had sealed its fate . Other organizations  --  even of what in bygone days was known as the frailer sex  --  may pound on the White House door and demand in threatening tones that the Chief Executive shall recommend their case in his official address to Congress ; incorporated wealth would not venture even to ask that its own case might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the financial community  --  ranging from the Small Investor to the Malefactor of Great Wealth  --  faced the opening proceedings at each successive session of Congress with a sinking heart , askingdespondently what fresh discipline they were to undergo . The President who hammered the pulpit was accepted as the prosecutor ; the President who laid down the law was accepted as the judge , and the corporation always felt itself to be 131 the prisoner 's dock . At last the time arrived when the wretched and possibly repentant corporation looked for a President who should be the headsman ; when , to its undisguised surprise , it had nothing handed to it , in the annual message of December 2 , but an intimation that the Anti-Trust law should be clarified and " made fairer to all concerned " ; that business men " should be relieved from all uncertainties , " and that it is quite as important " that they should be set free to prosper as that private monopoly should be destroyed . " Such assurances may of themselves mean much or little ; that depends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manner in which Congress will receive it . This very week , there have been rumblings at the Capitol from the statesmen who hold that all the world is wrong , and that it should be reformed overnight . But a somewhat striking tendency on their part to rumble by themselves , and without the enthusiastic echo which used to follow their most violent proposals , is not easy to ignore . Nothing at all is heard , from the high authorities in politics , of hanging financial magnates as high as Haman because there has been reaction in the markets . Instead , the word appears to have been cautiously given out that a time of trade reaction is not a time to unsettle the business mind by new and startling moves in " regulation . " When the protagonist of the Money Trust inquiry declares himself " in favor of a general amnesty " in the matter of past corporation offences , there should seem to be something in the atmosphere , at Washington and elsewhere , to suggest at least a temporary suspension of the national sport of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which will as usual contain disappointments as well as reassurances . But the Wall Street which watches tendencies may have expressed its sentiments this past week , even in the stock market 's more or less ineffective pull at the cords which bind it . .                     