@@493047

neighbor and natural ally of a Great Power whose interests in this hemisphere coincide in the main with our own . Surely , if our policy is the defense of the status quo , the greatest defense of all would be a tangible understanding with our biggest and best American neighbor . There is every reason why the United States should cultivate the closest relations with all the countries of this hemisphere . But let us not talk about a Pan-Americanism which excludes the Canadians and ignores the immense role played in the past and certain to be played in the future by the Power which commands the sea . Pan-Ameri ? canism that passes by the British Empire is a very perilous phrase on which to build an immense in ? crease of armaments . Gratitude is due to the President for having at ? tempted to establish some connection between diplo ? macy and preparedness . But the diplomatic policy which he has in mind is a dangerous delusion . It assumes an equality between republics that are not equal , it gives almost unlimited license @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States , it ignores the Empire which his always played a decisive role in the Monroe Doctrine and its variations . With such a foreign policy to defend , no navy and no army can be regarded as adequate , and no human being can tell whether the President has recommended too many or too few guns and ships and soldiers . T T is too early , say those who speak with author ? ' ity , even to breathe the word peace . The war is in its germinating stage , and the world must await its harvest . So be it . But it is never too early to seek to cast up the accounts of any enterprise , to estimate the probable costs , to value the probable winnings and strike a balance of net gains . In a business enterprise the practices of correct accounting are the only safeguards against bankruptcy . The same thing is true of an enterprise in statecraft and war . The only difference consists in the fact that great national enterprises , if ill-advised , threaten not merely financial bankruptcy but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assumed that the Allies can win a con ? clusive victory in the end if they will pay the price . They will then be able to impose such terms of peace as their hearts may desire ? of course within the practicalities of the situation . They will be able to levy indemnities up to the limit of what the vanquished can bear . They will be able to impose such political and military conditions as seem con ? ducive to their future convenience and safety ; they will keep for themselves so much of the territoryof the vanquished as may seem profitable to them . These are items of great apparent value . We shall later try to estimate their real worth . But first we must seek to arrive at an estimate of the costs their acquisition must entail . In this accounting of costs , chief place must be given to the lives that are to be sacrificed . Just how many men are being killed or permanently disabled each day in the present stage of warfare it is im ? possible to say , but there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a casualty loss well above iso , 000 men per month . We must subtract from this figure the number of those who will re ? cover from their wounds , and add to it the excess mortality in the field and in prison camps . The resultant of net human loss will probably be some ? what above i oo , 000 . A conservative estimate places the loss of a year 's fighting at 1,200,000 men . Completely to crush the resistance of the Central Powers will require at least two years more of fighting , and as the war enters upon the stage of desperation the losses to the Allies , engaged in driving the Germans from defensive position to defensive position , will be much heavier . Three million men must die or be disabled for life if the Allies are to win through to a position from which they can dictate a peace . Two and one-half million families must be broken , shorn of power to hold their own in a society that will be all the more com ? petitive on account of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But is it not possible , by a simple accounting operation , to cancel out this factor in the cost of victory ? The Allies will pay three million men , but they will take three million lives , more or less , from their enemies . The broken households on Allied soil will be balanced by broken households on enemy soil . A fair exchange , perhaps , but one that is none the less ruinous . While wrath persists , we may see only the aspect of equivalence , but wrath is an emotion that flames and dies . A life for a life , in cold retrospect , is simply two lives lost . Broken household for broken household is simply two human debit accounts , to be paid in full before civilization can proceed . Besides , who will predict the turns of European affairs in the next ten years ? Three years ago Bulgars and Turks were engaged in the ghastly trade of outrage for outrage , life for life . To-day the Bulgars would , if they could , resurrect the stout Turkish fighters they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financial items in the cost of victory , it is a conservative estimate that the Allies are paying out $30,000,000 a day ; and whatever technical advances may take place in the art of war , there is no reason for forecasting progress in economy . The Germans , we are told , are to be blasted out of France and Belgium and out of Poland as well . Next they are to be blasted out of many strong defensive positions on their own soil . Perhaps it can be done , but only at an almost inconceivable cost in money . We will say that between thirty and forty billions will suffice , although this is probably much too little . But will not this item be taken care of by the indemnity to be imposed on the vanquished ? The aggregate private income of Germany and her allies in time of peace does not exceed $18,000,000,000 . Interest at six per cent on indemnity bonds for $30 , - 000,000,000 ? and a lower rate would be unreason ? able in view of the weakness of the underlying security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tenth of the gross produce upon a conquered province , but they were too practical to expect any permanent tribute of such weight . The Turks nominally extracted a tenth , but probably never succeeded in collecting it , although they regarded every form of torture as a legitimate part of the technique of tax collection . Grant that the Allies force the vanquished states to repudiate their own obligations and make the in ? demnity bonds a prior lien on all revenues , a thirty-billion dollar indemnity will still be insupportable ? especially since it is proposed to deprive the van ? quished of considerable parts of their territory and to place them under handicaps in commercial com ? petition . We do not deny that indemnities can be employed to reduce the financial burden upon the victor . But these must fall far short of the cost to either side of the next two years of war . A prudent statesman would reckon at least $20,000 , ? 000,000 to be added to the existing debts of the Allies if complete victory is to be won . England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France , a quarter , and Russia and Italy will bear most of the rest . It is a burden that will persist when wrath is dead . These are the minimum costs of victory . What of the value of the gains ? The German colonies would be divided among the Allies . It is generally recognized that those colonies were worth next to nothing to Germany ; they would be worth less to the Allies . France would recover Alsace-Lorraine ? a gain that would not greatly strengthen France economically or strategically , but which would have an incalculable sentimental value . Russia would take German Poland and Galicia . Italy would take all the lands on the Adriatic that could be assimilated to Italy . Serbia would encroach upon Bulgaria , and Turkey would be dismembered and distributed among the Allies . But with the exception of Alsace-Lorraine , all these territorial acquisitions would be replete with trouble for the possessor . At Bucarest , Greece , Serbia and Rumania wrought their will upon a beaten Bulgaria and dictated a peace which they believed to be in their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thereby forfeiting at once the benefits of ease and security , and in the sequel infinitely more . Serbia is now all but crushed out of existence , and Rumania and Greece stand trembling between two firing-lines . But may we not hope that with Germany crushed , her rulers deposed , her navy destroyed , her armies disbanded , her young men slain , her women and children staggering under the burden of foreign debt and domestic disorganization , the peace of Europe will be permanently established ? If we could hope for this the price might be worth paying . But let us not be deceived by appearances . England , France , Italy , Russia , Japan , all cherish separatist ambitions which may at any time clash . These ambitions are partly suppressed for the present , but the force that suppresses them is the existence of a belligerent and unconquered Germany . Not even in the face of the common danger have the nations been able to attain complete harmony . Why was it that when Russia was hammering away at the Car ? pathian passes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failed to enter the war , dragging Greece with her to the Allied cause and doubtless Rumania and Bulgaria as well ? Because of separatist views as to the just distribution of the prospective spoils of victory . Crush Germany , and the force of cohesion de ? parts from the heterogeneous camp of the Allies . Diplomatic situations will arise in which one party or the other will play for the support of the Teutons , vanquished but clinging all the more desperately to their national pride . Russia , Germany and Austria crushed Poland , a small country , imperfectly developed nationally . What has been the profit of the conquerors after a hundred and fifty years ? Each would reconstitute Poland now if it could be sure of Polish support . The peace of Europe will not be won by this war or any other . If it is ever to be established per ? manently , it will be through the acceptance by superior might of a self-restraint which recognizes the worth of independence and dignity in the nations that are weak or that happen to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principle ; therefore she is bleeding . Ruthless employment of force on the part of the Allies to crush Germany will equally offend against the prin ? ciple and sow the seed of future miseries . Three million men and a mountain of poverty is the price the Allies must pay for crushing Germany . And the value of the achievement ! A momentary exaltation in the breasts of the victors ; a delusive sense of security ; an intensely nationalistic victim raging under its burden of humiliation , to form a ready instrument for later designs of imperial ag ? grandizement . In their aggressive designs the Central Empires have already been beaten . They played for the military hegemony of Europe and lost . They will not take Paris or Petrograd and they know it . They will not break the back of the British Empire . Every man of sense in the Teutonic Empire realizes that however the war may end , Germany and Austria will be weaker , absolutely and relatively , than they were at the outbreak of the war . Their people are suffering and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turn upon their leaders in time of crisis . Their loyalty is assured so long as it is the express determination of the Allies to push the war to an extreme conclusion . Whatever the war was at the outset , this determination will transform it into a war of defense for the Central Empires . An early peace would leave the rising popular dis ? content in Germany and Austria to demand an accounting from the leaders who dragged them into this disastrous war . It would render necessary such adjustment of competing ambitions among the Allies as would make their present friendship per ? manent . It would save mountains of money and millions of men . Did peace ever tempt stubborn hearts with greater gifts ? BARON SHIBUSAWA 'S recent visit to New York City afforded one more illustration of the barren and relaxed condition of public opinion in relation to a national foreign policy . Public opinion in this country does not offer a firm and fertile soil in which such a policy can take root and grow . The Baron came to this country at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ towards the matters in contro ? versy between the United States and Japan . In his speeches he stated frankly what Japan was trying to do in China and how much she was willing to yield to California . In a friendly but firm way he intimated that Japan would not consent to any further abatement of the treaty rights of her citi ? zens legally residing in the United States . In un ? mistakable terms he announced Japan 's intention of controlling the economic development of China . The United States could share in this work of development , but Japan 's proximity to China and the racial affinities between the Japanese and Chinese peoples designated Japan as the dominant member of the partnership . These candid overtures made no more apparent impression on the Baron 's audience than a bullet would make on a bed of clay . They vanished into a sea of sentimentality without leaving a bubble be-hind . The " leaders of public opinion " who replied to the Baron disregarded the meaning of his speech . They talked about Pan-Pacific conferences , prepared ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the historic friendship between the two coun ? tries and their own invincible determination to maintain it ; but they sought to maintain it not by confronting the possible differences between the two countries , but by pretending no such differences existed . Instead of answering their distinguished visitor with a similarly frank and friendly discussion of what in their opinion the United States could or could not do to satisfy present or future Japanese grievances in California , or of the advantages and dangers involved by Japanese ascendancy in China , they discoursed about the beauties of friendship and peace and the indefensibility of all wars except righteous wars . The leaders of this sort of public opinion have a futile task . Instead of leading opinion on an adventurous journey over a novel country towards a desirable but undiscovered goal , they lead it up into the thin air where it is dissipated in the vast monotony of the heavens . No problem connected with our relations to foreign countries presents graver inherent difficulties and contains a larger charge of contingent explosives than that of the comparative participation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development of China . The war has destroyed the Balance of Power in the Far East . Germany has , for the present at least , been eliminated . The chief attention of Russia must continue to be fastened on the Balkans , no matter whether the treaty of peace is favorable to her or not . In the necessary concen ? tration of resources which has been caused by the war and will not cease at its close , France and Great Britain will not be able to exercise as much influence as formerly in the Far East . What the European nations have lost Japan has gained . She has not disguised her ambition for ascendancy in China . She proposes to organize and direct the latent industrial resources and abilities of the Chinese people , and she proposes to exercise as much political authority in China as she needs to make her economic position secure . She is willing to share the profits of the en ? terprise with the United States , but Baron Shibusa ? wa 's speech seemed to imply that the United States should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? sulting trade , power and responsibility . What should the American nation do ? It has always insisted on the Open Door in China , which is equivalent to an economic Balance of Power . Assuming that the balance can be assured only by American exertions , should we undertake the work of recreating it and accept the chance of possible trouble with Japan ? Or should we stand aside and connive at Japanese supremacy by lending Japan the                     