@@486179

In deciding merely to transmit to the Allies , without comment , Germany 's proposal of peace , in blank , President Wilson appears to have the general approval of the country . The Pope has acted in the same sense . The dispatches from Rome on Monday stated that he held this to be not the juncture for offering mediation . All the world knows that the Holy Father ardently desires that a peace be made , but for the present he limits himself to sending forward the German note . It is not impossible that this identic course of President and Pope was agreed upon after an exchange of views between them . In any event , it is a striking coincidence . Neither of them wished to be put in the position of appearing to endorse the German terms until he knew what those terms were going to be . Thus , if German diplomacy was scheming to array neutral Governments and the Vatican on its side , while leaving them in the dark , it has already met with a check . Its offer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will surely require that Germany make plain her conditions before they can be even debated in a peace conference . If she has chestnuts in the fire , she will have to pull them out herself . The proceedings in the Chamber of Deputies last week indicate clearly that the offer of peace from Berlin has added to the confusion of an already complex situation . This does not mean that any considerable element in the French Parliament is outspoken for peace . Briand 's repudiation of German schemes and his reassertion of confidence in ultimate victory were received with enthusiasm . But when it came to formal approval of the reconstituted Briand Ministry there was no such unanimity . The reorganized Government was upheld by a vote of 314 to 165 . That represents a very serious minority . The life of the Briand Cabinet is not assured . A change of fifty votes would bring it perilously near to dissolution , and certainly destroy its usefulness . The taunts delivered against the French military leaders ? " France was saved by her poilus in spite of their chiefs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , one of the real finds of the war , to enter the reconstituted Cabinet ; the heckling of Briand on the question of Allied policy in Greece , all reveal a state of uneasy equilibrium . The contrast with conditions in England is plain . Lloyd George is assured of a chance to show what he can do . The country demands a change of tactics and of tempo in the conduct of the war , and it sees in the personnel of the new Cabinet the promise of such a change . In France there is a strong feeling that the innovations made by Briand offer no certain guarantee of a radical reform . The spirit of compromise hangs over the new arrange went . There is vagueness about the reorganization of the high command so long demanded by the Opposition . Gen. Nivelle receives the command of the forces in the West , but Joffre retains the title of generalissimo . His new office of technical adviser to the Ministry of War may mean that he has been kicked upstairs , or it may mean that he will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of France to her allies , a war council containing Briand as Foreign Minister and Ribot as Minister of Finance does not in itself promise a sharp alteration of policy . Official Germany has not lost its fondness for tortuous reasoning . Its latest defence of the Belgian deportations is that Germany has been proceeding under Article 43 of the Hague Convention . A simple-minded outsider might think that Article 52 of that Convention was conclusive against Germany , for it forbids an occupying army to demand of the inhabitants " services . . . except for the needs of the army of occupation . " But the German answer ignores this and rests everything upon the right of the occupant to " take all the measures in his power to restore , and insure , as far as possible , public order and safety . " And the German logic is that this means the duty of compelling Belgians to go to Germany and work there as they are ordered ! It seems like a travesty of legal argument . If it had not been gravely put forward by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Nothing can be more certain than that no proceeding of the kind going on in Belgium ever entered the heads of the framers of the Hague Convention . The German Government is simply acting like a conjurer drawing rabbits out of a hat . It will next be telling us that Article 43 warrants forcing the Belgians to swear allegiance to the Kaiser . That would as truly be a measure of " safety " as to tear workingmen from their wives and children and deport them to forced labor in Germany . The " Appeal to the American People " issued by the Holland Section of the " League of Neutral Nations " is perhaps the most im pr6ssive that has yet been addressed to us on the subject of the Belgian deportations . It opens with this remarkable expression of feeling : Your President has said that sooner or later a moment would come when the war would make the position of neutral nations unbearable For us Hollanders that moment has arrived , not through our own sufferings , but because we can not longer passively contemplate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The appeal depicts in few but burning words that enslaving of the Belgians which is arousing the indignation of all the world , and to find a parallel to which " one must turn to the history of the early ages of long-past centuries before international law existed . " To their Dutch neighbors the reality is brought home with terrible distinctness when fugitives , escaping into Holland every day , " in spite of the deadly electric wire which the Germans have erected along the frontier , " tell of " the unutterable despair of the women and children who are left behind and of the agonizing scenes which take place when husbands , brothers , and sons , dragged from their homes and womenfolk , are packed into cattle and freight cars and thus transported to an unknown destination and to an unknown fate . " To put an end to this barbarism , the appeal declares , there is " but one way open , and that is collective action on the part of the neutral nations , " and this can be effected only by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urge their Government to " energetic and decisive action , " and surely there are millions of Americans who are ready to do so with all their heart . The meeting at Carnegie Hall on Friday night gave New York an opportunity to respond to the call . The struggle at Verdun has been the making of Nivelle . He was appointed to direct the local operations there on May 7 , 1916 , Retain taking over the armies between Soissons and Verdun . The battle had just entered its fourth month when the French took German trenches at Haucourt and Haudromont quarry , and recaptured part of Fort Douaumont  --  this recapture being effected by Nivelle 's taking ad-vantage of the German concentration of effort upon Dead Man Hill on the other side of the river , and giving France the greatest encouragement . For the artillery resistance which practically prevented further German advances , Nivelle has received most of the credit . Fort Vaux was taken , but the French held stubbornly to trenches in the neighborhood ; Fleury was ' taken , but the Germans were driven out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inner girdle of forts in late June , it was with a precarious hold and against small counter-successes constantly won by the French . In October the French retook Douaumont , and Vaux fell before Nivelle 's first dramatic stroke the first of November . His last success , the retaking of points that the Germans had gained in their first onset , the capture of more than 11,000 men , and the taking or destruction of more than a hundred guns , gives to him as he takes his new high command a prestige that may mean much to the French effort . Rumania 's losses are placed at more than 400,000 men by a writer for the Overseas News Agency , which occasionally lets its imagination get out of hand . More interesting than the assumed total of losses ar the figures for Runianian prisoners and for battlefield casualties on both sides . The number of such prisoners is given as 140,000 since the beginning of hostilities . Only the other day the number of prisoners since December 1 was given as 70,000 . If we add to this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capture of Tutrakan at the beginning of Mackensen 's operations and his subsequent captures in the Dobrudja , it will appear that the captures made by Falkenhayn in the Transylvanian campaign which brought about the Rumanian collapse must have been inconsiderable , as in fact the specific statements from day to day indicated . What , then , was the specific state of demoralization that fell upon the Rumanian armies in Transylvania ? On the one hand , their loss in prisoners was far from heavy . On the other hand , they must have been fighting back bravely all the time , if their killed and wounded amount to 300,000 , as the German critic contends ; for that would mean a casualty loss of 50 per cent . An army that takes such losses before surrendering or running away does not lack courage . What these figures for Rumanian losses do indicate is the ghastly incompetence of the Rumanian leadership , from the General Staff down to divisional commanders . Recklessness as evidenced in the light-hearted procession into Transylvania was supplemented by lack of preparation on other fronts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequent spasmodic dissipation of energy . Twenty-five thousand men were allowed to be captured at Tutrakan for lack of facilities for retreat across the Danube . The subsequent crossing of the river in the rear of Mackensen 's forces without artillery , followed by an immediate retirement , was a childish performance . The attempted defence of Bucharest on the Argechu River , which lasted just long enough for Falkenhayn to cut the line of retreat behind the capital , was a mixture of recklessness and lack of decision . Had the Rumanian leaders , after their defeat in Transylvania , had the courage to withdraw their forces from west of the Alt for a real defence of the capital , there would have been no such harvest of prisoners as the Teutonic armies have been reaping in the rear of the battle-line . Even by the German figures there should still be a quarter of a million Rumanians under arms . Probably it is larger than that ; but the use that can be made of such forces by an unfit leadership is highly speculative . The deadlock between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ battle-cruisers arises out of the fact that the Department is calling upon the builders for vessels of a power that has never been attempted . Hence the shipyards decline to bid for them except on the basis of cost plus 10 per cent . What the Department asks is for ships of no less than 180,000 horsepower engines . When it is recalled that the horsepower of the Mauretania is but 78,000 , the engineering advance thus called for is staggering to contemplate . How can so great a battery of boilers be economically disposed on a single ship in order to produce the required 35 knots ' speed in so huge a craft ? Secretary Daniels admits that he is asking for " enormous and unprecedented horsepower " in this effort to turn out the biggest-and fastest thing afloat ; but , of course , what he does not admit is that the Department itself has no designers capable of working out the technical problems involved . At least , the builders are saying privately that they have really got to invent the ship , with mighty little aid from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of doing it for a fixed sum , because the experimenting alone necessary might readily eat up any profit . Moreover , they say that the Department gives them no assurance that if their engineering talent really produces this monster ship , the Government will provide them with more work ; on the contrary , it strongly hints that it may thereafter copy the ship in its own yards . It is very unkind of Secretary Baker to deprive certain newspapers of their sensation in the matter of the Lewis machine gun . Stimulated by some army officers , they made a violent assault on the Ordnance Corps and Gen. Crozier , its head . Col. Lewis , they said , had offered to give his remarkable gun to this country , but our hidebound ordnance officers had driven this officer to take the weapon to Europe , where it was eagerly seized upon by the British and Belgian armies for use in this war as the best thing of its kind . Then there was the famous Plattsburgh report of Gen. Leonard Wood , who assembled a board of officers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mechanics , in a brief test were also convinced that the Ordnance Corps did not know its business . When the New York Times took up the cudgels for Col. Lewis , the War Department itself appointed a serious board independent of the Ordnance Corps , which promptly upheld the other War Department boards . Now comes along the Inspector-General to end the whole matter by sustaining Gen. Crozier and proving the falsity of the allegation that Col. Lewis offered his invention to the Government . This leaves both Col. Lewis and Gen. Wood in a bad plight . Evidence that reason is making its way in the councils of the Brotherhoods comes in the statements with reference to the eight-hour demands and to compulsory arbitration made by President W. G. Lee at Evansville , Ind . He confirmed previous rumors that railway and Brotherhood heads have been considering a compromise of the questions involved in the railways ' resistance to the eight-hour legislation , and declared that they were hopeful that some agreement could be reached before January 1 . It is to be wished that an arrangement mutually satisfactory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever since the legislation of last summer . More important , however , is Lee 's admission that present methods of arbitration have outlived their usefulness . He reiterated the old contention that " compulsory investigation means compulsory service " ; but he also stated that " we are not in favor of continuing the present plan . " Before Congressional debate has proceeded far the Brotherhoods may be brought to understand what the best plan is . Though the remainder of the President 's programme of railway legislation waits , and the Brotherhoods and Federation of Labor maintain their opposition , the eighth annual convention of the Canadian Federation of Labor has adopted a report approving in general the Compulsory Investigation act . It also recommended that , as under Australian legislation , the enforcement of awards should he made compulsory ; and that the act should be made applicable to all government employees except those under the civil service act , and to all industries instead of to public utilities alone . It is also worth noting that the new report of the Canadian registrar of boards of conciliation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the act than labor bodies opposing such a law in America have admitted . With seventeen cases dealt with in the last year , a total of 191 disputes have been handled since 1907 . Boards have been granted in 169 instances ; and threatened strikes averted In all save twenty . A notably successful feature has been the application of the act , effective since last March , to disputes in industries producing munitions . As a result no serious trouble has occurred there , though the Ministry " had become aware of the existence , at some points , of considerable underlying friction . " The spectacle of the American Federation fighting compulsory investigation , while the Canadian Federation , after nearly ten years ' experience , even recommends its extension , As significant . The overwhelming vote by which the Sen-ate passed the Immigration bill , 64 to 7 , will rejoice the hearts of those who hope to see it passed over the President 's veto . In its form it is even worse than when Mr. Willson vetoed it the last time , for it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its provisions George Washington and other Revolutionary patriots would have to be excluded were they , reembodied , to seek admittance to our shores . It denies the right of asylum to political refugees of the kind that the United States has , heretofore , - ever delighted to honor . A new Garibaldi , or Kossuth , would be refused permission to enter this country . The bill imperils the international situation , so far as our relations with Japan are concerned . Indeed , in almost every aspect it is un-American . In its economic results this law may have a far-reaching effect upon conditions in this country at the close of the war . Because of the struggle abroad immigration has fallen off , as every one knows , with the result that there is a great dearth of labor . Some of our railways are bringing up Mexicans by hundreds , if not thousands , and the emigration of negroes from the South continues in ouch numbers as to alarm that section and to intensify the negro problem of the North . When the war is over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the warring nations in sufficient numbers to cause a glut in the- labor market , not even though the munitions plants go out of business . There will probably remain a shortage of workers , and that will be increased by the Immigration bill if it becomes a law . As for the literacy test , it remains in the bill . It is as indefensible a means of picking out good citizens as would be a test based upon the color of the immigrant 's hair or eyes . As President Wilson said in his last veto mes-sage , " restrictions like these , adopted ear-Her in our history as a nation , would very materially have altered the course and cool-ed the humane ardors of our politics . " The country has not been hanging breathless on the returns from West Virginia , but it is easy to imagine its anxiety had that State and not California offered the deciding vote , and offered it in such a way that the change of one elector would have settled the result . The announcement that , while Hughes carried the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chosen , illustrates anew the uncertainties possible under our system in a close contest . Had that elector been the critical one , the country might now be ringing with charges and counter-charges of fraud . Col. S. A. Scott , the Republican , was defeated by Orlando De rue because a predecessor concluded he could no longer support Hughes and withdrew . It ought to be possible in each State to make certain that when election day comes there will be a full complement of loyal party electors , vacancies by death , resignation , or disqualification having been filled with automatic perfection . It ought to be understood that personalities should play no part in the balloting , that each man should be regarded as a mere piece of machinery , and that there should be no " low elector " and " high elector . " Vacancies in the electoral ranks after election should also be definitely arranged for . The first and last of these requirements , at least , the States could easily meet by their own enactments . The response of American colleges to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to come here to study has been prompt and generous , more than a hundred institutions having made definite offers of assistance in the form of remission of tuition fees or of scholarships covering the expense of both board and tuition . The other part of the project , for a visit of fifty Mexican educators to this country , has met with less success so far , although it may be regarded as the more important half of the plan . The objection has been made that such a visit is not expedient at this time , because of the strained relations between the two countries . This has a fantastic sound . Relations are not what they should be , but to call them strained in the sense of militating against such a visit as that proposed is to exaggerate what is abnormal in them . A preliminary looking over of the ground by men who know the qualifications of Mexican students would seem highly desirable . To arrange for a year of study which proved ill-adapted to the needs of those who came might do more harm than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual has the opportunity of rendering an international service by making the suggested visit of Mexican educators possible . The matter is in the hands of Stanley R. Yarnall , of the Friends ' School , Germantown , Philadelphia . According to an investigator of the Abbeville , S. C. , lynching of six weeks ago , writing in the Independent , few more outrageous mob-crimes have ever occurred in the South . The victim was a well-to-do negro farmer named Crawford , who was killed because he had cursed a white cottonseed dealer for what he supposed was an attempt to cheat him , and had then resisted a crowd that tried to horsewhip him . The local officials were inert at the time . The investigator declares that " the splendid stand of Gov . Manning , the unanimity of condemnation by the press of South Carolina , and the resurrection of decency in the Abbeville court house . . . together constitute an act of self-assertion on the part of the nobler South which marks the dawn of a new day . " The Governor is determined to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the press speaks with an indignation now happily familiar in such cases . But the most encouraging fact is that , whereas the mob had decreed that Crawford 's sons should abandon his $20,000 farm by November 15 , the law-abiding citizens of Abbeville have overruled this and declared that order shall be preserved , even if Federal assistance has to be invoked . As obituary notices of the late Hugo Munsterberg have hinted , there were many who disliked his personality and questioned his scientific temper ; though it is possible to say that he was a man of intellectual distinction and real influence and that his career is part of the strong tradition of German scholarship in America . He represented two sides of modern Germany , for with zeal for abstract research he joined a desire to make science useful in furthering everyday efficiency . His abiding belief in applied psychology found many expressions . He won his widest attention when he tried to make the study useful in the courtroom ; his last book was an interesting attempt to employ psychological principles to improve the motion picture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business . He gained a certain reputation as a seeker after redone in all this , and could ill dissipate it by his serious researches at the Harvard laboratory , yet he actually led the public to take a more charitable view of psychological method . He worked hard to interpret Germany and America to each other , and " The Americans " is fertile in ideas . GERMANY 'S MOVE FOR PEACE . To appreciate the immense significance of the steps towards peace taken by the German Government it is only necessary to recall what its attitude has been for more than a year past . It has been an absolute non possumus . Germany could never take the initiative . She was , to be sure , ready for an " honorable " peace , but not hers was the responsibility of beginning the negotiations . Again and again the German Chancellor has washed his hands in the presence of the whole world . Germany could only fight on and wait for the Allies to make the first proposals . But now Germany makes them . We seem , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? longed strain and the demonstrated impossibility of a complete victory for German arms have impelled the German rulers to do what six months ago they declared that they could not'do  --  that is , make definite advances for peace . The demand for peace upon any reasonable terms must have been stronger among the German people than we knew . It must be that Germany 's bankers and manufacturers and ship-owners have been moving quietly but insistently to seek an end to conditions which are more and more threatening them with ruin . Remarkable utterances by German publicists have recently been allowed to appear in the German press . Thus in the Berliner Tageblatt , not long since , a member of the Reichstag , Herr Gothein , had some very frank comments upon the terms of peace as outlined by Lord Grey and Lloyd George . Especially as regards their proposal of a " League of Nations " to keep the peace , he declared that " this is a pacifist programme with which every state can agree after the terrible experiences of this war . " And on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Herr O-othein was very explicit : We do not strive for world-mastery . We wish to destroy or oppress no nation . We will gladly submit national disputes and differences of opinion to international courts of justice . Therefore , if this is also the peace aim of England , the war need not go- on ; there is no need for daily slaughter or crippling of tens of thousands of men ; Europe need not plunge further into spiritual and economic ruin . In another issue of the same newspaper , the Tageblatt , Dr. Dernburg had a significant article . It contained not merely professions but at least one confession . He admitted that Germany had not done what she should , before the war , to prevent war . Here are his words : With the utmost conviction , I declare that the German nation wants with all its power to avoid such terrible happenings as the present world-war , and it wants all means to be brought into action which can help in this matter . We have never cut a good figure at the Hague @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the right , but because we shouted ' our own opinions of the proposals made there with such brutal coolness that the other side , which consisted of the leading men of the other nations of the world , was deeply offended That was certainly nothing to boast about , and certainly not diplomacy . In the whole matter of the peace advances of Germany , it is the business of statesmen , as it is the duty of impartial observers , to discriminate between form and substance . The form of the German note was offensive . It was couched in the language of a haughty victor . Reading it , as also in following the Chancellor 's speech down to its closing sentences , one would think that an unquestioned conquerer was about to announce the conditions on which he would spare the lives of enemies absolutely at his mercy . But this was only the embroidery of it , only the Hohenzollern way . Behind all the boastfulness lies the plain fact that Germany has an intense desire to stop fighting . Coming forward with all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suppliant for peace . In her attitude to-day stands confessed the truth that the aims and hopes with which the German rulers entered into this war have been frustrated . Germany can neither impose her will upon Europe nor dictate a peace . She has set out to seek the best terms she can get . Let no one be blind ed to this essential fact by all the fripperies of German oratory . It is said that the German approaches to the Allies are insincere . They are described as a trick to fool neutrals , a trap to catch the Allies . The German note , with its studied vagueness , is pictured as a master-stroke of unscrupulous diplomacy . Well , even . granting all this , the course for the Allies to pursue is plain . What is the best way to expose a trick ? Why , by acting in straightforward good faith . How can a Machiavellian diplomat be easiest confounded ? By opposing him with the weapons of frankness and of truth . The Allies would not in. the least weaken their position if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glad to receive Germany 's offer of peace . When they know what the terms are , they will be perfectly free to say what they think of them . Germany will be sure to ask at first more than she expected to get . The hope of an agreement would lie in continuing to discuss the possibilities . And in such a discussion the Allies might define their own . minimum terms in such a way as to command the approval of all neutral nations and so turn the tables upon the alleged wonderfully adroit German diplomacy . The days which have passed since the German Government astonished the world by proposing to " enter forthwith into negotiations for peace " have made several things clear . One is that the German proposal will not be rejected on sight , with scorn and contumely . At first , there were outcries from irresponsible English and French newspapers , and from a few men in public life , which seemed to advocate flinging Germany 's offer back in her face . Thin attitude was due in part , it is probable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms would be . But apart from this , there was much ferocious talk about its being impossible to listen to anything from Germany except an unqualified and abject surrender . Even to-day , from Russia , there comes language of that tenor . It is not , however , the prevailing tone . It surely is not the tone that will prevail . In England public opinion is plainly working round to the view that whatever plan Germany puts forward to end the war must be considered on its merits . We are not saying that the Allies should go into a peace conference blindfold . They will be quite right in first demanding a sight of the terms of peace to which the German note refers . If they knew the conditions which Germany would propose.                     