@@487181

The Century Company announces the forthcoming publication of " The Story of the Submarine , " by Farnham Bishop , and " Master Skylark , " a dramatization of John Bennett 's novel of that name . " The First Hundred Thousand , " by Ian Hay , will be published next month by Houghton Mifflin Company . In the swarm of books relating to the war it is refreshing to come upon a plain , simple narrative such as is the official Belgian report , " L'Action de l'Armee Beige " ( Paris : Chapelot ) . Covering operations from July 31 to December 31 , 1914 , this short report is eloquent by its sobriety and self-restraint . It describes in sufficient detail the operations of the heroic Belgian troops from their first contact with the German invasion to the final junction with the Allied troops behind the line of the Yser . The ideas controlling these operations are clearly set forth : to hold as much of the national territory as possible , to establish lines of defence that would be useful should the Allies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avoid exposing the army to certain destruction should they not come up It is significant that , until Belgium realized that the Germans were about to violate her territory , she kept her small army ( six divisions ) stationed in strict accord with the conditions growing out of the treaty guaranteeing her neutrality . One division faced England , two France , one , and only one , Germany . The other two formed the garrisons of Brussels and of Antwerp , respectively Thepublishers have mounted the maps of this report in a manner as commendable as It is novel , by causing them to fold in along the top of the usual blank page , instead of along the right edge . We earnestly hope that publishers of works containing maps will take note of this innovation , and imitate it wherever possible . In " Some Aspects of the War " ( T. Fisher Unwin ) S. Perez Triana gathers together some loosely connected thoughts and enunciates a number of tolerably obvious truths . The author , a citizen of the Republic of Colombia and a former member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studied in his youth at the Universiy of Leipzig . The war has stirred within him a bitter reaction against all things Teutonic . German disregard of international law , German atrocities , German songs of conquest and of hate , German militarism , and German ambitions  --  all these he castigates in unrestrained rhetoric , supported by quotations ranging from the Old Testament to his own communications to the daily press . Henry St. George Tucker has little difficulty in establishing the existence of some " Limitations on the Treaty-Making Power , Under the Constitution of the United States " ( Little , Brown ; $5 net ) . He cites numerous authorities for the proposition that this power is subject to the implied restriction that nothing can be done under it which changes the Constitution of the country or robs a department of the Government or of any of the States of their constitutional authority . Even those who argue for the supremacy of treaties over State laws admit that there are matters which are not proper subjects of international agreement , and which , if embodied in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a real , exercise of the treaty-making power . " Limitations of this sort are inferable from the language of the Constitution . Treaties , in order to become the supreme law of the land , must be made " under the authority of the United States " It is not the whim or caprice of the President and a concurring two-thirds of the Senators present that determines whether a particular topic is the proper subject of treaty agreement , but our Federal Constitution and frame of government . A treaty which violates them is not made " under the authority of the United States . " Secretary Bayard recognized this doctrine when he declined to enter into a treaty with Brazil establishing the principle of reciprocity in the administration of aliens ' estates by consuls . He declared that " the Federal Government has no power to impose such regulations on the States " ( 5 Moore 's Dig . of Int . Law , 120 ) . It is true that other Secretaries of State have not agreed with Mr. Bayard as to this particular limitation on the treaty-making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controverted point ( For . Rel. of U. S. , 1890 , p. 255 ) . And here we come upon the real difficulty which besets Mr. Tucker . What are the limitations upon the treaty-making power of the President and Senate ? He insists that they are very extensive , prohibiting not only changes in the Federal Constitution , and interference with the power of the House of Representatives , but prohibiting the abrogation of State laws governing the tenure and transmission of property , the settlement of decedents ' estates , as well as those enacted in the exercise of the police power He admits that the Supreme Court has not expressly formulated this doctrine , but , on the otherhand , he asserts it has never committed itself to the opposite view . In several recent cases , that court has been careful not to render a decision on this subject , while so construing treaties as to avoid a conflict between them and State laws . State courts of last resort in California , Minnesota , and New York have taken a similar attitude . They decline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supersede State laws for the administration of decedents ' estates , and content themselves with holding that the particular treaty before them was not intended to produce that result . No one can read these decisions and the diplomatic history of the treaties involved without the feeling of assurance that the President and Senate have never made a treaty which was intended to assert their unqualified supremacy over State Constitutions and laws . Marcus Dimsdale 's " History of Latin Literature " ( Appleton ; $2 net ) can not be ranked with such members of the Literatures of the World series as Dowden 's volume on French Literature or that of Gilbert Murray on the Ancient Greek . There are parts of the book which are very satisfactory , but in too many places the author betrays a lack of vital personal interest , and is content to serve to the reader the panem secunclum from the critical store of some one else , with no fresh sauce of his own mixing . The result of this process may not always be a loss , but Pichon 's condemnation en @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the 2Eneld , for instance , rests on no such solid ground as to justify its quotation and acceptance without question . The chapter on Horace is based on a deeper personal appreciation , and avoids some of the common pitfalls , such as interpreting certain borrowings from Lucilius in the Satires as confessions of personal immorality , linking a large share of the Odes up to the conspiracy of MurEena , or failing to recognize the sincerity and predominance of the moral and patriotic sentiment in Horace during the years of his maturity . The long chapter on Cicero is too long by at least the two pages in which a half-hearted attempt is made to defend his poetry . Tacitus put the final and inimitable word on that subject into the mouth of one of the speakers in the Dialogue Concerning the Orators , where we are told that Caesar and Brutus wrote poems , " not better than Cicero , but with better luck , because fewer knew that they had done so . " And when Mr. Dimsdale in all seriousness winds up his defence by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proof that he " attained at least a respectable mediocrity , " one imagines either that his sense of humor is lacking or that his edition of Horace lacks the famous passage , medloorlbus esse poet 's on bomines , non DI , non concessere columns Such merits of substance as the book possesses are rather seriously injured by lack of proper care in getting it through the press . There are many little defects and errors so obvious that one wonders why they were not removed by the publlshers , whether detected by the author in the proof-sheets or not . Or has the day gone by when we may legitimately assume that a publishing house should be too jealous of its own reputation to let slipshod work issue from its presses ? Responsibility for incorrect references to texts and authorities , which are frequent , must , of course , fall back upon the author . Some of these can be explained only on the theory that the author did not take the trouble to verify his references for himself when preparing his manuscript . On two successive pages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases of confusion of characters , and two mangled quotations of the text , one of them very aptly followed by the words , " to translate would be absurd " Need it be argued that the cause of classical scholarship is not likely to be furthered by slovenliness in its literature ? Mrs. Charmian K. London tells from the woman 's point of view , in " The Log of the Snark " ( Macmillan ; $2.50 net ) , the story of the interrupted round-the-world cruise which has already been described by her husband . She puts it into the form of a daily typewritten record of events and impressions , with thrills and headaches , sores , scares , and bruises , storm and calm , all in chronological order . Upon it all she endeavors to throw back the parting sunlight of " a sweet memory , " with the possibility of doing it over again as " the one ultimate hope of earthly bliss , " but her narrative is hardly likely to make " Snarking " among the South Sea Islands a popular Pastime It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of Jack London 's system a half-dozen maladies which he had contracted during the voyage , and Mrs London suffered from recurring attacks of fever for nearly a year . The risk to life and health involved in travelling with such limited facilities as those of the Snark is a high price to pay either for exceptional experience or for good " copy . " One thinks of the thoroughness of a von Hindenburg " drive " or enveloping movement as one follows the course of Clifton Johnson from the Pacific Coast over the Rocky Mountains , through the Mississippi valley , and along the Great Lakes , sees him throw out his right wing to sweep the South from Texas to the Carolinas , next to form an unbroken line from the St. Lawrence to Virginia , and now finally to lead his forces through the " Highways and Byways of New England , " from the New York border to Maine . One can hardly say more of this new volume ( Macmillan ; $1.50 net ) than that the author hunts out the typical and the picturesque @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and simple annals " of life on the farms and in the village hotels and groceries of New England , just as he has done for other regions in the half-dozen previous volumes of the series . The amount of genuine Yankee wit and humor which he has found shows that the foreign invasion of recent times has not altogether altered the New England type . At the request of the Romance department of Smith College , M Lucien Foulet  --  himself the author of an admirable treatise on the " Roman de Renard " ? prepared recently a purchase-list of books and periodicals necessary for the constitution of a good Old French library . That list , edited by Professors Sdhinz and Underwood , is now published as " A Bibliography of Mediaeval French Literature for College Libraries " ( Yale University Press ) . It contains some two hundred entries , about half of which are starred as especially important The current price of each work is indicated The list includes complete sets of the general Romance periodicals , such as the Romania and the Zeitschrift far romantsche Philologie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be , roughly , a thousand dollars , or half that amount for the starred works only . The Bibliography is carefully prepared and excellently printed , and will prove convenient to students of Old French , acquisitive or inquisitive . The editors recognize that " such a selection will differ according to the scholar . " Due allowance made for individual likings , however , this particular selection must still meet with adverse criticism on the ground that it slights work done outside of France . The list is designed for American use , yet it disregards almost entirely the by no means negligible contributions of American scholars . Mott 's " System of Courtly Love " and Miss Schoepperle 's monograph on the Tristan legend , to mention but one familiar and one recent book , should certainly have been included . The names of Rajna and Restori do not appear A regrettable prejudice against German work is manifest . Inferior French editions of " Awl , " " Gautier d'Arras , " and the " Roland " are listed , but not the far better German editions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ) and Miiller . Other neglected German works of primary importance are Baist 's " Perceval , " Golther 's " Tristan , " Schultz 's " HOlisches Leben , " and Voretzsch 's " Einftihrung in das Studium der altfranzosisdhen Literatur " Minor defects are few . The analysis of the Grundriss is careless in its omission of the section on Italian literature Crestien is spelled with an h that is neither modern nor mediaeval . It is interesting to note that the first book to attempt a comprehensive summary of the activities and organization of " American Chambers of Commerce " is an essay by Kenneth Sturges , M.A. , to whom has been awarded the David Ames Wells prize in the department of political science of Williams College , the competition being limited to senior undergraduates and graduates of not over three years ' standing ( Moffat , Yard ; $2 net ) . Mr. Sturges graduated in 1911 , and was winner of the competition open to the classes of 1911 , 1912 , 1913 , and 1914 . His book is a compilation of such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sources of information from which the student can obtain further details . It covers the period from 1768 to 1915 in the United States . Early historical development and distribution , structural principles , training and work of the commercial secretary , activities in connection with city governmental reform , cooperation with municipal authorities , civic improvement , industrial progress , etc. , are treated in separate chapters A particular study of the Cleveland Chamber is included , inasmuch as " The secretaries of thirty prominent commercial organizations in the United States recently voted to place the Cleveland Chamber in the front rank as the body that in their opinion had done most to improve its city and stimulate civic loyalty on the part of the citizens . " The book includes notes , appendices , index , and a bibliography . It will be found useful as a reference book by libraries , schools , and all directly concerned with the civic , economic , or commercial aspects of the subject . We are inclined to think that Professor Cook 's method in " A Literary Middle English Reader " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of recommending our earlier literature to awider audience than the method of more or less complete modernization , recently much resorted to . Middle English poetry has generally not quite enough structure to bear up well under the strain of translation . The genuine flavor of both verse and prose easily evaporates in course of the change . The present plan provides a substantial and representative body of text , each selection preceded by a compact introduction , and all the words likely to impede the course of the least practiced reader glossed at the bottom of the page . Undoubtedly , Professor Cook has opened an inviting road for the searcher after literary values . The arrangement is roughly by types , under such rubrics as romances , tales , chronicles , lyrics , and plays . Juster impressions of the material might be more easily had if the arrangement within the type were more nearly chronological . " King Horn " would have made a better entrance to the field of romance than Malory 's " Morte d'Arthur " Few persons consider the extent to which belief in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Christian world . Prof. Henry C. Sheldon 's " Studies in Recent Adventism " ( New York : The Abingdon Press ; 50 cents ) is a timely contribution to the understanding of this phenomenon . His statement of the recent literature of the subject is practically complete , and his refutation of Adventist arguments is decisive . The belief , considered merely as an opinion , might be passed over in silence ; but its tendency to promote a false exegesis of the Bible and to lay stress on non-spiritual conceptions calls for the vigorous condemnation which is given in the present volume . In " Is Death the End ? " ( Putnam ; $1.50 ) John Haynes Holmes , minister of the Church of the Messiah , New York , offers considerations supporting the belief in immortality . Discarding arguments based on the alleged universality of the belief or on the experiences of the Society for Psychical Research , he relies on two generally acknowledged facts : First , the grand spiritual outfit of man , which seems to point to a destiny higher than that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the persistence of force , which , he holds , secures the continuance of the great spiritual force that constitutes the soul . These considerations are put forcibly , but to some readers it will seem doubtful whether they demonstrate personal immortality . The Creator , it may be said , may choose to develop on earth a race of beings intellectually and morally highly endowed , but we do not know that He will choose to continue them in existence longer ; and it does not follow that the persistence of force carries with it the continuance hereafter of any particular vehicle or instrument that the force may here use . The value of Mr. Holmes 's attractively written book would be increased for many students by a more detailed consideration of the two difficulties just mentioned . For the materials of a life of William Branch Giles , one of the most debated figures of his time , there have existed large stores of material . From his entrance into the House of Representatives in 1790 , an obscure young Virginian from a rural district , to his retirement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take an active part in all matters coming before Congress . During Jefferson 's Administration he was virtually party chief in legislative matters , while as a member of the Committee on Foreign Relations he paid unremitting attention to international affairs . It is the merit of Prof. D. R. Anderson 's " William Branch Giles : A Study in the History of Virginia and the Nation from 1790 to 1830 " ( Banta Publishing Co. ; $1.50 ) , that it has gathered together all these materials in the Annals of Congress , the writings of Adams , Jefferson , and Monroe , and the newspapers of Washington and Virginia , as well as In Giles 's private correspondence , and that the author has cast new light upon the doubtful points in the character of a peculiar man . The heavy volume is largely a rather dry statement of Giles 's attitude and utterances upon such questions as the national bank , the tariff , the embargo , States ' rights , and the national judiciary ; but there runs through it the purpose of vindicating Giles from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gallatin . In carrying out this purpose , the author sometimes fails to condemn Giles where condemnation is due . Beyond any doubt he was a man of ability and intellect , and historians have been unjust in denying his competence to write such papers as his resolutions against Hamilton Beyond doubt he was a leader of independence and integrity , and deserves credit for standing upon principle even in his insurgency against Madison . But his prejudices and narrownesses are not the more defensible for having been honest and ardent . His early opposition to the far-sighted plans of Hamilton was only that of his party . But he appears in a less amiable light in his unyielding stand by States ' rights , extending to unreasonable jealousy of Federalist measures ; in the bitterness which tinged his opposition to the Judiciary act of 1801 , and in his refusal to countenance a change in the Constitution of Virginia in 182930 . Few States have needed a new Instrument more than did Virginia at that date . Yet Giles , rounding out his career by a three years ' term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the inevitable tide of reform In the Convention . Professor Anderson might more clearly have indicated the deficiencies of a man who was so extraordinary a reactionary in a democratic period . But both in its central narrative and in to biter dicta the book contains much of value to the student of State or national history . A careful index makes this easily accessible . Prof. Robert William Rogers 's useful and carefully compiled History of Babylonia and Assyria has appeared in a revised and largely rewritten sixth edition ( Abingdon Press , two volumes , $10 ) . In the making of this revision the original two volumes of about 850 pages have been expanded to 1,150 pages . The most important part of the revision is naturally to be found in the earlier period of Babylonian history . All the substantial facts so far as ascertained for the period prior to the dynasty of Sargon I , with whom the Semitic settlers of the Euphrates valley came to the fore , have been embodied by the author , and a good many details have also been added for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Larsa , about the year 2100 13 c . It is somewhat of a disappointment not to find more mention of dates for this early period , even though they would necessarily be merely approximate Professor Rogers no doubt expects the reader to refer to the table inserted towards the close of the first volume , but it would have beenconvenient in connection with the early rulers to add the approximate date while presenting the narrative of the period . The author in this latest edition clings to his preference for higher figures than those usually accepted at present by most Assyrlologists for Sargon and his predecessors , but even according to the author 's calculation Sargon ought to be brought down about two centuries later than c. 3000 B. c. , where Professor Rogers puts him . In general , however , It may be said that Professor Rogers is a safe guide to follow , and the two volumes bear testimony throughout of the conscientious manner with which he has followed , down to small details , the researches of Assyriologists in all parts of the world . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of illustrations , of which there are a large number . While many of them naturally have frequently been reproduced , there are a number which are new , and at all events it is valuable to have thus put together a considerable amount of illustrative material for the general culture of Babylonia and Assyria , though only a few of the illustrations have any direct bearing on the history . In connection with the Prolegomena , covering in this edition the entire first volume of almost 550 pages , there are also included portraits of the chief explorers and decipherers . To many of Professor Rogers 's readers it may seem that perhaps too much space has been given to the Prolegomena . In a history one hardly expects to have the story of the excavations and decipherment told in such detail as to cover almost 400 pages ; nor to have a further chapter added on the script and a survey of the grammar of Sumerian and Akkadian . It might be better , in case of a further edition being called for , to publish this material as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profitably be devoted to the introduction of more historical details , especially in the portion dealing with certain sections of Babylonian history and to a critical discussion of the data given in the inscriptions , which are almost entirely lacking . The last four volumes of the Art and Craft of Letters series ( Doran ; 40 cents each ) are , like the first , essays of a pleasantly and cleverly dilettante sort rather than solid pieces of exposition . The epigram replaces the fact ; in place of consecutive thought we have " suggestiveness . " Orlo Williams 's little book on " The Essay " is typical in giving one-fourth of its space to an attempt at a definition , and finally arriving at the illuminating conclusion that " an essay is a typical composition by a typical essayist " Mr Williams does , however , neatly characterize the standard essayists and provide a guide to the best things of George Street , G. K. Chesterton , Max Beerbohm , E V. Lucas , Hilaire Belloc , and Vernon Lee . Frank Sidgwick 's " The Ballad " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the recent work of scholarship in that field " Parody , " by Christopher Stone , is a frankly entertaining tissue of quotations , and P P Howe 's " Criticism " is a sketchy outline of the interpretation of literature down to our time , commendable in its warm appreciation of Johnson and Hazlitt . A good book on military history for boys of high-school age is The Book of the Thin Red Line , " by Sir Henry Newbolt ( Longmans , $1.50 net ) . The author has picked out six real heroes and pieced together , from their own words so far as possible , a graphic and Interesting sketch of their military careers . They cover nearly all the great wars of the nineteenth century in which men of British blood were engaged . Four of the six are famous ? John Colborne , Sir Harry Smith , James Outram , and Stonewall Jackson . Two of them were brothers ? Robert and George Blakeney  --  who entered the service in their ' teens , and ended their careers without at-taming high rank ; but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the author draws picturesque anecdotes and details ; and they show the spirit with which Englishmen waged war against Napoleon . The stirring episodes are such as to arouse patriotism and noble resolve in a boy , but their glamour does not altogether throw into obscurity the darker side of war . A number of illustrations and colored plates show some famous charges made by " the thin red line . "                     