@@493151

Cartoons , the " Book of Italy , " Edmund Dulac 's " Fairy Tales of the Allied Nations . " Fairies exist in Germany , although probably no one but Chesterton would admit it to-day , and it seems a pity that along with Turkish and Bulgarian sprites they have to be exiled from Mr. Dulac 's volume . But it is still a pretty partnership , this collection of the Fairy Tales of the Allied Nations which the artist has illustrated in his happiest manner , with his soft colors , so unlike the animated vegetable effects of the " pure " color theorists of lamented memory , and with his unusually deft . modulated technique . In buying " Belgium " there is the extraneous pleasure of knowing that you are also con ? tributing to the Belgian Relief Fund , and the chances are that if you spend many minutes looking at drawings which are said to have twice caused the attempted assassina ? tion of the artist at the hands of German agents , you will find it difficult to purchase " Belgium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who contemptuously says that Italy is a third-class power conducting a third-class war , to whom I should like to send the " Book of Italy " to let him become again aware that there are other forms of national greatness than the comparative strength of the field artillery . And the " Russian School of Painting " ? for the war seems to have made any book about or from Russia or by a Russian half-popular in advance ? might cause hills to qualify that race-proud epithet of his ? " barbarian " ? applied so generously to all the peoples east of Warsaw or the Carpathians . In fact , in spite of all our sophistication , our favorite gift books , if we are to judge by the ever sturdy clash of the color press in the print shops , still continue to be the illustrated volumes . The lacy , valentine affairs , with a thin rivulet of inconsequential text , of even a few seasons ago are fast disappearing . And like the old-fashioned Christmas , the holiday gift book seems to be steadily changing its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sentimental , let us say . Tennyson 's " Maud " sleeps peacefully between the snug , red covers of the dig ? nified Cambridge edition . Expensive editions of the " Christmas Carol " with illustrations " appropriate to the spirit of the day " do not flood the book-stalls . But re ? prints of old favorites like Mr. Shepparson 's gorgeous drawings for the poems of Keats and Mr. Byam Shaw 's illustrations of Laurence Hope 's " India 's Love Lyrics " ( now in its second season ) or the handsome " Blue Bird " which Dodd , Mead have produced for the holiday trade are eagerly examined by would-be purchasers . For books like these satisfy some deep desire in us to send a gift book which , in a word , looks like a gift book . Publishers se ? cretly flatter our perspicacity by solemnly affirming that these gift books are n't gift books at all ? books " of perma ? nent value , " we are asked to remember . Our real wish , of course , is to send some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself an aesthetic delight , that is , what we consider an aesthetic delight , for naturally the recipient may differ from us on that point . We may have an eccentric friend to whom we send three or four volumes of a uniform set of Hardy every Christmas . With Heaven 's grace and our remembrance continuing , we shall in due course complete the set . Or our undergraduate friend may have pleaded with us , tears in his eyes , to send him volume so-and-so of the Home University Library or the Everyman series . I fancy- that most of us yet linger reluctantly near the crowded , colored shelves where we can see such triumphs of book-making and decoration as " Clair de Lune , " with its colored text , its music and verse . The wayward fancy for limo-loather library-table delights defies all the nets of the practical . Robert W. Service 's " Rhymes of a Rolling Stone " are probably for sale in many a shop for a few cents . But the new illustrated edition of this season will tempt many a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compromise of our more consid ? erate nephews , cousins and aunts , who no longer buy mere expensive and elaborate futility and expect us , under the obligation of our affections , to be pleased , is more than ever the new edition . Masefield 's " Salt Water Poems and Ballads " has been deftly illustrated by Mr. Pears . There is a handsome new edition of the works of Richard Harding Davis . The " Deep Sea " edition of the works of Joseph Conrad has been increased by five new volumes , making a complete set of his tales . The conviction seems to be growing that the book one wants is the best gift book . Which perhaps explains why we are getting almost as many new editions as new publications . And also why the special interest books of the holiday period are on the increase . Hobby-lovers are having it quite their own way this Christmas . The range of human interest has a staggering exposition in the book-shops . There are books on " Chinese Pottery and Porcelains , " on American blue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the World . " Innumerable books on the dance jostle for a place alongside books on " Saints and Their Emblems . " John Muir 's book , " A Thousand Mlle Walk to the Gulf , " claims more attention than just that of the profes ? sional walker . Discover your friend 's avocation ; there is a new book frankly catering to just that idiosyncracy . Usually , it will be an expensive book , although hardly so expensive as Mr. Holsen 's book on Chinese pottery , which sells ? in two volumes ? for $25.00 a set . The implication is clear . Most of the fortunate individuals who nourish a hobby can afford to . A specialist will not consider price . Whatever the change in the general tone of the holiday gift book , the children are still sedulously blanketed from the bitter wind of a sceptical and unromantic day . Never have they been so pampered . Not so long ago they were tricked and beguiled by fair-sounding adventurous titles , only to have their faith in grown-ups shattered at the dis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rose of romance or the serpent of school-room lessons in the garden of a specious Jules Verne . That was the product of a hypocritical age , which suffragists constantly refer to as " passing . " It was thought indecent not to wrap up a complete lesson in every literary package for the young . We are more honest with the children to-day . Serried ranks of genuine adventure stories , " the real thing , " crowd the book-shop basements . Volumes are entitled for just what they are , and no little boy or little girl is de ? ceived . Even that period of imaginative splendor between the nursery and the first self-conscious visit to the public school is understood . The children usually get the books they want . If our friends are as lucky as they , we have sent them " gift " books indeed . H. S.                     