@@487069

Friends of Senator La Follette have before now made their appearance in financial centres of the East for the purpose of showing what a much misunderstood man he is . If the great propertied interests would only cease looking at him through distorting lenses they would see that he held in his hand , not a torch , but an olive-branch . No greater friend of solid business men exists . All this has been set forth in a general way by the spokesmen for the Wisconsin Senator , on tour in the haunts of high finance , and now it appears that his agents have been making direct advances to Wall Street . The latter 's first impulse is , naturally , to ask indignantly whether these proposals are honorable . Wall Street has long been used to the wooing of Presidential suitors . They make their appearance about a year in advance of what they would like to think the happy day  --  namely , the Presidential election . It might seem that a veteran maiden like Wall Street would become a little indifferent to these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no , though old in years , Wall Street is young in heart , and in this matter ever displays what the novelists and dramatists call " the springtime of the sex-instinct . " To delight in being wooed , however , is not the same thing as ease in being won . Wall Street enjoys the pursuit of the well beloved , but Wall Street is now undeniably coy , not to say cautious . Its ardent affections have been so sadly betrayed in recent years ! Political lovers , sighing like a furnace with devotion , have been detected in a secret hankering after the fair one 's money , intending neglect and cruelty after the wedding had been gone through with . And we could not be surprised if the old rules of the fairy tale were now revived and enforced , and the various candidates for the hand Of the princess compelled to answer three questions , on pain of being behead. ed if they answer wrong . The time has been when the politica ; support of Wall Street was a tremendous asset for any party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of raising campaign funds , though Wall Street 's resources on call would undeniably , as the divinity student said of works of supererogation , " do no harm " But there was also , and often quite legitimately , the advantage of having it knoWn that the men in charge at headquarters of the great commerce and industry of the country regarded a party 's platform as satisfactory and believed its nominee for the Presidency " safe . " Now , no one is more clearly alive to the change which has come over the spirit of this dream than Wall Street itself . As a subordinate matter , corrupt-practices acts have made a great difference since the day when Mark Hanna used to summon New York directors of leading corporations and demand campaign subscriptions . It is now illegal for corporatiOns to subscribe anything ; and even individual subscriptions have to be made public . All this must be a great comfort to Wall Street in these days when it is so convenient to make a , virtue of poverty ! The main thing , however , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the desirability of having Wall Street on your side at all , or the disaster involved in having it decidedly against you The open enmity of Wall Street would nowadays appear to be thought a political aid of great value . At least , so we should be compelled to infer if politicians are always sincere . According to them , there is no more joyful news which an emissary can carry back to a candidate than the information that Wall Street had come out positively against him . Indeed , it is credibly reported that " an important political personage " has been heard to say within recent weeks that if Wall Street kept on attacking him , it would reelect him . Wall Street , however , is justified in being rather , cynical about all such protestations . If its hostility is so coveted , why is its friendship so assiduously sought ? Even the aspirants for high office who have made most political capital out of professed antagonism to big business reveal a sneaking desire , when the pinch comes , to get into touch with big @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wall Street has a vivid memory of how this was so in 1904 , and will be very apt in 1912 to go on the principle of once bitten , twice shy . Even the overwhelming compliment paid it by the suit of La Follette for its favor will not make it lose all its prudence or forget to look pretty closely to the marriage ? settlements . For a parallel to the love-making ( by proxy ) of the Wisconsin Radical to Wall Street , the annals of romance would be searched in vain . One recalls his terrific Senatorial excoriations of the men of great wealth , his reading out of the names of magnates who create panics at will and cause the fortunes of honest merchants and manufacturers to crumble and disappear in a night , his fierce denunciations of the iniquities that go on in that " mere speck on the map of the United States which is called Wall Street , " and then one reads that an embassy from La Follette has been breathing sweet nothings into the ear of this same Wall Street ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ op-posites ? ORIGIN OF THE ANTI-TRUST LATV . It is probable that no questions have been more frequently asked , or as a rule more unsatisfactorily answered , in the controversy over the Trusts , than these : What did the-legislators who passed the Anti-Trust Law of 1890 really have in mind ? Did they intend to disrupt such trade combinations as the Standard Oil or the United States Steel ? And if they did ; then why did we have to wait twenty years before the law was put into force ? Now it is plainly necessary to see what were the conditions of 1890 . In the first place , there was then taking place a rapid increase in cost of living . Even the daily papers had begun to make the rising price of necessaries a " feature " of their news . The " Trust movement , " in what was then deemed a formidable shape , had preceded this rise in prices . The Republican party 's national platform of two years before had declared , its " opposition to all combinations of capital , organized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conditions of trade among our citizens , " and had called upon Congress for legislation to obstruct their activities . Senator John Sherman , when introducing the Anti-Trust Law in March , 1890 , thus described the existing situa-tion : Associated enterprise and capital are not satisfied with partnerships and corporations competing with each other , and have invented a new form of combination commonly called Trusts , that seeks to avoid competition by combining the controlling corporations , partnerships , and individuals engaged in the same business , and placing the Power and property of the combination under the government of a few individuals , and often under the control of a single man called a trustee , a chairman , or a presdent . By way of showing what view the Congress of 1890 took regarding these combinations , we quote Mr. Sherman fur-ther : If the concentred powers of this combination are entrusted to a single man , it is a kingly prerogative , inconsistent with our form of , government , and should be subject to the strong resistance of the State and national authorities . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . I do not wish to single out any particular Trust or combination . It is not a particular Trust , but the system I am at . . . . Congress alone can deal with them , and if we are unwilling or unable , there will soon be a Trust for every production and a master to fix the price for every necessary of life . This statement of the actual position of affairs and of the general purpose of the Anti-Trust Law was concurred in by virtually all the Senators who joined in the debate of 1890 ? even by those who desired a different remedy . Thus the origin of the statute is perfectly clear , and it ought to be manifest that the Congress which enacted it had in view precisely such conditions in American industry as have since arisen . But this being so , the question why such combinations as the Standard Oil and the American Tobacco were not prosecuted and convicted fifteen or twenty years ago , seems cn its face to be even more perplexing . Prof. Henry R. Seager of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the current Political Science Quarterly , ascribes the absence of such results to indifference of the responsible public officers . " Three successive Presidents and five successive Attorneys-General " after 1890 , he believes , " were seriously remiss in their duty . " He continues : The truth is that neither Harrison nor Cleveland nor McKinley was fitted by training or conviction to lead the struggle against the powerful corporate interests opposed to the enforcement of the law , and that their Attorneys-General were even less fitted for such a task . In this explanation there may be some force ; but it does not state the case with completeness . For there are other explanations . One , which Professor Seager cites as somewhat modifying his judg , ment on the three Administrations , is based on the failure of suits against the Whiskey Trust and the Sugar Trust , instituted by the Harrison Administration . It is now fully recognized that those prosecutions failed because of serious blunders by the Government prosecutors in conducting them ; but the failure had its discouraging effect . But Professor Seager does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half-dozen years which followed the enactment of the Anti-Trust Law , it began to look as if the big corporate combinations were falling to pieces of their own weight . The Cordage Trust had gone completely bankrupt in the panic of 1893 ; the electric combination had narrowly escaped . So far from extending their domination over trade , many of the largest Trusts were forced to curtail their financial activities . Investing circles looked askance at them ; a Trust found it all but impossible to raise new capital , and as a matter of fact , prices of their products were declining on the markets , because of hard times and overproduction . Even the general public ceased for the time to concern itself with the dangers of concentrated control of industry . The railway rate agreements were then chiefly resented by the consumer and the small business man , and it was not in the least illogical that the successful prosecutions of that period , under the Anti-Trust Law , should have been directed against the railway associations . Nor does Professor Seager , in our judgment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and which were bound , sooner or later , to spur even a reluctant Administration into action . The extraordinary financial boom and stock-promotion mania which then broke out in the United States were instantly utilized for the re-incorporation , in a highly concentrated form , of almost every branch of American industry . It was not merely recapitalization . It took the shape of combination of existing combinations , through the medium of the New'Jersey holding-company law . The $3,500,000,000 reported as the total capitalization of new in &ustrial; companies during 1899 alone , represented extremely rapid extension of the movement to get whole industries under the sway of the board of directors of a single corporation . Adopted by the railway financiers , this same remarkable movement led directly to the Government 's challenge , through the Northern Securities prosecution of 1902 . From a purely economic and historical point of view , it was inevitable that suits against the great combinations in production and manufacture should follow . We do not ask whether the dangerous possibilities which underlay that movement could or could not have been obstructed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . That is a problem which stands by itself . We have only endeavored to show that the long delay in the full application of the law was due to peculiar circumstances of the day , and that , wholly contrary to the assertion so often heard in discussions of the matter , the legislators of 1890 had in mind exactly the conditions under which the prosecutions of the past few years have been instituted . What they could hardly have foreseen was the amazing rapidity with which , when the financial depression of 1893 had spent its force , the predictions of the Congressional debate of 1890 were fulfilled . SECRET TREATIES . One of the beneficent after-effects of the recently terminated negotiations between France and Germany concerning Morocco will be , from present indications , an important restriction upon the power of Ministers to enter into treaty relations with foreign Governments without the consent or the knowledge of the elected representatives of the people . The newspapers have recounted the peculiar situation that has arisen in France as a result of the publication of the secret terms of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ October , 1904 . Because of this treaty , the French Government finds that no sooner has it settled its Moroccan difficulties with Germany than it has a Spanish-Moroccan problem on its hands . Spain 's behavior during the entire course of the German negotiations had been received with extreme irritation in France . The Government at Madrid seemed to be pursuing a policy of fishing in troubled waters . Its designs on the important Atlantic ports of Larache and Arzila have been regarded as an attempt to take advantage of French preoccupation with Germany . But when the Paris Matin gave the secret treaty of 1904 to the world , it was apparent that the Spanish Government was insisting only upon its rights . In that agreement M. Delcass6 had conceded a Spanish sphere of influence covering roughly about one-quarter of the Moroccan Empire , extending to within thirty miles of the capital , Fez , and embracing virtually the entire Mediterranean coast of Morocco and part of the Atlantic coast . Arzila and Larache fall well within the Spanish sphere . The details of so highly important a document @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. Delcasse and to the British Government , with which in 1904 France was just entering into the present entente . Neither the President of the Republic nor M. Delcasse 's colleagues in the Cabinet had complete knowledge of the terms of a treaty affecting the vital interests of the country . And as Ministries in France change rapidly , there is little opportunity for new Cabinet Ministers to put themselves in touch with the past history of their several departments . The French Constitution requires that the President of the Republic shall submit all treaties to Par- , hament as soon as the best interests and security of the state shall allow . Alter seven years this important document has been laid before the Chamber , but not till the enterprise of a Parisian newspaper had forced the hand of the Government . For seven years the French people have been unaware of the nature of an agreement to which the nation 's honor had been pledged , and whose after-effects have brought the country to the brink of war on more than one occasion . For it was M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's visit to Tangier and initiated a state of Franco-German tension of which the latest phase has just been passed through . As early as 1902 M. Delcasse had drafted a secret agreement with Spain , where a change of Ministry prevented its being signed . In- that treaty Spain was even more generously treated than in 1904 . She got Fez and a large area to the south . Evidently , during those early years M. Delcasse was not so much interested in Morocco per se ; he used it as so much ready change to buy the friendship of a Power in his ambitious scheme of a general anti-German alliance . Now that the tension of anxious fear which has held the three leading European Powers in its grip has been relax-ea , men have begun to ask everywhere whether it is right that nations should be brought to the threshold of war by Ministers playing the game quite after the fashion of the Family Compacts of eighteenth-century diplomacy . The first outbreak has come , rather unexpectedly , in Germany , and has taken the form ofa demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colonies shall be valid without ratification by the Reichstag . In so far as this is a gain for the elected representatives of the people , it is , of course , a gain for publicity . In the British House of Commons there is to be a formal debate on the conduct of the Foreign Office during the troubled days Of the Franco-German negotiations . Public opinion , spurred on by recent revelations , of more or less authority , regarding the narrow avoidance of war with Germany and England 's unpreparedness for the conflict , now feels that the arbitrament of peace and war and of the fate of the Empire should not be left in the hands of a Cabinet Minister or even a Cabinet full of Ministers . And now the question has come up with particular severity in France , where Parliament is apt to show no hesitation in exacting punishment for a Minister 's mistake . Secret treaties are an anomaly in modern times and amidst democratic institutions . Their usefulness under any circumstances may be questioned . It is a poor secret-service system which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alliances directed against itself by other Governments . Most often it is its own citizens that a Government succeeds in keeping ignorant of measures affecting their vital interests . A nation may wake up some day to find its honor pledged by a self-sufficient Minister to a measure which the conscience and the judgment of the nation may abhor . The power of declaring war is limited in all Constitutional states to the representatives of the people . Even the German Government can declare war on its own initiative only in case of invasion . But so long as a Minister or a group of Ministers , may , in pursuit of their own schemes , bring on a condition of affairs from which war is the only way out , this important reservation of power in the hands of the people becomes only a sham . SENTIMENTALISM AND CRIME . Mr. Beattie desired to thank the many friends for hind letters and expressions of interest , and the public for whatever sympathy was felt or expressed . This is the message given out by the minister who attended the Richmond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crime . And upon whom had these " kind letters , " these " expressions of interest , " this " sympathy , " been bestowed ? Not merely upon a murderer ; not upon a man who , in - a gust of passion , or perhaps deliberately but under extreme provocation , had taken the life of another human being ; not even upon a man who , having committed a crime , had grimly taken the chances of punishment . The murder had been carefully planned , in cold blood ; the victim was lured away to a lonely spot and deliberately killed ; and the slayer had promptly returned to the home of her mother , from which he had just taken her , with a circumstantial lie about her having been shot by a highwayman . And yet , to the very last , the newspapers which have been spreading the details of this case before the public have been telling of all sorts of " sympathy " and " interest " in this brutal and cowardly murderer , one of the forms it has taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a mere " boy " of twenty-five , and doubtless would have grown into a fine man after a while , if he had not happened to think it would be a nice thing to murder his wife before he got through sowing his wild oats . The mushy sentimentality of which this case has furnished a somewhat extreme illustration id a more serious element in our national life than most people realize . In the matter of homicide itself , we have no doubt that it constitutes one of the chief reasons of our country 's most unenviable preeminence . Just what the ratio is between the United States and England , for example , or between the United States and Canada , our statistics are too imperfect to determine ; but there is no question that murders among us are many times more numerous , in proportion to the population , than they are in either of those countries , or in any country with which ours could be compared . But it is not in this regard only  --  serious as it may be  --  that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criminals is productive of disastrous-consequences . We do n't bother , indeed ; about the poor devils who are being convicted and sentenced every day , without anything in their cases to give them notoriety ; but no sooner does a case figure conspicuously in the newspapers than it is turned over in every conceivable way on its sentimental side , and the monstrousness of the crime is lost sight of in the " human interest " of the criminal . The wrecker of banks is a stanch comrade and a " dead game sport " ; the wife murderer is not half bad when you get to know him ; the debaucher of city councils , and blackmailer of outcast women , and all-round corruptionist , is really a sterling fellow who did what he did simply as the agent of forces which he found already in the community . And in reinforcement of all these particular pleas for charity comes that universal plea in the shape of an argumentum ad hominem : " Can you be sure you would have done any better if you had been in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the psychology or the biography of the criminal , or into one 's own possibilities of good and evil in connection with his act , is both foolish and pernicious . We do not succeed in knowing very much about the man in the end , and it is not our business to try even if it were possible . There are millions of people in the country whose virtues and failings , attractive or repulsive qualities , are every bit as interesting , and every bit as much our concern , as those alleged to belong to a Beattie or a Patrick , a Ruef or a Morse . All that really concerns us in regard to these particular persons is the nature of the crime charged against them , and the question whether they were guilty of it or not . If a man did commit an atrocious murder , if he did steal or misappropriate money of which he was the custodian , if he did buy councilmen and levy blackmail , the only thought that we need expend upon the matter is the thought of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular punishment as a means of dealing with it . Unless we are really going to call into question the atrocity of deliberate murder , the culpability of betrayal of financial trust , or the abhorrent character of systematic bribery and corruption in politics , consideration of the alleged amiable side of the convicted criminal 's character , or of the potential weakness of our sown , works nothing but confusion of counsel . There may be something in it ; there is something in almost- anything . But it is precisely the kind of thing that robust common sense brushes aside as not only idle but mischievous . Yet the most serious consequence of this shallow sentimentality is not to be found in its immediate effects upon action in specific cases . More deplorable is its inevitable weakening of profound instincts that have their root in ages of human experience  --  of real and effective sentiments in regard to crime . More than in police and juries and judges , society finds its protection from crime in the instinctive association of it with feelings of abhorrence and with the stigma @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be not only punished but despised and shunned ; to be a murderer is not only to subject one 's self to the danger of death , but to The detested and cast out by all men . Children no sooner learn the meanings of the words than they acquire along with them those sentiments of abhorrence which , far more than any calculation of chances , make the very thought of the commission of these crimes impossible to the vast majority of mankind . To trifle with this inherited defence  --  not merely of society against evil-doers , but , what is even more important , of individuals against temptation to evil  --  is no light matter . And yet precisely this is what the whole tribe of sentimental dabblers in the side issues of crime are constantly doing . THE CRAFTSMAN 'S PRIDE . Is the world to be saved by the modern play or the modern-novel ? Mr. Bernard Shaw and Mr. H. G. Wells have taken , at different times , different sides on the question . Mr. Shaw 's claims for the drama , as voiced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were charmingly comprehensive , being limited virtually by the boundaries of the visible universe . If you do n't allow us to expose vice on the stage , men will be vicious in private . If we ca n't dramatize drink , or cruelty , or the poor-law , or the iniquitous franchise , drink and cruelty and a degrading poor-law and an iniquitous franchise will prosper in silence . This was based on the simple assumption that , outside of the theatre , no agency of publicity and no force for progress is to be found . Parliament , church , press , art , science , the magazines , books , all were relegated to the scrap-heap when Mr. Shaw chose the drama as his own vehicle of expression . And ? now comes Mr. Wells and says the novel is the thing . His claims arenot quite so cosmic as Mr. Shaw 's , and a good deal less bumptious . He does not in so many words exclude every other form of human endeavor from the game . But the craftsman 's pride in the all-sufficiency of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Declaration of Rights which he formulates in the Fortnightly Review . The novelist must be allowed to write about anything he pleases : - We are going to write about it all We are going to write about business and finance and politics and precedence and pretentiousness and decorum and indecorum , until a thousand pretences and ten thousand impostures shrivel in the cold , clear air of our elucidations We are going to write of wasted opportunities and latent beauties , until a thousand new ways of living open to men and women . We are going to appeal to the young and the hopeful and the curious , against the established , the dignified , and the defensive . Before we have done , we will have all life within the scope of the novel . Mr. Wells 's manifesto rings true . Mr. Wells is a man of talent and of courage . The plan he announces is not unreasonable . That is proved by the fact that the English novel , since its origin , has been doing just what Mr. Wells is so dreadfully determined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these manifestoes of the modern school there is not only a ludicrous tendency to overlook the existence of anything out of one 's own literary puddle , but an equally ludicrous tendency to assume that the world was made yesterday . The dramatist with a purpose or the novelist with a purpose seems to forget both his contemporaries and the past . Nothing outside of the contemporary novel exists , and nothing before the contemporary novel existed . Mr. Wells insists upon being allowed to write novels about Problems , as though the high tradition of English fiction during the nineteenth century were not a militant humanitarian and reforming tradition . After Dickens and Reade and Eliot and Disraeli 's political novels and Thomas Hardy what sense is there in speaking as if English fiction were just rising from the Miss Braddon and the Duchess stage ? Mr. Wells is welcome to write about business , but he might recall Mr. Osborne , Mr. Sedley , and Mr. Bulstrode . He may write about politics and recall Coningsby and Lothair ; write about precedence and recall Lady Kew ; write about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decorum and recall Jane Austen . If Mr. Wells can write about wasted opportunities and make us forget Hardy 's Jude , or write about latent beauties and make us forget " The WoodIanders , " he is at liberty to try . Nor is there any peculiarly modern problem that Mr. Wells can be rightfully sequestrated from . Woman-suffrage , child-labor , eugenics , divorce , the high cost of- living , cooperative laundries  --  no man of judgment will question the novelist 's right to attack any subject , at his own peril . And this peril . consists in the fact that after the novel is written , people may not read it . Their reading or not reading it will not in the last resort depend upon whether they believe cooperative laundries a propel subject for fiction , but upon whether they find the book interesting . Possibly , cooperative laundries can be humanized . Dickens humanized Mrs. Mantalini 's mangle . And when you have done the trick and put the vital spark in your book , your theoretical opponents will read it just the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corporal punishment refusing to read about Dr. Squeers , or the most resolute of freethinkers boycotting the story of Mr. Wardle 's Christmas dinner . The true artist will kidnap his readers and make them cast aside their dogmatism and their inherited appetites . That the true artist will write about anything is apapparent from the fact that he has always done so . But he has always thought of human nature first . Mr. Wells 's position is in its main contentions sound enough . What we protest against is the subtle spirit of arrogance which marks the modern attitude toward all persons who are not novelists , or , having been novelists , are now dead . Mr. Bernard Shaw has his own opinion as to the influence of the novel upon human progress . The Socialist cart-tail orator has his own . Miss Chrystabel Pankhurst has hers . The Archbishop of Canterbury has his . The editor of the London Times , to whom Mr. Wells , Mr. Shaw , Miss Pankhurst , and the Archbishop of Canterbury write letters , has his . There is no legal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law will be invoked against Mr. Wells 's attempt to monopolize all life for his novels . Let him go ahead and do so if he can  --  in the light of reason .                     