@@486378

WE fancy that if a physician were asked to diagnose the trouble at Washington , he would say that too much blood was going to the brain . The flushed face ; the irritability ; the restlessness ; the headaches ; the turning from one subject of attention to another  --  are tell-tale symptoms . Political students and party leaders predicted something like what we now see , if the process went on . The tasks would become too huge for mortal men . There would be confusion , delay , cross-purposes , inefficiency , and general congestion of the public business such as used to curse St. Petersburg when a man in Vladivostok could not build a house without getting a permit from the capital . Something of all this was visible in Washington even before the war . Federal employees spawned like mushrooms . New commissions , new bureaus , grew up over-night . And , inevitably , the war intensified the tendency . Not only were the military activities of the Government doubled and quadrupled . Every incidental difficulty that arose , every new form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Washington . But it was impossible that all things could be done equally well . In the terrible pressure of business some affairs were certain to be overlooked or neglected , others to be muddled . The Congressional investigations now going on have disclosed little beyond what in the nature of the case must have occurred . Little Fathers at Washington were certain to give some of their children cause for complaint . Two explanations are commonly advanced . One is that the President has not chosen the right persons to execute the Government policies . It is alleged that Mr. Wilson is not a good judge of men ; that he has not a sure businesssense ; that he chooses incompetents to do impossibles . Doubtless there is some truth in this . But a President of absolutely infallible judgment in picking subordinates could not succeed in making everything function smoothly in so gigantic a system as the work of administration has grown to be . There would have to be perfect intelligence and flawless efficiency from top to bottom of the organization , if there were to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ head could not make the million feet of the Federal service march in perfect goose-step . It is the overpowering nature of the burden laid upon Washington which is the main cause of congestion . Some say , and this is the second explanation , that the fault lay in Congress for turning over everything to the Administration . If Congress had kept its hand upon the whole business , lucid order and swift movement would have followed . Anybody who believes that will believe anything . The fact is that a part of the trouble arises from the action of Congress . One complaint is that army officials and executive officers are suffocated in red tape . But who wrapped them in it ? Congress , by a set of statutes directly tending to penalize personal initiative and confine everything within routine trammels . And as for having a free hand for Government business , Congress has more than it can do in attending to its own . If the Administration is staggering and dizzy under the load put upon it , Congress is also . It can inquire into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  but if it were to take over the work itself , it would only multiply worse failures . The knotty question of a remedy is discussed by Professor Willoughby , of the Institute for Government Research , in the December number of the Political Science Quarterly . He proposes , seriously , that we make of the Government a " holding corporation . " By this he means that separate branches of the Federal service should be set up as distinct corporations , each with its own directors , its own budget , its own programme , merely having to report to Congress for approval and further authority . Thus we should have one corporation for shipping , another for the Panama Canal , another for the Post Office , another for the Government printing , and so on . Professor Willoughby admits that it would be extremely difficult to induce Congress to part with its powers in this way , and , indeed , urges only that a glow and cautious beginning be made . His proposal is interesting at least in showing how pressing is the problem of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more coil centrated in Washington , as it is , and pressing with ever greater severity upon President and Cabinet . John Stuart Mill 's formula was to collect all the information and direction possible at the centre of Government , but to have the actual work diffused widely . We are certainly getting plain warnings that to ask the Administration to do at the same time all the thinking and all the work , is to invite a cerebral breakdown . Peace Negotiations and Peace Talk ONLY those who know the Bolshevik heart better than the Bolsheviki themselves will venture to say just what is the real motive and what are the real expectations underlying the Russian side of the peace conversations at Brest-Litovsk . Lenine and Trotzky may be determined upon a separate peace regardless of consequences . Or they may be counting only on the threat of separate peace to force a general peace . Or , still more moderately , they may be thinking , for the moment , of compelling that concrete discussion of war and peace aims for which revolutionary Russia has asked from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found it possible to take the first step without loss of prestige , morale , and war efficiency . Either side has insisted that the other side speak first . The Bolsheviki , on the other hand , may be conceived as saying : " Hang the empty formalities and precedences of the old diplomacy 1 We take no stock in prestige and dignity . We are perfectly willing to be the first to inquire of the enemy what he wants . " This , at least , is one possible interpretation of the latest aspect of the Russian kaleidoscope . The Bolshevik negotiations with Germany began as a move towards a general peace ; these words were formally used in Ensign Krylenko 's letter to von Hindenburg . Then , amidst the growing tension of party feeling within Russia and the silence of the Allies , the Bolshevik peace threatened to become a separate peace . Last Friday brought the report of a speech by Trotzky before the Peasants ' Congress cast in moderate tone : We do not promise not to conclude a separate peace . We are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the French Bourse and British Imperialism . History will condone a separate peace . We have given the Allies two months to join in our general peace efforts . The Bolshevik tone has ceased to be truculent and has become apologetic . In spite of Lenine 's and Tr otzky 's pleadings , the Peasants ' Congress is reported to have condemned the Bolshevik policies . Too much importance , it is true , can not be attached to the rapidly shifting majorities in congresses , councils , and Soviets , but the fact of a formidable opposition to Bolshevikism even among those who will not endanger the revolution by taking up arms against the Bolsheviki can not be explained away . Add to this the more active opposition of the Ukraine with its solid twenty-five millions of population , the Cossacks with their several millions , the Mohammedan Tartars of the Volga , and it will not do for the Bolsheviki to rail against the " bourgeois " Constitutional Democrats as the only enemy . But more than that , there is the world outside of Russia to consider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French Bourse and British Imperialism . Only , it is not the Paris Bourse , but the French Socialists , who have denounced a separate Russian peace as a betrayal of Socialism and of the democracies of the West . The Bolsheviki can not make Russians forget that in the price paid for Russian freedom is the blood of millions of Frenchmen without whose sacrifices Germany would have won long ago and Nicholas II would now be on his throne a friend of William II . It is much easier for the Bolsheviki to threaten peace than to obtain it . We thus have reason for believing that the Bolshevik purpose at Brest-Litovsk is less to frame a peace than to force a discussion of peace . In that Trotzky has been successful , and on both sides of the battle line . The readiness with which Germany has consented to talk peace , the rush to conference of the German Foreign Minister , the Austro-Hungarian Foreign Minister , and the representatives of Bulgaria and Turkey , are not to be explained altogether by confident expectation in the Central Powers that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter is like-wise owing to the fact that Berlin 's pundonor has been saved ; it is the enemy who has spoken first , who has asked for terms . Once the ice is broken , Germany , if reports from so many different sources have any value , is only too glad to talk peace , and general peace . Inquiries are made of the Russians as to the probable participation of the Allies . Peace " feelers " reach Washington . The Austrian lower house adopts the formula of no annexations and no indemnities . Chancellor Hertling calls into consultation representatives of the Reichstag parties , not excluding the Independent Socialists who have voted against the war budget . For the Allies , after the President 's message to Congress and Lloyd George 's speech of some days ago , comes the debate last Thursday in the House of Commons . There is as yet no complete statement of war aims , but an approach is made . Lloyd George declares that Britain went into the war without thought of wresting an inch of ground from the enemy for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference . The course of events , Lloyd George implies , has now determined that the Turkish dominion over Palestine and Mesopotamia shall be broken . This may be conquest , but at least it is a definite statement . But highly significant , too , was the note that ran all through the debate concerning a League of Nations . To Mr. Asquith this is the greatest aim of the war . To Lord Robert Cecil it must be one of the objects of the war . And though Lloyd George thinks that a League of Nations without a victory over the German military caste would be farce , he does speak of the League of Nations . The sounding of this note , which reechoes so poignantly in the heart of humanity , is an auspicious sign . Statesmen to-day in every camp are finding it more difficult to cry , " No peace talk , no peace talk ! " when there is peace talk . More German Diplomacy S HORTLY after the public disclosure of the first Lux- burg telegrams  --  including the infamous one advising that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Simplicissimus , had a double-edged cartoon . This pictured President Wilson rifling the desk of a departing German Ambassador , who had left incriminating documents behind . These the President was waving , while he exclaimed , " How strong Germany must be to be able to endure such diplomats ! " We notice , however , that some Germans are beginning to think that they can no longer endure their diplomats . A dispatch from The Hague last Friday stated that " leading Hamburg exporters , " with large interests in South American trade , had sent to the German Chancellor " a sharp protest against Count von Luxburg , the former charg ? at Buenos Aires . " It is plain that at least these Hamburg merchants are awake to the irreparable damage to German trade in South America that has been wrought by the machinations and the glaring imprudences of Count Luxburg . And this was before they could have known the full import of the new documents published by Secretary Lansing last Friday . These fresh revelations are of high importance , both immediate and ultimate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the brutal and unscrupulous methods of a German diplomat who was retained in the employ and the confidence of the German Foreign Office even after his character had been fully displayed . Count Luxburg seemed to take peculiar delight in expressing contempt for the people and the Government to which he was accredited . He described the Argentine Foreign Minister , with whom he was daily doing business , as " a theatrical person " possessed of " insane cunning . " On another occasion he telegraphed that " the Minister of Marine and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are probably bribed . And in Argentine domestic affairs and foreign relations Luxburg was forever meddling . He apparently regarded the Pi esident of Argentina as a puppet in his hands , and Chili and Brazil as merely pawns in the diplomatic game he was playing . Such a mixture of stupidity and arrogance as his can hardly have been paralleled unless by other German diplomats still under cover . Nor can the German Government any longer seek to clear itself by making a scapegoat of Luxburg . To disavow or discipline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Department . For among these new intercepted telegrams are several from the German Foreign Office . Both Zimmermann and von Kuhlmann were privy to Luxburg 's schemes . They had nothing to say against the plan for getting up a secret South American combination to oppose and thwart the United States . They did not protest against the proposals to ride rough-shod over " an infatuated and misguided Argentina , " and in spite of her to carry out , after the war , Germany 's " South American policy . " What that policy was is innocently disclosed by Count Luxburg in his telegram speaking of " the reorganization of South Brazil . " Here is the plot to set up a German Rio Grande do Sul unblushingly avowed . The German Foreign Office had no disclaimer or rebuke for that ; and von Kuhlmann 's dispatches about a secret and tricky settlement of the submarine controversy with Argentina read as badly as anything to which even his predecessor , Zimmermann , put his name . The whole disclosure is most damaging to the German Government . And the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full understanding with the Argentine Government  --  the publication being , in fact , simultaneous in Washington and Buenos Aires  --  raises a strong presumption that decided action will be taken by Argentina . Her Foreign Minister has already issued an indignant statement , in which he declares that the telegrams to and from Luxburg are " so surprising that no epithet will fit them . " It would appear highly probable that there will soon be an Argentine declaration of war upon Germany . The Argentine Congress has voted in favor of it , but thus far President Irigoyen has been able to keep from going to extremes . It would seem now that his patience has been exhausted . Germany 's blundering and criminal diplomacy will soon have added , unless all signs fail , another nation to the list of her enemies . It will also have furnished one more incentive to the German people to reform their own Government and do away forever with a vicious secret diplomacy . Shall the Revenue Law Be Revised ? H ARDLY had Congress assembled for the present session , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would not be necessary to recast or amend the War Revenue bill of October 3 . The suggestion was in some respects unusual . Congress had devoted nearly sixmonths to deliberating on that bill . Three months of the fiscal year to which some of its provisions would apply , and nine months of the calendar year which is the basis of calculation for other taxes , had already elapsed when the law was signed . The lapse of time is now still greater . Yet last week that very well-informed expert on the revenue problems , the Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee , admitted that revision might be necessary , and Senator Smoot , of the same Committee , declared that the whole law as it stands ought to be repealed , " and a rational , workable measure substituted for it . " Such an attitude might conceivably have indicated dissatisfaction with the underlying principles of the law . In this case , it manifestly means nothing of the kind . The general plan by which the burden has been laid on the taxpaying community has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be assessed most heavily . To many of the specific schedules no opposition whatever is expressed . What this new position of the Congressmen really reflects is the growing conviction among them , and in the business community as a whole , that some important provisions of the measure are palpably unjust , some of them so confused and complicated in their language as to make it impossible to discover what they actually mean , and some of them so ill-considered and inadequately restricted as to threaten actual financial embarrassment to many taxable concerns and to throw into confusion the financial markets on which the Government must rely to float its war loans , while preserving private credit . How all this happened is no mystery to people who followed the Congressional debate . It is true that Congress discussed the Revenue bill for six months . But it is also true that in their present form the sections to which we are referring  --  notably the Excess Profits Tax section  --  were drastically amended and redrawn in a single fortnight by what Professor Taussig , of the Tariff Commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " a group of eight men , already wearied by the exigencies of a trying session and now compelled to work under high pressure . " This conference committee 's work had two results  --  an attempt to compromise between two principles of taxation which were in fact mutually antagonistic , and the introduction of some new provisions which had not previously been considered by Congress . This done , the conference bill was enacted after a day or two of purely perfunctory debate . The Senate Committee 's profits tax was based on profits arising from the war ; the House provisions for the same taxation were based on profits exceeding a given percentage on all invested capital . In the effort to retain both principles , the weary conference committee drew up a section which , for obscurity of purpose , clumsiness of definition , and ambiguity of language , has had few parallels in our fiscal legislation . The result has been that , in the two ensuing months , the lawyers have been at their wits ' end to inform the taxable corporations what they will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while the doubt remained , to move very far with plans . The Treasury has named a committee of economic experts to help it in interpreting the law , and a special Treasury bureau has been established to answer , as best it may , the multitude of confusing inquiries coming from the bewildered business men . Into this new and confusing section of their bill the conference committee injected a sweeping proviso for an 8 per cent . tax on all individual earnings exceeding $6,000 , derived not only from trade profits but from all kinds of professional pursuits . In essence clearly an additional income tax , this is classified as " excess profits " ; the consequence necessarily being that the tax on incomes earned by an individual 's own labor is increased by that amount , while incomes earned from invested capital are not touched by it . No farther departure from the accepted principles of sound taxation could be made , and the action was hardly helped , in the public view , by the calm stipulation of the new provision that the tax should not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We have been from the first convinced that this highly objectionable provision should be eliminated at once , and we are still of that opinion , despite the intimations to the contrary by the Senate leaders . As for the excess-profits section as a whole , even the brief experience since the bill was passed has proved the urgent necessity of revising it , clarifying it , and removing the dangers which , in its present shape , it unquestionably threatens to the business situation . We are not inclined to approve the plan , ascribed to Senator Smoot , that the whole law as it stands should be repealed , and a new one substituted . If the law had been passed in June and Congress had been reconvened in September , or if a clear and well-thought-out substitute plan had even now been submitted by the Administration , the case might be different . But the time presses , and the burden of work before Congress in other fields than finance is very heavy . But we absolutely agree with the Senator that " nothing more grotesque has ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War Revenue law , " which has created a situation in which " not one corporation in the country is exactly sure how the tax is to be applied " and in which " the Treasury is unable to give any interpretation that helps them . " This is not a matter to be paltered with . It is not a case of insistence by the very rich that they be relieved from a prospective burden . It is a situation in which the plans , prosperity , and in many cases possibly the solvency , of scores of those private businesses , great and small , whose earnings must be relied on to float the war loans and keep the country on an even economic keel , are jeopardized by an ill-conceived statute which it is not too late to reform and reconstruct . In our judgment , it is imperative that Congress should lose no time in getting down to the task . The Proper Attitude Towards Socialism the many inconsistencies in which the bulk of our ? press is wallowing nothing is more extraordinary than its treatment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eagerly longing for the news of the triumph of the Berman Socialists over the Kaiser , when they rightly see in the Liebknechts and Haases and Scheidemanns the one hope of a safe and sane Germany , free from the curse of its autocracy and its militarism , our Socialists at home are regarded with suspicion , charged with the Kaiserism they despise , and all too frequently lumped with I. W. W. 's and Anarchists . Every time the Government moves against the Socialists the press applauds . In the almost unparalleled intolerance of other people 's opinions if they differ from the prevailing one , Socialists are treated as if enemies of society , a direful brood hatching something so new and so dreadful no one can quite define it . " Society " shudders , our politicians rage , and our leaders of industry declare that like the I. W. W. the Socialists ought all to be hanged . Now in a benighted official like the Postmaster-General this sort of attitude is to be expected . He has the breadth of view of a small Texas town , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be suppressed , " not because they are Socialistic , but because all Socialists are against the war and therefore seditious . " His every utterance shows the provinciality of his point of view . It is perfectly evident that he is totally unaware of what has gone on in Europe ; that there were over four millions of Socialist voters in Germany before the war ; that Denmark is to-day a more completely " socialized " state than Karl Marx dreamed of , and that France , Italy , and Sweden as well as Russia have practically Socialistic Governments or Socialists in control of administration . Like our own too often ill-informed press , Mr. Burleson does not realize that Socialism has not anything in common with anarchy , that it is a widely supported economic theory of government , which , however faulty its economics , makes a tremendously powerful appeal because of its humanitarianism , its fellowship , its devotion to the cause of the workers , and its democratic trend . No cause can be wholly bad which enrolls millions of men under its banners of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is certainly not to be treated in 1917 as something entirely destructive and vicious , to be held down by force or by Government control , as Mr. Burleson essays to do  --  in utter ignorance that a bigger man than the Postmaster-General , namely , one Otto von Bismarck , tried this policy for some years , going to very great lengths to stamp out all Social-Democrats , only to find out that every time he struck one down a hundred arose in his place . The extraordinarily bitter and narrow attitude of most of our leading newspapers , and of men as politically far behind the times as Mayor Mitchel and Theodore Roosevelt , is the more amazing because in the seven months we have been at war , we have taken the speediest and most far-reaching lurch into State Socialism recorded of any great country . It must be plain to every thinking American by this time that one of the prices we shall pay for our idealistic battling for democracy in Germany is a great swing towards radicalism . We must and shall have more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It must be made impossible to plunge this country into war again in the precise way in which it was in April , 1917 . But the reaction is likely to go much further than that . Shall we not see a retention of the price-fixing by the Government ? Shall we not face permanent Governmental control of the necessaries of life as well as of mines , railways , the building and managing of steamships , warehouses , elevators , etc. ? The whole trend is in that direction ; the Non-Partisan League of the Dakotas is a sign of it as well as the great increase in the Socialist vote . In view of this , how is it possible for newspapers which pretend to leadership to denounce those as traitors who advocate putting the Government in control of all business ? When they talk thus , they indict their own President and their own Congress . They can not cry out for a Government administrator of railways in war time and brand as seditious those who would have him in peace time . They can not insist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Government at Washington to beat the Kaiser and abuse those who think it a good thing when the Kaiser is beaten . They can not say , as Mr. Roosevelt did , that a vote for Hillquit is a vote for treason when Mr. Hillquit merely wants to carry to the nth degree the policies which Washington now finds essential to the successful carrying on of the war . They will ere long , these militant journalists and politicians , have to treat with respect the views of those opponents of Socialism who sincerely believe that the price the United States will have to pay in the socializing of much of its political life is too great a sacrifice even for the privilege of breaking lances in behalf of the freedom of Germany from autocracy and militarism . The correctness of this point of view will still be challenged , but that it is a debatable position will be recognized before another year or two has elapsed . As for the Nation , it sees nothing in the present situation to cause it to change its attitude towards Socialism . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It would again quote the words of its lamented editor , the late Hammond Lamont , who thus laid down in 1908 what ought to be the correct attitude of all opponents , whether in politics or journalism , towards the Marxians : " And as for other questions  --  we can not believe that error will permanently prevail over truth . We are confident that individualism , in its main features , is the policy which has formed and which must preserve our institutions . But if we conservatives are mistaken , we can not but welcome a discussion which shall open our eyes and set us right . Our attitude towards this topic , as towards any other which touches the vitals of our nation , must be that of readiness to defend our faith in open forum , to meet and conquer reason with reason . " But the Nation sees plainly that the time may be at hand when the Socialistic party may in the several States and the country as a whole be the radical party to which will flock in protest many hundreds of thousands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as many thousands of New Yorkers voted for Hillquit and Hylan as a protest against the war and the militarism of Mitchel , not because they believed in Tammany misrule or in the State as a controller of every function of life . It is too early to say , as Roger Sullivan has said in Chicago , that the time is already at hand to amalgamate the Republican and Democratic parties in the nation in a new line-up of conservatives against radicals . But it is quite possible to foresee a situation like that which would arise in New York if Governor Whitman and William Randolph Hearst should be candidates for the Governorship of the State next autumn . Many patriotic citizens who abominate the Kaiser and all his works , despise yellow journalism , and are outraged by the whole machine-type of wasteful and militaristic government which Governor Whitman typifies , would then feel themselves compelled to vote for a Socialist or some other third ticket As a patriotic duty and to preserve their self-respect , precisely as hundreds of thousands a Democrats who were opposed to most Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a course as this is possible , it is time for press and public men to take a different attitude towards Socialism . That party is here to stay for long years to come and may serve an admirable turn as a club to compel the conservative parties to abjure reaction , to discard hypocritical democracy , and to devote themselves to a sane and sound democratic liberalism.                     