@@493209

Vfie Neal REPUBLIC A Journal of Opinion VOLUME XXI NEW YORK , WEDNESDAY , DECEMBER 24 , 1919 NUMBER 264 The Week LIAT the conference of the Premiers ac- be complished in London we have not yet n told . There are denials , in the British press , 4P the conference met to establish a new military ally rejoicings , in the French press , that the atiance has already been achieved . The two most eZstantial decisions arrived at seem to have been pro ebeirneci with the Adriatic and with Russia . One Ivithiern the Premiers are reported to have dealt b , e ? e a basis of the Treaty of London ; the other Y ab andoning once for all their mad policy of Int to but and by considering positive measures oat an e , end to that civil warfare which they them-yes have so largely fomented. 4144 CoAL STRIKE is settled as the govern-'b Wanted it settled , " says the Attoney-General t1,111. ? re than one party in the controversy does that it is settled at all . The miners obviously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is to be followed by a further increase . The operators of Central Pennsylvania declare it " merely a postponement of the showdown , which in our opinion is bound to come . " Mr. Garfield is sure that " if the President were well " he would never support a program so hostile to public interest . And a considerable portion of the public itself has come to believe there will be no peace in the bituminous coal industry until some basic reorganization keeps the mines open more than 35.5 hours weekly of a possible 51.2 . But at any rate we have a respite . The government can breathe again . In August it asked the railway employees to wait for a cost of living that did n't fall ; in December it asks the miners to wait for wages that may not rise . The government lives by asking for time out . Sufficient unto the day is the statesmanship thereof . WHERE the coal strike ended first was in North Dakota . In that state the Governor took over the mines , the companies appealed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Governor . What is significant is the fact that as soon as the mines were taken over by the state the miners went back to work without any increase of wages or decrease in hours . They were willing to work for the state . They expected it to play fair with them . They were not willing to work at inadequate wages for the private profit of private owners in an industry that is really public . This is an attitude apparent in the ranks of the railway workers as well as the miners ; and it is based on a conviction in which we may not be able to remain indefinitely uninterested . IT IS difficult to believe that the President will return the railroads to private ownership on January 1st . Debate on the Cummins bill has shown the regulars to be indifferent in their support and the more progressive members of the Senate vigorous in their opposition . Even should the bill be forced through before Christmas it will be impossible to get an agreement in conference , with the representatives of the House , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accordingly feel itself obliged to enact interim legislation guaranteeing the net income of the roads , despite the fact that the federal government would have no further control over their expenditures , their traffic policy or their treatment of labor . The risks in such a program are obvious enough , even if they hold no terror for members of Congress . SENATOR HITCHCOCK refuses to be stampeded by the White House statement that Mr. Wilson will make no move toward a " compromise or concession of any kind . " He declares that " when the President alludes to concessions and compromises he surely means , I am sure , that he has none in mind . He does not mean that he will not accept them . " Even with this interpretation it is not easy to see an early settlement of differences and a ratification of the Treaty . The President has put the Democrats in a position where , caught more than half-way on the road to compromise , they may fear that going further will look like treachery to their leader . H OW FAR the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his recent address before the Southern Society , in New York City . " Reservations are inevitable , " he said ; and they should make " clear beyond peradventure " that the League of Nations has no control of any sort over the Monroe Doctrine or the various " domestic affairs " of the United States . Senator Hitchcock , in other words , was ready to accept all the selfishly national reservations of the Senate . He was not only ready to accept them , but declared they were part of " the , real meaning of the Covenant of the League of Nations , and there is no objection to making it clear . " What divides Mr. Hitchcock from his party opponents seems principally to be Shantung and Article X. AMERICAN owners of oil rights in Mexico declare that Carranza has stopped the drilling of ten new wells ; the Shipping Board fears a shortage of fuel-oil for American vessels ; and many columns of newspaper space are devoted to the crisis . But the New York World points out that three weeks ago the Director @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in reply to a query , that the estimated daily potential capacity of the wells in Mexico was 1,592,741 barrels and // the actual daily capacity 174,872 . " What has become of the difference between a potential capacity of 1,592,741 barrels and an actual capacity of 174,872 barrels ? " asks the World . " And what renders these ten new wells , for which the Carranza government has refused drilling permits , so itnmediately necessary to prevent a ' fuel-oil famine ? Is it not a fact that the oil interests is Mexico have neither the pipe lines nor the tankage to take care of the capacity flow from the wells that they have already drilled ? Is it not a further fact that this flurry over the action of the Carranza government is merely a by-product of the organized propa ganda of the oil interests and the interventionists ? " THE FOUR short planks in the platform adopted by the convention of the Committee of 4$ in St. Louis call for public ownership of public utilities , increased income and inheritance taxes , no land or patents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of collective bargaining and abolition of the injunction in labor cases . No definite de ' cision was made in St. Louis about the organization of a new party . The executive committee was ern " powered to confer with representatives of other , organizations having a platform of the sage general , character ? with instructions to report back to a second convention to be held in the spring ' THE FIVE members of the American Leginr who tried to prevent the St. Louis convention-were not acting officially for the organization , but on their own responsibility . Officially the LegiO announces that it is aware of no effort at interi ference . The five members , however , had g ? ? c , , precedent for their action . The Legion is bush with raids and riots in various parts of the country ; It is an interesting fact that about the time of fh i St. Louis incident , organizers of three other societies ? the World War Veterans , the Soldiel Sailors and Marines Association , and the RanksOr File Veterans ? were effecting a national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to represent five hundred thousand veterans They specifically attack the " so-called Arrieric Legion " for its tampering with the civil libert'es , guaranteed by the Constitution . IN NEW YORK CITY the Board of Edueat ; ' 0/1 has a new plan for combating Bolshevism . Unless . sober second thought matures , the Board is to withhold diplomas from all public school ti g ? co dren who do not sign a pledge agreeing that Who/ they grow up they will " respect " the President Ile the United States ( would this have clipped ambiguities in the policy of organized labor and in the public recognition of the necessity of supplementing direct with organized political action . But instead of an open conference , a secret conclave . Instead of diversified representation and free discussion , a predigested " Bill of Rights , " from official headquarters . Instead of a frank recognition and a settlement of the very real intrinsic differences of opinion , a careful attempt to conceal them under the smooth exterior of a statement which evades all the future difficulties without being calculated to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. F. of L. machine has proved too circumspect and too powerful for the welfare of its own membership . It operates with all the efficiency of a party machine and like a party machine thinks chiefly in terms of its own domination and of internal " harmony " obtained by means of the suppression of differences and the sacrifice of conviction . The ambiguity of the " Bill of Rights " consists in its crass evasion of any announcement upon the most important and most debatable immediate question of labor policy . What the workers themselves most need to know about their own future behavior and what the public needs most to know about labor is whether or not it proposes in the future to supplement direct with political action . This knowledge the Labor Conference withholds from its own constituency and from the other groups in the community . Inasmuch as organized labor has renounced political organization in the past and now refuses to announce any change of future policy , it is presumably still opposed to participation in a labor party , but that is not the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nineteen international unions , whose representatives recently assembled at Washington also sent representatives to the recent convention of the Labor Party in Chicago . Where do they really stand ? Furthermore , the proclamation issued by the Washington Conference explicitly states that " the issues herein enumerated require action of our people in both the economic and political field . " It asks for the assistance of other groups in " combating the forces of industrial and political autocracy . " If this means a labor party supported by the American Federation of Labor , why not say so ? If it does not mean a labor party , what in the world does it mean ? Other sections in the " Bill of Rights " render the ambiguity more serious . A large part of the declaration is occupied with a sturdy and eloquent defense of the right to strike . Its authors were fully justified in defending the right to strike at 