@@487222

THERE is a tendency outside France to look on what are called the laboring classes as standing apart from the rest- of the nation . The Union Sam* , all but unbroken in ' everything that concerns fighting and working for victory during more than four years of war , has not been enough to counteract such a tendency . We must appeal , then , to facts . Of laborers living by day 's wages , something like 4,000,000 voters may be counted at Most . The farm laborers have been little touched by class agitation . The Socialist members of Parliament , who alone in politics make profession of speaking in the- name oflabor , have received 1,200 , - 000 votes . The remaining labor votes have either been cast for defeated candidates or have gone to candidates not flying the separatist labor flag . Even the Socialist members of Parliament have had ' the support of a large number of voters who , to say the least , have nothing to do with , manual labor . Ringuier , the patriotic Socialist Deputy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conservatives who had no other way of defeating a more obnoxious radical . Ex-Prime Minister Briand , although long since excommunicated by the Socialist party , has continued sitting in Parliament thanks to his exclusively labor constituency of Saint-Etienne . More than this , there are not 50,000 ? Socialist voters who pay dues or take any part in the party organization . Even these are represented by a complicated system of " mandates " which , for example , has lately puzzled foreigners by enabling the Federation of the Seine to oust the former more or less ministerial majority ' and instal the quondam revolutionary minority in its place in ' the Socialist Congress . Thus , while the Socialist political party has nearly one-sixth of the ? members of the French parliament , if has not as a party any verifiable warrant to speak in the name of French labor . The individual members , of course , have the right to speak in the name of , the voters who elected them . Yet it must be remembered that the present parliament was elected before the war ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has flowed under the bridges of the Seine . Who , then , represents the French laboring classes at present ? The C. G. T. ( Confederation Generale du Travail ) or General Confederation of Labor Syndicats ( Syndicalists ) has held a prominent place in the public eye ever since its first Congress at Bourges in 1904 . It was then made up of labor unions with a membership of 400,000 . The number is now less than 300,000 , but " free " or unattached labor unions numbered 233,000 members at their recent congress and there are others in addition . The regular syndicalists are supposed to be revolutionary with regard to the present constitution of society , and their extreme wing comprises former anarchist groups . Free Syndicalists ' for the most part belong to what are called Christian unions . There are also important labor unions of special - industries like railway workers , printers , and bookbinders , whose influence is great in all that concerns their own work . All syndicalist , or labor unions are supposed to be quite independent of politics or political parties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those of the Christian labor unions , must commonly vote for Socialist ' candidates ; and the proportion of labor unionists who do not vote at all is less than of Other classes of French citizens . No majority in the French Chamber of Deputies has ever been elected by more than 47 per cent , of the votes actually cast and , of - course , by a far lower percentage of possible voters on the lists . As in other countries , it is chiefly the careless middle classes that exercise the privilege of not voting at the elections . In sum so far as a political party or organized labor represents the French laboring classes , the condition of things is as follows : The Socialist party receives one-quarter of the possible labor vote , but not one labor voted in a hundred takes an active part in the party organization . The Syndicalist and other labor unions number in their official organization not more than one in five of the wage-earning laborers of the French people . All this does not exclude the influence which organized agitation will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Syndicalists for whatever they may really represent among the French labor classes , we have a few test cases enabling us to form a judgment not dependent on personal impression or opinion . They are : the labor response to mobilization and to the successive exigencies of war at the fighting front ; labor cooperation in war work at the rear ; the Zimmerwald Kienthal pacifist agitation ; the feeling toward Kerensky and the Bolsheviks ; the Malvy case ( Caillaux and Humbert touching in no way labor either organized or fluid ) ; and the recent attitude toward Prime Minister Clemenceau , President Wilson , the armistice , and peace negotiations . ' No one can any lon-ger imagine that there was any difference in the attitude of the French laboring classes , no matter how defined , and that of ether classes of the French peop e in the first mobilization for war . The impenitent Communist who wrote the War Song of the French Workman gave the refrain or all -- Puisqu'il le Taut --  " Since it must be . " It is true that the Socialist party , through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his assassination on the eve of hostilities , insisted on trusting German Socialists to prevent war , and that the Government accordingly left priceless parts of the frontier line defenceless , with results that were felt to the war 's end . But even the Socialists , faced by the accomplished fact , joined in the Union Sacree and maintained that patriotic attitude in their politics until M. Clemenceau caught up the reins of power . On November 6 , the third War Council ( military tribunal ) heard the appeal of ' workman-adjuster Fontenay , sentenced to five years in prison for counselling remobilized workmen in the war shop- where he was foreman not to rejoin their regiments . The official head of the regular Syndicalist - Federations ( C. G. ? T. ) , Jouhaux , who has always expressed his personal patriotism , and even Merrheim , the delegate to Zimmerwald and head of the suppoSedly revolutionary Federation of Metal workers , came forward as witnesses to protest energetically : " Labor organizations have had nothto do with any movement among a few misled workmen who have refused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labor repudiated insinuations made in the course of the Malvy trial against the Patriotism of the French labor classes . It is perhaps true that the Syndicalist memory retains old grudges against Prime Minister ' Clemenceau from his former term of power ; and it was probably personal reasons that led sixty out of ninety Socialist members of Parliament ' to keep their seats when the other hundreds of the representatives of the nation rise and acclaim him in the Chamber . All shades of political opinion claim President Wilson for themselves , from the Conservative Right to the Extreme Left . It is certainly not French labor that prompts Marcel Cachin , the new editor of the Socialist party organ l'Hionanit ? to make the American President the advocate - of a " super-State . " STODDARD ' DEWEY II . The British Imperial Problem , - London , October 1 T HE last M.P . for St. George 's , Hanover Square , one of the most aristocratic of West End constituencies , was Sir George Reid , formerly Prime Minister of New South Wales and afterwards of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be filled by the election of Sir Newton Moore , an ex-Premier of Western Australia . Two or three other Australian ex-Premiers are to be candidates for seats in the British House of Commons at the general election . ' It looks as though it will soon become a common practice for a distinguished political career in the Dominions to be rounded off by a term or two as a private member of Parliament at Westminster . It is- only of recent years that colonial statesmen have been bitten by the ambition to try their luck in British . politics . A few apparent exceptions in earlier times were not really examples to the contrary . H. C. E. Childers , who held leading posts in some of Gladstone 's administrations , had been a member of the Government of Victoria , but that was in the primitive period of the colony 's existence , and he was only thirty years of age when he returned home . A , still better known man , Robert Lowe , who , like Childers , was an Englishman by birth and education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? in the New South Wales Parliament . He , again , was only forty-one when he entered the British House of Commons . Neither Childers nor Lowe could be regarded as a typical colonial politician . Of a different class was Edward Blake , who , after being Premier of Ontario and holding high office in the Dominion Government , became M. P. for an Irish constituency in 1892 in his sixtieth year . The Home Rule party hoped for great things from his advent , but , though he sat in the House of Commons for fifteen years , he Made no impression upon it . He never really gained the ear of the House . The experiment can not be said to have been successful in later instances . The ex-Premiers of colonial Governments who have migrated to England have arrived , as a rule , too late in life to acquire the " House of Commons style " or a familiarity with the intricacies of British politics . Their acquaintance with colonial problems has been of little value as an asset , for such matters come- little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with in the Dominions themselves , and every year of residence in England has put the ex-Ministers more out of touch with colonial feeling . In short , they have been " back numbers " as to colonial , affairs ? and novices as to British . Besides these , the British upper house has lately included several colonial peers , but they have been business men rather than politicians , and have seldom attempted to take part in its debates . The war has emphasized the necessity of some better and more systematic arrangement for giving the Dominions a share in imperial government . It is clear that in future the over-seas section of the British Empire will demand a voice in the making of either war or peace , and in the control of other matters of policy in which the destiny of all of them is alike involved . But the problem of readjustment of relations will be extremely difficult . Any project of federation , which at first sight would seem the obvious solution , is beset , as soon as one descends to details , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been able to overcome . What has to be found is some method of reconciling the autonomy of the individual colonies with united action inn imperial affairs . A step in the desired ' direction has been taken by the summoning , last year and this , of an Imperial War Conference and an Imperial War Cabinet . The Imperial Conference is convoked by the Colonial Office , and meets for a few weeks in London under the chairmanship of the Secretary for the Colonies . It consists of representatives of the self-governing Dominions and of India , is purely consultative , and discusses for the most part war problems of the second class together with problems relating to the post-war period . This year it has made recommendations on such questions as demobilization , the regulation of the emigration of ex-soldiers , uniformity of restrictions on naturalization , the substitution of one Imperial Court of Appeal for the present dual system , the establishment of an imperial board to inquire and report on shipping communications , the measures necessary to secure the command of certain essential raw materials , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ None of these matters , however , could be decided by the Conference itself . The proposals made will have first to obtain the concurrence of the various colonial Legislatures affected . The Imperial War Cabinet is a much more important body , as it possesses executive functions . It is presided over by the Prime Minister of the United Kingdoin , and practically consists of the War ' Cabinet proper with the temporary addition of the Prime Ministers of the Dominions and representatives of India . Logically , it is an anomaly . According to strict constitutional practice in all parts of the British Empire , there can be no Cabinet anywhere unless there is also a Parliament to which it is directly responsible . On this analogy , the summoning of an Imperial Cabinet must be accompanied by the establishment of an Imperial Parliament , to which it would be responsible , standing or falling as it retained or lost the confidence of that Parliament . On another side , also , the present arrangement is logically defective . Whether in war or in peace , an executive body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rate be capable of assembling at short notice  --  all the year round . Both last year and this , the Imperial War Cabinet has met for a few weeks only , and during the rest of the time the imperial executive functions have - been discharged by the War Cabinet of the United Kingdom . One Dominion representative only , General Smuts , has been in permanent attendance , and he has prolonged his stay in England because he possesses personal qualifications , military even more than political , which make his advice particularly valuable to Mr. Lloyd George and his British colleagues . To remedy , as far as possible , the defect above mentioned , it has now been decided that the Dominion Premiers shall continue to visit England for what are called the " plenary sessions " of the Irriperial War Cabinet , but that each such Premier shall have the right to , nominate a member of his own Cabinet , either as a resident or visitor in London , to represent him inthat body during the rest of the year . Further , the Prime Ministers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cabinet , are henceforth to have the right to communicate direct , on questions of Cabinet importance , with the Prime Ministers of the United Kingdom , and vice versa . Hitherto the procedure has been for the Premier of Canada , let us say , to communicate his message to the Governor-General , who in turn passes it on to the Colonial Secretary for the Prime Minister . It has hardly , perhaps , been realized in England what a revolutionary change this is , but in Canada , as the cablegrams tell us , it has been recognized as a step in the direction of eliminating the Governor-General altogether from the constitutional system of colonial government . He . will still , of course , be the representative of the King in ceremonial matters , but will cease to be the agent in Canada of the British Government . In Australia this change must inevitably bring powerful reinforcement to the growing demand for the abolition both of the Governor-Generalship of the Commonwealth ' and of the Governorships of the individual provinces  --  the only post in Australia that are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the present Imperial Cabinet system , even as thus revised , ' can only be a makeshift . It has been devised and put into practice as the best working plan , available at the moment , for giving the overseas parts of the British Empire some ' control over war policies . For the emergency , it seems likely to answer fairly well , but neither in England nor in the Dominions will it be accepted as a permanent solution ' of the , problem of imperial relations .. The lack , ' already mentioned , of an Imperial Parliament to which this Imperial Cabinet is directly responsible , is a fatal flaw in it when considered as a settled scheme . The people of the United Kingdom are not likely to assent in perpetuity to a system which gives a powerful voice in the British Cabinet to men who have no responsibility to the British electorate . It is true that there is an understanding that the representatives of the Dominions are not to take part in decisions concerned with the domestic interest of the British Isles , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be possible to detach , on such a subject as the tariff , the imperial interests which the enlarged Cabinet may properly consider from the various domestic interests . And on the colonial side it is being felt that the continuance ' of this plan in peace time would involve the Dominion representatives in responsibilities and obligations which should be undertaken , if at all , only on the mature consideration of their own Parliaments . There is a distinguished place waiting in the history of the British Empire for the statesman who is able to devise some satisfactory permanent Scheme to supersede the present compromise . HERBERT W. HORWILL                     