@@493167

for fixing women 's wages through minimum wage commissions . The League points out that only fourteen states and territories have as yet taken any action looking toward this obvious and neces ? sary reform . That the free play of competition does not uniformly give to women workers pay on which they can live decently , even when the indus ? tries can well afford it , is now so generally under ? stood that argument on the point is superfluous . It is also superfluous to argue about the desirability of removing the exploitation of women workers from our overburdened budget of causes of unrest . What we now need is action , and the National Consumers ' League has a record for persistent and jddicious promotion of good causes that justifies the hope that it will make rapid progress toward the establishment by law of a decent minimum , for women workers . What War With Mexico Would Cost FOR the present , it appears , we shall continue at peace with Mexico . There is to be no American War of Jenkins 's Bail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War of jenkins 's Ear . But it would be fatuous to assume that the danger of war with Mexico has been removed beyond the horizon . There are too many politicians and editors reiterating : " Since war must come , the sooner the better . " A refrain of that character has often enough gained the credit of prophecy . Something like it was popular in Europe before 191.4 . It is true , there are few men living in Europe today who would assert now , that the war was so desirable that those were right who wasted no time in bringing it on . The fact remains that anticipation of war makes for war , especially where there can be no reason for expecting such consequences as fell upon Europe . We may war upon Mexico without the risk of national dis ? memberment and economic decay and social despair . But we can not make war upon Mexico without costs ; and it is time to calculate the costs while the inevitableness of war is still in the condition of a resolution in the minds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be costs , and heavy ones , in spite of all that the propagandists for a short war and a merry one may imagine . A Mexican war , on such grounds as we can plead , must affect profoundly our moral position before the world ; at home it must affect the relation between economic groups , at present not too harmonious . It must affect our foreign commercial development and our national finances . These effects are worth examining in detail . How shall we stand before the world if we follow the counsel of those who are deliberately seeking to pick a quarrel with Mexico ? We shall convince nobody of the sincerity of the charge that Mexico is a menace to our national safety . The alle ? gation that Mexico has secretly conspired with our potential enemies , European or Asiatic , to invade our Southwest will be placed in the same category with Germany 's allegation that Belgium was in a conspiracy with France and England to attack Germany . Indeed , the German allegation will always command greater credit . Nor will anyone not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the allegation that Mexico is plotting to overthrow our institutions by fostering the propv ganda of the I. W. W. and the Bolsheviki . Mexico does in fact grant greater freedom to radical pub ' lications than we do , and those publications come across the border when we permit them the use of our mails . If we do n't like them , why do we not exclude them ? Americans do suffer regrettably frequent in juries in person and property at the hands of lawless elements in . Mexico . So also do they at home , any unbiassed foreign critic would point out . With our record for lynchings we are not in a good moral position to shriek about lawlessness in Mexico . In parts of Mexico there is evidentlY hostility to aliens , especially Americans . But it may justly be remarked , anti-alien sentiment is nothing so unknown within our own borders that we should not be able to overlook it in other countries . American property interests have , Per ' haps , been impaired by certain provisions in the new constitution . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ California t ? enact anti-oriental land laws . And as against the injuries Mexico and her people have inflicted upon Americans , the world at large will set the fact that there has not been a single disorder in Me'dic ' in the last nine years in which Americans have not given support to the anti-governmental sie ' Americans helped Madero against Diaz , Fluerr against Madero , Carranza against Huerta , and Zapata against Carranza . Even after the itb Columbus raid , Americans were dickering the unspeakable Villa and supported him , Amer ' ' ' cans who are now crying out for vengeance upon 0 Mexico for injury to Americans . If any foreigo element were so perniciously active in our oW politics , could even the innocent members of that element hope to escape unpopularity and occasional injury ? December 17 , 1919 THE NEW The simple fact is , our case for war against Mexico is so feeble and so badly compromised that outside of our own jingo circles nobody can be made to believe that we are animated by any other motive than desire for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applauded by British , French , Italian and Japanese imperialists , who would be pleased to see our hands among the dirtiest . The democratic Peoples , the non-aggressive countries , will look upon us as successful practitioners of German morals . And they will look back upon our lofty professions in the great war and smile . Well , what of it ? " A decent respect to the opinions of mankind " was indispensable to us in 1776 , but we have since waxed great and power ? ful . The opinions of mankind are nevertheless something an American will encounter wherever he goes , whether in pursuit of business or to make himself more at home in the world and take part ni its work . The American trader in Argentina and the American missionary in China will feel the repercussion of an attack upon Mexico . We are not leading an isolated national life as we were when we last helped ourselves to Mexican territory . More and more our fortunes are bound up with the good will of other peoples . And if we go blind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in part by the hostility of all peoples , but especially of the great and growing nations south of Panama , whose future trade is worth many times the profits to be Wrung out of Mexico . In the clamor for war against Mexico the voice of labor is not heard , and for good reason . The Workers do not see any intimate relation between the promotion of the interests of the American oil and mine speculators and their own welfare . They n not look cheerfully forward to the probable ivaher policy of American satraps in Mexico . Labor leaders may endure being excluded from Panama , but Panama is a small matter . The administration ? I five million Mexican peons and industrial workers is something of far graver import , and 4 , rnerican labor does not like the accepted priniPles of the management of tropical possessions . the prospect of conscription or half-forced v ? 1unteering , the prospect of more espionage laws , w ? 1rk or fight laws , anti-strike injunctions , is not a al uring to labor . There may have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be regarded as Sedative of domestic unrest . Nobody in his a4 , ses would regard the present time as of such to character . If we must invade Mexico , we ought pue prepared to take with a good face an increase ot bitterness in the economic struggle at home . These costs are impalpable , , yet , we believe , of more significance in the long run than the direct money outlays that would be entailed in " straight ? ening out Mexico . " Those direct outlays are , however , by no means of negligible weight . If we go into Mexico , it will not be with the inexpensive bravado of a Cortez , but with forces which in magnitude and equipment will make resistance futile . We might subjugate Mexico with very little fighting if our forces were sufficiently over ? whelming . It is sufficiently clear that we shall try to make our forces overwhelming , rather than throw away the lives of our men in anything like fairly matched battles . We shall not undertake to say precisely what forces would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seize the principal ports and inland cities no very great force would be required . But our only excuse for intervention is the sup ? pression of banditry , and that would involve the dispersion throughout the country of bodies of men powerful enough to crush down all probable opposition . We know of no competent military authority who would vouch for the accomplishment of this end within less than two years and with a force of less than half a million men . That im ? plies an initial expenditure of two billions . We should thereafter have a continuous financial drain for garrisoning , which , together with the increases in our army and navy demanded by our new po ? sition as a world menace , might be estimated modestly at half a billion a year . Two billion added to our debt and an increased annual charge equivalent to the interest of ten billions more , those are the terms on which a prudent bidder would undertake to straighten out Mexico . Some other contractor might offer to do it for less , but we should respectfully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a bidder would scheme to make his money out of items left vague , with opportunity for changes in the speci ? fications . Halve this expenditure , or quarter it , if you choose : how would it then compare with the values it is proposed to buy ? The aggregate of American holdings in Mexico fall well short of an honest billion , in the near future , except by a Balkan policy of dispossessing the present owners . And ten billions : that is more than half of everything of value in all Mexico . Say that we laid our hands on all the mines and railways , all the lands except the gardens that maintain the peons , we should still not cover our expenses . What kind of pro ? position is this to put to a practical people , especially since the costs must come out of excises and custom duties , supertaxes and normal and sub normal income tax rates , while the profits are to go to Doheny , Hearst , Fall and Co. ? Once we have counted the cost we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improvements Mexico has effected since the artificial system of Diaz crumbled . We shall observe that miracle of Latin American politics , a dictator preparing in good faith to surrender power to a regularly elected successor . We shall note that a most wretched chaos of paper money has given way to hard money rather too good for convenient use ; that the public revenues are picking up rapidly ; that the movement of trade compares favorably in volume with , the best years of Diaz ; that the peon , though still a long way even from our American Eden , is nevertheless freer and more prosperous than ever before in history . We shall also note that life and property are less secure than in the United States ; that there are grafters who exceed in cupidity our best American talent ; that too much public money is spent on the army and too little on education , as compared with our own standards , but not as compared with the standards of most other peoples we do not propose to invade . We shall hope that Mexico may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we conceive our own to be ; but we shall not see in her failure to attain those standards an adequate cause for war . The Essentials of an Anglo American Understanding WE print on another page of this issue an article by Mr. Herbert Sidebotham , con ? taining a suggestion which we recommend to the close attention of our readers . In brief , Mr. Side ? botham proposes a naval agreement between the United States and the United Kingdom which looks toward the merging of the high seas fleets of the two countries for the purpose of establishing an irresistible joint preponderance of sea power . America and Great Britain would both agree to divide their navies into two sections . The first of these sections would fly the national flag and be subject to the exclusive orders of their respective national governments . It would consist of mines , submarines and smaller craft , whose chief purpose is that of coast defense . The second section would consist of the dreadnoughts and the auxiliary ves ? sels which are built for the purpose of keeping open during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this high seas fleet would fly not only the flags of their national // governments but also the joint flag of the League of Nations . The fleet would be placed at the orders of the League and would be available only as its instrument . The United States and Great Britain would agree to joint resistance against an invasion of each other 's territory , actual or threatened , from over seas . The object and effect of the agreement would be to put an end to the use of sea power , particularly in its control over maritime commerce during war , except for defense against invasion or in obedience to a mandate from an international authority . That so radical and far-reaching a proposal should come from a British source is , we believe , profoundly significant . Ever since Englishmen be ? came nationally self-conscious , they have consid ? ered a substantial preponderance of sea power as by far the most important safeguard of their safety as a nation . Yet here is a thoughtful and respons ' ible , Englishman , ranking high among the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Great Britain share the control of the seas with the United States and place effective exercise of that control under international author ' ity . How far Mr. Sidebotham 's proposal will re " ceive the support of his fellow-countrymen we d ? not pretend to know . He pleads for it on the nently practical ground that in this way they might save some four hundred million pounds a year ; acid presumably the British taxpayers will be open ' minded about adopting any course consistent With national safety and self-respect which saves the ' four hundred million pounds a year . But the pproposal will manifestly incur violent opposition ill both countries from those individuals and gro whose profession it is to magnify by irritation the national egotism of their fellow citizens . Is such opposition certain to prevail ? What are the ad ' ' vantages of Mr. Sidebotham 's proposal from 01 . American standpoint ? And what serious obstacle ' will it have to overcome ? In our opinion its advantages for this countr , f , are manifest and overwhelming . If adopted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cost every substantial benefit for which America , statesmen have contended since the , wars under the name of the freedom of the se3osf In the controversies over the maritime sections international law which recurred during the I111e , teenth century , the United States , as a nation WhIc . /I occupied the position of a pacific neutral trader fl relation to wars between European powers , argle in favor of placing the utmost restrictions on to rights of a belligerent who controlled the sea ' prevent commerce between its enemies and net : rals . The United Kingdom , on the other hand '                     