@@430520

 | IT was before an intensely expectant Parliament and nation that Sir Edward Grey on November 27 rose to unfold the diplomatic controversy that for the past six months has raged round Morocco . It was known , or at any rate believed , that in the course of that controversy Great Britain and Germany had found themselves within measurable distance of war . But at what particular point they had become embroiled , how far or how near they were to an actual rupture , what had been the course of British policy throughout the whole difficulty , and whether the settlement finally reached between France and Germany would pave the way to an improvement in the general scheme of Anglo-German relations ? on all these matters the average Englishman , in and out of Parliament , was totally uninformed and keenly anxious to be enlightened . The occasion was one that would have tempted an orator to make a great speech . It was eminently characteristic of Sir Edward Grey that he made no attempt whatever to be eloquent . He delivered a plain , unemotional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , showed precisely how and when matters had become critical between Downing Street and the Wilhelmstrasse , explained and defended without heat or rhetoric the line he had pursued , enunciated in a few grave sentences the first principles of British foreign policy , and ended up with a cordial but restrained endorsement of the wish that Anglo-German relations might for the future be inspired by a better understanding . It was a typical performance , weighty , pertinent , of lucid orderliness , unadorned by any artifice of the orator 's art , unrelieved by any play of the imagination , but strong and telling in its straightforwardness , the sureness of its grip , its sincerity and quiet assurance . The motives that make people trust or distrust statesmen , like the motives that make them like or dislike sovereigns , are often obscure , irrational and the product rather of instinct than of knowledge . Sir Edward Grey is a case in point . There is  | perhaps no English statesman in whom the people have a more general confidence or of whom they know so little . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system that the British are still able to reconcile the theory of unmitigated democracy with the practical rulership of such men as Sir Edward Grey ? of men , that is to say , who are the antitheses of demagogues , and whose influence upon the public mind is above everything else the psychological influence of character . Like the late Lord Salisbury , Sir Edward Grey combines strength of convictions with a temperate reflectiveness of expression and with a certain aloofness from the stress of mere partisanship . The nation adjudges him a man in whom the politician is subordinate to the statesman and sensibly assumes that the qualities which prevent him from becoming , or from wishing to become , a great popular leader are precisely the qualities that ensure his success as Foreign Secretary . But if he is not a great popular leader he is none the less a great personal force in British politics . The knowledge that Sir Edward Grey had come to such and such a decision on any leading question of the day would have more effect on national opinion than the stand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ named . That is because no one else combines as he does balance and independence of judgment , candor of speech and firmness of purpose , with so absolute an indifference to the tricks of popularity and the clamor of the hour . He has the air for the most part of being a looker-on at the contentions of ordinary politics , of being incapable of the normal distortions and exaggerations and manufactured excitements expected of the party man . An ardent fisherman , a lover and student of nature and flowers and birds , and a passionate Wordsworthian , he brings into the arena of party turmoil the philosophic poise and detachment , the silence and self-continence , born of , or at any rate fostered by , his favorite pursuits . A strong man and a sane man , with a larger fund of idealism and a greater warmth of temperament than he allows the public to suspect , absolutely without personal ambitions and with very few illusions , pregnant and impressive in all his utterances , firm but unadventurous in action , there is something in him that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In a time of great inter- national disturbance he has guided British policy with admirable moderation and on the whole with very considerable success . He has wiped out altogether the reputation of British Liberalism for mingled vacillation and hot-headedness in the conduct of foreign affairs ; and if he has proved himself one of the most uncommunicative of Ministers and has wrapped the conduct of his office in reserves that more than once have strained the patience of his supporters , it has never been to protect himself or because he feared any Parliamentary attack that might be made upon him , but because he recognized from the first that , however unpopular an attribute it may be in these ultra-democratic and inquisitive days , reticence in a Foreign Secretary is the first of all virtues and is , indeed , a condition of diplomatic freedom . The Liberal party just now is rich in men of ability , imagination and daring , but it has no one who begins to compare with Sir Edward Grey in the special qualities that make an authoritative and trusted Minister for Foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ detail on the speech in which on November 27 Sir Edward summarized the course of the Morocco negotiations and described the tense and difficult situation that developed from them . A settlement that has all the appearance of finality has been reached on that question between France and Germany and everyone hopes that Morocco as a disturbing element in Anglo-German relations has now ceased to exist . But it has not ceased to exist without leaving behind it on both sides of the North Sea a feeling of soreness and resentment ; and one can not as yet affirm that there is any real rift in the clouds that for a decade and more have overhung Anglo-German relations . None the less the elimination of Morocco as a bone of Anglo-Franco-German contention undoubtedly makes for an all-round appeasement . Great Britain has made friendship with France the keynote of her European policy . The Anglo-French Agreement of 1904 practically gave France a free hand in dealing with Morocco . But both London and Paris had forgotten Berlin . The Wilhelmstrasse suspected , for one thing , an anti-German point in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a question in which Germany had some real , if only insignificant , inter- ests could be settled without Germany 's participation and behind her back . As soon as the battle of Mukden had registered the impotence of Russia , and had deprived France of the effective aid of her European ally , Germany woke to action . She intervened in Morocco and completely checkmated the French policy of pacific penetration . She had all the air of threatening war unless France agreed to an international conference for the adjustment of the affairs of the Shereefian Empire . She brought about the downfall of M. Delcasse . She converted the question of Morocco into a question of France and Germany ; and while the Algeciras Conference disposed of the possibility of an actual break between the two countries , Germany during the past five years has hardly for a moment relaxed her pressure , has magnified and confused every Morocco " incident , " has steadily pursued a policy of pin-pricks , and clearly showed , when she sent the Panther to Agadir last July , that a final @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Throughout these ordeals Great Britain has stood unswervingly by the side of France and there can be no doubt that had war broken out any time during the past six years the Anglo-French entente would have instantaneously developed into an Anglo-French alliance . There is no talk of " perfidious Albion " in France nowadays . On the contrary , the firmness and constancy of British support throughout the whole Morocco entanglement have won the repeated acknowledgments of the French Government . But it is clear that so long as this situation endured , so long as Germany continued to prod France , and Great Britain joined with France in resisting the proddings , there could be no improvement in AngloGerman relations . Sir Edward Grey , indeed , some five years ago , bluntly laid it down as an axiom that the state of AngloGerman relations would have to be governed by the state of Franco-German relations . He made it in other words a condition of cordiality between London and Berlin that Germany should cease to harass and browbeat France . Germany has at last accepted that condition . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congo she has renounced all political ambitions and interests in Morocco and has virtually handed over the destinies of that country to French control . One re- sult of this happy and rational consummation is that the path is at length partially cleared to an Anglo-German detente . I say partially instead of wholly , because while the FrancoGerman dispute over Morocco has had a powerful reflex action upon Anglo-German relations , it has not been the sole or even the greatest factor in keeping England and Germany apart . What has done that has been , more than anything else , suspicion ; and the workings of this suspicion , the effects it has produced , and the consequences to which it has led , have been more suggestive of a hypnotic seance than of the behavior of two civilized and presumably rational peoples . If international sympathies and aversions were determined by facts and reasoned probabilities instead of by unthinking impulses , baseless conjectures and ignorant perversities , the Anglo-German feud could never have attained one-half of its present intensity . At no specific point are Great Britain and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even in contact . No accommodation between them , such as has been effected between England and Russia and England and France , is necessary or possible , because the material for such an accommodation does not exist . That , I think , is the first thing to be borne in mind when Anglo-German relations are approached from the standpoint of common sense . And it gives at once a certain air of unreality and factitiousness to the war of bickerings and imputations and scares and counterscares which has been waged between London and Berlin for the past decade and a half . From first to last there has been in this warfare scarcely anything that was tangible , that could be made the subject of a diplomatic bargain , that lent itself to a give-and-take compromise , that could be stated in black and white and solved by a matter-of-fact negotiation . But all this , while it has invested the Anglo-German feud with many elements of egregious absurdity , has by no means diminished its seriousness or shortened its life . On the contrary it has heightened the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is so hard to counter as suspicions that can not in the nature of things be disproved or brought to the test of fact , that relate less to the present than to some indefinite future , and that tend by infinite repetition and by their very elusiveness  | to acquire a certain credibility . It is suspicions of this kind that have poisoned the public mind of England and Germany . With little or nothing definite to quarrel about , the two nations have bombarded each other with conjectures and innuendoes . In default of facts , they have made an issue of tendencies , motives and possibilities . Neither has been able to bring the other to book because each has professed to be thinking of the year 1950 or thereabouts . The German Anglophobe regarded King Edward as an unblushing monster of craft and cant . The British Teutophobe still regards the Kaiser as the embodiment of every diplomatic black art , a ubiquitous agent provocateur , the sleepless plotter of anti-British coalitions , the eternal conspirator against British power and policies . Anyone , indeed , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once that its outstanding feature is a fusillade of almost identical charges , an endless exchange of virtually similar insinuations . All the schemes and ambitions that are imported by Englishmen to Germany are imported by Germans to England . And the curious part of it is that the English and the German peoples are , on the whole and in bulk , serious , sensible and pacific folk who , though narrow , have never been without some slight capacity for seeing and thinking clearly , and who in their saner moments are perfectly well aware that a war between their respective countries would be a profitless crime . Yet for fifteen years , ever since the Kruger telegram , they have allowed themselves to be lashed by the extremists in their midst into a state of mental confusion and suspiciousness in which facts and realities almost cease to exist . Extremism at one end of the argument leads inevitably to extremism at the other ; and in England at any rate the pro-German has been just as violent as the antiGerman , and the sentimentalism of the one school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other . And so it goes on . Something of the kind has happened before . England and Russia , England and France , were for years on very much the same sort of terms as England and Germany to-day . But there was this difference ? Anglo-Russian and Anglo-French antagonisms had a clear relation to questions of politics , to concrete and ponderable issues . In the case of England and Germany ,  | however , no such issues exist . The difficulty between them is not one of politics but of psychology . If The Hague Tribunal were called in to diagnose Anglo-German relations , they would send , not for a diplomatist , but for an alienist . Their judgment would be that the two peoples have lost all touch with actualities , are seeing spooks and mistaking them for each other and that , while there is little in their material or political interests that needs adjusting , their state of mind demands instant inquiry . That much being said , it is possible to approach such causes of conceivable conflict as actually exist with a certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on examination to be three in number . The German Empire was made by diplomacy , war and spoliation . These processes are not yet exhausted , and it is not incredible , though it is , of course , extremely unlikely , that Austria , Belgium . or Holland may eventually share the fate of Silesia and Alsace-Lorraine . Looking to Germany 's past and to her present strength and needs , nobody would care to hazard the prophecy that the era of German expansion is definitely closed . The German Empire is an imprisoned Empire , and to burst the bonds that hold her in must be a permanent temptation . But she can yield to it only at the risk of bringing England and all her neighbors in Europe down upon her . She may never yield to it ; the Pan-German dream may remain forever unrealized . It is an axiom , however , of European history that whenever any single nation reaches an undue height of power the other nations combine by instinct against her . Sir Edward Grey on November 27 practically invited Germany to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Power which is accumulating the means of material strength as rapidly and efficiently as Germany is accumulating them must needs be an object of some apprehension to its neighbors . On the whole , though , to imagine England involved in a war for the protection of Belgium or Holland against German aggression is to look far beyond the bounds of political common sense . For the present , at all events , one may safely dismiss it from one 's calculations . The second cause of a possible Anglo-German conflict lies in Germany 's relations with France . Those relations , now that the question of Morocco is settled , are likely to improve . But  | it must be remembered that British opinion has now definitely enrolled the integrity and independence of France among those vital interests that are to be defended at any cost ; that if war were to break out between France and Germany on whatever ground , the British Government would be impelled to side actively with France ; and that in any case so long as she is committed by her treaty obligations to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a Franco-German struggle could hardly be a passive one . These are dangers that different people will assess in different ways . But no one I think can now call them imminent . The disappearance of the Moorish problem leaves Paris and Berlin without a single definitely contentious issue open between them ? for no one imagines that France will deliberately provoke a conflict in the hope of regaining the lost provinces . As between France and Germany ? two countries , remember , that have kept the peace for forty years ? matters will probably adjust themselves with increasing ease and steadiness as the years go on ; and the possibility of England 's becoming involved with Germany on France 's behalf or as the result of a Franco-German struggle , becomes correspondingly remote . Of the three possible causes of an Anglo-German war , therefore , two have been examined and have been relegated to some distant future about which it is profitless to speculate . The third is nearer , more engrossing , and more menacing ; it is to be found in the prodigious expansion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Great Britain and Germany are committed to a naval rivalry under circumstances that make a conflict between them not improbable , a conflict in which Germany will stand to gain everything while England will stand to hold merely what she has already won . When the present German programme is fully completed , and even without counting on its being extended , Germany will have a fleet of thirty-three Dreadnoughts , a fleet , that is to say , more powerful by far than any the world has yet seen . It will be admirably trained and organized ; it will have behind it the greatest and most powerful army in Europe ; it may operate in alliance with a squadron of Austrian Dreadnoughts in the Adriatic ; it will be backed by the  | vigor and determination of one of the most hardy , efficient and resolute peoples that exist to-day ; it will be a fleet concentrated on a single spot , amply protected from assault itself , and yet capable of being launched against a foe like a single thunderbolt . And across the North Sea , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more powerful at sea but with infinitely more scattered interests to safeguard , conscious that without naval supremacy she must cease to exist , less efficient , more sentimental , less disciplined than the Germans , guarding an Empire that is the richest prize for which any nation has yet contended . It seems to me absurd to pretend that there is nothing in such a situation to inspire anxiety . The menace of the German fleet is not that it will equal the British fleet or that Germany will ever venture to fling it against Great Britain single-handed . The menace of the German fleet is this ? that its growth is gradually undermining British capacity to maintain the two-Power standard of naval construction ; that a turn of the diplomatic wheel may leave the balance of European sea-power in German hands ; and that , if British relations with France or Russia were to return to their old state of animosity , the German fleet would serve as the spear-head for an anti-British coalition . That . I believe , is the exact essence of the Anglo-German situation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not of mere sentiment . What then should be Great Britain 's policy ? There is every need for wariness and vigilance , but none whatever for panic , still less for bickerings . Germany has as much right to have a big navy as Great Britain has to have a bigger one . Great Britain can not prevent her from building ships and to rail at her for doing so is of all proceedings the least sensible and impressive . There is no present danger ; there is no certainty , though there is admittedly a probability , of future danger . The British policy under these conditions should be to say little , to see everything , and to provide all possible guarantees ? firstly , by maintaining her supremacy at sea intact and secondly by entering into friendly relations with the Powers without whose cooperation an anti-British coalition would be impossible . This is a policy that is perfectly compatible with vigilance , foresight , dignity and good manners ? qualities that of late years have not  | been conspicuous on either side of the North Sea , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasserting themselves . What is certain is that if the present mistrust and ill-will continue much longer , if the two Powers , spending between them ( as they soon will be ) five hundred million dollars a year on naval preparation , maintain their present atmosphere of suspicion and apprehension , then any one of a dozen conceivable incidents may goad the two peoples beyond endurance and precipitate a violent collision .                     