@@466477

WHOSOEVER has followed the events in Europe since August 1st , 1914 , and is familiar with the history of the Southern Confederacy , must have been struck by the similarity of the situation of the embattled German Empire and of the Southern States during the first half of their struggle for a national existence . Both asserted the manifest destiny of their civilization , and are recorded not only as believing it superior to anything else extant in the matter of social organization and culture , but as being convinced that the world would be a sorry loser if disaster overtook them . Both , moreover , were certain at the outset of their respective struggles that defeat would spell extinction , or , at best , an intolerable vassalage ; both vaunted the individual superiority of each of its citizens to any three of their foes , and both demonstrated , at the outset , a clear military superiority over their enemies . Both rejoiced in the unparalleled loyalty and zeal and the devoted patriotism of their citizens of both sexes , and were convinced of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " But the parallel extends still further . Both belligerents at once found themselves blockaded by sea by an overwhelmingly superior naval force . The Confederacy was without ocean-going ships save for a few commerce destroyers , whose scourging wanderings over the seven seas remained unapproached in daring and effectiveness until the careers of the Emden and the Karlsruhe turned the hands of time back for half a century , and the marvelous Odyssey of the prize schooner Ayesha surpassed the exploits of Midshipman Easy and many another hero of naval fiction in the dayswhen the oceans knew neither steam nor electricity , nor cables nor wireless . The German Empire is equipped with a battle fleet of varying dimensions , varying , that is , from the viewpoint of the beholder and his relation to naval expenditure within his own country ; still it is a fleet that after seventeen months of war remains as securely bottled up as were the James River flotilla and the iron-clads of the Confederates by the Federal blockade . Both belligerents had , therefore , to turn for defense and offense to anchored or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , therefore , ere the parallel fails , to recall that to the Confederates belongs the credit of the first practical development of the floating torpedo and of the near-submarine and the submarine , precisely as they revolutionized naval warfare by their introduction of armor-plating . Americans may well smile as they behold the trench fighting in the west of Europe , which is but a slight logical advance beyond the trenches of Lee and Grant in 1864 and 1865 , and of dismounted cavalry fighting behind breastworks as did Stuart 's and Sheridan 's , and recall the positive assertions of haughty European militarists that they had nothing to learn from the warfare of our " irregulars " of 1861-1865 . On the sea the Germans are today profiting largely not only by an American invention , the submarine ; they are actually developing the astounding possibilities of this craft , just as the Confederates produced , by experimentation that cost them many brave lives , a boat actually capable of diving under the hull of the vessel it sought to attack . It is the under-dog in naval warfare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ galling presence of the Federal blockaders by day and by night in good weather and in foul , the ease with which they penetrated the South 's inland waters , were an ever-present challenge to the Con-federates ' inventive genius . Precedents there were : Bushnell , Fulton , and others had developed submarines many decades before ( the first submarine seems to have been the invention of Cornelius Van Drehel , a Dutch physician , in 162o ) , while stationary mines were not unknown in naval warfare . But just as Fulton 's all-big-gun dreadnaught , with its double hull inclosing engine and propeller , and its powerful wooden armor , was discarded by the conservatism of our naval officers because it was eighty-five years ahead of the times , so no one in our ante-bellum navy concerned himself with anything but the development of the steam warship to which we came nearly thirty years after Fulton showed the way and years after the European navies had constructed ships of this type . But the Confederates had their share of gifted naval officers , and , once their problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some skill and much determination . On both sides the re was at first repugnance to turning to torpedoes , but by July 22 , 1861 , floating mines constructed by Confederates had been found in the Potomac and at Hampton Roads . In the North , the news that the Confederates were using them brought forth a storm of indignation of a character familiar to the reader of oversea despatches in 1914-16 . As one writer has put it , torpedoes had hardly yet come to be looked upon as a respectable mode of warfare , especially by seamen , and the officer who laid the torpedoes and was looking on when the Cairo was sunk by them describes himself as feeling much as " a school-boy might at seeing serious results follow from something begun as sport . " As late the seriousness of their menace to his fleet , wrote that since torpedoes " are not so agreeable when used on both sides , therefore I have reluctantly brought myself to it . I have always deemed it unworthy of achivalrous nation , but it does not do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Yet he was more solicitous about the moral effect that torpedoes might have upon his.crews than he cared to admit publicly . In the previous November , 1863 , the feeling in the navy was still so bitter that Commodore H. H. Bell , commanding the Western Gulf Blockading Squadron off New Orleans , officially notified his subordinates that " persons employed on torpedoes deserve no quarter and none should be given them "  - -  - an order paralleled March 20 , 1864 , at Alexandria , Louisiana , by Rear-Admiral David D. Porter , commanding the Mississippi Squadron . This officer instructed his crews to shoot " on the spot " any one putting infernal machines into navy coal-piles , or " caught planting tor-pedoes or floating them down , or with any of these inventions in their possession . " This was despite the fact that in the Crimean War contact torpedoes had been freely used by the Russians against the British . There is no record of either officer having been rebuked for these orders , which at once recall the 1915 British demands that certain German submarine officers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the close of the present struggle . When Rear-Admiral Stephen P. Lee , commanding the Federal fleet in the James River ; in the summer of 1864 , had declined at first to lay torpedoes in front of his vessels , Gen. Benjamin F. Butler , whose attack on Drury 's Bluff in April , 1864 , failed by reason of the Confederate torpedo service in the James , replied to him , sarcastically enough , that while he was quite " aware of the delicacy naval gentlemen feel in depending upon anything but their ships in a contest with the enemy , " he still felt that in this case of " a contest against such unchristian modes of warfare as fire - rafts and torpedo - boats . . . all questions of delicacy should be waived by the paramount consideration of protection for the lives of the men and the safety of the very valuable vessels of the squadron . " To this pointed argument the conservative admiral promptly capitulated . It is true that in 1862 some sporadic Federal attempts to use mines appear , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to invite plans for floating and stationary torpedoes on a large scale . The Navy Department appealed to Capt . John Ericsson among others , while it promptly purchased many and used some in an unsuccessful effort to keep the Confederate ram Albemarle from coming down the Roanoke River . There was no attempt to organize a special torpedo division during the Civil War , just as the Navy Department waited until 1915 to establish a separate submarine organization . With their talent for organizing , which at so many military points was superior to that of the Federals , the Confederates created a Naval Torpedo Service as early as June 10 , 1861 , placing the distinguished scientist Comdr . Matthew F. Maury , C.S.N. , in charge , the honor of placing the first fixed torpedo or mine in Confederate waters being variously claimed for Gen. G. J. Rains and for Lieut . Beverly Kennon , C.S.N. , the last named at New Orleans , where he who was familiar with the use of mines in the Crimean War , had a number of torpedoes ready for service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , hampered at every turn by a lack of interest in official circles and particularly in the Confederate Congress . A year slipped by before , by a practical test in the James River , he convinced the Secretary of the Navy and other high officials of the importance of his plans . But to him and to General Rains belongs the credit for having mined the James River at the suggestion of Gen. Robert E. Lee , after the battle of Seven Pines . By June 19 , 1862 , the day before he was relieved and ordered to Europe for other duty , Commander Maury reported having laid fifteen boilerplate tanks in the James River to he exploded by means of an electrical current , giving a detailed description in a letter to the Secretary of the Navy in Richmond . This work was then taken over and perfected by his assistant , Lieut. ( later Commander ) Hunter Davidson , who was the first to injure or destroy vessels by the use of electrical torpedoes , although the fame of destroying the first Yankee craft , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 12 , 1864 , by means of a friction primer and a trigger line , belongs to two apt scholars of Lieutenant Kennon . Commander Davidson , an officer of great daring and ability , as shown by his attack upon the Minnesota with a spar torpedo , was officially commended by Secretary Mallory for his work in this field , and remained in charge of the special submarine and torpedo naval force of the Confederacy until he , too , was ordered to Europe in the fall of 1864 . Gen. G. J. Rains , who had devised a friction-torpedo , was put in charge of a co-operating army Torpedo Bureau at Richmond ; by him stations were established at Savannah , Wilmington , Charleston , and Mobile , with substations elsewhere , the men of the corps being sworn to secrecy and granted extraordinary rights and privileges . The Confederate Congress , if slow to appropriate large sums for this branch of warfare , at least provided by an act of April 21 , 1862 , that the inventor of any device by which a hostile vessel should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that of its armament . On May I , 1863 , it Voted a meager $zo , 000 for torpedo service , its first direct appropriation of this kind ; February 17 , 1864 , it granted $ico , 000 for submarine batteries ; June 13 , 1864 , $200,000 ; and near the close of the war , when it was too late , $6,000,000 at a single time . None the less the work of mining went on vigorously , beginning with 1862 , so that thereafter Federal vessels entered no stream or river , however insignificant , save with the expectation , usually realized , of encountering some form of this " infernal machine . " To it , from first to last , four monitors , three ironclads , nine gunboats , seven transports , and six colliers and tugs fell victims with the loss of many lives ; more or less seriously damaged were one monitor , six gunboats , and one transport ; and , in addition , one transport was blown up by an infernal machine placed on board . The New lronrides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the attack on Charleston on April 7 , 1863 , because she grounded on an upright steam-boiler planted in the channel for the express purpose of blowing her to atoms ? which would probably have taken place but for the accidental breaking of the wires . Beer-kegs , soda-fountains , powder-boxes on rafts , floating torpedoes , intrusted to the current as have been the fateful mines at Gallipoli that took their toll in battle-ships , were employed , as well as ground and percussion , turtle and shell torpedoes , bombs that went off by clock-work like the contrivance which sank a number of vessels , destroyed several large warehouses , and wounded fifty men at City Point , and that which destroyed an ordnance supplyboat of Admiral Porter 's fleet at Mound City , Illinois . Finally , no one knows the extent of the havoc of the " coal torpedoes , " a device smuggled into piles of coal to which is attributed the loss of General Butler 's headquarters ' boat on the James River , November 27 , 1864 . The destruction of sixteen men-of-war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the efficiency of what was at best a hastily improvised service lacking such necessary material as wire and fuses . Not even the activities of the blockade-runners could compensate for all the shortcomings of the Confederacy in this respect , nor the zeal of its purchasing-agents abroad , who , as late as January , I865 , were shipping torpedo-boats in parts by blockaderunners , and in previous months were bewailing the loss of submarine materials by a , for them , unfortunate wreck in neutral waters . Commander Maury had devoted nearly three years to study abroad of the torpedo problem when he set sail , on May 2 , 1865 , for home . A large quantity of valuable torpedo material , much of it the product of his own inventive genius , had been shipped ahead of him . It was a crushing blow to him to hear of the end of the Confederacy when he arrived at St. Thomas and found himself without occupation or opportunity to try out his devices . Finally , an example of the military and strategic value of mines appears from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ River in December , 1864 , by reason of the loss of two gunboats and a launch , the objective beingthe highly important cutting of the Weldon Railroad , then a chief artery of supply for Richmond . However valuable the torpedo-planting work , in excitement , in extreme danger , and in opportunity to strike a swift , deadly blow at the enemy , the Confederates who volunteered for torpedo-boat service were at the forefront of the defenders of the Confederacy . None others took such desperate chances , and none others showed greater daring or courage . The lazily cruising blockaders , who never Ieft the horizon , were an irresistible incentive to Southern men to risk their lives in the merest cockleshells , beside which the submarine of to-day is the safest of cruisers . Torpedoes and mines were all very well as defensive weapons , but ambitious spirits sought to take the offensive and to break the blockade . That was the great bait , for , with the blockade raised , even temporarily , the effect upon public opinion abroad would be far-reaching . And so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? with torpedoes attached to spars , and even to submarines . For , besides the fardistant precedents of Bushnell and Fulton , there were others . Experimenting with undersea craft had never stopped ; in 1851 , for instance . a Yankee shoemaker , Lodner D. Phillips , had constructed two boats each forty feet long , and each equipped with a spar-torpedo . In one , he and his wife and their two children spent an entire day exploring the bottom of Lake Michigan ; the other became his coffin when he ventured too far under the deep waters of Lake Erie . His fate deterred no one . There is a statement that the Tredegar Iron Works at Richmond , that great arsenal of the Confederacy , turned out early in 1861 a submarine patterned after a diving-bell , which speedily demonstrated its complete futility . Much farther South , in the soon-menaced city of New Orleans , early in 1862 , three men ? Capt . W. L. Hunley , Capt . James McClintock , and Baxter Watson ? began building submarines . After two attempts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which happened to be on hand , a boat thirty feet long , four feet wide , SUBMARINE AND TORPEDO IN THE CONFEDERACY 135 and five feet deep ? a huge iron coffin in looks , a huge iron coffin in her brief career to fully thirty-two brave men , and withal one of the most remarkable craft that ever rode the waters . Her power was that of eight men who turned the shaft of an ordinary propeller , in default of storage batteries and gasolene motors . There were ballast-tanks to take in seawater , and a force-pump to eject it . She submerged by taking in water and by depressing external fins like those of a fish , and traveled very slowly when submerged , the men working in total darkness save for the light of a single candle , and so crowded together that no one could leave his seat or his position ? the two navigators standing with their heads in the two hatchways by which the boat was entered and left . At first it was planned to tow the torpedo , but experiments in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blown up after the submarine had dived under them , showed that that was too risky a procedure in rough water , and resort was had to a torpedo at the end of a twentytwo-foot boom containing ninety pounds of explosive and operated by a percussion and friction primer . With this equipment this strange craft , the first successful submarine , was shipped to Charleston Harbor as a more suitable and desirable place for her operations . And in Charleston Harbor , in midsummer , 1863 , her career of stark tragedy began . Lieut . John Payne , C.S.N. , volunteered to take command , and there was rivalry between this boat , the Hunley , or the " American Diver , " as she was called , and the David , which assailed the Federal Goliath , the New Ironsides , and did her such serious injury . The latter , the David , a razeed launch , lying low in the water , was commanded by Lieut . W. T. Glassell , a daring officer , who , early in 1863 , organized a small flotilla of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attack the Powhatan , and took part in a raid on Federal monitors in the North Edisto , both of which moves were rendered futile ? by treachery in one case , and terror among his men in the other . But on October 5 , 1863 , with the David , he stole up alongside the flagship and exploded a torpedounder her , about amidships , killing the deck officer , Ensign Howard , by a pistol-shot , and being himself captured , although his frail craft returned safely to harbor . It was , all in all , a remarkably daring exploit that narrowly failed to sink the armor-clad . To return to the Hunley , Lieutenant Payne was getting ready for a first attack with his submarine , after several successful under-water plunges under war-ships in the harbor , when a swell swamped the boat , drowning eight men , Lieutenant Payne alone escaping . In a precisely similar happeningsoon after , six more men were lost . Raised again , this floating boiler was turned over to a civilian crew headed by Captain Hunley himself , under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ October 15 , 1863 , because of careless handling , probably by Hunley himself , she once more dived to the bottom and there remained for nine days , with nine additional victims drowned or asphyxiated within her . It would seem as if that might have been enough , but it was not for Confederates while the enemy was in sight . Two soldiers from Mobile who had helped to build her volunteered to operate her , and she was raised once more . Throughout November and December , 1863 , and January and part of February , this devoted crew practised unceasingly under most trying conditions ; night after night they risked their lives in vain efforts to reach the Federal fleet , being driven back again and again , for they could only make five knots at best , by wind and tide and sea or the coming of daylight ? a story of amazing endurance in midwinter and the rarest heroism in a craftwhich might sink at any moment . Once they remained on the bottom for two hours and thirty-five minutes as a test of endurance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the bottom to rest the crew . But the Hunley had no oxygen-tanks or other artificial ventilation ; they breathed and rebreathed the air of their thirty-fivefoot boiler . At last the night came when conditions favored an attack . With Lieut . George E. Dixon in charge , the boat reached the Federal sloop-of-war Housatonic . The deck officer hailed ; there were shots fired ; but this extraordinary engine of death drove steadily on , its hour come . The brave men within steadily turned their crank-shaft , nut knowing what second their lives would end , but prepared for the worst . Five minutes after the officer of the deck discovered " something like a plank upon the water , " the Housatonic was on the bottom with the loss of two officers and three seamen . Neighboring ships sent boats ' crews to the rescue , though wondering whether they , too , might not perish in the twinkling of an eye by this same mysterious agency that had stolen into the middle of the fleet like a thief in the night . But no sign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strained their eyes for sight of her , anxiously hoping that the Hanley had floated out to sea on the ebb-tide and would return in due course . But no mortal eye was ever again set upon the men who , in the darkness of their boiler afloat , faced eternity unwincing . For them the path of glory had led but to death and fame . Several years later divers found the Hunley in the wreck of the Housatonic , either sunk by the explosion or by being sucked into the hole the torpedo had created ; twenty-two feet was not a sufficient distance from her own engine of destruction . This time the iron coffin was not raised ; she , the first successful submarine , is still the tomb of the men who paid nine lives for a Yankee sloop-of-war , and now have a share in the monument to those heroes that stands on the Battery at Charleston . Their feat , coming after four attempts upon the New Ironsides by other craft , of which one , as stated , was successful , caused consternation in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " This fate of the Housatonic troubles me very much , " wrote RearAdmiral Dahlgren , commander of the fleet , in his diary . " Torpedoes have been laughed at , but this disaster ends that . . . . " He asked the Navy Department to offer $20,000 or $30,000 prize money for the capture or destruction of a Diver or a David , adding , gloomily : " The Department will readily perceive the consequences likely to result from this event ; the whole line of blockade will be infested with these cheap , convenient , and formidable defenses , andwe must guard every point . The measures for prevention may not be so obvious . " Yet he requested a number of fortyfoot torpedo-boats with a small engine and propeller and a quantity of floating torpedoes as antidotes , saying : " I have attached more importance to the use of torpedoes than others have done , and believe them to constitute the most formidable of the difficulties in the way to Charleston . " All sorts of suggestions poured in on Admiral Dahlgren and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Gideon Welles himself , there is again a forecast of coming events : " The security of our vessels against similar destroyers would be much enhanced by having some small steamers constantly steaming guard in the vicinity of where the torpedo-boats would come out , each steamer or tug to be supplied with a powerful calcium light , by which the enemy would be discovered and run down . " In suggesting this predecessor of the modern search-light ( also put into use at other places by the blockaders ) , Mr. Welles , with real Yankee thrift , added , " Of a bright , moonlight night , of course , the light would not be needed . " As a matter of fact , a number of steam-launches did go into service on the blockade thereafter . Admiral Dahigren 's uneasiness was not allayed , but increased , by other attacks which followed in quick succession . Sixteen days after the loss of the Housatonic , March 6 , 1864 , the David ? the same low-lying craft which had attacked the New Ironsides , assailed the blockader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ command of her daring engineer , J. H. Tomb ( who still survives in Jacksonville , Florida ) , the David struck the Memphis twice despite a hail of bullets , first on the port quarter and next on the starboard . Fortunately for the Memphis , the torpedo in both cases failed to explode , and the David returned safely , if discomfited . In the next month , April 18th , Engineer Tomb ventured out again in his launch , which was merely a steampropelled boat of such slight freeboard as to be almost awash , only a steel plate protecting the crew of four , whose heads were just above the water . This time SUBMARINE AND TORPEDO IN THE CONFEDERACY 137 his prey was the Wabash , and a severe fright he gave to her crew . Three times he headed for her ; being discovered , musketry and cannon-shot greeted him , but again he and his men escaped uninjured , they being compelled to return , not because of the hostile fire , but because " the heavy swell rolling over and into the David @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her spar-torpedo might as easily have injured the Wabash as it did the armor-clad New Ironsides , for the advantage appears to have been with the attackers , as it had been nine days earlier when Commander Hunter Davidson torpedoed the U.S.S. Minnesota at anchor off Newport News . Naturally , these attacks caused great wear and tear upon all the crews of the blockaders through nervous anxiety . Not until five months had elapsed ( that is , until September 14 , 1864 ) was there another attack , this time upon the gunboat Winona , off Breach Inlet , South Carolina , when the torpedo-boat was discovered in time for the ship to steam ahead before a blow could be struck . The following month the famous Federal Lieutenant Cushing evened things up by sinking the Confederate ram Albemarle , his weapon being the spar-torpedo attached to an ordinary steam-Iauncha gallant act , indeed , but one , as John Ericsson said , which proved " great dar-ing but nothing else . " Not so the final recorded attack of the war , than of the St. Patrick , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , after an earlier craft had been sunk with loss of life by the explosion of her boiler . Again the attacker remained unscathed by heavy artillery and musketry fire , and returned safely . With this the record of torpedo-boat attacks on vessels ends . From that time on the defense had improved so that the Confederates desisted from further attack , being also handicapped by dissensions among the civilian commanders of some of their torpedo-boats and their marked inefficiency . The speed with which the Federals , after the attacks upon the Housatonic , turned to torpedo-1 aunehes and torpedoboats of an armored type , and even fitted out some of their monitors and gunboats with spar-torpedoes , is proof enough of the effect created by the CXXXIII. ? No. 793-1.8Rebel boats . The Northern press , notably the Army and Navy Journal , cried out in alarm ; and ChiefEngineer William Wood and Engineer Lay , the latter himself the inventor of a torpedo , were assigned to the task of developing the Federal torpedoboat service . One of the many launches they equipped in the summer of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ During these months there was also experimenting with a submarine devised by Professor Horstford , as there had been trials of M. Vilberve 's diving-boat in 1861 , while the Winans ' ( Thomas and Eakin ) submarine had been tried out under service conditions at Fort Monroe in 1862 and found wanting . By the end of 1864 Messrs . Wood and Lay had also produced an armored torpedo-boat that could be submerged until only a few inches of her armored deck and a conning-tower showed above water . This craft , the Spuyten Duyvil , as she was called , was by all odds the best torpedoboat built during the war , with her length of eighty-four feet , breadth of twenty , her armor-plating and her clever mechanical devices for launching the torpedo from the end of an operating bar prior to the contact and explosion . In many respects she was a forerunner of the torpedo-boat of to-day , particularly in that she was the first craft fitted to launch several torpedoes in succession . She , too , was never tested under service conditions , though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fall of Richmond . If the Federal government was slow to go on with torpedo experiments , and did not organize for them until 1869 , did not construct another torpedo-boat , the Alarm , until 1878 , and did not build an up-to-date one , the Cushing , until 189o , this is probably due to the exhaustion after the long Civil War and the inherent conservatism of our naval officers . But no one can trace the subsequent development of torpedo-boats and submarines without realizing that the Confederates laid the foundations for this development of naval warfare , and that the chapters of submarine warfare now being so amazingly written on the other side of the Atlantic belong in closest sequence to the narrative , so full of dramatic incidents , which has just been summarized . 