@@430729

 | WE want Hughes : to maintain the rights guaranteed by international law to nations that live at peace . Insistence on neutral rights and enlargement of their range and application have been the great contribution made by the United States to the law of nations . But never since the Republic came into existence have our neutrality rights been so ruthlessly , so generally , and so persistently violated as they have been during the present war ; and seldom , if ever , has an administration been so weak and ineffective in defending those rights as the Wilson administration . NATIONAL SAFETY We want Hughes : to protect the honor and safety of the country . This is not a matter of adroit party leadership or " masterful control " of legislation , which the supporters of President Wilson celebrate among his preeminent achievements . The maintenance of the national safety and honor calls for far-seeing and sagacious statesmanship and high administrative efficiency . This administration has been signally lacking both in foresight to anticipate issues and in prompt and resolute handling of them when they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ term of four years the honor and safety of the nation to Mr. Wilson and the men he appoints to assist him ? Mr. Bryan , Mr. Daniels , Mr. McAdoo and their associates in the administration both at home and abroad ? Or shall we recall the Republican party to power under the true and tried leadership of the man who as governor gave to New York State one of the most efficient administrations in her history ? We want Hughes : to represent America to the warring nations of the world . Americans love peace ; but 228 they do not want a leader who , when their recognized rights are trampled under foot , proclaims that we are " too proud to fight . " Americans want peace with honor , not peace with dishonor . The former is secured by prompt , firm insistence on our rights ; the latter is the result of procrastination , vacillation , and surrender . They boast they have kept us out of war . But weakness and irresolution are no protection against war . And the use of strong and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governments which is not made good by performance is a direct invitation to war . But what nation has wanted to fight with us ? All the great nations of the world except An- erica are fighting for their lives and Lbe last thing any of them would do is to add America to its list of enemies . On the other hand Mr. Wilson 's Mexican policy has involved sending our naval vessels and a considerable part of our regular army into Mexico , where the latter remains , and also the assemblage at the present time on the border of the largest military force we have ever gathered together since the Civil War . And the Judge Advocate General of the Army has just officially decided that we are in a state of war with Mexico . Mr. Hughes is a man of peace . But he is also a man of recognized sincerity , stability , and firmness of purpose . PROTECTION OF AMERICAN CITIZENS We want Hughes : to protect American citizens abroad . The Democratic platform four years ago declared that the rights of American citizens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in both their lives and property . But American citizens abroad have not been protected by this administration : on the contrary they have been murdered on land and sea and their government at Washington has done nothing to protect them . When in all American history has American citizenship meant so little as it does today ? Hundreds of innocent American men , women and children have , in violation of the dictates of humanity and the law of nations , been sent to watery graves in the Atlantic . And hundreds more equally innocent have been foully murdered in Mexico , where the citizenship of Englishmen , Germans and Japanese has secured them practically complete protection . We want Hughes in the presidency that American citizenship may once more become a panoply of protection to every individual who possesses it ? never a mere mark for the shaft of the foreign assassin . What guarantee have we that Mr. Hughes , if elected President , would protect the honor of America , secure her safety , and enforce thruout the world the rights of American citizens ? First , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a man who matches words and promises with deeds and performances . Secondly , here is what he is saying in his speeches thruout the country , as I recently heard him state it to an audience of over 10,000 persons in Buffalo : I repeat in broad statement this : That we stand for the enforcement of all American rights on land and sea with respect to all nations and with regard to American lives , American property and American commerce . We have no secret understanding , we have no unstated purposes , we have no intrigues . We simply intend that American rights shall be maintained . POST-BELLUM DANGERS We want Hughes : to meet the dangers that will come to us after the European war is over . These may arise in consequence of a challenge of the Monroe Doctrine , or of aggressive policies in Mexico , or of trade rivalries , or of other causes that can not be foreseen . That will be the time to stand for American rights . President Wilson is devoted to high ideals for what he believes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shown an inadequate conception of American rights . We all hope the Mexicans may achieve their liberty . But it is a new and alarming doctrine that the President of the United States in pursuing a policy of interference with the domestic concerns of a foreign country , should deliberately sacrifice American lives and properties to his ideas of what constituted a free government for that country . PROTECTION OF AMERICAN INDUSTRY We want Hughes : to protect American industries and the American standard of living . Everything points to an absolutely new situation with respect to international trade at the end of the war . It may be that the great nations of Europe will enter upon a period of economic warfare involving the use of offensive and defensive economic alliances . Such a thing is certainly within the bounds of possibility , and we should be prepared to meet it ; and it is very certain that we are to have new alignments of national interests , new customs boundaries , and new tariffs . We must be very sure that the United States will be fittingly prepared to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , constructive measures of its own . We shall very probably want to be able to use as a weapon the principles of the " maximum and minimum tariff " which the Democrats threw out in 1913 . We shall want to be able to meet discrimination against American products by retaliation in kind when that procedure is wise . It is especially desirable that we should have the assistance of an expert tariff board . Such a board would be necessary in the administration of a maximum and minimum tariff , and it would be almost indispensable in investigating the conditions which will make new tariff legislation necessary . Despite the fact that the Democrats have taken a leaf from the Republican book by recommending such a board , we can have no confidence that they are willing really to put the thing thru . Moreover , recent appointments ? those , for example , on the Federal Trade Commission ? have not been such as to justify us in expecting that Mr. Wilson , if re-elected , would be willing to select and appoint competent experts for such positions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic party to make a protective tariff ? If the American people wanted a tariff for revenue only they might ask the Democratic party to make it . But that party does not believe in a protective tariff , and they could not either in honesty to themselves or justice to the subject undertake to frame one . What is Mr. Hughes 's position ? He has been telling the American people everywhere that he is in favor of protection . He recognizes the new economic conditions that will arise after the war . He sees millions of men now in the trenches returning to productive industry , practising the efficiency and economy learned in the school of war , and producing at low wages commodities whose cheapness will menace the markets of America and endanger the standard of living of American working men . Mr. Hughes believes in protection to American laborers and American industries . But he is not blind to the dangers associated with tariff legislation : I do not propose that we shall have tariff abuses . I have not left the career I desired to continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not honorably refuse in order to parcel out special privileges at the expense of the public welfare . This matter must be studied . It must be done as carefully and as scientifically as possible . I believe in a tariff commission . I want facts . We want more of expert aid in this country in the discharge of public business . . . We want all the aid we can get from a careful tariff commission , but tariff commissions do not legislate . It is Congress that legislates . The sum of the matter is this : If you want protection to American industry , the protection of the American wage scale , then put in power those who believe in the protective principle , not those who do not believe in it . ORGANIZATION OF PEACE We want Hughes : to be the voice and will of America in a world-conference at the close of the war . We want the law of nations re-asserted and re-vindicated , and those neutral rights , which America has always befriended and championed , once more put upon a solid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highest destiny of the civilized world . To assure the permanent maintenance of peace is the chief task of constructive statesmanship for this and later generations . The horrors of the present situation have robbed war of all its glamor and all its illusions ; and it is saddling future generations with a crushing load of debt which will indefinitely postpone that amelioration of social and economic conditions to which the progressive spirit of the age had so hopefully addrest itself . To prevent war altogether , or so far as humanly practicable , is the problem of problems for civilized mankind . And , as Mr. Hughes has well said , " the peace of the world is our interest as well as the interest of others . " The first essential in international reorganization is a worldcourt , and for this world-court there is probably no better model in existence than the Supreme Court of the United States . The second essential is a world-parliament , or conference of the nations , as Mr. Hughes has put it , " to formulate international rules , to establish principles , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it to new conditions . " Instrumentalities of conciliation and arbitration would also need to be developed . The reform is nothing less than a new international organization dedicated to the task of preventing war . America will do her full duty in this great and beneficent undertaking . There is no incompatibility between a firm insistence on her own national rights and devotion to the ideals of peace , disarmament , arbitration , and a tribunal of international justice for herself and for the world . Mr. Hughes 's firm insistence on American rights , his experience as chief executive of the Empire State , his administration of international law in the Supreme Court of the United States , combined with his high character , great ability , and tested statesmanship , preeminently qualify him to speak and act for America in the coming world-conference . We want Hughes : to be the next President of the United States . WHAT HUGHES WOULD DO " You ask what road I propose to travel . These are the principles which mark it ? an Executive responsible to the whole nation ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy that stands courteously but firmly and consistently for American rights ; a flag that protects the American citizen in his lawful rights wherever his legitimate business may take him ; a preparation for trade competition which shall protect all groups of American workmen ; a government supervision of business , which , , while preventing abuses , will act on the assumption that the average business man is honest , and , finally , a domestic policy which looks to industrial peace and cooperation , not to industrial war . "                     