@@430745

THE geologic record of life on earth is divided into three great eras , the Paleozoic or Ancient Life , Mesozoic or Middle Life , and Cenozoic or Recent Life . The Paleozoic begins with the oldest formations that contain any considerable fossil fauna . The Palaeozoic era was much longer than the others . An average of various estimates that have been made in recent years would be thirty million years for the whole , of which eighteen million would be the Palaeozoic Era , nine million the Mesozoic Era , and three million the Cenozoic Era . The lower forms of life first appear in our record . During the greater part of the Paleozoic Age the highest types of animals are crustaceans , molluscs , worms and other invertebrates . In the later part appear the first remains of fishes , and towards its end the earliest land vertebrates .  | It was the Age of Amphibians ; and during this time the land vertebrates were gradually emerging from the amphibious stage of their evolution , when they lived in the water and breathed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breathing air through lungs . Among these amphibians and primitive reptiles were probably ancestors of the later vertebrates . Others were strange , eccentric looking creatures , races that flourished for a time and died out without leaving descendants . Such were the Finbacked Reptiles , Naosaurus and Dimetrodon , with an enormous rigid bony fin upon the back . All of them were clumsy , slow-moving animals , small or large , but none of gigantic size . Their remains have been found chiefly in northern Texas , in South Africa and on the Dwina River in Russia . The great Armored Amphibian Eryops , with its large flat head , thick body , short , sprawling legs , webbed feet and eel-like tail , looked like a giant mud-puppy five feet long . It represents very well the stage of evolution among vertebrates when they had abandoned the purely aquatic fish-like existence , and had become partly but not wholly fitted for land and air-breathing existence . Such then were the animals of the late Paleozoic , or Coal Period ? the sluggish , amphibious crawlers from which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evolution we shall see the dinosaurs , the birds , the mammals evolving upon different plans of adaptation to more efficient and active life . The dinosaurs are specialized from the first for land life ; they develop long , straight limbs and compact feet for walking upon the ground , either upon all fours , or balanced upon the hind limbs . Most of them are large animals ; many acquire huge size , and some of them revert partly to a swampy or largely water habitat . The large dinosaurs may , for aught we know to the contrary , have evolved a more perfected and active circulation of blood than modern reptiles , which would enable them to be as active and powerful as their bones would suggest . But it is certain that they had a low type of brain , and in intelligence they were not above the grade of modern crocodiles and lizards . The birds evolved along a different line . They evolved a warm protecting coat of feathers , which enabled them to maintain a very active circulation and a high and constant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the air for their province . The aerial life , demanding an intense activity and high intelligence , stimulated the development  | of the brain of birds to a grade much above the reptilian stage . A third province remained of the dominion of the land , the arboreal or tree-life , intermediate in its demands and requirements between the land and air . To this habitat it appears probable that the ancestors of the mammals were at first adapted and for a long time confined . Only after the extinction of the dinosaurs did they come down from the trees and occupy the land . Like the birds , these early mammals developed a warm protective coat , enabling them to maintain a high and constant body temperature ; and the higher development of the mammalian brain was probably conditioned by this fact , as well as by the stimulating effect of the active and varied movements required in tree life . The protective coat in mammals was of hair instead of feathers . A second great feature of progress , enabling them to advance to a higher grade of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young , seen among both birds and mammals , but evolved along different lines . The nesting habits of the bird and the feeding of its helpless newly hatched young , serves the same purpose as the suckling of the young and helpless mammal . In each case it provides the young organism with the time and nourishment necessary to evolve its highly complex organs before it is compelled to apply them in the struggle to maintain an independent existence . The Mesozoic Era or Age of Reptiles The Mesozoic Era is divided into periods , as shown in our diagram . The Mesozoic is preeminently the Age of Reptiles . Reptilian life was dominant during the whole of this long era , on land , sea , and even in the air . The reptiles , which had evolved during the previous age from amphibian ancestors , now branched out into a great variety of different races , adapted to different habits and environment . The dinosaurs were chiefly terrestrial , filling the place in nature now taken by the various kinds of higher quadrupeds . Some of them were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eating ) , many of them of gigantic size .  | Some walked chiefly upon the hind legs , while others walked upon all fours . Some were covered by a scaly skin , others by heavy , bony armor like a crocodile . The brain case shows that the brain was small and of low type , as it is in all modern reptiles ; they were active and powerful , but not intelligent . Such as they were , they had no rivals , for the higher quadrupeds that later populated the earth had not yet arisen . Other groups of reptiles , adapted to marine life , were dominant in the seas during this era , filling the place now occupied by cetaceans ( whales and porpoises ) and seals . The Ichthyosaurs were swift swimming reptiles of fish-like form , with the limbs converted into paddles , and a high triangular dorsal fin and forked tail fin , much on the lines of shark or dolphin . The Plesiosaurs were long-necked , with broad body and long paddles like sea-turtles , but no bony shell . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paddle-limbs , but proportioned more like the lizards to which they were related . The most extraordinary of these long extinct races of Reptilia were the Pterodactyls , flying reptiles , with leathery wings like those of bats , but stretched upon a single immensely elongated finger . Most of them were small , but some of gigantic size , twenty-two feet from tip to tip of the extended wings . Crocodiles and turtles of various kinds were common , and among these too were gigantic marine kinds larger than any now existing . Lizards and snakes also existed during the Age of Reptiles , but very little is known about them . These four orders of reptiles have survived down to the present day , the first two in diminished numbers . The lizards and snakes , on the other hand , seem to have prospered , so that they are now numerous and widespread . Finally , at the close of the Age of Reptiles , the great majority became extinct . The reasons for this extinction are not clearly seen . The geological record does not seem to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ competition of the higher quadrupeds or mammals ; rather it suggests that great changes in geography and climate , the drying up of the swamps and disappearing of the shallow seas , and a change from world-wide extension of uniform , moist , tropical conditions to a colder , drier and more zonal climate were in some way connected with their disappearance . The Dinosaurs The oldest dinosaurs are found in the Triassic formations of Europe and America . Skeletons have been found in Germany , but in this country they are chiefly known from the innumerable tracks preserved in the slaty sandstones of the Connecticut valley and elsewhere . When first found these tracks were supposed to have been made by gigantic extinct birds , for the three-toed footprint is very like that of a bird . Closer studv showed the occasional prints of the fore feet and tail , and here and there the marks of the pelvis and hind limb where the animal sat down to rest . The discovery of dinosaur skeletons in the same formation , with slender limbs and feet that accorded exactly with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known until a later period ( Jurassic ) . Some of these footprints ( Brontozoum ) are of large and ponderous animals , but most of them small and slenderly proportioned . The most gigantic of their race were the Amphibious Dinosaurs , that lived about the middle of the Mesozoic , in the Jurassic and Lower Cretaceous periods . These were the largest of four-legged animals , amphibious or aquatic in habits , wading in the streams and bayous of vast coastal marshes and feeding upon the rank vegetation . The best known are the Brontosaurus and Diplodocus , which reached a length of seventy or eighty feet , and are estimated to have weighed nearly forty tons in life . Even larger than these is the Brachiosaurus , distinguished by the great length of fore limbs and neck , through which it could wade to a depth of forty feet without submerging the head . These huge animals are found in all the continents except Australia . In contrast to the Amphibious Dinosaurs are the Carnivorous Dinosaurs , with large heads , sharp teeth , and sharp , curved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hind limbs , using the fore feet to seize and tear their prey . They were active , powerful beasts , with long hind limbs and a long , lizard-like tail , compact body and short neck .  | Some were of gigantic size , others smaller . They all appear to have been terrestrial , not well adapted for swimming or wading . The flllosaurus was a contemporary of Brontosaurus and reached a length of thirty-eight feet ; while the little Ornitholestes was only six feet long . Unlike the Amphibious Dinosaurs , this group survived until the end of the Age of Reptiles , and in the late Cretaceous gave rise to the huge and bulky Tyrannosaurus , forty-seven feet in length , as well as to smaller and more slenderly proportioned animals . Another large group is the Iguanodonts or Duck-billed Dinosaurs . These were also more or less bipedal , but otherwise very different from the preceding groups . They were herb eating , with teeth adapted to cutting and grinding vegetable food , a horny beak like a duck , and hoofs upon the feet . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or Duck-bill Dinosaur , many skeletons have been found , occasionally with large proportions of the skin preserved , dried and shrunken like a mummy . Another group is the Armored Dinosaurs , so called because of the bony plates that cover and protect the body . In one kind , the Stegosaurus , the largest plates are set up edgewise in a double row along the back ; in others they lie flat , imbedded in the skin as they are in the modern crocodiles . These also were mostly of large or gigantic size , and the latest and largest of them , the Ankylosaurus , armor-plated from muzzle to tip of tail , and even the eyes protected by a bony lid , has well been called " the most powerful animated battleship the world has ever seen . " But the most extraordinary of all these extinct giants were the Horned Dinosaurs or Ceratopsians . These walked on all fours , with limb proportions something between a rhinoceros and an elephant , and a shorter tail than the others . The head is of huge size , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a pair of horns above the eyes three feet in length ; others have a horn on the nose like the Indian rhinoceros ; and all of them have an enormous bony crest or frill projecting backward and protecting the neck . The feet were round and stubby , like those of elephants , with small hoofs half buried in a thick elastic pad . The jaws , provided with a sharp , hooked , horny , parrot-like beak , and with grinding cheek teeth of curious pattern , show that the animal was of vegetarian habits , and  | it probably used the horns for defense against the huge and fierce carnivorous dinosaurs that were its associates . A strange world indeed it must have been at the time when these dinosaurian giants lived , some millions of years ago . We are apt to think of all these extinct animals as " prehistoric , " and to imagine them as associated with prehistoric man in an antediluvian world peopled with all sorts of grotesque creatures , with whom our skin-clad ancestors had to contend . Such an association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is far from the truth . In those long vanished days , when dinosaurs still ruled the earth , our remote ancestors were tiny , shrew-like mammals , struggling upward through the slow and difficult stages of their development . Finally , at or before the close of the Mesozoic Age , most of the reptilian orders disappeared , and the mammals and birds were left to take their place , while the crocodiles , turtles , lizards and snakes survived and continued to play their subordinate role throughout the Cenozoic down to the present day . The Cenozoic Era The Cenozoic is the era during which the various kinds of mammals were evolved . Only near its close is there any evidence of man as such . It is divided accordingly into the Age of Mammals , or Tertiary Period , and the much shorter Age of Man or Quaternary Period . The geologic records of the evolution of land animals are far more complete during the Cenozoic than in older periods , especially in the Western States , where the evolution of many races of quadrupeds can be traced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from small primitive ancestors , all very much alike , to their widely different specialized modern descendants . Besides these still existing races there are many others that have become extinct . With the extinction of the dinosaurs a wide field for expansion was thrown open . Coincident with this extinction  | was a great extension of the areas of dry land , through the drying up of the shallow seas and vast coastal swamps that had extended over great portions of the continents during the later Cretaceous . Undoubtedly there was also a great change during the Tertiary , from the moist , subtropical climate that had prevailed in the Cretaceous , to a drier and more zonal condition , cold at the poles , arid in the interior of the continents . Two groups of animals stood ready to adapt themselves to the new conditions of life , the birds and the mammals . Both were distinguished above their fellows by activity , intelligence , and enterprise ; but the long tree experience of the mammals had trained them perhaps to a more flexible , adaptable attitude towards new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physical training involved in the aerial life of the bird . Whether or not this be the cause , it was the mammals that most readily adopted a purely land life and succeeded best in its various phases . The birds competed with them to some extent and evolved various terrestrial nonflying races , but these were of subordinate importance , except on oceanic islands , where mammals could not arrive save by some rare accident , or in some special environment where they could not so readily maintain themselves . In their own sphere , however , there is reason to believe that the birds expanded during the Cenozoic into the vast variety of races and adaptations that exist today . Unfortunately their fossil record is very defective ; fossil birds are few and fragmentary , and we judge chiefly by inference from the structure and affinities of the living forms . The Primitive Mammals At the beginning of the Tertiary the fossil mammals were all of small size . Their teeth were adapted for insects , fruits , or a varied diet . Their bodies were slender , limbs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were small , yet decidedly above the reptilian stage . The majority were of proportions and general appearance much like the modern opossum ; these we may suppose were still tree-dwellers . Others had already begun to be adapted to terrestrial life and omnivorous or vegetarian diet , converting claws into hoofs , adapting the feet for walking or running instead of climbing , changing the cheek teeth into a crushing or grinding apparatus and increasing in bulk . The occupation of the new field had already begun , therefore , when the last of the dinosaurs became extinct at the end of the Cretaceous ; but it had not progressed far . A few  | conser-ative races , like the opossum , have persisted almost unchanged to the present day . Certain others , the primates , remaining in the trees , continued to perfect their organization for this mode of life , while increasing steadily in brain capacity , and gave rise to the lemurs , monkeys and apes of the present day . Among the other groups of mammals some retained or reverted to tree life in varying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lost , and even here there are one or two exceptions . The terrestrial races evolved into carnivora and various types of herbivora . The carnivora , preying upon other animals , evolved sharp teeth and claws , activity and speed . Some became the ancestors of the modern carnivores , others of races that became extinct . The ancestry o : the dogs and cats and of most of the wild carnivora has been traced bad to the early Tertiary , where they become so much alike and so confused by the collateral extinct races that they can no longer be distinguished Among the hoofed animals we find the ancestors of horses , rhinoceroses and tapirs , animals widely apart today in structure and appearance , so much alike that they are hardly distinguishable , and so different from their modern descendants that the relationship would not be suspected , and was not , until the long series of intermediate stages was discovered in the successive geologic formation : of the Tertiary period . So too with the progenitor : of pigs , sheep , cattle and all kinds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beginning of the Eocene . barely recognizable as such by certain peculiarities in the foot bones , but with teeth and skulls in no way distinctive , and only through the succession of intermediate stages  | can we see how they were gradually changed into their modern descendants . About the end of the Eocene we are able to distinguish as such the ancestors of camels and llamas ; a little later we can distinguish the beginnings of the deer family , and in the Miocene we meet the first distinguishable antelopes and cattle . Evolution of Elephants The earliest known ancestor of the elephant is an animal of quite moderate size , the Palceomastodon , with very short trunk and small upper and lower tusks , and a nearly complete set of small , simple cheek teeth , which are very different from the highly specialized grinders of the elephant . In the Miocene we find the mastodons , first the Trilophodon , of larger size than Palceomastodon , with longer trunk and larger tusks and the cheek teeth becoming fewer in number , but those that remain are larger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finally Elephas , the trunk progressively longer , the jaw shorter , the lower tusks disappearing , while the upper pair grow into the great curving tusks which we see today lose their enamel completely , and the cheek teeth are reduced finally to one on each side of each jaw ; but this is a complex grinder with numerous transverse plates of enamel perpendicular to the wearing surface , and alternated with dentine and " cement . " The direct ancestors of Pala'omastodon have not been found , but it is no doubt related to a group of primitive Eocene hoofed animals known as Amblypoda . These are traced back to very primitive animals with piglike teeth , and also gave rise to some very singular extinct types , the Cory phodon , with large flaring front teeth and tusks , and the Uintatherium , with great saber-like upper tusks , and two or even three pair of bony bosses or " horns " on the top of the skull . Both were large animals , the Uintatherium as large as a rhinoceros , and , like the elephant , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limbs , although the skull and teeth do not suggest elephants . These Amblypoda played an important part in the world in their day . Since the large quadrupeds of modern times had not yet come into existence , the Coryphodon and the  | L-intatherium took their place in nature , and doubtless lorded it over their smaller associates with the same bullying contempt for the rights of the little peoples and heavy confidence in their own strength and size as a modern rhinoceros shows today . They in turn became extinct , and were succeeded by other massive giants , such as the Titanothere , with a pair of big bony horns above the nose , a distant relative of the rhinoceroses ; the Entelodon or Giant Pig , a creature with enormous jaws and savage looking teeth ; and the Moropus , an odd-looking giant , with the neck and head of a horse , a massive body with long fore legs and great claws on the feet instead of hoofs . During the early Tertiary all the southern continents were isolated by ocean barriers , as Australia is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole series of animals independently of the northern world . Among these extinct animals the most remarkable in Africa was the great horned drsinothere , a huge elephantine beast with a pair of long , stout horns . In South America an entirely different set of animals , often resembling the northern animals in one way or another , yet in no wise related , was evolved . In Australia an equally peculiar set of animals was evolved , representing the various kinds of northern animals , and resembling them often very closely , yet in fact being not even remotely related to northern species , but descended , all of them , from oposum-like animals which had arrived in Australia in the Age of Reptiles . Many of these Australian animals still survive . In Africa and South America very few of their native species now survive ; most of them have been supplanted by the northern invaders .  |                     