@@493149

drys , three are classed as liberal , and one as very wet . The opinion in Ashtabula seems to be that , taking both quality and representative character into consideration , a better choice could hardly have been made from the candidates ; that the new council will contain more ability than the present one elected on the ward plan , and that it will also be more representative of the entire body of voters . Before the election the two daily papers were inclined to look askance at the new system . The day after the count one of them declared : " The drys and wets are represented . The Protestants and Catholics , the business , professional and laboring men , the Republicans , Democrats and Socialists , the English , Swedes and Italians , all are represented . It would be hard to select a more representative council in any other way . " The other paper stated : " It is generally conceded that it has given Ashtabula a broadly representative council , probably the most representative body in the city 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hare system . " Yes , I think it may be said that Ashtabula has shown other cities how to elect a council in such a manner as to provide suitable representation for all parties and interests . Under the plan which this city has adopted the majority will control , but the minority or minorities will have representation in proportion to their importance , and the quality of the council may be expected steadily to improve . When groups of opinion come to understand that if they have a little more than one-eighth of the votes they can not be denied representation in the council , their ablest representatives will be willing to become candidates . Men of high professional and business training will stand for election to the council , because they will be sure that if they really represent their element they will win . Gerrymandering and a portion of the other political wire-pulling will disappear . Parties will tend to find a basis on principle rather than largely on patronage as at the present time . With a council chosen by proportional representation the last serious objection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . is opened for permanent expert service in city administration and for the elimination of politics from that part of our city governments . Proportional representation will provide a council which may properly be allowed to choose a city manager ? a council whose members stand for policies and the fundamental interests of the community , rather than for a more or less artificial party organization . Ashtabula has a short ballot , the manager-plan , and a council chosen by proportional representation . But the Ashtabula experiment with proportional representation has promise beyond the domain of city government . The cities are now the only place in this country where any considerable amount ofpolitical experimentation is possible . They are making the largest contributions to our knowledge of new governmental devices . This is especially true of the cities in those states which , like Ohio , have granted their municipalities a large measure of freedom . Far from the cities modeling their governments after the state plan , there is now a noticeable tendency for the states to draw their inspiration from the cities . It is possible that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reform of the present inequitable and demoralizing method of choosing the members of state legislatures and the lower house of Congress . AUGUSTUS R. HATTON . CORRESPONDENCE The Turtle Underneath si IR : A bulletin of the American Association for International Conciliation , bearing the title , " The Fundamental Causes of the World War , " should cause a stir . If one believes in the meaning and potency of words , here is something to study amidst the plethora of war journalism . So we open it with a kind of breathless haste ; we are to find truth new , and searching and approaching the absolute . We read : " We have never had a real peace . . . This war is nothing else than the logical result of the kind of peace which we possess . " Good ! And we read on to learn about " the kind of peace which we possess . " But it is all vague and nebulous . It seems to mean , so far as it means anything definite , merely that the nations of Europe were ready @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any more than it is fundamental . We have all laughed at the ancients for explaining that the earth rested on the shoulders of Atlas , Atlas on an elephant , and the elephant on a turtle . Dr. Fried has found the elephant , but has not looked for the turtle , and does not even suspect that the turtle requires a footing . Militarism rests upon national distrust and Surplus Profits ; Surplus Profits rest upon the Capitalistic system of production . Perhaps he really does suspect the presence of the turtle , for he concludes : " The only thing we need is the destruction of anarchy and the only end of the war which can satisfy us will be a general realization that after this war the old peace which caused it must not be allowed to return , that not the respective states are the enemy , but that the conditions under which they have been living heretofore and which have oppressed and crushed them , really constitute the great common enemy . " This is fine , and true , but nebulous . What are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a war tax in times of peace ? The diversion from the public good of large sums of money for armaments ? These are silly elephants to be sure , but to replace them by some other grotesque beast from the menagerie , leaving the turtle below and whatever is beneath the turtle , would be only a more or less uninteresting exercise in comparative biology . The turtle is the real objective point . The capitalistic system of production is upholding war . What stands under the turtle ? I would make a hazard that it is the goat .                     