@@430757

 | IN the fall of 1915 , Yuan Shih-kai , who had been elected President of the Chinese Republic two years before , made the grave mistake of his career as a statesman by entertaining ? whether it was his wish or not ? the thought that the moment was ripe for the restoration of monarchical government . The announcement that the return to monarchy would be effected precipitated a second rebellion ? this time not confined to the South ? against Yuan as an individual . The Vice-President , Li Yuan-hung , who had led the forces of the Revolution which established the Republic , refused to take sides . General Tuan Chi-jui , who , after leading the Northern forces which defended the Manchu monarchy , had become Chief of Staff under the Republic , refused to support the attempt to establish a monarchical government . General Feng Kuo-chang , who had also commanded an imperial army , now fought for the Republic , and was a candidate for the presidency . Liang Chi-chao , who had stood for constitutional monarchy until after the Republic had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the new regime , opposed Yuan 's attempt to make another change . Within three months , Yuan was beaten and forced to declare that the Republic would be maintained . Not satisfied with this alone , the leaders of the coalition opposition demanded that Yuan retire from office . The " Great President " had drafted his resignation , when suddenly his death cleared the political atmosphere . THE SUCCESSOR OF YUAN SHIH-KAI Li Yuan-hung , the Vice-President , thereupon succeeded to the presidency , June 6 , 1916 . In August , the Parliament confirmed the appointment of General Tuan Chi-jui as Premier and endorsed the cabinet which he had selected , which was made up largely of liberal and able men . It also , in October , by a large majority , elected Feng Kuochang Vice-President . It appeared at the opening of the present year that a capable and satisfactory group of men were in office and that a period of freedom from civil strife might be expected . It is permissible to hope , but it is not safe to predict , with regard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kept in mind : neither have the people nor have the politicians of China had long experience of republican government ; a permanent constitution has not yet been adopted ; and a general agreement as to what is desirable and what is required to make a " republican government workable is conspicuously lacking . Elements making for instability are numerous . Perhaps most dangerous of all is the existence of a number of military groups , each consisting of a body of soldiers substantially independent , the whole spoken of as the Chinese army , but in organization more nearly resembling separate armies of feudal retainers each under its own chieftain . THE BREAK WITH GERMANY When the United States severed diplomatic relations with Germany , President Wilson directed the American Ministers and Ambassadors to neutral countries to attempt to secure similar action by the governments to which they are accredited . In China , Minister Reinsch went actively about his task , with the result that on February 9 the Chinese Government followed the American lead and protested to Germany against the submarine campaign . President Li had opposed this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war . VicePresident Feng at first opposed . Premier Tuan and the conservative generals were undecided . A group of the younger generals and many of the young China politicians sensed the larger aspects of the opportunity which was offered . The opposition of the conservatives was beaten down by the insistence of the keener visioned group , aided and abetted by , foreign advice .  | The next question was : Should China break off diplomatic relations with Germany ? The Premier and the Vice-President favored this and the cabinet decided unanimously for the breach . The opposition of President Li led to Tuan 's resignation ( March 5 ) and immediate departure from Peking . When the President learned that Tuan had the support of the entire cabinet and of practically all the Parliament leaders , he promptly changed his mind and sent Feng to recall Tuan . A reconciliation was effected and the President promised that he would not henceforth refuse to do what the cabinet had agreed on ; while Tuan , on his side , pledged himself to take no further steps without the consent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by a very large majority and in spite of the appeals of prominent leaders of the Kwoming party , among them Dr. Sun Yat-sen and Tang Shao-yi , to approve the decision of the cabinet . On March 14 , the German Minister was given his passports and the declaration severing diplomatic relations . The Chinese Government at once dismissed the German consuls , seized German vessels in China ports , renamed the German concessions , revoked German extraterritorial rights , repudiated the German share of the Boxer indemnity , suspended payment on German loans , dismissed all Germans employed in the administration , and practically eliminated German interests . The Dutch Legation took charge of remaining German affairs in China . ( Is there any relation between this and the fact that General Chang Hsun has now taken refuge in the Dutch legation ? ) CHINA HESITATES TO ENTER THE WAR Then came the question : Should China declare war on Germany ? The cabinet favored taking this step , but apparently planned to do so on its own authority and under the tutelage of Japan . President Li @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American , and English advisers urged that China enter the war . They suggested that it would enhance her prestige and give her the right to sit in the Peace Conference . It appeared by this time that the Entente Powers were desirous of China 's cooperation in order that her iron and coal , her arsenals , her supply of laborers , and perhaps even of soldiers , might be at their disposal . China naturally inquired what she might expect as a quid pro quo , and it has been suggested that she might reasonably ask for the assurance that payment of portions of the Boxer indemnity be at least deferred , that she should ultimately be granted relief from the present tariff restrictions , that she be given financial assistance , and that the question of the removal of foreign railway and legation guards be considered . Liang Chi-chao , the most effective political publicist in all China , came out with all the force of influence and argument in favor of declaring war . Under the caption , " Wanted ? a Cavour , " he presented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to China from casting in her lot with that of the Allies . He contended that China must substitute action for passivity in her foreign relations . He declared the present her " last opportunity to become a member of the family of nations . " China has nothing to lose , for if Germany should win the war she would conquer China sooner or later , even though China had remained out . But , he declared , Germany 's last chance to win has disappeared . When the Allies are victorious , China must have a seat in the Peace Council , and to gain this she must have contributed , and she must have the friendship of Japan and the United States . Liang will long be remembered for his earlier declaration of political principle in the words : " Better perish as jade than be saved as brick . " The Ministry signed a declaration of war on March 29 , this to be promulgated as soon as approved by the provincial and military governors , the Parliament and the President . The governors promptly declared for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slow in acting . The President was still in doubt . OPPOSITION IN THE COUNTRY Toward the end of April a conference of military governors assembled in Peking and it seemed that a declaration of war would be made shortly . There was , however , a strong minority opposition . The opposition developed along several lines and on several issues . It was not confined to one party nor has it shown unanimity of motive . There has been a group of out-and-out pacifists , opposing war on humanitarian grounds . There has been a group with pro-German leanings . There has been a group seeking , by use of this issue , to force the Premier from office and to thwart the alleged plans of the " militarists . " There has been a group willing to enter the  | war , but objecting to the methods of the cabinet , which it alleges would betray China into the hands of Japan . A CABINET CRISIS Premier Tuan insisted on a declaration of war . Parliament , though the majority of its members apparently favored war , refused to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governors demanded that Parliament be dissolved . The Houses of Parliament were surrounded by Tuan 's men . The President declared that coercion was being attempted . After a riotous session , the Houses voted that they would not declare war while Tuan 's cabinet remained in office . The Peking Daily News declared that Tuan had " sold out to Japan . " Tuan arrested the editor . The President declared that he would not countenance coercion and that the government must be conducted according to the constitution . On May 23 he dismissed Tuan and appointed Wu-Ting-fang Premier . The military governors thereupon left Peking in a body . The principal complaints against Tuan appear to have been : that he was organizing a militaristic despotism , that he was permitting corruption , that he defied Parliament , that progress under him was impossible . It was alleged also that his cabinet was proJapanese . A MILITARY REVOLT The generals at once demanded Tuan 's reinstatement . Within a week they began mobilizing their armies . The revolt which followed was not , as had been those of 1913 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; it was an act of the military leaders ? representing both conservatives and progressives , and it was directed against the obstructionist tactics of . the Kwo-ming and other politicians . The majority of the provinces contributed to ' a movement in force against the President and the Parliament . It appears that President Li , at this juncture , asked General Chang Hsun , the most powerful of the generals , commander of the army at Nanking , to come to Peking with the object of effecting a compromise . Chang proceeded to Tientsin , and then it was announced that the generals had set up a provisional government , with Hsu Shih-chang , a monarchist and one-time guardian of the Emperor , as dictator . An ultimatum was sent by the generals to President Li , demanding that he dissolve Parliament within forty-eight hours and call for a new election-and that the reelection of present members of Parliament be forbidden . At this turn , several of the Southern provinces declared their independence . President Li at first refused to dissolve Parliament , but he appears ultimately to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this tangle , the American Government had officially declared to the Chinese " its sincere hope that factional and political disputes will be set aside and that all parties and persons will work to reestablish and coordinate the government and secure China 's position among nations . " Though President Li was virtually a prisoner in Peking , it was announced that he would continue the government until a new election could be held , and that the first business of the new Parliament would be to deal with the question of declaring war . Li Ching-hsi was appointed Premier , and he chose a coalition cabinet . The Southern provinces declared their acceptance of the new administration . CHANG , " THE VILLA OF CHINA " On July 2 the world was startled by the news that General Chang Hsun had informed President Li that he must give up the presidency , as the Monarchy was to be restored in the person of the Manchu Emperor Hsuan-tung . This move Chang obviously made upon his - own authority . Chang Hsun is " the Francesco Villa of China . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twenty years ago a mafoo or groom . He was a member of the party which accompanied the Empress Dowager in her flight to the West in 1900 . After the return to Peking he was made an officer , and by 1911 he had attained the position of Tartar-General at Nanking . There , during the revolution , he earned the sobriquet , " the butcher of Nanking . " When he evacuated Nanking under the attack of the revolutionary forces he moved northward on the Tientsin-Pukow railway and established himself at Hsu Chow-fu , where he has since gradually accumulated a following of some thirty or forty thousand men . So powerful has he been that the government has never dared attempt to dislodge him , but on the contrary has purchased his support , finally conferring on him the rank of Field Marshal and making him Inspector of the Yangtse Provinces . He is said to have accumulated a fortune of several million dollars and  | he has undoubtedly been the most feared of the military leaders . He has no respect for parliaments and no sympathy with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republic was at an end , President Li took refuge in the Japanese legation . Chang assumed the post of Grand Secretary and in the name of the Emperor announced the policy of the administration . THE ABORTIVE ATTEMPT TO RESTORE MON-ARCHY This monarchical coup resulted in the aligning of all the theretofore contending forces in common opposition to Chang . Pacifists and militarists , Southerners and Northerners , radicals and conservatives , Tuan , Feng , and the leaders who had opposed them , all threw their forces together to resist the establishment of Chang 's dictatorship under the mask of a Constitutional Manchu Monarchy . From his refuge in the Japanese Legation , President Li ordered Feng Kuo-chang to assume the presidency and establish the government at Nanking and to reinstate Tuan Chi-jui in the Premiership . Tuan took command of the armies which gathered to attack Peking . Sun Yat-sen was put in command of the navy . Feng was elected President , with governmental headquarters at Nanking and subsequently at Tientsin . The Republican armies promptly surrounded Peking in overwhelming numbers and Chang 's soldiers began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undertook to resist , shutting himself up in the imperial city , but a heavy bombardment and the shelling of his headquarters by aeroplanes soon convinced him that the game was up and he took refuge in the Dutch Legation . Before yielding , Chang had asked the Japanese Minister to mediate between him and the Re , publican forces . This the minister had refused to do . The Japanese Government has declared repeatedly that it has had nothing to do with the movement and has not taken sides or assisted in any way , The Monarchy has , of course , fallen ' The twelve-year-old Emperor abdicated twice within the week during which Chang held him on the throne . Before Chang was overcome , the Republicans declared it their intention to banish the Imperial family from Peking ? where they have been entertained as the guests and virtually the prisoners of the nation since the abdication in 1912 . This they may or may not do . Tuan Chi-jui is again in authority . Li Hung-chang is apparently discredited . It remains to be seen whether Feng Kwo-chang @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are in power , Parliament is out , the recalcitrants are beaten . Two things definitely may be supposed to have been accomplished in domestic politics : Chang Hsun , the most lawless of all the military chieftains , the least amenable to republican ideals , is probably eliminated ; the question of possible return to monarchy under the Manchus is probably answered forever in the negative . It is interesting to speculate as to whether Chang was lured from his impregnable position in the South ? whether he was in any way encouraged by other generals to proceed , with the deliberate hope that he would hang himself . In international relations , it may reasonably be expected that a declaration of war will come promptly and that this will accomplish a third result in domestic affairs , namely , that it will put an end for the present to pro-German propaganda in China . With Chang Hsun removed and his army scattered , it may be possible for Tuan to unite the forces of the various generals and make of the Chinese soldiers a real national army . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , even though it be at the cost of the establishing of a military regime such as his opponents have alleged Tuan has been trying to create . China 's government must be that of the strong man , and it must , for the time being , be founded upon force ? force so directed and so far sufficient that it can maintain order and carry out the mandates of the central authorities . Not until order and respect for law is assured can progress in the direction of constitutionalism be expected .                     