@@430742

It sometimes seems as if educational tendencies might be compared to those of the changes in clothes . Styles and patterns alter ; the essential garments remain the same ; and even these superficial alterations appear after all to work around in cycles . The more they change , the more they are the same . In one aspect , education is plastic and easily divertible ; in another , it is the hardest of all things to change . For to change it , means to change men 's minds , not their conscious beliefs nor their professed ideals but those mental sets which limit and control all conscious thinking and desire . It would be a comparatively easy thing to educate children in an ideal way ? if the parents and elders did not have to be educated first . And , really , the old illustration of complete physical disability ? lifting one 's self over the fence ? seems inadequate to set forth the impossibility of deliberate effort at radical alteration of mental habitudes . Nevertheless in the long run , clothes are changed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may have to be long enough to take in centuries . The knights and ladies of the obsolete courts of a bygone world were garbed in other mode than the commuter and shop girl of to-day . For those courts are obsolete , and with their passing went the ways of living of which the court was but a symbol . And so it is in some wise with education . The educational reformer has little more influence than the dress reformer . A few persons do something " queer , " and thus make it a little easier for others to do something which is slightly more sensible , somewhat further removed from convention , than what they were doing before . Meanwhile the active habitudes of life are changing in ways which are not willed and from these changes in conditions which underlie education follow inevitably transformations in its purposes and methods . A prolonged and insistent inspection of the contemporary scene will not tell what is mere change in temporary fashion  | and what is sign and evidence of enduring transfiguration . But a glance along a longer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ current tendencies in education , then , one may mean either currents which are but the eddies of the day , no matter how much they may be wearing away the banks which bound one 's own property , or one may refer to certain irresistible flows which are to determine the stream in years to come . If anyone tries to talk about the latter tendencies , he is betting on an unknown future , or , if you prefer a more dignified language , he is indulging in that liberty of prophesying which is man 's chief prerogative . If he is talking about the former , he is discussing the technique of a profession , a matter of interest to those engaged in it , but of no more interest to the general public than are the routine procedures of any other art ? save that they directly affect all who have children ( and most do ) and thus easily excite interest and engage controversy . Rival systems of handwriting , the phonic versus the phonetic method , both versus the word method , of teaching reading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our discussions of ancient versus modern language and both versus natural science . They are primarily concerned with increasing shop efficiency , refining and enlarging the output , while reducing overhead expense and lowering the " turn over . " That , I take it , is why we do not find educational periodicals vying with daily newspapers , and weekly or monthly magazines , for the attention of even the most conscientious parent . To find fault is the only sure way of getting attention to the schools , unless it is to promote , by our modern advanced publicity methods , a brand new remedy for the teaching pains of all the ages . However , I fear I am taking more space for my introduction than I am going to be able to give to the body of my comment . But the introduction will , in any case , be more important than the body of my article if it leaves in the mind of the reader a due sense of the precarious nature of any effort to interpret current educational tendencies in any but their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many revolutions it was which the cynical character in Browning 's poem had seen , but educational revolutions occur about once a year , and overlap each other during about half that time . And this sense of the uncertain nature of the enterprise of observing and recording them is really significant if it but impresses the fact that the place in which to look for significant educational changes , those which are most likely to endure and fructify , is not education at all , but is important social changes which go on irrespective of education . For alterations of the former sort come and go ; the latter shape the aims and agencies of education . In my wagering as to the future which follows in the guise of a report upon the present , I am guided not so much by what I seem to see going on in the schools as by what I believe concerning the connection of these school events with larger currents of our social life . I attach very considerable importance , then , to the movement for introducing scales , standards , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so much because of the amount of attention they are now receiving , as because they represent , I think , a seeping into education of " efficiency " concepts and methods which modern life is making inevitable . It is not a matter of liking or not liking them ; probably the first reaction of those of us who have developed their own highly individualized modes of efficiency and inefficiency is one of aversion . The significant thing is that modern industry has forced the recognition of the large part played by the factor of mechanism in any undertaking , and thus the recognition of the need that this mechanical factor be frankly acknowledged for just what it is and be made as accurate , as smooth-running , as is possible . That a school is a less mechanical thing than a factory goes without saying . But it has its mechanical side and base ; every study taught from the first grade on has its mechanical features . A movement toward standardization , toward the instituting of scales of measurement and applying them , is but the honest perception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of introducing and fostering the mechanical element is to ignore the fact that nothing is already more deeply entrenched in the schools than the mechanical . To investigate it is the first step in the attempt to dis- cover whether it is within or beyond its due bounds , and whether it is actually accomplishing what it is supposed to effect . It will take time for the movement to clear itself up ; it is easy to detect much that is ridiculously like a caricature in all phases of the " efficiency " movement . But the movement itself is an expression of that scientific realism which notes the working of mechanism wherever results are accomplished , and , noting it , asks whether the mechanism is as effective as it may be . It was , I believe , Dean Swift who said that he had no idea of economy save as a servant of freedom . In the end , this must also be said of efficiency . The danger in the introduction of standardizing methods in teaching and administration is not in the tools themselves . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forget that it is only existing methods which can be measured and standardized . Efficiency methods mightjave been applied to various methods of using human muscle power before the advent of steam . Until after the advent of the latter , they could not have been used to measure the comparative efficiency of hand and leg power over against steam power . Doubtless many of the methods which are now in process of attempted standardization are not worth the attention they receive . Too often we are deciding upon which is best among three or four ways of doing things , no one of which is good . In short the limits of the efficiency movement are the limits of what is already achieved in the way of school technique . The movement may succeed in ascertaining which is the best , relatively speaking , among them . It can not tell whether any one of them has , relatively to some future invention , any claim to existence . The counterpart , the balance wheel , of any such movement , must accordingly be one of creation , of invention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education by the tendency to develop experimental schools . I do not mean of course that these are developing just as a counterweight to the efficiency and measurement movement . They too draw upon forces working widely and deeply outside the schools . Their immediate cause is generally dissatisfaction with the results attained in schools of the prevailing type , no matter what their efficiency may be as meas- ured by established standards . They often , perhaps most often , represent on their face simply a desire of some group of parents that their children have a happier and more wholesome school life than they have been enjoying , plus the reaction of some wearied and disgusted teacher . Even so , they lay hold on deep connections . The mobility and flexibility , the freshness and variety , of modern life stand in increasingly startling contrast with the wooden routine , the deadly conventionality , of the average traditional school . The same forces which have wrought the change in the larger social life , and which cause one to choke and stifle when one happens to be forced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there , are surely making their way also into the schools . Nor is this tendency to flexibility and freshness ( which is a large part of what goes popularly by the name of democracy ) the only force operating to produce the experimental movement in education . Sometimes experimental schools , judged by their practice , seem to be only escapes from routine ? I had almost written escapades . They have emancipated themselves not only from tradition from also from directive ideas . This sort of experimentation represents , however , only the caricaturing shadow which accompanies all vital motion in the sun . In truth , experimentation is ' the fruit of science in the field of creative endeavor , of controlled constructive invention . It is based upon ideas and is a method for a continuous carrying of ideas on to maturity . That mechanical efficiency is a fruit of the modern scientific spirit is no truer than that this spirit has also awakened in man a sense of creative power and has equipped him with agencies for realizing the inventive ideas which the enlarged spectacle of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have not exhausted a list of the significant current tendencies in education . But the two which I have mentioned stand out to my vision at the present moment as I try to survey the flux and reflux of the infinite detail of school tendencies in their connections with the moving tides from which they draw all their enduring energies .  |                     