@@486145

There ran through the speeches at the opening of the Pan-American Scientific Congress on Monday a deep current of feeling . The human note was strongly sounded in Secretary Lansing 's altogether admirable address of welcome . " The American family of nations might well take for its motto that of Dumas 's famous musketeers : ' One for all and all for one . ' " This is not the ordinary style of a Minister of Foreign Affairs . Neither do we find the usual reservations and cautions of statesmanship : " The ambitions of this republic do not lie in the path of conquest , but in the paths of peace and justice . Whenever and wherever we can we will stretch forth a hand to those who need help . " It was a pledge of security not only against the outside world , but as against ourselves . " When we attempt to analyze Pan-Americanism we find that the essential qualities are : absence of covetousness of another 's possessions , absence of jealousy of another 's prominence , and , above all , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace of a neighbor . " Mr. Lansing did not mention Mexico , but Mexico must have been in the minds of all who heard him . And primarily it was the thought of Mexico that gave to the proceedings the striking touch of sincerity . Much was said of the war in Europe , and of how it has emphasized the need of a common defence for the American republics . The Chilian Ambassador , as president of the Congress , spoke of the Monroe Doctrine as having developed into a " solid tie of union , a guarantee , a bulwark for our democracies . " But the impression of all that was said is not that a mere external force , a possible danger from across the Atlantic , has brought the American republics huddling together against the approaching storm . Pan-Americanism is not primarily the result of a welding process from the outside , but of a process of amalgamation from within . Fear of what may come after the war in Europe would not be sufficient to bring the republics together if the Latin Americans were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America is learning to believe in our disinterestedness is that we have given in the last five years the most complete demonstration poslible . In Mexico we have shown that tofu ) olicy is the American continent for all Americans , and not the Americas for the United States . That the French steamer Vale de la Ciotat was torpedoed and sunk by a submarine in the Mediterranean , on the 24th , without warning , is officially stated by the French Ministry of Marine . A majority of the passengers and crew were picked up by an English steamer , but 79 or 80 lost their lives . This comes on top of the sinking of a Japanese steamer a few days before , the absence of warning in which case the American Consul at Port Said has confirmed by cable . How gravely these acts of lawlessness affect the situation between our country and Austria arising out of the Ancona massacre must be clear to any one who stops to think . The reply of the Austrian Government to our first note on the Ancona case laid most stress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a ghastly joke to pretend that the exact circumstances of the killing in the Ancona case have to be looked into with solemn accuracy at the very moment when the cables are informing us of the slaughter of non-combatants on merchant ships , without a moment 's warning , as the regular practice of the Teutonic submarine commanders . While our demand in the Ancona case  --  as in that of the Lusitania and the Arabic  --  is expressly grounded on the killing of Americans engaged in the exercise of their lawful rights , the only way to protect those rights and to prevent such killing is by bringing about the cessation of submarine outlawry . England , to win the war , must have , like any other belligerent , men , munitions , and money . Only in respect to the last-named commodity has no criticism been levelled as yet against Mr. Asquith . With regard to men and munitions , the campaign against the Asquith Cabinet is once more in full swing The press of Lord Northcliffe takes it for granted that the Derby voluntary enlistment plan has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the munitions question we have Lloyd George 's increasingly fervent appeals to the workers . It is not necessary to assume that Lloyd George is cooperating with Lord Northcliffe . He may be merely trying to do his duty as Minister of Munitions in characteristically whole-hearted fashion . Yet his warnings and exhortations can not but fall in with Northcliffe 's attack upon the Cabinet . The time , of course , is propitious . The Government has confessed failure in the Dardanelles . The schedules in bankruptcy have been filed-200,000 men wasted in killed , wounded , and invalided . It is the worst piece of single news to which the British people has been treated since the beginning of the war . If Asquith is to be forced out at all , it is not likely that another such opportunity will occur . The demand for a reconstruction of the Asquith Cabinet must be based on one of two assumptions . Either there is a lot of genius running loose in England which Mr. Asquith has failed to bring into the service of the nation , or else Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand . With regard to the first proposition , it should be noted that the present Cabinet is a Ministry of all the talents . The only Unionist leader of note not included is Sir Edward Carson , and he went out of the Cabinet as a protest against present methods . In backing Lloyd George , therefore , the movement has apparently decided that what the Cabinet needs is a reshuffling , with a man of action at the head . It may very well be that with Lloyd George as Premier things would happen . The fact remains , however , that Lloyd George in his own special department of munitions has , by his own accounts , not made a huge success of it . And the reason can not be that he has been hampered by Mr. Asquith . The fact is , of course , that the British Cabinet , in the face of a task of unprecedented dimensions , has made blunders , precisely as every other belligerent government has blundered , not excluding Germany . These errors have been in part avoidable , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's place might profit by his predecessor 's experience , but no miracles of victory will be worked through mere manipulation of Cabinets and Premiers . " I had much rather stretch out my hand to America in gratitude , " writes Cardinal Mercier , " but I must hold out my open hand to beg " And it is right that he should beg , unafraid and unashamed , and for more and more and more . This is not only Belgium that is speaking ; it is devastated Europe addressing to peaceful and prosperous America the only kind of Christmas message it can frame : Help us . We have given , but not enough . Not enough when measured by what we can afford to give ; certainly not enough when measured by the immensity of the need . A war which has dwarfed all previous standards of woe and suffering must be made to dwarf all previous standards of charity . It is not our hearts that are at fault , but our imaginations . We must not let the fact that this is the greatest calamity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be reminded that this is a horror of which no one alive to-day has seen the like , of which no one alive to-day will ever see the like . The recruiting offices all over Europe are asking the young men to think what answer they will give when their children some day ask them what their fathers did in the time of great need . It is for us to think what answer we can make when our children some day shall ask us what we , of prosperous and peaceful America , did at a time when half the world was in agony . In a statement issued at Boston a day or two ago , Dr. James L. Barton , chairman of the national committee for Armenian and Servian relief , made public the text of a protest , addressed by the German Ambassador at Constantinople to the Turkish Govthat had come to its knowledge , declares that it finds itself " obliged to remonstrate once more against these acts of horror . " It is gratifying to note this action by the Kaiser 's representative , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has at least the merit of asserting the position that any civilized nation must necessarily take in face of such a situation . Evidently , Reventlow 's doctrine that it would be wrong for a German to interfere , even by criticism , with the freedom of the Turk to conduct himself as he pleases in these little affairs is not shared by the highest authorities at Berlin . There may be a little sarcasm in the comments of the Frankfurter Zeitung on President Wilson 's plans for national defence . This organ of Liberal opinion in Germany thinks that they will , or ought to , put an end in the United States to outcries against Prussian Mattarismus . " No people has inveighed against the German system more loudly than the Americans . " Well , what will they say about " Wilson 's conversion to militarism " ? But the Frankfurter , in its treatment of the whole question , goes beyond international retorts . It takes a very sober view of the consequences of the adoption by the United States of a policy of great armaments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Germany as of prophetic force , that the power of the whole earth is to be concentrated in the hands of two or three nations , with all the others shut out . On the contrary , boldly declares the Frankfurter Zeitung , " we hope and believe that the result of the war will be a very significant distribution of power in the world , so that mankind will be freed from the terrible pressure of Weitinackte . " A Democratic Administration at Washington would naturally wish to share in such aspirations , not to do anything to dash them . Statistics of the amount of destruction of British merchant ships that has been wrought by German submarines and mines are periodically put forward by the Overseas News Agency . The latest of these places the amount from the beginning of the war to the end of last month , " as stated on competent German authority , " at 1,231 , - 944 tons , " which means a less of 6.9 per cent . of the total British tonnage . " Presumably , actual conclusion that must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to think is precisely the opposite . Undoubtedly , a loss of 6 per cent . of the entire volume of British shipping , even if spread over a period of sixteen months , is no light matter ; but how utterly incapable it is of producing any appreciable effect upon the fortunes of the war is sufficiently evident when the result is translated into terms of insurance . Evidently , an extremely small rate of insurance ? so small as to have no serious bearing even on the question of prices  --  would be sufficient to cover the risk imposed in any one ordinary voyage by an instrumentality which effects a destruction of less than half of one per cent . of the nation 's tonnage in a month . And this remains true even after allowance is made  --  as it should be  --  for the fact that the risks run by that part of the shipping which is specially exposed to the danger of submarine attack are far greater than the average for the entire volume . Premier Borden 's statement that Canada is willing to double her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a great burden she is ready to bear . She has already more than 175,000 men under arms , and of these nearly 100,000 are on the Continent or in England  --  equipped and maintained by the Dominion . Mr. N. W. Rowell , the Liberal leader in Ontario , has insisted that in comparison with the mother country Canada should have 600,000 men under arms , and at least 300,000 constantly on the fighting line . As the situation in Europe has darkened , Canadian determination , as reflected in the press , has kept steady pace with England 's . So far / L S population goes , the Dominion 's 8,000,000 people would seem able to raise 400,000 men without extraordinary effort . But it must be remembered that millions of Canada 's population are not strictly British , and that she can not recruit so easily as homogeneous Australasia . The financial burden , moreover , will be very great if Canada undertakes to maintain 400,000 men on the Continent . Mr. Roosevelt hates and despises Mr. Wilson more than he does any other man in public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he tried , the Colonel could not hate and despise somebody worse than he does Mr. Wilson . To say otherwise would be to re-fleet on the Colonel 's versatility and power of emotional concentration . This is the latest explanation of the famous Gary dinner , and a luncheon that took place about the same time . At these functions Mr. Roosevelt let it be known that if the Republicans try to nominate a candidate who is weak on Americanism , meaning preparedness , Mr. Roosevelt will throw his support to Wilson . This is consistent and adequate preparedness . It is preparedness against any possible adversary , Wilson , or whoever is the greater traitor nominated by either party on the un-American platform of disagreeing with Mr. Roosevelt . Believing heart and soul in preparedness , the Colonel has prepared a hymn of hate which may be discharged in any direction , like the guns of the Queen Elizabeth : Hate of the mind and hate of the spleen , Hate of the stout and hate of the lean , Whom will I hate in June , ' 16 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Root McCall ! j For the third or fourth time in the last few years , Gen. Leonard Wood has struck an excellent blow for discipline and morality in the army by severely censuring a court-martial which failed to do justice . In previous cases he has dealt with courts that permitted drunken officers to escape without adequate punishment . Now his rebuke goes to the court which tried Col. Robert L. Hirst ; the latter subjected a soldier of his command , who had struck him , to a cruel punishment , chaining him to a post . This savors entirely too much of Prussian militarism to be tolerated in the United States Army . As it is , there is much too great severity shown by the dealings of courts-martial with enlisted men as contrasted with the treatment accorded officers . Furthermore , Gen. Wood , Secretary Garrison , and Judge-Advocate-General Crowder are incessantly endeavoring to tone up the standards of the military courts , in which undertaking Gen. Wood 's powerful and just rebuke will be extremely helpful . As the ease of Col. Hirst now stands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been sentenced to five years ' imprisonment at hard labor , while the Colonel , whose appearance in full uniform in a saloon in which enlisted men were drinking has not been explained , and whose guilt as to the punishment inflicted Gen. Wood considers established , has gone scot free . An excellent step has been taken by the Federal Reserve Board in the adoption of a resolution declaring it to be the opinion of the Board that persons holding political or public office , or acting as members of party committees , " can not consistently with the spirit and underlying principles of the Federal Reserve act serve as directors or officers of Federal Reserve banks . " Copies of the resolution are to be sent to all the Member banks , and they are urged to conform to it in the election of directors or officers of Federal Reserve banks . The effect of this action should be not only conclusive as to the class explicitly covered by the resolution , but highly effective in keeping out the danger of appointments for politics in any shape . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ person who objects to a political appointment will have a powerful force to back him in his protest . There are plenty of ways for politicians to get in their " pull " without naming any office-holder or party committeeman ; but in spirit the resolution adopted by the Board covers the whole tribe . Mr. John Hays Hammond told his Detroit audience on Monday that nothing but " egregious blunders " could prevent the Republicans from winning the Presidency next year . On the subject of Republican blunders , Mr. Hammond speaks as one with authority . He has figured in some of the most egregious of them . And it is a distinctly left-handed compliment which he pays to the sagacity of his party leaders when he predicts that they will not blunder in 1916 because there will be " small occasion " for them to do so . The inference is that if they possibly could make a mistake they would . As blunder . They propose special taxes to meet the cost of national defence . That is a blunder . They should have issued bonds . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Direct taxes the people do not favor . Bond issues they merely look upon " unfavorably . " It is hard to please Mr. Hammond . If anybody is under the impression that the spoils idea has become negligible in this country , he might find instruction in what the Boston correspondent of the Springfield Republican has to say about Governor-elect McCall 's Christmas . His mind was of necessity occupied with thoughts of the " horde of office-seekers who give him no peace . " The correspondent goes on to recall the days when Cleveland came into the Presidency , and the Democrats , after a quarter of a century of exile , appointed a " smelling committee " to report what offices there were that the long-waiting faithful might hope to seize upon . " But these hungry Republicans , " we are told , " observe no such formality . They seem to have no mercy on their Governor-elect . They besiege him ' terribly , ' for that is the word used to describe the assault which is made upon him . " Mr. McCall is described @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ putting on him , at a time when he would like to give all his thoughts to preparation for the duties he is about to assume . If Massachusetts Republicans , after having won a long-sought victory by putting up a man of McCall 's high quality , proceed to treat the State to such an exhibition as this , is anything further needed to show what we are saved from by the civil-service laws ? Western backers of conservation measures in Congress are spurred to industry by the belief that unless these can be made ready before the programme of legislation for national defence , they will stand little chance of passage . Chairman Ferris received special permission to hold his House Committee on Public Lands in session through parts of the Christmas recess . This Committee has now voted to report the water-power bill in virtually the same form in which it passed the House last spring ; and it is also taking up the leasing bill for coal , oil , gas , and so on , and the stock-raising homestead act . The Senate Committee is expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already reported the homestead bill in its original form . The West is much interested in these measures . They are urgently required , as Secretary Lane has stated , for rl crxra/ rrnrn ant Tn fdp.1 RV their passage another year  --  they were first presented in 1913 , with the Alaskan railway and coal-leasing laws , and the new reclamation act  --  would be highly unfortunate . Following the recent affiliation of the American School of Classical Studies in Rome with the American Academy , has come the appointment of its first permanent director , Professor Clark , of Yale . Both events mean a broadening of the activities of an institution which for twenty years has furthered the study of archeology , literature , and ancient art . It has not accomplished so much as the American School of Classical Studies at Athens , which was founded fourteen years earlier , and which by its excavations at Eretria , Argos , and Corinth has probably done more than any non-Greek archwelogical body except the French Institute . But the School at Rome provides a place where American students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their full bearing upon ancient life , and in some instances to make discoveries of value . Under a trained administrator , and in connection with the Academy , it should reflect greater credit than ever upon its parent body , the Archwological Institute of America . A new kind of world 's fair is called for by Ralph Adams Cram for the Pilgrim Tercentenary in Boston in 1920 . The old type , " with its splendor and magnificence and exaltation of material achievement , is out of the question , " he holds . There should be operatic performances of the best from all countries , and concerts and recitals which would include all kinds of music . The drama of all nations should be presented in all its forms . But he lays emphasis upon . the idea that the celebration should be , " not only an historical and scenic event , but an opportunity for reconsecration of old ideals and adjustment to the new ideals which will result from the present war . " How can these things be made concrete and graphic ? Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Europe and America . He would also like to see " a great Roman Catholic church , an Episcopal church , and a great Protestant church within the grounds , which would be real churches with services and music . " There should also be a place for Olympic games . Then it should be possible , not merely to behold , but to buy , any of the beautiful things made anywhere in the world , while caf  --  s and restaurants modelled after those of the various nations would SUMAS food and drink of all countries .                     