@@493057

A Sociological Romance THERE are few writers who , twenty years ago , would have dared to prophesy that the death of Mr. Benjamin Kidd could pass almost unnoticed by the newspapers . There was a moment in the history of Anglo-American thought when it seemed as though his " Social Evolution " had marked him out as the heaven-sent opponent of rationalist progress . For three or four years his book continued to arouse widespread and heated discussion . It was translated into almost every European , and into not a few Oriental languages . It obtained for its author the immediate right to have his letters printed in large type by the London Times . There was no review , whether monthly or quarterly , which dared to be without its article upon him . Few preachers there were who did not inform their congregations that the incisive ironies of Professor Huxley had at last been answered ; and if Mr. Kidd did not base the truth of religion , like Mr. Gladstone , upon the impregnable rock of Holy Scripture , still he was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of defenders . It may be doubted whether a student of the present generation would have even the patience to read Mr. Kidd 's volumes . He would admire , indeed , a certain dignity of style and vigor of expression . He would not mistake the sober earnestness of purpose which marks throughout the consciousness of great issues . But he would be compelled to recognize that Mr. Kidd 's vast generalizations are based either on inadequate knowledge or insufficient understanding . He would be forced to admit that Mr. Kidd speaks of religion while he is entirely ignorant of anthropology , that he discusses evolution in terms rather of Mr. Spencer 's elegant fancies than of Mr. Darwin 's sober facts ; and that the Weismannian theories upon which he built his immense sociological edifice were either like panmixia , ab initia incapable of proof or of disproof or like that of the non-inheritance of acquired characters spoilt by him in the use . He would find no single sentence which even suggested a perception on Mr. Kidd 's part that sociological discussion must be written in psychological terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as he is acquainted with the dangerous brilliance of Sir Henry Maine . He knew nothing of law , and he read economics only to misinterpret it . He so little realized the workings of natural selection as to believe that the ability of Plato and Aristotle is proof that evolution is not primarily intellectual . He was so ignorant of ethnology as to imagine that the Greek and Roman peoples have absolutely disappeared in the struggle for existence . His main authority on the economic influence of population was not Malthus or Mill or Marshall , but Mr. Henry George . He seemed to imagine that governmental corruption was limited to the South American republics , and he actually believed ? on the authority of Lord Milner ? that it was for the sake of the natives that England interfered in Egypt . It is a strange and even melancholy thought that so glittering a mass of sophistries should have been received with respect and gratitude by reasonable and even distinguished men . Some explanation of this phenomenon must be sought ; and its character should serve to throw light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the most notable representative . When the latter part of the nineteenth century is seen in an adequate perspective it is probable that , physical science apart , no movement will appear more striking than the reaction against dogmatic theology . It was not , of course , Darwinism which affected that change ; but it was Darwinism which gave to it the profoundest impulse it received . The idea of evolution was , doubtless , already half-expected by men . But what Darwin did was to supply it with a mechanism whereby its processes could he adequately explained . The only reply tradition could make was the exclusion of man from its categories ; and to that the publication of the " Descent of Man " supplied an effective and , in its broad outlines , a final answer . The immense impetus given to naturalism by Darwin 's work is perhaps too little realized by this generation . It is necessary to read the actual controversies of the time to understand the difficulties it had to encounter , and through what mists of antique prejudice it had to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and often in hesitant fashion to the problems of history on the one hand and of morals on the other deprived theology of the two fields it had for centuries claimed to control . To study history as the record of a dispassionate evolution may result in a justification of the ways of God to man ; but it is not the God or man of the Mosaic cosmology who finds therein a place . And in the sphere of morals the results were even more striking . The evolutionary study of ethics made it evident that the truths of theology were , in this regard at least , impossible of acceptance . The morality of the Decalogue became revealed not as a final statement but as a typical pronouncement of a half-nomadic tribe which had not failed to profit from the experience of its neighbors . The precepts of the New Testament became , in this aspect , simply the expression of a chronological situation ; and the diversity of their origin threw effective and critical light on the problems of early Christianity . To not a few it seemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been extinguished . There seemed , in the dawn , at any rate , of this new time , a justification for nought save scepticism . What was revealed were the endless vistas of inquiry , the depths of ignorance rather than the possibilities of knowledge . What above all seemed assailed was the right to religious belief . The work of men like Wellhausen and Baur , of Robertson Smith and of Harnack , the fascinating popularizations of Renan , the patient conquest of patriotic and medieval church history for science ? a conquest recognized by great Catholics like Dollinger among the dead and Duchesne among the living ? struck at the roots of the hold formerly exercised by dogmatic religion on the minds of men . The pendulum swung too far and too quickly for men not to desire a reaction . It was easy to demolish the crudities of the ancient structure ; it was another and more difficult task to replace them . There is little sign of any confidence in or satisfaction with the rationalism of the last decade of the nineteenth century . It might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Leslie Stephen who had done so much to establish it ; but to the majority it was too new and too strange to have the traditional loveliness which belonged to the ancient ways of thought . So that what was needed was a method of faith which , while it took account of the new discoveries , nevertheless pressed them into the service of the old ideas . It was exactly that service which , superficially at least , Mr. Kidd set himself to perform . He wrote in large , vague terms . He had all the terminology of the new science very trippingly on his tongue . He wrote with an easy certainty of his own rightness which carried with it , at least for the interested amateur , all the obvious marks of scientific adequacy . The fundamental tenet of Mr. Kidd 's creed had at any rate the merit of simplicity . Within the period of which history gives us knowledge an intellectual progress is not discoverable . It is not therefore to reason that the great moral advance is to be ascribed . The causes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rational in character . A survey of social history suggests that only one non-rational influence is of sufficient magnitude to be held responsible for so tremendous a change . Religion is the only sanction for ethical conduct . It inspires by its dread and by its connection with the instinct of awe . It is thus to religious progress that we must look for moral progress . The religious instinct , he concluded , is so deep-set in the heart of man as to be truer in its intuitive and non-rational certainty than the hesitating hypotheses of contemporary science . That is why , as he conceived , religions have always appealed to the heart ; why , also , the majority of men sternly refuse to admit the truth of a rational explanation of the universe . And he conceived this non-rational sanction of conduct to be the more essential because the future progress of society depended on some high degree of socialistic organization . Socialism , to him , implied the subjection of man to the state . But no man would make so immense a sacrifice as that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saves society and ensures its advance is the appeal to men of those religious instincts which bid them realize themselves in suffering . Here is the quasi-scientific habit with a vengeance . The " struggle for existence " must appear in any sociological treatise that is to be worthy of the name . Mr. Kidd calmly annexed Darwinian theories to his particular interpretation of socialism . That interpretation he took to be the increased rivalry and struggle between men of a particular group with a resultant perfection of type . It was hard for men thus to suffer , but it was essential to social wellbeing . Reason forbade the sacrifice ; but then reason was anti-social and religion demanded it in the name of humanity . In such an analysis religion has a clear and important social function . Men have the right once again to believe . That which they accept as truth may logically be shown to be wrong ; but they have a faith the consequences of which are so socially significant as to render that faith superior to logic . Such an attitude is an amazing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the brilliant cynicism of M. Sorel 's facile mythopoiesis . The historian may not deny to religion a great share in the evolution of standards of social conduct . But he will draw a firm and clear line between religion on the one hand and ecclesiasticism on the other . He will doubt , for instance , whether the influence of the Church in the fifteenth century did not contribute rather to the disintegration of society than to its preservation . He will wonder , perhaps , whether the theologian will be really willing to defend religion upon a basis other than that of reason . He will suggest that the tendency of modern life is rather to diminish the influence of individual competition within each social group that the society may be the more firmly united against rivalry from without . Even when Mr. Kidd was writing , the factor which Prince Kropotkin has so admirably termed Mutual Aid was perhaps the most decisive social feature of the time ; as Mr. Spencer 's anguish at the poor law and compulsory education should surely have reminded him . But it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a different language , and if the student of sociology may look forward with confidence to an era of fruitful work , it is because the method of inquiry has taken an antithetic direction to that which Mr. Kidd desired to give it . We have learned , in the first place , that no sociological study is at all firmly founded which is not based on psychological science . We need to know far more than we can as yet claim of the action of men in groups before we can talk with Mr. Kidd 's easy confidence about the entire range of human history . Thinkers like Mr. Graham Wallas in England , like Durkheim and Fouillee in France , like Professor Albion Small in America , are gradually teaching is the use of our tools . What must strike the observer of modern sociological work is the fact that it has passed the stage where its uncritical dogmatism proclaims its youth to that in which it is erecting its boundaries and discussing the methods of its survey . Books like Mr. Trotter 's recent study of the herd-instinct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like Eugen Ehrlich 's study of the sociological aspects of law , give us the right to hope greatly of its results . Mr. Graham Wallas 's " Great Society , " Professor Small 's too little known " Between Two Eras , " suggest to us that the larger problems are kept firmly in view . We can not , indeed , speak to our age with anything like the unqualified optimism which made of Mr. Kidd in some sort a prophet to his generation . It is with analysis and not with synthesis that we are as yet concerned . That of which above all we are convinced is the vast difficulty of our task . But it is precisely in that vastness that we find its supreme worth .                     