@@486117

THERE are two Parises . One is on the boulevards to- night , deliriously celebrating peace . The other I saw yesterday ; it celebrating , too  --  celebrating the German Republic , chanting the Internationale , crying " Vive la revolution , " until the police cuffed the crowd back into the dark little by-streets of the workingmen 's quarter . To-night Paris is madly happy . She is celebrating peace  --  not victory , as the newspaper men would tell you , but peace , the Great Release . Sons and brothers may still be mobilized , but they are not being killed . The newspaper editorials and other more or less irresponsible forces , are already planning crusades against the Bolsheviks , but these festive crowds have other and more pressing things to think about . I was in Paris when the war broke out , four years ago . It was the same mad crowd . And they were celebrating the same thing , then  --  release , from peace . Peace had meant misery and monotony and stupid cramped existence , and they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war would bring them adventure and romance . To-night , with the same thoughtless optimism , they are celebrating release from war , and crying " Vive la paix I " There is the same furious bustle , the same wild cheering , the same disorganized parading , there are the same snatches of the same old song , even a new crop of the same half-drunk boys orating from the same caf ? tables . The Place de la Concorde was one vast mass of waving flags and wriggling arms and legs this afternoon . Huge trucks piled high with soldiers and girls nosed their honking way inch by inch through the mobs . Swarms of small boys and girls swarmed over the captured cannon . Some of the more adventurous tugged at the smaller field-pieces until they budged and were hauled off in triumph . In one corner a trumpeter tooted while impromptu couples jiggled about in an improvised dancing-circle . Hatless American doughboys snake-danced through the crowds to that grand old national anthem , " Hail , ' hail , the gang 's all here , " while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Red Cross officer , perilously perched on the cornice of the Red Cross headquarters , waved French and American flags over the heads- of the crowds with precarious fervor : , On the boulevards , in the Rue de Rivoli , all through the newer business part of Paris  --  cheering , bustling crowds ; and the roar of their cheering . Just one group of people stood unmoving and silent  --  the line waiting their turn before the office of permits for the liberated regions . A big sign over the door read , " ( Return to ) Lille and Roubaix still forbidden . " That was one Paris . Perhaps it was the Paris . But I noticed that it was only the Americans who were twisting rattlers and howling like schoolboys on election night or after a football game ; that more than half the French people on the boulevards were quietly parading and watching the foreigners celebrate . And I noticed that the workingmen 's quarters were modestly beflagged , but dark and silent  --  as in August , 1914 . In Trade-Union Hall , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's quarter where every one of France 's four revolutions has had its birth , there had been a Socialist and labor meeting on Sunday afternoon , November 10 . It was open only to those who could show a Socialist party card or a union card , but three thousand workingmen and women squeezed into the hall , and the court behind the hall ' was packed with more of them , straining to catch the speakers ' words . The idols of French labor were there ? Jean Longuet , leader of the French Socialist Party , grandson of Karl Marx , the personification of the Internationale ; Marcel Cachin , the sturdy editor of L'Humanite ; Loriot , of the extreme left wing of the party ; Jouhaux , the burly leader of the General Federation of Labor  --  the Gompers of France , but working hand in hand with the Socialists ; Merrheim , the tense little leader of the Metal Workers , who is not an inch over five feet high ; and Frossard , the lanky school-teacher from Bel-fort who is the new secretary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every one of the straining mob outside the hall . Longuet came in late , with a paper in his pocket . It contained the first communiqu ? of the German Revolution . Frossard read it out . They made Frossard repeat the good news and then they settled down to listen to the discussion of " The General Situation " ? that was the uninviting topic announced  --  and to the speakers demanding that the proletariat of France insist upon the restoration of civil liberties , that France guard the spirit as well as the letter of Wilion 's fourteen points , and that the counterrevolutionary movement in governmental circles be resisted . Once the name of Clemenceau was , mentioned , and the hall burst into boos and hisses and catcalls . For the proletariat of France does not love the grand old man who has so often broken his pledges . They poured out at dusk and streamed through the ineffective cordon of policemen in the street outside , howling the Internationale at the top of their lusty lungs . " To the Place de la Republique , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scene of many past labor demonstrations . " Cle-men-ceau : Boo ! Hoo ! Cle-men-ceau : Boo ! Hoo ! " they shouted to mark time  --  and to win breath for more choruses of the Internationale . " Vive la revolution allemande , " they cried to the throngs on the sidewalks and in the windows looking down . " Long live the German Revolution , " the cry echoed back  --  and hundreds more joined the parade . Three little black-shawled widows scurrying in the opposite direction did not stop their hurry home , but threw back their heads and joined in the Internationale as they pushed through the fringe of the crowd . Not one voice in opposi-tion ! Three times the police tried to stop the crowd , but it filtered on ; and all that the police could do was to stop the singing for half a block . Behind the police ' and in front of them the swelling strains of the song surged on . The crowd emerged into the lighted boulevards where taxis were worrying to and fro and trolley-cars clanking back and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on toward the Place de la Republique . Police reserves came bicycling in , dismounted and dashed into the crowd . They cuffed every one ; they cuffed me ; they cuffed the American girl with me  --  though she was more indignant than bruised . The crowd had hesitated and was lost . It broke before the blows of the policemen , and slipped back into its own dark byways . Two Parises . Which is the real Paris ? I do not know . But this I do know  --  that he who would know the future of France will read it , not on the boulevards of Paris , but in the smoke and grime of the belching chimneys of Lyons and St. Etienne , in the sordid waste of the industrial suburbs of Paris , and in the dark by-ways to which that crowd retired . LEWIS S. ( GANNETT II . Election Issues and the Conference London , December 4 IT is only to the younger generation that there can be any novelty in an election turning on international issues . The farhous contest of 1880 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gladstone 's Midlothian campaign to the foreign policy of Lord Beaconsfield . The present election is ostensibly brought about by the need of a popular pronouncement on international problems of even greater importance . It was necessary , the Prime Minister told us , in order that he might have a clear title to speak for the country at the peace conference . In his address to his Liberal supporters on November 12 he said that one of the principal issues at the forthcoming general election would be the nature of the peaCe settlement . At the Central Hall meeting on November 16 which marked the opening of his election campaign he explained the necessity of the election as due to the fact that the existing Parliament was moribund , and that a nevi ' , mandate was therefore required in order that " somebody " might go to the peace conference " with authority from the people of this country to speak in their name . " The same urgency was emphasized in the electoral manifesto of the Coalition issued on November 21 . It was essential , the manifesto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possessed of the authority , which a general election alone could give it , to make the peace of Europe . " It is right , " it continued , " that the Government upon whom it devolves , in conjunction with our Dominions and our Allies , to settle the political future of Europe , should be . supported by the confidence of the vast body of newly enfranchised citizens . " In every defence , in short , made by the Prime Minister against objectors to the dissolution of Parliament , the foremost place was given to the necessity of a general election to strengthen his hands at the Peace Conference . What , then , would have been the natural course of an elec. tion thus introduced ? One would have expected that the very first thing a Prime Minister would do in such a situation would be to set before the country a definite programme for which he invited its support . If he thought it inexpedient to discuss the minutiae of complicated questions  --  concerning territorial readjustments , for instance  --  he would at least lay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to settle the political future of Europe . " If you agree with me , he would say , " then show your approval at the polls ; if you disagree , make your disapproval equally plain by your votes . Before I go to Versailles , give me an unmistakable sign whether or not I have a popular backing for the policies I shall there be advocating . " Strange to say , no such appeal has been made to the opinion of the nation . In his Central Hall speech , after laying stress on the fact that somebody must go to the conference with authority to speak for the country , the Prime Minister was as silent as a Trappist monk about his peace policy , but went on to speak at length about industrial ' reform , transportation , and other reconstruction problems . Similarly , the official Coalition manifesto , having mentioned , in the briefest terms , the formation of a league of nations as part of the official policy , promptly bade good-by to all international questions and proceeded to expound the Coalition proposals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agricultural produc Lion , and so on . The first speech of the Prime Minister 's electoral campaign in the country was given at Wolverhampton on November 23 . In the whole of this long address there was not a word about international problems . Mr. Lloyd George discussed one domestic reconstruction question after another and then declared : " Well , that is the programme . " This amazing silence on what had been officially pronounced to be the chief issue of the election might have been excused , though scarcely justified , if the Government , before the decision to dissolve Parliament had been taken , had made a full and adequate statement of it ? , international policy . But nothing of the kind has ever been made public . There have been sporadic utterances by individual Ministers on particular questions , e. g. , the future of the German colonies , but no responsible declaration by the Government as a whole . The main subjects to be dealt with at Versailles have never been threshed out in Parliament . The functions and composition of a league of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the House of Commons . One is , perhaps , less surprised at such an omission after learning , from a. recent statement by the Australian Premier , that ; up to the time the armistice was proposed , even the War Cabinet itself had never specifically considered President Wilson 's fourteen points . Whatever the explanation , the fact is incontestable that the country has been plunged into a general election , ostensibly through the need of a popular verdict on the Government 's peace policy , and that it has meanwhile been given little or no light on what that policy is . It is only natural that , in such circumstances , suspicions should arise as to what is really behind it all . Some labor critics have gone so far as to suggest that the real purpose of the election is to divert the public mind to domestic controversies in order that meanwhile the Government may have an opportunity of making its own peace preparations unhampered by criticism . Certainly the election , whatever its motive , will have had the actual result of relieving the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vigilance-that even a feeble Parliament could exercise over its actions . While there is no Parliament in session , there can be no awkward interrogations of Ministers at question time , and no raising of inconvenient controversies on motions for the adjournment . As the campaign has proceeded , this restiveness has spread from the opponents of the Government to its supporters . The Coalition press has begun to demand definite answers on certain points that the official pronouncements had left vague . What is to happen to the ex-Kaiser ? Will Germany be made to pay for the war ? What is the Government policy with regard to the future of the enemy aliens at present interned ? The demand for an answer became so insistent that , in his speech at Newcastle on November 29 , the Prime Minister felt compelled to recognize it . He referred to each of these questions , but it can hardly be said that his replies gave complete satisfaction . When for instance , he declared that " Germany must pay the costs of the war up to the limit of her capacity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the qualification , " up to the limit of her capacity . " Why this undeserved tenderness for the Hun ? Mr. Lloyd George is learning how much easier it is to arouse national passion than to allay it . In spite of the common belief that a democracy is incapable of an intelligent interest in foreign affairs , it is , after all , the Labor Party that has shown the deepest con- ? cern in the international situation and the keenest appreciation of the larger issues involved in it . Not only in its official manifesto but in the addresses of its candidates , this party has done its best to put a permanent peace in the forefront of the election issues . Labor alone is alive to the fact that , as its Manifesto declares , " opposition towards the young democracies of the Continent , and especially intervention on the side of European reaction , will be disastrous . " Few people have yet realized the inevitable effect of the new European situation upon the part that British labor must play in foreign politics . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibility of a labor Government , objectors have at once pointed to the Foreign Office as a department which it would be absurd to think of placing under the control of a labor Minister . It might be all very well to put a labor man at the head of the Home Office or the Board of Trade , but how could a working man perform the duties of a Foreign Secretary ? Could you imagine a Foreign Office reception at which ambassadors representing the bluest blood of the European aristocracy would be guests of a labor leader ? Would you propose to appoint labor men to foreign embassies , and expect them to hold their own in the court circles and fashionable salons of the Continental capitals ? All these difficulties are now out of date . When diplomatic relations are resumed with Russia and Germany and Austria , the chancelleries of those countries will be found occupied by Socialists , and the men most competent , to transact business with them will be drawn not from Mayfair , but from the factory and the workshop . The social revolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the reform of the British Foreign Office than has been accomplished by all the Royal Commissions that have patiently listened to evidence from the diplomatic service and laboriously compiled their recommendations and reports . HERBERT W. HORW1LL                     