@@493055

A Journal of Opinion THE German reply gives the President a re- markable chance to drive home the real significance of his note . Its weakness is his opportunity . In saying that the prevention of future wars is a question to be dealt with after the settlement of this one the German government has completely missed the point . The bulk of the American people have not forgotten the impossible ultimatum to Serbia and the violation of Belgium with which Germany initiated this war , and much as they desire peace they would not distract the Allies now if the peace that were to be negotiated were to be the usual negotiated peace . The only reason most Americans are willing to move for negotiations is that they believe it is possible to put such guaranties upon the negotiations that Europe and the world will be more secure than they have ever been before . For us the guaranties are all-important , as we believe they are to the democracies in the Allied nations . So important do we hold them to be that we are ready @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The President in his note has offeredthis pledge . The American theory is that the guaranties must be established before the bargaining over territory can be undertaken with moderation and a sense of safety . To suggest a settlement first and the organization of peace afterwards is to put the cart before the horse . For without the assurance that a safer Europe has been created there is no chance now of a moderate peace . The Allies will be compelled to regard every territorial question in its relation to the balance of power , and on that basis no negotiation is possible to-day . A LL this the President can make clear to Germany in another note . He can point out that we are prepare , 3 to abandon isolation only if our entrance into the European system will stabilize it , that we ask immediately from Germany a pledge that she will join a league of nations , and that she will solemnly agree to submit all disputes to inquiry before acting . As an earnest of good faith we ask further that Germany accept the principle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an exchange , that she announce her willingness to restore Belgium and to regard it as a distinct question without bearing on the other negotiations , that she announce her readiness to consider a reduction in armaments . The President can say that these are the minimum conditions on which the United States will consent to participation in European politics , and that before we can undertake to alter our national policy we must know whether these conditions are agreed to . T HE German reply is no less the opportunity of the Allies . A statement by them which said precisely that their primary object was the organization of security , and that they were ready to discuss territorial details once the principles of the guaranties were accepted by the Central Empires , would constitute a perfectly adequate reply at the moment to the President 's note . So far as it is possible to judge from America the Allies have every reason for making just such a reply . By doing it they will reassure America that the popular objects of the war are still the real ones . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Americans to believe that they are entangled in aggressive purposes . The Germans have just shown them how not to answer the American note . T HE clarifying effect of the President 's move ought to be clearer by this time . Its first concrete effect is just the opposite of what panicky friends of the Allies supposed it would be . Instead of reinforcing Bethmann-Hollweg 's ingenious offer , the President 's note has begun to act like an acid test upon it . The first thing it brings to light is that the German government can not or does not care to understand the democratic view of the war . It shows either that the Germans still have much to learn or that their offer of peace is disingenuous . Diplomatically they are again on the defensive . In two or three short sentences they have lost much of the ground they had gained in the last few weeks . The note will supply an equally sharp test to the Allies . What is more , the door is open and the President , who is speaking for liberals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governments . In reiterating and elaborating his message he can do an immense propaganda for international good faith . T HE meeting in New York this week of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and fifty other affiliated national scientific societies , is an event which ought to loom large in the minds of thoughtful people . Not only the thousand papers and reports read at the various section meetings themselves represent a large part of recent scientific achievement , but the meeting and exchange of views between men occupied in different fields can not but stimulate and liberalize the great human effort to conquer the jungle of ignorance and prejudice that surrounds the little clearing of cultivated science . Yet despite the fact that the meeting this week gives due prominence to the chemical conditions of " preparedness , " and other matters affecting our national prosperity , it does not seem likely that it will do much to shake the massive apathy toward the spread of science and scientific method which characterizes our educated classes . A large part of this apathy is due to the vague @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that since the days of Tyndal , Huxley , and Youmans , it has conquered and taken possession of all our educational institutions . NOTHING could be farther from the truth . Compared with the provisions for scientific research in countries like France and Germany , ours are pitifully meagre . The energy of our colleges and universities is primarily directed to increasing the number of students , buildings and degrees conferred . The professors are so loaded up with routine teaching and such an unconscionable amount of administrative work , that he who would engage in genuine scientific research must do so by stealth and at the expense of his health . Nor do we provide many incentives for that kind of work . The public reward and recognition extended to technologic promoters is out of all proportion to that extended to scientific achievement itself ? witness the millions of people who have heard of Edison but not of Theobald Smith , or who think that Marconi invented wireless telegraphy . Probably thousands of Yale men have not heard of Willard Gibbs , one of the most creative minds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible largely because he was a man of means and of good family . Perhaps the general cause of science might prosper more in this country if there were greater cooperation and less provincial isolation among the various groups of specialists . Thus the great meeting in New York this week is marked by the absence of all the social science associations , which meet in Columbus , Ohio . The separation between the social and the physical scientists can surely not be of any real advantage to either . At any rate the great outstanding and deplorable fact is that on the vital questions requiring their cooperation , e. g. the effect of immigration or of the interbreeding of races we have multitudes of impassioned orations and sophomore essays , but nothing worthy of being called science . Thousands upon thousands of studies have been devoted by the historians on the German migrations of the fifth century . Can it be that recent events because we are in a position to know more about them are necessarily of lesser intrinsic importance ? T HE New York Times , caught between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avoid the exasperation which the note has aroused , adopts the ingenious theory that of course the world knows just what the Allies are fighting for , and that the President 's query was addressed to Germany alone . It is nice of the Times that it wishes to please everybody , but everybody including the Times knows that the President meant no such thing . Everybody including the Times knows that the Allied objective has never been stated in anything but a qualitative formula . It is just vacant amiability to pretend that the world knows whether for example the retrocession of Alsace-Lorraine and the Russian occupation of Constantinople are minimum terms . Certainly the Times does not know what the Allies have decided upon as to the future of Poland , or as to the future of the captured German colonies , or as to the indemnities they will ask . It would be far better if the Times attacked the President 's move than defended it with false naivete . If there was one thing more than any other which the note is meant to initiate it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon all newspaper correspondents here and abroad , for the temptation to reflect nothing but the official view is overwhelming . It is a fact , for example , that at least one representative in the United States of a very powerful newspaper has knowingly disturbed American opinion in order to meet the wishes of the proprietor abroad . The dispatches cabled over here from England are obviously out of proportion . They give a weight to what is no doubt majority sentiment without any adequate offset of the powerful and growing dissent . The American correspondents in London have been since the war began unduly hypnotized by the censorship , the press bureau and the Northcliffe papers . This condition is perilous just now , for the essence of the President 's move is that it is an appeal to public opinion all over the world , and the task of the reporter is to do the very delicate work of reflecting that opinion which after long repression is just beginning to stir , and to record its strength as against the more hardened views . This morning for example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ G. Campbell Morgan preached against a discussion of peace , and that Dr. Barnes seemed rather sympathetic . This appears in the headlines of the Times as " London Preachers Criticize Wilson , " but is anyone the wiser as to what the preachers as a whole really said ? What did they say , up and down England ? And while we are on the subject , would it be asking too much if we begged enterprising editors out of respect for the British people not to let Mr. Hall Caine prance all over the first page ? Does n't everyone know by this time that he is a ninny , and always has been ? O NE of the serious difficulties in our admin-istration of the law is the refusal of judges to recognize the increasing inadequacy of what they call " common or general knowledge " in the face of the growing complexity of our industrial and financial organizations . More than any one else our judges seem to typify the supposed democratic tendency to disparage expert knowledge . That this difficulty is personal rather than one inherent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggestive note in the current number of the Harvard Law Review . The question how a vast modern industrial corporation should be dissolved so as to be no longer in violation of the Sherman act is , assuredly , one in which a court of equity might well call to its aid , as special master in chancery , one who has expert knowledge of business affairs , " and equal to the task of keeping pace with the perverse ingenuity of private concerns . " Two years ago Congress expressly empowered our federal courts to use the Federal Trade Commission for the purpose . Yet judges seem loath to avail themselves of this opportunity , and instead allow decrees of dissolution to be drawn up by the counsel of the guilty corporation . The defendant corporation thus condemned to cut its own throat " has every interest to miss the jugular , " and the court is " manifestly ignorant of where the jugular of a vast industrial organism is . " It is to be hoped , therefore , that the recent Corn Products case will set a precedent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a continuous body such as the Federal Trade Commission , in passing on what are essentially questions of business administration . A similar practice might also extend to the handling of other cases involving technical or scientific information , much as those presented by patent cases . RGING the passage by the Senate of the new organic law for Porto Rico , to grant its inhabitants American citizenship , President Wilson said , " We do not doubt what we wish to do in any particular . We ought to do it at once . " The President must be misinformed , for the bill has at least one vital defect . By educational and property qualifications for the franchise it will actually take away the vote from 175,000 work-ingmen , though there are only zos , 000 voters in the whole island . A proposed amendment to re-tain the present franchise for ten years before establishing the limitation would help , but only temporarily . Half the population are agricul-tural laborers , to all intents and purposes attached to the land , and can not acquire taxable property . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be touched by the present educational equipment ; there is practically no chance of edu-cation for adults . The possible effect of the bill may be inferred from the following facts . Many laborers of the island have recently been union-ized . Two years ago there was a great agricul-tural strike against intolerable conditions of pay and labor , in which the police , it was charged , sided with capital . Under the new law , the disfranchised laborers will receive only the equivocal protection of a general " bill of rights , " interpreted by courts operating in the costly American fashion . An amendment guarding the right of labor to organize was defeated . Membership in the Porto Rican Senate is limited to those owning at least a thousand dollars ' worth of property , in the House , five hundred dollars ' worth . Members of the Senate need have been residents in the island for only two years . Porto Rico is taken out of the jurisdiction of United States interstate commerce and safety appliance laws . Bearing these gifts , we offer the inhabitants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say frankly that we are creating a feudalism for the benefit of Spanish and American capital . IN ante-bellum days Harvard undergraduates " took Miinsterberg " in great crowds , partly because psychology was dimly supposed to lie somewhere between Mme. Eusapia Palladino and Ibsen , partly because Miinsterberg was always in the newspapers , and not a little because he had an extraordinary gift of lucid , logical , and unhesitating exposition . He was a born propagandist ? of applied psychology , of Germany to America , of America to Germany . It was this ardor of his for popularizing his convictions which seemed finally to take such complete possession of him that his direct scientific contributions were lost sight of . He poured forth a mass of attractive and shallow books on applied psychology . He wrote magazine articles and made speeches without end , and there was a good deal of justice in the popular tendency to forget that he was a psychologist and regard him as a public figure . The scientist in him was submerged . Where the public , especially the Boston public , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he was no " hyphenate , " but a German patriot , a very moderate and sane one at that . In these last two years he saw a not too chivalrous side of American opinion . His own bearing under the most trying circumstances contained what might be called a low percentage of errors . It reached a high mark of good temper . R EGARDLESS of the aesthetic valuation of John Singer Sargent 's new mural decorations in the Boston Public Library , their unveiling proves that something has happened in our attitude towards painting since the first series were shown twenty years ago . Then the decorations seemed to be studied chiefly as picture-puzzles , a game of find-the-answer by careful use of guide-books . What the Hebrew meant , whether the prophets were correctly imagined , who the Egyptian gods were , and why Jehovah should manifest himselfaccording to Mr. Sargent 's unusual conception ? these were the absorbing topics . Now , it is safe to say , anyone who knows anything about art will put such questions severely in the background . Mr. Sargent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the massing of his forms , and the entire aesthetic effect of his creations , will be the matters under discussion . To those who take Sargent with high seriousness it may be sacrilege to suggest that such a change has come about through the " modern " movements they probably despise . Yet one may atone a little by the supplementary suggestion that possibly the Sargent paintings will not lose effectiveness when interpreted according to the later prophets.                     