@@487090

We suppose that most people who have observed attentively the course of recent events were not greatly surprised at the news that the ? Government had entered suit against the Steel Corporation . This great trade combination occupied what at any rate was admitted , even by its friends , to be debatable ground under the scope of the Anti-Trust law . To suggest that even the sensitive financial markets may sooner or later experience a feeling of relief at having the question tested and settled by formal suit , may seem to be speaking paradox . Yet the bringing of the billion-dollar organization before the courts was the only way , short of voluntary and complete disintegration , by which - the constantly overhanging uncertainty could be removed . If the law officers of one Administration should not challenge the Steel Trust 's legality by entering suit , that would be no guar-that the next Administration refrain . The case of the Steel Corporation , it hardly need be said , differs in many respects from that of the Standard Oil or the American Tobacco . Its ten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trampling out of competition which characterized the one , or by the industrial sharp practice which characterized the other . Pittsburgh itself , the centre of old-time " open markets " in the steel trade , concedes that the Trust has in a certain sense fostered competition by refusing to use its great resources to invade the territory of rivals . Its management is admitted to have stopped the excesses of a rising steel market , in times of excited speculation and urgent demand , by refusing to mark up prices to the extent of its opportunity . Steel prices have - admittedly been more stable , since the corporation was organized in 1901 , than they were under the Carnegie regime ; and if the Steel Trust has stimulated in the stock market , in a way to expose its management to grave criticism , that spirit of reckless speculation which it has kept in leash in the market for its products , this is not what the Anti-Trust Law undertakes to deal with . In advance of the present suit , the Trust has served notice of cancellation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Commissioner of Corporations denounced as virtual monopoly , and it probably would have consented to relinquish the . Tennessee Coal and Iron , concerning the motives for whose acquisition , in the panic of 1907 , controversy is still active . All this shows why the Steel Corporation will come into court with a far better case than the Oil Trust or the Tobacco Trust . This prosecution will necessitate some much closer definition of restraint of trade . The weakest point in the Steel Trust 's case is undoubtedly the powerful influence applied by ' its management toward preventing concessions in the price of steel , through " moral suasion " and the " Gary dinners , " at such times as the year which followed the panic of 1907 . When the head of the organization resorted to the assertion that supply and demand no longer had any business to regulate prices , proposing , as an alternative economic law , the rule that prices " should at all times be reasonable and fair , " it was quite inevitable that somebody should ask who was to settle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have the deciding voice , would its judgment ever be influenced by the pressure of shareholders for higher dividends ? And supposing that Judge Gary and the present board could be trusted to ignore such ulterior influences , could the consumer be sure of the policy of the management which in due course would succeed them ? For ourselves , we believe that it was his own instinctive recognition of these serious difficulties which led the chairman of the Steel Trust to his extraordinary advocacy , before the Stanley Committee , of the fixing of prices by the Government . The Steel Corporation 's history has been in many ways an epitome of the history of its times . When the Trusts are attacked indiscriminately , as malign conspiracies against the liberties of the people , it is only fair to remember that the people were not free from whatever blame may have attached to the construction of these huge trade combinations . It is not only that no effort was made in 1899 or 1901 , when most of them were formed , to enjoin their organization under the Anti-Trust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the statutes . There is something more than this to say of the public 's attitude at the time . The investing community , small and large , was combination-mad . It hailed each successive amalgamation of the sort with enthusiasm ; it rushed tumultuously into the market for their shares . College professors set forth gravely , to students-and readers , that the manufacturing business of the future could be conducted successfully in no other way . All this , in our opinion , was part of the derangement of ideas which marked that extraordinary period  --  when serious men in the high places of American finance insisted that the old laws of political economy were obsolete and fit for the rubbish-heap . But the very fact that responsibility for the conditions which then arose in corporate , industry rested largely on the community as a whole , makes it all the more right that the pending inquiry into the legal status of these combinations should be pursued with sobriety and with no spirit of vindictiveness . This reminiscence of the conditions prevalent when the Trusts first rose to their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Government to " put some Trust magnates in jail , " which has been persistently raised by some of our newspapers . Where promoters of monopoly have acted In open and knowing defiance of the law , the penal clauses of the Anti-Trust Act may be , have been , and will rightly continue to be , invoked . But in the case of combinations regarding whose lawfulness or unlawfulness the courts took ten or a dozen years to decide , it is certainly enough to say what must be done no longer by the corporations and their owners , and what must be undone .                     