@@430694

 | IF the Federal Child Labor Act , approved September first by President Wilson , shall be held to be constitutional by the court of last conjecture , a way will have been opened , through the exercise of the power granted Congress in the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution , for the standardization of industrial conditions throughout the United States . The first recorded protest in England against the child labor evil , made by the physicians of Manchester who had been appalled by an epidemic of fever in the Radcliffe Cotton Works , proposed " Parliamentary aid for the wise , just , and equal government of all such works . " The hundred years ' war in England for the abolition of child labor was not so unduly prolonged by reason of constitutional difficulties inherent in a dual system of government . The decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States from the Lottery case to those under the White Slave Act have convinced many eminent lawyers that Congress can do indirectly what the British Parliament can do directly in equalizing the standards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The ethics of this position is fiercely assailed by the exploiters of child labor . SENATOR BEVERIDGE AS A PIONEER Nor should the conservative citizen feel unduly alarmed at the centralizing of authority at Washington and the consequent  | destruction of local self-government . The process is one rather of cooperation between the functions of State and nation than of conflict between federal power and the rights of the States . And the process is slow enough , as the writer is able to testify from an experience that has tested patience . It was ten years ago that Senator Beveridge , who deserves to be remembered as the pioneer in the field of federal regulation , began to exploit his views on the subject . In the Congressional campaign of 1906 he mentioned the abuse of child labor and declared that it should be ended by the power of the federal government . His audience broke out into enthusiastic applause . He tried the same thing on his next audience , with the same result , naturally gratifying to an orator , and thenceforth he made child labor reform through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the oratorical feasts he spread , announcing his purpose of introducing a child labor bill at the approaching session of Congress . the Beveridge Child Labor bill proposed to regulate the products of any mine or factory , by prohibiting the common carriers from transporting such products unless the offer for shipment was accompanied by a certificate from the mine or factory management stating that no children under fourteen years of age were employed therein . Penalties were exacted of the innocent carrier for failing to secure a certificate and of the child-employing industry ( the essential offender ) merely for making a false affidavit . The bill was referred to the Senate Committee on Education and Labor , of which Senator Dolliver was chairman , and thence to the Judiciary Committee , which was then a somewhat overcrowded graveyard of progressive legislation . It was never considered by either committee , however , and Senator Beveridge 's three-days ' speech in the Senate was predicated upon the bill offered as an amendment to the District of Columbia Child Labor bill . That speech made a profound impression upon the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shame , cruelty , disgrace , horror , greed , stupidity , barbarism , and other incidental peccadilloes of the child labor system . Such an array of facts on the subject had never before been presented , and the Senator insisted upon the production of sworn testimony in the shape of affidavits from those who had contributed to the literature of child labor , in one instance a noted author cabling the affidavit from Paris that the facts stated in her book were true . The second part of the speech was taken up with the constitutional argument , which he based upon two premises : that the power of Congress to regulate to the extent of prohibiting the shipment of foreign goods was unlimited , and that the power of Congress over interstate commerce , being expressed in the same clause of the Constitution , was also unlimited . Therefore , so far as the power was concerned , as distinguished from the question of policy , it was constitutional to exclude from interstate commerce child-made products , or any other kind of products . This position led to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Senate ? Spooner , Knox , Bacon , and others , while Aldrich and Tillman argued the matter from the layman 's common-sense point of view . Senator Tillman , however , expressed his gratification at the recital of the facts about " this hellish business . " Mr. Beveridge made Senator Spooner admit , on the one hand , that the Supreme Court was in error in its decision in the Lottery Case , while the witty Carmack drew from Beveridge the statement that Congress could prohibit the shipment of milk across a State line if the cow were milked by a red-headed girl . The lawyers of the country as well as of Congress , took the position that the Beveridge bill , as argued in the Senate , was unconstitutional , that it not only put an unreasonable burden upon commerce in requiring industrial establishments that did not employ children , by far the greater number , to file a certificate with every shipment , but that the American citizen had rights under the Constitution which the foreigner did not possess . The Judiciary Committee of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unanimously decided that Congress had no power to regulate the labor of children or of women . The attorney of the National Association of Manufacturers quoted this opinion in his opposition to the Keating-Owen bill which has just been enacted into law , but in the meantime , of the eighteen members of the Judiciary Committee of a decade ago , only three remain members of Congress , and two of these voted for the bill this year . Providence and the people have been kind to the children . AGITATION IN THE STATES The National Child Labor Committee , which had been organized two years before Senator Beveridge began his agitation , endorsed by a bare majority the prin- ciple of federal legislation and sent one of its secret ; ries to Washington to advocate the Beveridge bill . Upon its failure to receive consideration , the attention of the Committee was directed with intensified effort to the State campaigns . It was recognized that every State brought into line , with proper standards of legislation and of law enforcement , freed the child-workers of that State from mill-slavery and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , could a majority of Representatives and Senators be induced to support federal legislation ? a prescription which is offered without charge to the advocates of woman suffrage . The agitation for federal legislation was increased by the publication in 1907 of an analysis of the child labor statistics of 1900 , and in 1908 and following years the results of an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Labor of the conditions of woman and child wage-earners in the United States . It was proved from these official sources that child labor was a national evil in extent , though mainly confined to agricultural labor and to a comparatively few child-employing trades and industries , and that it was an increasing evil , despite the efforts of State laws enacted for its suppression ; that the number of working children was greater in the North , while the proportion of children to adult workers was greater in the South . Later the Children 's Bureau , also created through the advocacy of the Child Labor Committee , published the results of its investigation as to the administration of child labor laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The American Bar Association through its Commission on Uniform State Laws worked out and recommended to the States for adoption the Uniform Child Labor Law . Meanwhile , State after State adopted the standards outlined , in whole or in part , and the National Child Labor Committee having come unanimously to the conclusion that federal legislation was necessary , Secretary Owen R. Lovejoy , layman , worked out a bill , which has been very generally accepted by the lawyers both of Congress and of the country as reasonable and constitutional , constitutional because it is reasonable . STANDARDS RECOGNIZED BY THE NEW FEDERAL LAW Taking four standards of the Uniform Child Labor Law ? that children under sixteen years should not be employed in mines and quarries , that children under fourteen ixnmmivi years should not be employed in shops and factories and canneries , nor children between fourteen and sixteen employed more than eight hours a day or during the night season ? the Lovejoy bill prohibited the shipment in interstate commerce or the offer for shipment of the products of any quarry , mine , factory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ child protection were employed . That is the heart of the bill ; the rest is detail , such as the protection to the shipper of the goods by a certificate from the manufacturer that rib children were so employed , and the protection to the manufacturer against deception by the parent , through allowing the presentation of a certificate in proper form setting forth the age of the child . A noteworthy feature of the bill is the provision for a board comprising the Attorney-General , the Secretary of Commerce , and the Secretary of Labor , to prepare regulations consonant with the purpose of the bill , the duty of inspection being laid upon the Department of Labor , which should properly and naturally delegate it to the Children 's Bureau , while the enforcement of the law is left to the Department of Justice , District Attorneys being authorized to proceed upon the information of federal or State inspectors or anybody else interested in the enforcement of the law . This bill , introduced last session in the House by Representative A. Mitchell Palmer , was carefully worked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill , and was changed so that only the goods produced in whole or in part by the labor of children were banned from interstate commerce . The bill thus amended passed the House by overwhelming vote and was favorably reported by the Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce , in the closing days of the session , when a single objection could defeat the taking up of the bill . Senator Overman of North Carolina was willing to offer the objection . The bill was again introduced in its original form at this session , again changed by the House Committee and it passed the House by the vote of 334 to 43 , a gain of a hundred votes since the preceding session . The Senate Committee , after exhausting if not exhaustive hearings and long consideration , changed the bill back to its original form , denying the child-employing establishment the benefits of interstate commerce instead of putting the embargo on the child-made goods . Senator Robinson of Arkansas made the report on the bill , and demonstrated that the Senate substitute was not only more easily enforceable but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill before the committees of Congress were certain cotton manufacturers of the cotton-manufacturing States of the South , who had formed an organization for this purpose and secured exGovernor W. W. Kitchin of North Carolina as their attorney . Members of the House seemed rather to resent the employment of the brother of the majority leader , and Leader Claude Kitchin found an excellent excuse for non-interference with the passage of the bill , which he regarded as unconstitutional , in the fact of his brother 's employment . Attorney Kitchin was reinforced by Attorney Emery of the National Association of Manufacturers , in the constitutional argument . The cotton manufacturers , who had to confess that they were employing twelve-year-old children eleven hours a day , that they wished to continue such employment , and that they had resisted the very State legislation including law enforcement , which they then held to be the wise alternative to federal legislation , unconsciously prejudiced their own case . PRESIDENT WILSON 'S PART The rest is rather recent history . The three national conventions of 1916 , Progressive , Republican , and Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Democratic Steering Committee of the Senate included it in the program of measures that were to be passed before Congress adjourned . Then as the dog-days waxed sultry in Washington , and Senators began to long for the opportunity to enter the Presidential , not to say Senatorial campaign , what proved to be a lean though insistent minority of the Democratic caucus persuaded that body with the threat of unlimited debate to agree to postpone the bill until the short session . Thereupon President Wilson took a hand in the proceedings . He went to the President 's Room at the Capitol , sent for some of the leaders of the party and urged that the bill be passed . The situation changed overnight and a succeeding caucus agreed to take up the bill immediately . In behalf of the independence of the Senate , it should be said that not a vote was changed by the President 's influence ; on his behalf , that the measure would not now be a law except for his timely intervention . The vote , after a few days ' debate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Ten of the votes were from the Southern States , though , as was the case in the House , only one-third of the Southerners were against the bill . Senators Penrose and Oliver voted against it , while Brandegee of Connecticut , Dillingham of Vermont , and Thomas of Colorado were paired against it . Senator Works adopted the characteristic course of voting for the bill in order that the Supreme Court might declare it unconstitutional as speedily as possible . The bill favorably affects not less than a quarter of a million children under sixteen years of age at work in mines , quarries , factories , sweat-shops , and canneries , some of whom the census omitted because they were not at work or happened to be in school on the day in April when the census-taker came around . Many of them are more or less protected by State laws . But as a decade rolls around the children set free from premature or too long continued daily toil may be counted by the million . The example of the federal government will be a potent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the children will be left unhampered by the only organized opposition that has hitherto been successful , when they attempt to bring up all the States to the best standards . The neglected problem of child labor on the farm can now be solved with due regard to the welfare of the child and his opportunities for education . The conscienceless offenders against public morals are always more careful when Uncle Sam decides that what was immoral shall be also criminal . The beginning of the end of the system in America may he seen . President ' Wilson signed a second Emancipation Proclamation on September 1 , 1916 . It goes into effect a year from that date .                     