@@430741

There is a type of temperament which is born to saintliness and martyrdom as man is born unto trouble . When philosophy used to be the handmaiden of t1leology and the world had a wall , when the enterprise of thought was dissipated by the timidity of faith , temperament of this type made a Christian holiday in autos-da-f e and other spectacles of the soul 's salvation . And in the days when new knowledge had pushed the world 's wall back to the infinite , when philosophy had become her own mistress and thought , as science , adventured free , this temperament kept getting itself outlawed of men , belied and scorned and compelled to walk alone , in the byways of our common life . Nowadays , the influence of ideas of democracy , tolerance , and the value of originality makes for such temperaments a more endurable home in the world of the daily life : ordinary times regard them merely as eccentric and quixotic , but times of stress treat them after the historic manner . So Shelley was treated , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an inner kinship of nature . Both are endowed with a profound and ineluctable sincerity , a noble simplicity of mind that issues in a relentless obedience to the compulsion of motives in their logical and practical outcome in the tissue of events . Both are intense with moral indignation and righteous hatred of the unnecessary evil in things as they are . In Shelley this compulsion was impulsive and of the imagination ; his Godwinian ideas of human conduct , which were not unlike what Mr. Russell 's used to be , were constantly vitiated by the more vivid realities of his own feelings , action , and fancy . In Mr. Bertrand Russell this compulsion is dialectical and of the mind : his spontaneous humanism was constantly being vitiated by the logical implications of his ideas . Shelley the poet and Russell the philosopher were both at their best when dealing with those matters that are farthest removed from the actualities of human conduct and from the living complex of instincts and appetites which is its ground . I say " were , " for Shelley is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Bertrand Russell has , under the stress of this civil war which is devouring the youth and the beauty and the hope of Europe , finally discovered human nature and won from his discovery a vision of new life . " To me , the chief thing to be learnt through the war has been a certain view of the springs of human action , what they are , and what we may legitimately hope they will become . " That this should be , is , in view of Mr. Russell 's past dealings with human nature , witness of the depth of the conversion the pentecostal calamity has worked upon him . Yet it might have been expected . Preoccupation with the motives of human action , in the broad and in detail , has been a tradition of his breed , and his own absorption with the ethereal fastnesses of ultra-theoretical mathematics , of metaphysical logic , of an unhuman logothetic ethics , is often crossed by a passion uttering itself with a vivid , lyrical eloquence akin to Shelley ; s , and customarily altogether foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passion alone . It is often alight with deeply perceptive wit , cold with irony , and hot with satire painful in its truthfulness . But passion about mathematics is , on the whole , far from usual , and wit and irony and satire point to the existence of unharmonized motives in their user 's life and oppugnant ideas in his thought . Mr. Russell 's has been , I suspect , a divided mind . In his thinking he has , like Shelley in his feeling , followed with the blind singleness of absolute sincerity the logical movement of each successive idea to its fated end . Such ends are ordinarily at the opposite pole from reality , for the necessities of exact logic are not the compulsions of existence and consistency is more often than not the enemy of truth . It would seem that each time Mr. Russell attained to a hopeless end of this kind , he made a new beginning and followed a fresh trail in the old manner . As a result , he may be credited with a number of systems , each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his " Principles of Mathematics , " his " Philosophical Essays , " his " Problems of Philosophy , " his Lowell Lectures on " Physics and Sense , " his " Justice in War Time , " may follow these for themselves . They will suggest a central uncertainty of feeling , an incoordination of impulse for which the logical exactness of thinking is purely a compensation . The world of Mr. Russell 's conception , in these very distinguished works , is a flat world and a static world , a world without action , from which the third dimension is lacking . The passion and the wit they reveal are interruptions which flash across their logical inter-articulations miraculously , coming from another region , God knows where , like the motion which Descartes introduced into his plenum of rest to start this disarticulate and unhappy universe 's becoming . One wonders what the devil they are doing in that galley even while one is delighted . They are human and uncanny , both , like Japanese drawings .  | Now , significantly , " Why Men Fight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its thought is possessed of the qualities one is accustomed to expect in Mr. Russell 's works , even to the clefts and discrepancies which all dialectic must contain . But it does not oppress with the precision of explication that is proper to dialectic , nor defeat the straining mind with abstraction and tenuousness , with the faerie of the thinker , as Shelley 's writing overwhelms with the faerie of the poet . The things this book deals with are near things , things important and terribly intimate , so intimate that they can not be seen save in the perspective of a great vision . And it is with just such a perspective that Mr. Russell endows them , a perspective suffused by what he rather ineffably calls " Spirit , " the loving affirmations , in spite of the skepticism of thought , of the excellences which alone can vindicate the otherwise tragic burden of life and living . The old intolerance toward selfishness and patriotism is gone . They are sympathetically understood , and confederated into a larger and more impersonal love for mankind , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the wit and irony and satire are absent . Brilliancy has given way to luminous depth and dialectic to perception in these utterances of Mr. Russell 's . They are full with noble passion pervasive and sustained . The qualities of men , it has come to Mr. Russell out of the war , are to be creative , strong , and free . Human nature is a complex of numerous impulses , more often than not unconscious impulses , and of desires seeking to realize themselves in action and in feeling . This action and feeling are not goals chosen or set for life , but the process of living itself : their good lies not in what they do , but in what they are , and they are the most and the best of life . Were the world made for us , living would be just autonomous and happy actualization of impulses ; but the world is not made for us ; our disharmonies with nature and conflicts with each other compel the repression of much of the impulse-born underflow of life that any of it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A great deal of the repression practised upon men by themselves and by each other is inevitable ; much , very much , is needless and breeds an evil more vicious than the evil it seeks to abolish . For impulses are not destroyed by being repressed . Blocked at their natural outlets , they seek untoward ones , and instead of emerging in healthy and creative activities of the fellowship of man , they emerge in perversions of imagination , of belief . and of action , such as are the ground of the institution of war . Nor can these impulses ever be extirpated : they are of the fundamental constitution of human nature , and they can be only perverted , or opposed by other and stronger impulses . To escape perversion , they must either be made to regain their original direction , or confronted with a more potent impulsive life . " It is not by reason alone that war can be prevented , but by a positive life of impulses and passions antagonistic to those that lead to war . It is the life of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russell has learned concerning human nature of both Spinoza and Freud . To change the life of impulse requires most of all a change in its conditions , notably in those which are the work of man ? in the institutions of our common life , the state , property , education , morals , the churches . These practise upon the individual an original oppression which perverts impulse and compels it to generate still other institutions , evil , but able to serve it for utterance . All institutions , both original and secondary ones , are forces working good and ill upon the life of mankind , and mostly ill . Particularly is this true of the state , which is possessed of great , unnecessary , and harmful power that may be largely diminished without impairing the state 's value . Whatever be its other relation to the citizens of whose collective force it is the repository , it is a tyrant , and its tyranny over them is most apparent in times of war . This it reaches ultimately in its power to compel universal military service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both those who kill their compatriots and those who refuse to kill foreigners . On the whole , the latter is considered the graver crime . " Indeed , in its relation to other states , in all its external activities , the state is essentially selfish . If men acquiesce in this terrible power , it is not because they think , but because they do not think . They acquiesce because their vitality is low . They acquiesce out of tradition , out of primitive tribal feeling , out of a sense of the community of purposes which a state often implies . The integration of these , reenforced by false education , tends to endow the sentiment of patriotism with a religious character , so that nothing is too vile that is done for the state . Too strong to oppose , it becomes a sort of expanded self for the repressed or weak individual who has no force in his own nature , and a vicarious self-fulfilment of his own potentialities . Once it comes to be , it aims not merely to preserve itself , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only by substituting law for force in the relations between men : but law is static and retrospective ? it ham- pers spontaneity , growth , and creation . Hence the state is the most serious of all the menaces to liberty . It presents in its most drastic form the problem of combining liberty and personal initiative with organization . Solution for the problem is best sought , Mr. Russell thinks , by increasing so far as possible the power of voluntary organization , by avoiding uniformity , encouraging initiative , and tolerating exception . The best form for the state is that of a federation , and the least harmful power , that of policing . Property is even more evil in its conse- , consequences than the state . It is both the cause and effect of diminishing vitality . Resting on the belief that all values may be measured in money , it restrains passion and limits life more than the fear of hell-fire . It is an institution of worship which substitutes means for ends . It makes the American aim to be counted among the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the respectable ; the Frenchman , among those who prefer safety of the family unity and name to freedom ; the German , among those who so prefer the state . The world has become money-mad . Through fear of losing money , forethought and anxiety eat away men 's power of happiness , and the dread of misfortune becomes a greater misfortune than the one which is dreaded . The happiest men and women , as we all can testify from our own experience , are those who are indifferent to money because they have some positive purpose which shuts it out . And yet all our political thought , whether imperialist , radical or socialist , continues to occupy itself almost exclusively with men 's economic desires , as though they alone had real importance . What is needed most in an economic system is that it shall leave men 's instinctive growth unhampered , shall provide a wide range for private affections , and every possible outlet for the creative impulses in men . Such a goal , socialism , of the existing programmes of economic reform , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more for its attainment , for these harmonize freedom with community of interest . The economic programme for the future must be a programme of industrial democracy such that it will be " hardly more than a framework for energy and initiative . " On this matter Mr. Russell is very close to Steinmetz : he advocates an economic method such that " the free growth of the individual can be reconciled with the large technical organizations which have been rendered necessary by industrialism . " The achievement of such liberation involves education , but education has been and is one of the strongest forces against fundamental . change . It transmits partizanship rather than impartiality : in the teacher it is without reverence for the child , whose free growth is not helped but distorted by interested dogmatism in the teaching particularly of history . and religion . What is needed is growth in thought , not confirmation in creed . Creed makes for unity of organization and efficiency in fighting , and is therefore desired , while men fear thought . Men fear thought as they fear nothing else @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death . Thought is subversive and revolutionary , destructive and terrible ; thought is merciless to privilege , established institutions , and comfortable habits ; thought is anarchic and lawless , indifferent to authority , careless of the well-tried wisdom of the ages . Thought looks into the pit of hell and is not afraid . It sees man , a feeble speck , surrounded by unfathomable depths of silence ; yet it bears itself proudly , as unmoved as if it were lord of the universe . Thought is great and swift and free , the light of the world , and the chief glory of man . And hence a danger to all vested interests and institutions , so that churches , schools , and universities live inspired by the fear of thought and substitute for it dogma and authority . Education particularly needs to liberate thought , independence of spirit , to be guided by " a positive conception of what constitutes a good life , " " to aim at an activity directed toward the world that our efforts are to create . " And it does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barbaric survivals of our sex-relationships that we call " morals , " no less than the other vested interests are to blame . And the problems that these raise need very particularly to be brought under the clear dry light of thought . The institution of marriage is a political institution which has recently been subjected to influences of which the law takes no cognizance , and such cognizance as it does take of the institution has a pernicious effect on the character of men and women , on the propagation and education of children . It involves a widespread and flimsy hypocrisy that sacrifices , not pleasure , but the future of the race . Among those persons who ought to breed , moreover , economic and other considerations have the same effect , and the liberation of women has meant the limitation of motherhood . A slow and destructive warfare is taking place , the civilized world over , between the personal development of the individual and the future of the community . The best are being bred out , while those who are amenable to the authority of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | . number . The new population of the western world is thus likely to become one of female women and uncontrolled men . What an ironic , what a tragic commentary such a culmination must be on the woman 's movement ! For the movement , by effecting through infertility the elimination of women capable of freedom , is likely to defeat its own end , through the survival of women entirely incapable and undesirous of freedom . Everything must be done to encourage the reproduction of the best : social hindrances , economic hindrances , legal hindrances must be removed ; the institution of marriage must undergo radical reorganization . But above all , men and women need for the sanctification of marriage a new religion based upon liberty , justice , and love . And for the renewal and sanctification of the whole of life , no less . But such a religion is not to be found in the churches . Churches are vested interests , involving fixed ' creeds and the " incubus of a professional priesthood . " From Mr. Russell 's point of view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Religion is the effect of a rather mysterious attitude of emotion which Mr. Russell calls " spirit . " Human life , he declares , is a triad of instinct , mind , and spirit . Instinct is at the foundations of our lives ; it involves all the fundamental impulses and activities that keep life going . Mind is the exfoliation of the impulse to acquire knowledge ; its life is impersonal thought , while " Spirit centers round impersonal feeling . " It is possible to feel the same interest in the joys and sorrows of others as in our own , to love and hate independently of all relation to ourselves , to care about the destiny of men and the development of the universe without a thought that we are personally involved . Reverence and worship , the sense of an obligation to mankind , the feeling of imperativeness and acting under orders which traditional religion has interpreted as Divine inspiration , all belong to the life of the spirit . And deeper than all this lies the sense of a mystery half revealed , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which common things lose their solid importance and become a thin veil behind which the ultimate truth of the world is dimly seen . Spirit adds thus the third dimension to the life of instinct : it fuses the egotism of the senses with the impersonality of the intellect . It extends good will to the universe . Mr. Russell has , I suspect , learned something from both Spinoza and Bergson here . The war has led him to realize in his own experience something of the " intellectual love of God , " of " intuition . " He speaks with the intensity and eloquence of experience , but also with the ineffability of the mystic . " Spirit " is something of a dark surd in an otherwise not unluminous designation of human nature . Whatever it be , its restoration to its proper place in human life seems to be an indispensable condition for the righting of social wrongs and the abolition of war . War is a permanent institution ostensibly aiming at power and wealth , but actually generated by the repressive effect of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is rooted in the combative instinct , which seeks freedom of action , partly in its service as a liberating . medium to other impulses which are better served in other ways . Men want three things : self-expressive activity , victory over resistance , and fame . Distinguished men get these in their private capacity , for themselves , but the commonalty gets them vicariously , through the state , whereby it can be and do things it can not be and do in its several individualities . As William James has suggested , impulses and instincts can find expression , resistances can be conquered and fame attained by moral equivalents for war . The creation and use of such equivalents requires , however , a change of heart in men , the achievement of " spirit , " and radical changes in education , in the economic life and moral order of society . All changes to be successful must make for growth , spontaneity , initiative , and creative action in individuals , and against possession , conservation , inertia . The new life must be an active @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life . Immediate change in things as they are , is not , of course , to be expected ; we must think in terms of the long run . And in the long run there is , happily , the power of thought to count on . This " in the long run is greater than any other human power . " It is true that creative innovators , thinkers of new thought , are usually outcasts and that loneliness is the penalty of spontaneity . But loneliness need not and should not mean aloofness . Spirit will guide the thinker , through reverence and liberty , to that confederation of himself with his neighbor , of the two with the community , and their community with the world through impersonal loyalty to a common , impersonal purpose : this purpose being " to promote all that is creative , and so to diminish the impulses and desires that center- round possession . " Such is Mr. Russell 's evangel of new life . We who are on the verge of a war for the sake of those assumptions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its warnings as well as its promise to heart . It is easy to  | pick flaws in the detail of its argument and the measure of its data , and if our lives are circumscribed by the narrow circle of mere instinct and mere patriotism , to deny its merit and appeal altogether . But the time is too momentous for flaw-picking by those who are animated by any real hope and set with any good will toward the future of mankind . This man's. message comes from too great depths and sounds too lofty a note . Particularly for Americans , it contains a warning and a programme . because America is in greatest danger from the evils it denounces , and nearest to attainment of the excellences it urges . It is a handbook for patriots whose concern is the soul of our country .  | ,                     