@@430467

In 1898 appeared the first general circular of " The Cambridge Modern History . " The present board of editors assumed their duties in November , 1901 , not quite ten years ago , and the first volume appeared in 1902 . With the publication of " The Latest Age " the end has now been reached of a great undertaking ? great in conception and in labor , and great even in execution . Two supplementary volumes are yet to appear , one presenting maps , the other a general index : both valuable addenda to the text of the completed work , but adding nothing to the historical presentation of the earlier volumes . Although many readers will doubtless remember the facts in connection with the origin of this Modern  | History , it will perhaps not be amiss to recall something of the plan and purpose of the work as outlined by Lord Acton in the nineties . That " prodigy of learning " conceived a history of modern times , " each chapter to be written by the most competent available expert , wherever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appear . " . . . " Our principle should be to supply help to students , not material to historians . . . . It is intended that the narrative shall be such as will serve all readers , that it shall be without notes , and without quotations in foreign languages . " Cambridge was to produce " the best history of modern times that the published or unpublished sources of information admit . " These excerpts express briefly a few ( not all ) of the points Lord Acton deemed essential to his ideal of a successful modern history . Having impregnated his contributing specialists with his own ideals , he proposed to work with them , preparing certain topics himself , giving editorial supervision to the whole , and depending upon a unity of purpose and expert knowledge to produce a connected and authentic narrative . With regard to the inauguration of the vast enterprise , the editors of his " Cambridge Lectures " write : " Many universities and two continents were ransacked for contributors . Five chapters ? none alas ! written ? Acton had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others ( not always retained since ) his personal characteristics received pregnant expression . " But the demands of such a task were tremendous , and it soon appeared that Acton " was without that driving force needed to keep in line a heterogeneous body of specialists , " and before the first volume was off the press the Regius Professor of History had laid down his pen . Upon Lord Acton 's death , the execution of this great undertaking fell to the board of editors through whose efforts the twelve volumes , up to and including the present one , have appeared . The present writer has reviewed in THE DIAL four of the " Cambridge Modern History " volumes , these being the first four in historical sequence , though not published in that order . In each case it was pointed out , with a varying degree of emphasis , that while the work was a great work , invaluable to scholars for its accuracy and for its well-selected references , the volume in question departed from the avowed intention of Lord Acton in two important particulars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the best qualified specialist upon the matter under consideration ; and second , Lord Acton 's dream or ideal of a Universal History " distinct from the combined history of all countries , . . . but a continuous development , . . . an illumination of the soul , " had somehow not been realized . The volumes thus criticized cover the period from the beginning of the Renaissance to the end of the Thirty Years ' War . If , for the earlier volumes , the editors were hampered by a dearth of specialists , and were obliged themselves to write approximately a third of the chapters , how much more difficult it would seem to provide experts for present-day history , and how much more difficult to realize that unity in the narrative , that " continuous development " of which Acton so hopefully wrote . Yet it is precisely that seemingly impossible continuity that characterizes this last volume . The Latest Age , " save for one chapter , offers an organized and absorbing narrative , distinguished for its authority and for its emphasis upon those related @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The one chapter alluded to is that on " Foreign Relations of the United States during the Civil War , " by Professor Westlake , formerly of Trinity College ; and the chapter was inserted because the editors felt " that these relations had been insufficiently explained in the American volume ( Vol . VII. ) , and further elucidation was needed for the clear understanding of the Alabama Question , which looms large in the opening years of our period . " As an important factor influencing American attitude toward England , the " Alabama " case is indeed important ; but national feeling was of greater importance than were the facts and the law of the case . These latter must indeed be stated , in any historical account ; but taken alone they mean nothing , and it is just here that the chapter in question is disappointing . It offers merely a technical legal examination of the relations of the United States and Great Britain , with an argued defense of England 's action in the recognition of Southern belligerent rights , and in the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ error in failing to stop the " Alabama , " and in failing to arrest her when she entered British colonial ports . This is now conceded by all modern English historians , while the strict legality of the English position on belligerency and in the ease of the " Trent " is equally conceded in the United States . If diplomatic history is to limit itself to international law and to legal argument , the chapter is satisfactory . To the people of the  | North , however , the specific official acts of any foreign government were of distinctly less importance than the general attitude of the foreign public . Unquestionably the sentiment and sympathies of the British people were of the greatest moment , while formal governmental action might be a matter of relative indifference . The author states , indeed , that " the chief source of the feeling in the North probably lay in the disappointed hope that the antislavery sentiment , in which England had led the world , would induce her to grant to the Northern cause a benevolent and not an impartial neutrality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but not All . Americans believed ? and with some foundation for their belief ? that the governing classes of England were not coolly indifferent , but that in reality they desired the disruption of the Union . It was this that rankled , and made the Americans quick to interpret the " cold neutrality " of Great Britain as in reality an unfriendly neutrality . When , in the later years of the war , and after , the North understood that the great mass of the people of England had sympathized with her cause , the bitterness gradually disappeared . Viewed from the purely English standpoint , it is no doubt correct to discuss the foreign policy of the United States during the Civil War in the light of those specific incidents that were in controversy . From the American viewpoint , however , as also from that of general history , the foreign relations were vital when they revealed the attitude of foreign nations ; and our later policy for a succeeding score of years was determined by our understanding of what that general attitude had been , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in specific instances , like those of the " Trent " or the " Alabama . " The chapter just noted is brief , however , and has no essential relation to the bulk of the volume . In general , " The Latest Age " covers the period from 1865 to the present time , the exact opening date varying with the different countries and topics . About half of the twentysix chapters are given to European states , half to European colonies , Latin America , and the Far East . Nearly every chapter bears the stamp of exact and scholarly authority , though many of the writers are comparatively unknown in this country . In the preface , the editors profess that so modern a period of history lends itself with the greatest difficulty to that " intelligible perspective " which is necessary in order to depict the central threads ? the unity of the historical movement . As has been said , either the editors or their contributors have overcome the difficulty with greater success than in the earlier volumes . For throughout the eight hundred pages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period : first , progress toward national consciousness and national ideals ; second , the advance of democracy and of parliamentary government ; third , the development of an international code of law and of permanent international tribunals . These matters appear not merely as separated subjects for discussion ; they inevitably appear in what professes to be a description of events within a particular state . In a most interesting chapter , for example , by Professor Oneken ( not one of the unfamiliar specialists ) , on the German Empire , the development of national consciousness is insisted on ; indirect argument is advanced as to the effectiveness which may be expected from parliamentary or from irresponsible government ; and , finally , the German disinclination to become enthusiastic over schemes of world-arbitration is forcibly stated . For the British reader , no doubt , Professor Oncken's. analysis of the tendency of modern German world-policy will be of most interest . He traces with admirable clearness the evolution of those industrial conditions which have placed upon Germany the necessity of an expansion that is distinctly economic . In this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and with having given the initial impulse in each step taken to advance the industrial requirements of his people . The rapid increasing of the navy was but to safeguard the commercial and colonial ' interests of the state , and was intended rather as a means of defense than for aggression . The gradual drifting apart of England and Germany , followed by the extreme British fear of Germany , was the inevitable consequence of the latter 's appearance in the field of international commerce and of world politics . Professor Oncken maintains that Germanys " world policy " is essentially and wholly economic ; that it is in no sense aggressive to the point of armed conflict ; that Germany 's interests demand rather that the world should remain at peace , and that her military and naval strength tend to this end . England , he asserts , is now coming to understand this ; but he also states with emphasis in his concluding paragraph that Germany is united in the determination to participate in the modern international economic development , and also united in the belief that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .  | Thus , Professor Oncken indirectly states Germany 's attitude toward the world peace movement . In chapter XXII. , on " The Modern Law of Nations and the Prevention of War , " Sir Frederick Pollock discusses the broader aspects of the question . The treatment is purely historical , but throughout it is demonstrated that the entire process of creating a body of rules or customs known as international law has consisted in creating a sentiment so strong that nations hesitated to violate it . Reason and custom gradually established rules of action which were observed even if not enforced . It follows that it is as reasonable to expect ultimately a general acquiescence in arbitration , as in the past it seemed reasonable to expect the adoption of many rules of international conduct now generally observed . The author declares that " the frequent repetition of declarations that war ought not to be entered on without a serious attempt at conciliation in some form . . . does tend to produce , and may in time produce , a genuine public opinion capable of affording a considerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goes on , it will be less and less reputable among civilized states to talk of going to war without having exhausted the resources of the Hague Convention . " This chapter illustrates the distinctly modern character of the volume . In most cases , events are carried to the year 1910 ; and while earlier volumes may with some truth have been criticised as primarily valuable for the historical student , this concluding volume is certainly fitted for a wider usefulness . A public interested in the social , intellectual , or scientific trend , in the progress of ideas as well as of nations , in economic as well as political history , finds here authoritative information upon matters still vaguely understood or incorrectly presented in current print . Chapter and page headings are inviting and stimulating for casual reading , and add greatly to convenience for easy reference . Such topics as " The Reform Movement in Russia , " carried up to the midsummer of 1909 , " The Regeneration of Japan " to the treaty of Portsmouth . " Sven Hedin " and " Exploration in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " " The Revolution in Social Ideas , " " Thermo-dynamical Research , " indicate in a measure the breadth of ground covered , and bear out the statement in the preface that " We are , in many ways , more amply instructed about our own time than we are in the affairs of any other age . " And , indeed , in a reconsideration and summary of the entire work , it is not too much to say that the editors and contributors have in large part realized their ideals . These may not be quite Lord Acton 's ideals , but it is doubtful , indeed , if these were actually realizable . The " Cambridge Modern History " is of distinct value as an historical product . It speaks with authority , and usually justly . Its excellence is in its exactness , its tone of scholarship , and in the non-controversial character of its contributions .  |                     