@@487061

Mr. Taft has devoted his Presidential message exclusively to the Trust question . This is unusual for the initial message of a Congressional session , but not without a precedent . President Cleveland similarly excluded from his message of December 6 , 1887 , all topics except tariff reduction . The President has plainly written his message eon , amore , and with a deep sense of responsibility . As long ago as February , 1898 , he handed down as presiding judge of the Circuit ? Court the highly important decision under that law , against the Addyston Pipe and Steel combination , which had endeavored to fix arbitrary prices and parcel out the country among its constituent members  --  a decision subsequently upheld in all particulars by the Supreme Court . It may therefore be said that the President has a right to approach the general question now , as much in the mental attitude of a judge as of the Chief Executive . What Mr. Taft has to say of the manner of dissolving convicted Trusts is of much immediate interest . The tobacco independents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declared the existing plan unjust , because it still left large companies in the field , formed from the disintegrated holdings of the Trust . But this contention , the President rejoins , " results from a misunderstanding of the Anti-Trust law and its purpose . " That law is not intended " to prevent the accumulation of large capital in business enterprises in which such a combination can secure reduced cost of production , sale , and distribution , " but to break up a clearly monopolistic combination . As for the still more familiar argument that " the present pro- , rata and common ownership in all these companies , by former stockholders of-the Trust , would insure a continuance of the same old single control of all the companies in which the Trust has by decree been disintegrated , " the President points out that if any or all-of the ' ; shareholders , in the new companies thus 4fdififid , ' Were attempt by Concerted action to control the market , " its prime movers and all its participants would be at once subject to contempt proceedings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a court decree " whose inhibitions are set forth with a detail and comprehensiveness unexampled in the history of equity jurisprudence . " And , beyond even this , " only a short time will inevitably lead to a change in ownership of the stock , as all opportunity for continued cooperation must disappear . " We believe that the President here sets forth a fact which is perfectly well known and recognized by all unbiassed business men . For a thoroughly discredited and disliked body of men , the Congress of the United States receives a great deal of attention from the press . We say discredited and disliked on the authority of the comic writers and artists in the newspapers who invariably hail the adjournment of Congress with a loud sigh of relief , and the intimation that the country can now settle down to business . The jest about the two prodigal sons of whom one landed in jail and the other was elected to the House of Representatives , is coeval with the other comic tradition that when a man 's neighbors are at a loss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the mouth of the professional humorist this accusation no longer surprises any one , because good jokes are rare and a serviceable quip is almost impossible to kill . But this conception of the American lawmaker has in recent years passed outside of the funny column and really found an echo among people quite without the sense of humor . The wish that Congress might suspend operations for a half-dozen years and give the country a rest has been seriously uttered And how completely tired we are of this assembly of empty talkers , selfish log-rollers , and disturbers of business is attested by the fact that when Congress reassembles no newspaper ' gives more than three or four pages to the utterly unimportant and dispiriting event . From various culty in understanding why they will not take what they have not been offered . There has not as yet been an actual " no " ? nothing more than a " please do n't . " That this is not daunting the bluff spirits of the West is evident in the remarks of the president of the Theodore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He says of his fellow-Colonel that he , " although a big man , is not big enough to throw any obstacles in the way " of the movement to nominate him and elect him , " because we have the votes . " This is the kind of strong meat on which the Nebraskans feed , but Col. Yeiser is weaker when he comes to speak of a possible alternative . The nomination and election of Roosevelt are to be put down as certain , but , afterwards , " if he wants Taft to have it , he can refuse to qualify and let Taft hold over . " This argues an unfamiliarity with the Constitution which we should not have expected in any member of a Theodore Roosevelt Club , much less the president . Col. Yeiser evidently believes that Presidents , like dog-catchers , continue in office until their successors come to de- , mand that they give up the keys . against the tremendous probability of guilt which the facts presented by Burns carried with them , and over against the absolute certainty that a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real or supposed interest of union labor , the head of the Federation of Labor placed the simple word of the McNamaras ; and on this foundation , so far as in him lay , he committed the workingmen of America to the championship of these murderers , and to the denunciation of their accusers as the most infamous of human beings . Inasmuch as the Controller Bay charges , over which a tremendous row was made a few months ago , were of the most damaging character if true , it would have been in better taste if Mr. Brandeis and Mr. Amos Pinchot , in advising the Graham Committee to discontinue the investigation , and Mr. Graham in his remarks apropos of this , had given more prominence to the refutation of the accusations and rumors of dishonesty and less to the alleged change of policy on the part of the Administration . Mr. Brandeis states tnat he found no evidence of illegality or bad faith by any Government official in the Controller Bay matter , though he regards the action taken by the Government as having been " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He , and Mr. Graham , and Mr. Pinchot as representing the National Conservation Association , are entirely satisfied with Secretary Fisher 's conclusions concerning Alaskan resources ; but they fail  --  so far as we have observedto make any acknowledgment of the fact that the Secretary 's report concerning the significance of the Controller Bay land-grants was in absolute contradiction of the views that had been so loudly urged by the President 's accusers , quite apart from any question of good or bad faith . The address made by Mr. Fisher on his return from Alaska did not " constitute a clear departure from the Administration 's former policy , " though Chairman Graham says it did ; it simply constituted a more definite formulation of that policy and a judicial survey of the past and present of the Alaskan problem . A similarly judicial statement on the part of those representing the - Conservation cause would have been more creditable than the Parthian fling with which they retire from the attack . Official tabulation of the election returns in New Jersey shows that the State which Gov . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on November 7 , was really carried by the Democrats . The total vote by counties , as now compiled , was Republican 157,084 , and Democratic 160,184 . The Legislature was made Republican solely by the overturn in Essex County , which , of course , elects its Assemblymen on a general list , not by districts . How plain the betrayal was by the Smith machine in Essex may be seen from the fact that even in 1909 the Democratic vote was 27,999 , while in the last election it fell to 23,360 . But the entire footing of all the counties shows that the Democrats had a majority of 3,100 . This is only about 11,000 below the majority which the Democratic candidates for the Assembly had in 1910 , though Wilson for Governor carried the State by 50,000 . Looking purely , however , at the vote on the Legislative ticket this year , it appears that the Democrats were in a majority  --  a thing which , except for 1910 under exceptional conditions , they had not achieved for twenty years . It should seem that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Guggenheim 's voluntary withdrawal , nearly two years in advance of the end of his term in the Senate , from the contest for reelection will be subject to varying interpretations . There are those who will insist that he still holds the State of Colorado in the hollow of his hand and could , therefore , have retained his seat in the Senate had he seen fit , and those who will have it that he has seen the handwriting on the wall as have Aldrich and Hale and Wetmore and all the rest . Mr. Guggenheim 's friends insist that he has been an unselfish patriot in the Senate , and really sacrificed large personal interests in order to advance the public weal . But the hard-hearted public , remembering what came out about the methods the Senator used in entering the Senate , will not feel depressed by the news of the retirement . Whether Mr. Guggenheim has or has not divorced himself from his private interests ; whether he did or did not seek and - obtain tariff favors for his pet industries in the Payne-Aldrich law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country do not believe that a man of this type ought to be in the Senate , and that his going nearly marks the end of the regime of the multi-millionaire Senators who used to make the Senate famous as a rich man 's club . Philadelphia has entered this week upon a chapter of her history , the development of which will be watched with interest throughout the Union . The first event in that chapter is announced in the shape o ; Mayor Blankenburg 's appointments to four of the five chief positions under him in the city government . Not within the memory of any man of ordinary age has a new Mayor of Philadelphia been greeted with the kind of comment that Mr. Blankenburg 's choice of his Cabinet has evoked . " In. every instance , " says the Philadelphia Ledger , " there is in the personality and record of the man an earnest of that honesty , efficiency , and absolute independence which are the foundation stones of the structure of businesslike municipal administration which the new Mayor is to build . " " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " justify the hope that they will come up to the expectations of the new Mayor , and aid him in the great work he has undertaken . " It is felt on all hands that this work is nothing less than the redemption of Philadelphia . To achieve success in this great undertaking will require a combination of ability and hard work and good judgment , as well as uprightness of purpose , and we must not whistle until we are out of the woods . But it may be noted at once that these appointments of Mayor Blankenburg 's have not only been made with the evident purpose of getting a first-rate man for each post , bat that there is in them no trace of that spirit of compromise with the spoils idea which has marred , and even wrecked , so many of the most promising of reform administrations in American cities . In this great matter of rescuing city government from the grasp of machine politics , there is no room for compromise . You have got to choose between regarding an appointment as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's service and regarding it as a means of giving somebody a city " job " because he wants it or some organization wants him to have it . The retirement of Mr. John D. Rockefeller from the presidency of the Standard Oil Company , even though it coincides with the formal dissolution of the giant aggregate of companies which he created , does not arouse the interest such an act would have excited ten years ago , or even five years ago . Public interest of late has not centred in Mr. Rockefeller as the head of Standard Oil , but in his personality and his non-commercial activities . Report has it that Mr. Rockefeller has regarded himself as an ill-used man , as compared with other men of exceptionally great wealth . These others were allowed to live down their enormously profitable past , but Mr. Rockefeller never was . He might go on displaying as much fervor in distributing his millions as he displayed in gathering them together  --  public opinion still thought of him as the original Octopus . But of late a certain change has , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rockefeller 's golf , rather than his gifts to Chicago University , that has impressed itself on the public . At any rate , while it would be still unsafe to speak of the founder of Standard Oil as a greatly-loved personality , he does appear in a more human form than people were once inclined to allow him  --  like another person of fable . The bulletins that keep coming from the Census Bureau , making comparisons between 1904 and 1909 , tell a monotonous tale of growth that looks like the story of a prosperous country . The latest to hand is the report on confectionery  --  and why confectionery should not be regarded as a barometer of consumers ' ease , just as iron is considered the barometer of business feeling- and prospects , it would be difficult to say . In the five years from 1904 to 1909 there - was a general advance in confectionery . Capital invested increased from $43,000 , - ' 000- to $68,000,000 , or 44 per cent. ; value of products advanced from $87,000,000 to $134,000,000 , an increase of 55 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent . in five years , percentages like this  --  and something like them is shown in nearly every line  --  seem to indicate , even after all allowance is made for rising prices , a constant rise in the standard of living among the people . Very little of the $134,000,000 worth of confectionery turned out by our manufacturers was eaten by multi-millionaires Indiana poetry will seem in a bad way if James Whitcomb Riley sticks to his intention of writing no more . The reason he alleges is by no mean conclusive . If his right hand is incapacitated for further rhyming , there is his left , and why should he think it impossible to dictate verse ? It would be a bold critic who should assume to detect from internal evidence what lines Milton wrote and what ones he dictated . Will an American give up where an Englishman succeeded ? This is not the spirit which we have been accustomed to think of as inspiring Indiana 's literary artists . One can understand Mr. Riley 's feeling in the matter , but what are his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guilty of such gross neglect of moral and financial duty as is suggested by the poet 's announcement . Unless American literary enterprise has suddenly broken down in a most unexpected place , all the resources of stenography , phonographs , dictaphones , and we know not what else will be immediately put at the disposal of the Indianapolis muse . Poetry may some time fail us , but never for mere want of the means of getting it transferred to paper . Mr. Sydney Brooks 's article , " The Truth About Cuba , " in the Independent , is based upon two visits which he has recently made to the island , and upon many conversations with politicians , planters , business men , railway officials . Cuba 's economic condition and outlook , Mr. Brooks pronounces to be excellent . Great progress has been made , although , as he says , the wonderful natural resources of the island have only begun to be developeB . Politically , Mr. Brooks is compelled to be more guarded . While he does not credit all the rumors that float about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American during intervention , has for years been declared corrupt on the evidence of gossip  --  he admits that political grafting has been going on and that " more than one concession has been granted without a due regard for the public interests . " He also perceives the danger arising from the apparent purpose of President Gomez to " keep all offices and power in the hands of a particular group . " Nevertheless , Mr. Brooks takes a generally hopeful view both of the present situation and the prospects . His conclusionis that the Cuban Republic , considering everything , has justified the confidence reposed in it by the American Government . Canada commends our chalice to our own lips in her explanation that she can not interfere with the recent order of the Ontario Board of Censors prohibiting the exhibition of moving pictures showing the American flag , owing to the fact that the matter is not Federal , but provincial . Ever since the formation of the Union , we have puzzled foreign Governments by similar declarations . It has all been so simple to us that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose subjects have been the victims of a mob , for example , in one of the States , has failed to be completely satisfied with our elaborate setting forth of the Constitutional reasons why the Government at Washington can neither exact damages from the citizens guilty of the crime , nor allow the foreign Government to bring pressure upon the State in whose jurisdiction the affair took place . The victims , we have almost had the appearance of saying , should have thought of such a possibility before they entered our dual form of sovereignty . The full report of the recent address of the Dean of St. Paul 's , in which he stigmatized the twentieth century as the spendthrift heir of the nineteenth , bears out the rather sensational extracts from it first printed . Taken in connection with some remarks of Lord Curzon upon the Government 's bill for manhood suffrage for England , it makes one wonder how able men can still treat democracy as anything but an established fact . The Dean pours scorn upon the infallibility of the majority , and the ex-Viceroy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dark as manhood suffrage would be . But no one contends that the majority is infallible , and all sensible men agree that the suffrage should not be extended without careful consideration . It is a long time since Robert Lowe pointed out the altered situation in his " Now we must educate our masters . " The problem is no longer how far democracy shall be permitted to extend its authority , but what means shall be employed to make and keep it worthy of its supreme power . Not whether to have democracy , but how to utilize it , Is the real question .                     