@@467048

TN the end of August , 1018 , there was I set up at General Headquarters , American Expeditionary Force , France , an organization within the General Staff for the use of propaganda as a military weapon against the enemy in the field . It was a new thing in American army history . No communiguAs were issued about its operations . In the popular mind , vaguely aware that in this war all armies occasionally dropped printed leaflets over enemy positions , something of mystery attaches to field propaganda , as it does to trench codes or to artillery sound-and-flash ranging . Hitherto , information has been lacking for a picture of how the A. E. F. " shelled " the enemy with paper . The center of such a picture would be Room 6.5 , on the floor above General Pershing 's offices , in Damremont Caserne , the barracks-like seat of G. H. Q. at Chaumont , Haute-Marne . The windows of the propaganda headquarters looked down in one direction on the Marne and in the other on " The Hill , " as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morning the room echoed with the field music of the very military guard-mount in the great court below . Its stone walls were covered with maps of Allied and enemy positions and specimens of brown , red , or yellow enemy propaganda balloons . One wall was quartered into a sort of graphic record of propaganda : the British , French , and German fourths overflowed with a year 's leaflets , maps , and pamphlets , while , in August , the American quarterwas blank . The telephone in the corner connected with editors and printers in Paris and Langres , with propaganda field units at Bar-le-Due and Toul , with army and corps headquarters from the Argonne to the Vosges , and especially with aviation-fields toward Verdun . As each new supply of leaflets , ordered from Paris or Langres , was trucked northward along the long roads , side by side with supply - camions , tractored guns , tanks , and troops , little flags on the big map in Room 65 moved frontward , showing at a glance the quantity on each aviation-field . From those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sailed gently down through the Archie bursts to places where , as the air reports had it , " visibility was poor , " but where , we knew , some would he picked up by men in field-gray to be dutifully turned in to scornful Prussian officers ; some would be passed around and debated in the muddy trenches ; some would be heavily pondered in dugouts ; some would he secretly mailed home , to be digested with war beer in a Bavarian Gasthaus . Many came back to us in prisoners ' pockets , bleary specimens which Room 65 studied , together with reports on how and why Germans surrendered , enemy and Allied press clippings , announcements of " war aims " ( wartime euphemism for peace terms ) , rumors of Foreign Offices , the Russian situation , the White House ? all data necessary in the planning of new leaflets . This , it seems , is rather contrary to the popular picture . To the American in the street , " propaganda " did not mean the living word , but the lying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Caporetto in 1917 field . propaganda was a foul but dazzlingly successful Boche trick . To the Czecho-Slovaks fighting alongside the Allies in Ttaly it was the weapon to rescue for the Allied side their brothers in the Austrian army . To the American propaganda officers in France it was the vehicle of a passionate faith in the righteousness of America 's war : it was the chanting of crusaders , the word winged against delusions beneath enemies ' helmets , a strife to shorten our soldiers ' work , it was truly democratic peacemaking , most " openly arrived at " Field propaganda was as much a creation of this war as the tank . As a military weapon , especially after 1916 , its use was so developed that entire eastern sectors were officially reported as " held by propaganda alone . " In poetic justice for Caporetto , it was the combined British - Italian - Czecho-Slovak propaganda attack on the Piave in 1918 which brought over such numbers of Slav deserters that the Austrian offensive plans were known in detail from two to ten days before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent . of his victory to propaganda . Very recently , in north Russia , when American soldiers mutinied , as General March said for the first time in his knowledge of the army , the trouble was laid directly to propaganda . Two months before the effect of those Bolshevik leaflets was apparent I examined some of them with a professional and 1 patronizing eye and ventured , amid jeers , to judge them very ably compiled . The German Staff , forced early in the I war to take its own civilians in hand , waged against the whole nation that elaborate campaign of mendacity which so long preserved morale , and in its army established in each unit staff-schooled defensive propaganda , or " enlightenment , " officers . As to German offensive propaganda , its character may be inferred from the following extracts of a captured German order ( Russian front , 1917 ) : Confidential : Not to be communicated to front-line troops ! 1 . . . It is necessary to increase the efficiency of the propaganda in the army of the enemy . 2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the points from which papers , proclamations , etc. , can most easily be thrown . At these points one should seek to establish contacts by means of our interpreters , and , if the enemy agrees , to fix a time for future parleys . . .. It is strictly forbidden our soldiers to enter into relations with the enemy excepting as authorized , for fear that the enemy might try to take advantage of their frankness . .. . The best results are obtained by calling in a friendly tone , indicating feelings of comradeship or by repeated promises not to shoot , or offers of tobacco . The tobacco for this purpose is furnished by the Company Commander . . Only a German General Staff could he so forethonghtful about the tobacco . Perhaps the High Command 's tobacco was as dangerous as its propaganda , which was kept so carefully from the mass of its own soldiers . When America waged propaganda , as when it waged war , it avoided the German way . Our leaflets were as bitterly honest as our bayonets . With every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so that our troops might know what they were handling . The notorious German methods had not a little to do with our belatedness in organizing a propaganda program . There were other reasons . Soldiers instinctively favored traditional methods and looked on propaganda as the resort of the failing . Officers considered it tinged red , tainted with radicalism and revolution , and old soldiers are not skilled in dealing with radicalism . The President , after America 's experience with von Bernstorff and his methods , would not tolerate the words American propaganda " in his presence . Militarily there was a tendency to relegate leaflets to quiet sectors . Secretary Baker , in July , 1918 , when writing hearty approval of " education over the Wes " and prescribing its policy of " absolute honesty , " laid chief stress on " the opportunity during the winter lull " expected for 1918-19 . The real delay , however , was due simply to the difficulties in organizing so delicate and complex a task . It is manifestly absurd to say that any one man invented American propaganda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was always getting too big for its warriors . Before Pershing sailed the War Department 's files were filling with blue-print propaganda plans sent by enthusiasts of America 's special moral position . Later the A. E. F. began accumulating plans from officers and privates . Moreover , the biggest thing in army propaganda was President Wilson himself , and I warrant he never heard of Room 65 . Certainly its telephone did not connect with the White House . Like Topsy , propaganda " just growed . " In February , 1918 , Major ( now Lieutenant-Colonel ) Charles H. Mason , of the General Staff at Washington , strongly recommended " the utilization of the psychologic factor of the strategic situation , " and directed me to organize a Psychologic subsection of the Military Intelligence Division , of which Col. R. II . Van Deman was then chief . It established liaisons with the State Department , the Committee on Public Information , ) and The Inquiry , the body of experts under Colonel House preparing America 's data for the peace table . At last its plans were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a conference with Mr. Baker , General March , and General Churchill , I sailed for France with Lieutenants Ludlow Griscom and George RR , of the M. I. D. , and the following officers commissioned at my request especially for this work , After I readied France the Committee took a position which caused heated discussion at Wash ington , but never interfered with the conduct of the army 's leaflet campaign . Capt . Walter Lippmann and Lieutenants Charles Merz , William F. Miltenberger , and E. M. Woolley . In July , 1918 , we reported to Gen. Dennis E. Nolan , G2 , ( Chief of Intelligence ) , G. H. Q. , who , following the Secretary 's suggestions , ordered us to investigate Allied methods . The French Commission on Propaganda Against the Enemy was in that same building overlooking the Place de la Concorde which in 1919 housed the American Peace Mission . Its campaign , judged by our findings , will probably make the most interesting chapter in the whole history of propaganda , though there is little likelihood that it will ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - 000 leaflets over the lines by August , 1918 ) , the most ingeniously varied , based on the acutest intelligence of the enemy , in its principles sensational , and in its methods fixed . It utilized the labors of exiled or captured German radicals and relied heavily on appeals Iike the following : German Soldiers ! The great offensive in the West is on . A couple of hundred thousand more German men lie buried in French soil , and thousands of others are trapped in the 80-kilometer-wide slaughter-house . But peace is farther removed than ever . For the nations of the West will never agree to a peace of force which will make their peoples the slaves of your Hohenzollerns , your Junkers , and your capitalists . The war , therefore , may continue for years . But whoever has had enough of this nameless infamy ? for this war is nothing else ? whoever is tired of wasting the best years of his life in blood and mud ? whoever yearns with the very marrow of his bones for the return to his home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whoever is anxious for an immediate , real peace , based upon the right of self-determination , so that our children and children 's children may be spared a repetition of our misery , let him refuse to follow farther ! You are the majority ! Free yourselves , come into the ranks of the free nations and victory is yours : the victory of the free , peace-loving German people over its war-proud exploiters and war magnates ! YOUR DEMOCRATIC COMRADES , Prisoners of War in the hands of the French . The whole French army believed in its campaign of ideas ; company commanders recognized it as part of the day 's work . American units brigaded with the French had been called upon to use propaganda in a fashion indicating that the French thought Americans were accustomed to it . Every sort of aeroplane and several sizes of paper balloons were employed by the French as well as rifle grenades for front lines . The grenade was a tin case , containing some hundreds of leaflets , fired on a stick from the army rifle , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armistice the French perfected propaganda shells for use in the ' seventy-fives and Stokes mortars ; the bursts could be regulated and enemy positions could be snowed under with CXXXIX. ? No. b32. - 6,5the same accuracy as with shrapnel . Certainly the artillery method of distribution is the cheapest and most accurate for all areas up to ten miles beyond the lines , and has only the small disadvantage of drawing reprisal fire . After Paris came London and some acquaintance with the more monumental aspects of warring Britain , such as Whitehall , Downing Street , Milner , and Northcliffe . The Crewe House sessions of the Interallied Board for Propaganda Against the Enemy , where British , French , Italian , and Belgian diplomats and soldiers met under the presidency of Lord Northcliffe , were the greatest help to us , sitting as military observers . The work of the British representatives in the previous ten months was a magnificent demonstration of what might be called " propaganda by diplomatic strategy . " A group of political students , more or Less closely associated with the Foreign Office , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vulnerability and that the overthrow of the Hapsburg monarchy was both just and necessary . Working through the London and Rome Congresses of Oppressed Nationalities , they strove to force Allied recognition of mid-European nationalist rights in order to use the news of these events as propaganda . As the Allies one after another , and finally the United States , in the Lansing announcements of May 29 and June 28 , 1918 , declared for freeing Austria 's Slays , the British propagandists used the news to accelerate enemy civilian disintegration and then extended the demoralization to enemy military forces by spreading the accounts of civilian disturbances . Finally the British , as well as the other Allies , were playing for their trump card the American intervention , its size in July , its sure future , its thoroughness , speed , and determination . In seven months the British had put over eight million leaflets , almost all by paper balloons . The British Air Service had banned the dropping of leaflets from aeroplanes , in deference to German threats to hang propaganda aviators . It was alleged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two pilots to ten years of hard labor , disliked the job so much that he was prone to burn the leaflets in the hangars . Something of an air battle was fought at Crewe House over this point , but the War Office would not lift the ban . The high secrets of Crewe House , of course , must wait . Conference agenda ran from secret pacts to cinematographs . In the morning one watched the skilful maneuvering designed to force the hand of some distant Premier or Secretary for Foreign Affairs ; after lunch one manipulated box kites or fuse-releases to be used for scattering tracts ? especially to be used if the Premier or Foreign Secretary should say the right thing . A day later the investigation led to British G. Q. at Montreuil ; speculations over Balfour , Sonnino , and Trum bid ' fell away as the motor , coursing the Hesdin-St . Pol-Arras road , ran straight into the war . The wordy atmosphere of diplomacy changed for a Flanders sky punctuated by Boche observation balloons and Bochc shrapnel . Back of the lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the propaganda balloon , a nine-foot paper onion charged with hydrogen gas and carrying four pounds of leaflets on a fuse set to burn them loose at intervals . In the prevailing westerly winds they effected a methodic and exact scattering during flights ranging from one to four hours beyond the enemy lines . From where we stood the procession of balloons , fourteen in the air at once , reached to Boche-land in an are ; irritated Boche gunners had been known to make use of that pretty arc for getting the range of propagandists with disgusting accuracy . Investigation was cut short by a summons to Chaumont . We were ready with a report on what we thought were the main factors in the situation and on a comprehensive organization . But G. H. Q. was aware of a new and decisive factor ? the military situation . Chaumont explained nothing , but ordered us to begin propaganda at once . What had happened -- and it took some time to divine it ? was that the Allies , hitherto counting against another year of war , were commencing their drive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The A. E. F. , assigned to a herculean share in the Augean plan , abruptly mobilized the latest of its offensive weapons . We were set the hardest task in the propaganda world : to bring about specific military results in designated enemy units ; if possible , to destroy their morale . Work began before organization , on August 28th , when a major , the ' G2 of a corps north of Toul , strode into G. H. Q. and demanded , " You the propaganda outfit ? " The enemy opposite , he explained , held a belief then current in the German army that Americans killed all prisoners . He wanted that belief dispelled . He wanted deserters quick . Quickly he obtained Leaflet No. 1 . That leaflet , revised , became a standby . It was simply a translation of General Orders , A. E. F. , No. 106 , dated July 1 , 1918 , prescribing the treatment accorded to prisoners taken by the American army ; because it ordered for prisoners the American soldiers ' rations , we added the American menu @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " as he surrendered . Sometimes his tired captor answered : " That thing says you get the same as me . I 've had nothing for twenty-four hours . March ! " Organization was improvised . Propaganda was made a subsection of G2D , through whose chief , Major A. L. James , Jr. , approval of policies and action had to he obtained from General Nolan . French government printers were called upon in Paris . At G. H. Q. the days were filled with struggles for authorizations , personnel , supplies , transport , and , notably , gas . Hydrogen gas for propaganda balloons was hard to make , hard to transport , and was required first and foremost for the army 's big observation balloons . The latter were frequently being burned by enemy planes and with every conflagration there vanished two hundred tubes of gas which might have been used for propaganda . With what ceaseless anxiety have I inquired after the health of those sausages , with what pleasure have I motored along the balloon line and counted them all safe aloft , only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told , " Boehe just got three . " Three ! Six hundred tubes ! No gas fur propaganda that week . Small wonder that the propaganda project had to fight its way ! Those were tense days at Chaumont . Generals stepped about , quick and preoccupied ; the big court of the caserne was visited every minute by dusty M. D. S. riders on motorcycles , and the General 's car with the four stars and the little flag swept in and off again . All talk was soguarded that when one invaded the Battle Order Room for data on German divisions one had to prove at great length the necessity for such information . New officers were not welcome in G3 's rooms , where the American troop maps were always boarded over with tall sliding doors . On September 12th there was a lull . Then word raced round the corridors , each informant as portentously casual as he had been secretive before : " Attack got off on time this morning . Progress , I hear . No surprises yet . " That night even generals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over despatches handed up by feverish juniors , and , stalking up to the fifteen-foot relief map of the old St.-Mihiel " hernia , " took black crayon and slashed our new battle-lines across the tinted hills and dales , slashed the lines right up to Thiaucourt and across to Montsec and deep in at Dom-martin . The next day the old familiar landmark of the western front , printed on so many million maps for so many months , had been blotted out , and by that same American army which Germany still declared could never exist because of U-boats . Our work instantly became pressing . What follows must not be taken as a criticism of G. H. Q. , but as a comical sidelight on the difficulties of undertaking a new thing in the midst of a battle . General Nolan , as well as Major James , was up at the front . The busy acting command at Chaumont quite naturally failed to appreciate a hurried exposition of the whole theory and practice of propaganda ; requests for a car and orders to pursue the general were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the telephone might be used , were met with the flat order to await his return at Chaumont . Therefore it was necessary to steal a car and , gloomily contemplating the certainty of court martial , to speed north , where after a day of pursuit General Nolan was buttonholed with his boot up ready to get into his car . " General , the German papers are saying that St. Mihiel amounts to little , that they meant to get out of the salient anyway , that they lost nothing . The best thing we can do for the doughboys is to get the truth to every German soldier on our fronts . Just a newspaper cut of the map and these words , ' The salient held by the Germans for 4 years was taken by the Americans in 27 hours ; 15,000 prisoners , 200 guns , 390 square kilometers captured . " The general replied , " Telegraph that text to Paris ; print half a million , " and he was off . Next at Air Service Advance Headquarters this judgment was encountered : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place during operations . Come back in the winter . " The order was flat against visiting any squadrons , nevertheless it was necessary to motor to every aviation-field . It would be useful to find out what the American flier thought about it . On the wide fields where the air thrilled with drumming throbs and rattling backfire shots as planes took off , circled for height , and streaked north in flights of fives , heavy with bombs , were boys like young Greek gods , with double-wings silvered on their breasts . Their matter-of-fact conversation was of casu- alties ? how this comrade had crashed and the other had burned ; chill talk to interrupt with proposals of new peril . Nevertheless , we talked it over ? the Boche threats , the problematical usefulness , the technical difficulties ? and on every field the verdict was the same , generally in words like these : " Damn good idea . I 'd like to see Fritz reading the stuff . It will be a nuisance to carry them ; they 'll get in the controls . Let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the thing was inaugurated . Quick to see , pleased with a novelty , scornful of risk , the American aviator saved the day . All credit goes to the squadron commanders and to those nameless fliers who week in , week out , cluttered up their machines with propaganda , on bombing flights , reconnaissance missions and artillery regulation , and in the evenings sometimes went up for joy-rides with only leaflets aboard , to hunt out the Roche in his lair and sell the papers for bullets . On my return G. H. Q. seized on the fait accampli and gradually wrote it into system and orders . Major James unceasingly supplied what we most needed , the trained soldier 's knowledge of soldier psychology . To this we had to add information on how the enemy regarded our leaflets . The direct answer to the first batch of mimeographed leaflets scattered near Riehecourt was a riddle . Our patrols , stealthily visiting points near wire which they knew would be traversed by enemy patrols , had put down little piles of leaflets weighted with stones to prevent their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our patrols found the papers gone and in their place hand-grenades , left not as traps , but like a sort of receipt . To take the pulse of German morale there opened a new chapter of weeks spent in war cages , questioning every kind of prisoner , feeling for the fighting heart of him , and through him for the heart of a nation , to find out why it warred and what would slow it . On officer and private the arguments of propaganda were tested and retested . We learned what they called our leaflets , Flughlattter , and what the officers thought of them . terdammte HugNaetter . We came to grips with the foe in a fashion impossible where bayonets and " potato-mashers " interfere ; wrestled with him in argument , often bored , when he was an officer , to be met by the stale parrotings his government taught ; when he was a private , often gratified to find him sick of the war , doubtful of his leaders , and passionately curious about America 's war and peace . Austro-Hungarian regiments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Czechs , Poles , and Croats , open to argument . German regiments near by contained Alsace - Lorrainers in tempting proportions . The whole scene , too , was shifting . The guns of St. Mihiel were still echoing when almost the whole American army stole out of the captured salient and swung west and north . The long roads from Flirey and Beaumont and Thiaucourt , white and silent in the daylight , awoke at night and were jammed like the Subway . A great feat of the war was taking place . Each day the " Yanks " camped in new woods , each night trod new roads ; soon theywere in the Argonne and were allowed scarce a day 's rest to peer around at Verdun and neighbor Le Mort Homme . A little before the hour for our attack the German began his grand propaganda raid . He had been ballooning over to us for some months past the issues of The Continental Times and his illustrated America in Europe , which informed us that we were Albion 's cat's-paws and France 's secret hatred . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Soldiers of German Descent : Do you think it honorable to fight the country which has given birth to your fathers or forefathers ? Do you think it honorable to fall upon any country after it has heroically defended itself for four years against a coalition of peoples tenfold its superior in num-bers ? It ended : Go and repent ere it is too late ; we shall welcome every lost sheep that finds its way back to the herd . Another began : To the Colored Soldiers of the II . S. Army : Hallo , boys . What are you doing over here ? and went on to ask about the war for democracy in " the land of Jim Crow cars and lynchings , " adding an invitation to come to Germany , " where they do like colored citizens , " and where " they enjoy exactly the same social privileges as every white man , and quite a number of colored people have mighty sicl fine positions in business in Berlin . " The Germans intended these for a sector full of negro troops , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and poilus got the full benefit of English leaflets . But on September Aid , and for weeks thereafter , every sector of our lines was raided by aeroplanes dropping matter of real import : PEACE IN SIGHT Austria-Hungary has proposed to enter into Negotiations of Peace Peace is close at hand . Peace before Winter . Peace , the yearning of all nations . The German army 's " strongly fortified positions were also in that leaflet and " peace by understanding . " Too late . On September 26th our great barrage was laid down on Vauquois , Montfaucon , Forges ; the A. F. F. hand began closing on the lying throat of Germany . We sent back America 's answer ; unemotional diagrams of the ever-mounting American troop shipments ; the unsentimental war map ; a few plain questions : " Will you ever again be as strong as you were in July , 1918 ? Will your opponents grow stronger or weaker ? " Ahead of the doughboys , straining through the gassed Argonne , in picture and type , went our snow-storm of icy-meaning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Flying weather was bad ; planes were overtaxed ; the battle , as Germany in panic threw in divisions by the score , became as savage and shocking as any ever fought . It was an earthquake of arms . Calm thinking was difficult . We haunted headquarters maps at Rare-court and Rampont , anxiously asking for " our line , " and found commanding officers doing the same and falling on the necks of bundled-up aviators just landed with new glimpses of khaki outposts . High explosives fell as far back as Souilly . In the wake of the offensive Lieutenants lift and Griscom , with the balloon-sending trucks , made their way over shell-torn roads , sleeping in dugouts just vacated by the Roche , though not by his cooties , and , as like as not , cooking their mess some rainy night with strips of smokeless powder from a dump in an old artillery position , whether " Yank " or Roche they knew not . At Fromereville the two came under heavy shell-fire and , being unused to it , stuck manfully to their job until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and shards . They decided it was about time to order their men into dugouts , an unnecessary decision , for the men were already there . Fifty feet from this dugout a " big one " demolished another house ; from its debris they rescued a badly wounded soldier . On conveying him to the hospital at the edge of the town , they found it being evacuated and suffering from casualties of the hospital personnel . Their balloons traversed the air north of Verdun without mishap , excepting one , shot down by an inquisitive American gunner . Patiently , as the cages of prisoners filled and emptied , the propaganda questioners probed and probed the German mentality . The best at this was a sergeant , grandson of that Friedrich Hecker who led the Baden revolution in ' 48 , and fleeing to America became a northern colonel in the Civil War . From every kind of report it seemed , and we were skeptical of reports , that the German morale was going down faster than our troop commanders believed . " The devils fight as hard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last the strong skeleton ofthe German army did blindly fight . But its body , we were more and more convinced , was falling a prey to despair . How long would the desperate automatons fight on ? Through the wintef ? All spring ? America caused the despair . Suppose America meant also hope . Would the automatons rise against their masters ? It was in the press that I found the League of Na-tions speech of President Wilso n ; also the great speech for woman suffrage . It seemed as if the President had been standing with us in the cages , studying the Roche mind . No words could have been better timed , better put , than the speech of September 27th to vitalize German despair . It meant action , even the stony preamble that there could be no peace agree-ment with the German gov-ernment . It meant peace : " The League of Nations must he . . . the most es-sential part of the peace settlement . . . no discrimi-nation between those to whom we wish to be just OVERand those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Stronger than a call from Lenine , this speech would really stir the hardened soldier of the western front ; for him the essential part went into a leaflet entitled , " The Way to Peace and Justice . " The rift , the first sure sign of a deep crack in German morale , appeared in this pregnant line in the Kaiser 's re-script to Hertling , " I wish the German people to co-operate more effectively than hitherto in deciding the destinies of the Fatherland . " Quickly atop of this , on October 4th , came the open cry to Wilson for an armistice . The President answered and the whole propaganda war was lifted from the nibbling process , the patient pressure with limited objectives , to the drive of national mind on mind . Diplomatic pundits in Paris warned against it , but the army seized on the President 's revolution-making question which demanded if the Imperial Chancellor was " speaking merely for the constituted authorities of the Empire who have so far conducted the war . " We put Germany 's request and America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and winged it over . The President 's second reply , of October 14th , went flying after , with its thrilling words addressed to the German people , especially the last paragraph reminding Berlin of the Mount Vernon speech of July 4 , 1918 , which gave as a peace condition the destruction of every arbitrary power everywhere that can separately , secretly , and of its single choice disturb the peace of the world . . . . The power which has hitherto controlled the German nation . . . It is within the choice of the German nation to al ter it . The note added , The President 's winds just quoted naturally constitute a condition precedent to peace , if peace is to come by the action of the German people themselves . With that as a leaflet , we reached the " German people themselves " in the German army . Those were days of suspense . We found in the mass of Intelligence Sum-manes paragraphs like these : October 17th . Enclosed leaflets taken from prisoners captured October 15th , one-half kilometer north of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by every one who could get hold of them and that the President 's answer to Germany 's note of October 4th was news to their . Another , a field interrogation of officers of a division whose men had our leaflets hid in their cuffs , read : Officers said , The propaganda which your aviators have dropped has given us no end of trouble . . , . When home on leave the men circulate these pamphlets . Civilians write VOL . CXXX1X. ? No. 832. - 66to men at the front begging them on the score of your propaganda to seize the first opportunity to desert . We found more and more evidences of outbreak , more avowed Social Democrats among the prisoners , and among the Socialists men who cursed Scheidemann more bitterly than the Kaiser . We found mutineers . Over on the Metz front we found a German division peculiarly ripe for the most direct propaganda ; against it the astute and venturesome Capt . II . E. Osann attempted the only raid of its kind for which the American army had opportunity before the armistice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ descent , speaking German like a Guards officer and knowing the German army , from word of command to unit insignia , as few American officers knew it . He was restless ; only raids were going on on his front : No Man 's Land there was a wide belt of woods and swamps , prowled by patrols of both armies , stealthy groups nosing for information , silently overpowering outposts when possible , or , if necessary , shooting for the sake of documents or shoulder-straps off corpses . Osann wanted to make a noise in No Man 's Land , and with the approval of Col. Joseph Stilwell , always a propaganda enthusiast , he laid his scheme before us as follows : " This is my funeral . All I want is forty thousand leaflets from you . That division is full of Alsace-Lorrainers . I know the names of scores of men in it . We 'll drop special leaflets on them for a few days and after these have soaked in I 'll take a patrol some night and get up to their wire and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'm not going to shoot . Is Fritz Schneider there ? 1 want to talk to him . Where is Willy Liebmann ? " ' " You 'll get a prompt answer ? from machine-guns , " I observed . " Oh yes , but only a burst or two , " Osann said . " They 'll miss and there 'll be a pause and call more names . If I get somebody out there to argue with I 'll send him back to bring his whole battalion over . That outfit is rotten . We 've raided them three times in one bit of woods recently ; one raid got twenty-eight prisoners in forty minutes . The raiders were headed by five men speaking good German who set up a yell : ' Get out of here ! What the hell are you sticking round for ? You do n't want to fight . ' One of the privates who surrendered pointed out a dugout a hundred yards farther on and asked us to go down there and capture his officer . We did the whole thing without a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in French and German , addressed to **26;500;TOOLONG statements of their case and what the victory of one side or the other would mean to them . Then on a quiet night Osann and a patrol of twelve stole along the railroad which ran into the enemy 's lines before Dampvitoux . Alone , our John the Baptist made his way to within thirty yards of an observation post on the edge of a wired woods ; boldly he set up his call . Not even a shot answered . After ten minutes he began again , " Men of the Sixty-first Regiment , listen . " Then the patrol behind him commenced to hear voices ; in the Boche trench a discussion was going on , guttural , but earnest . Again Osann shouted names he knew ; in the silence the whole patrol could hear the footsteps of a man walking along the railroad track toward Osann . " But he got cold feet and ran back , and we had to come away , " Osann reported , disgustedly . " A few days later prisoners were taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alsace-Lorraine leaflet in his pockets . They were asked if they had noticed anything recently , in No Man 's Land , at night . They answered , ' You mean the ghost ? ' A ghost had been heard , calling to soldiers by name . Their officers had made a report of the ghost to the Kommando . The prisoners ' replies were solemnly insistent . For all I know the Command may have issued orders about it : ' In future ghosts will be met with five rounds of M. G. fire ; angels with ten . ' " But up on the Argonne front American ambulances were coming back laden more heavily than ever . Our planes were dropping on the Germans what was known as the Commander-in-Chief 's leaflet , and on our own troops General Pershing 's call for every ounce of fighting energy . When the President took up the armistice with Foch we sent that over , too . Perhaps this text will illustrate our task at the end , trying to unnerve the German machine-gunner with news of his latest disasters . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Sedan and the ' Montmedy-Mezi ? res railroad , was dropped on the foe an hour before the event it described had time to go into effect in Italy . Austria is out of the war . The armistice , signed on the Allies ' terms , went into effect at three o'clock , November 4th . Turkey has capitulated , admitting the Allied fleets to the Dardenelles . Germany is alone . Do you know that your home newspapers openly admit it ? That Vorwaerts said on October V3th , page 1 : How difficult was the task of such leaflets can be appreciated only by doughboys , who know how savagely certain German first-line troops fought even during the last weeks of war . On November 11th at eleven o'clock came the real zero hour . When the great silence fell we had put three million leaflets over the German lines . What were the results ? The question is as easy to answer , as sensible , as the query , " Who won the war ? " A serious estimate will be impossible for years . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the part played in winning the war by a specified battery ? Who will give the percentages of victory due to any arm of the service , the air service , for example , or the tanks , or even apportion credits between the different Allied armies , or between armies and navies ? How much more difficult it is , then , to weigh imponderables , states of army morale , and the ideas which influenced them . As between the effects of leaflets and shells it must be noted that shell-fire worked in plainer view . It will he hard indeed to put a yardstick to results produced by leaflets picked up unobserved , pondered unobserved , and , even if acted on , probably denied by the German who surrendered . No soldier likes to admit that bits of paper caused his surrender . He prefers to cite shell-fire and the approaching bayonet , though it may have been a week before his capture , during secret perusal of a creased leaflet in billets , that he resolved , " When 1 go up this time it will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quit . " Estimates of the effects of all Allied propaganda had best wait until the German High Command write their memoirs and German army orders are published . It will be interesting to compare reports from the German Military Intelligence , from their propaganda officers , and from their censorship of German soldiers ' letters with the files of Allied leaflets . Allied Intelligence reports were filled with letters written by German soldiers before capture or by theirhome-folks , whose expressions often paralleled the statements in our leaflets ; often the letters referred directly to the Flugblaetter as the authoritative source of information . The credence given by German soldiers to our leaflets always surprised us . They took our figures and diagrams at face value ; we had the German self-discredited press to thank for that . To the long Allied propaganda campaign our shorter effort bore about the same proportion as did our combat forces to the whole Allied army ; there was in it the same element of the decisive factor . After August the enemy General Staff issued and reissued stringent orders against reading Flugblaetter and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Hindenburg in September issued a long proclamation warning the nation against " the poisoned arrows " of Allied leaflets . German newspapers redoubled their warnings against passing around the leaflets at home . In The Kanisehe Zeitung , in the end of October , a " High Officer on the Western Front , " analyzing the German military reverses , wrote : What caused most damage was the paper war waged by our enemies , who daily flooded us with some hundred thousand leaflets , extraordinarily well arranged and well edited . Such testimony is anything but decisive ; for the German High Command , unlike the captured soldier , hunted very busily for explanations of disaster rather than an old-time military defeat . They liked to blame the " drum-fire of Northcliffe propaganda . " No such reservation , however , attaches to German secret orders captured by the Allies , such as Ludendorff 's order in August that the kits . of German soldiers going home on leave be first searched for concealed bombs and other revolutionary matter , and such as this , dated the day after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ HEADQUARTERS , September 16 , 1918 . Divisional Order The latest peace manifesto curries with it the great danger of weakening the fighting determination of our troops . . . . Among the men the idea is not infrequently met with that any resistance will now only have the effect of prolonging the war , and that the quicker we yield ground the sooner we will have peace . This despicable and highly treasonable point of view must be countered with severity , and , at the same time , with sound reasoning . . The men must be influenced , in a serious but kindly manner , to use their weapons in order to withstand the enemy 's attacks ; in rase of necessity , however , they must be compelled by iron discipline and force to resist the enemy . It must never be allowed to happen that strong detachments should be captured by the enemy close in front of our own lines without any noise of fighting being heard , or that a hostile attack , made almost without artillery support , should meet with success and cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and men and of winning them over is now the most important duty of all officers . Signed HAGENBURG . After the armistice , Chaumont made no effort to collect evidence of the effects of our propaganda . The following are notes from reports which came casually to my attention . One was from a translation of a letter from a revolutionary leader in Berlin , detailing the risingthere , dated November 29th : Successes in the field always gave rise to the most acute apprehension , since we were all certain that nothing but defeat could bring about upheavals ... . The Independents relied solely upon private soldiers and sailors . Innumerable letters recently received from the front testified to the revolutionary spirit which prevailed there . In an American divisional summary of January es , ? 919 , will be found this , from the interrogation of S , a ' demobilized German infantryman : One of the things that made a great impression on the German soldiers and which , 5 ? believes , helped to shorten the war , was the propaganda dropped by American planes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obtain the papers . Many sent them home to their families . This is from a conversation in the occupied region , held with L , artillery lieutenant , who had served six years in the German army : he is described as " an admirer of Ludendorff : I can only talk as a soldier at the front , but there its propaganda 's effects were disastrous , and especially so in the last six months . Even the little Flughlnette r , after you read them you imagined you read the truth , that our government was lying to us . I remember one , after I read it , I felt like blowing my brains out . I never let one of our men read them ? but it was difficult ? they were everywhere . Finally Ludendorff was quoted by a spokesman in February of this year as laying the heaviest blame on " Secretary Baker 's letter to President Wilson about American troop shipments , " dropped as a leaflet by our Allies in July , saying , " This caused the widest discouragement in our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I think he is right as long as he lays most blame on " American troops ! " When future historians reckon the causes which forced an armistice in November , and weigh the French , British , and American blows , the Eastern collapse , Bolshevik infection , and the President 's notes , they may deem it not amiss to include evidence on the following minor question . Ludendorff , we know , vibrated in September and October between decisions to fight and to quit ; in November the General Staff wavered between orders to sign and not to sign . In deciding not to attempt repression at home and a withdrawal to a new front on the Rhine , were the Germans at all swayed by the consideration that , on that vital Meuse hinge where they had piled up forty divisions in vain against Pershing 's attack , there was also a machinery which could and would inevitably tell every German soldier why there was no armistice , why there were bloody riots at home , exactly why and for whom Germans were still asked to die @ 