@@430596

 | IT is fought as much with electricity and gasoline , as with powder and shot , this war of the nations . Rifles and machine guns , field pieces and howitzers there are in plenty , every one of which is as complicated as an automatic piano player . It is not the instruments of destruction , however , that drive home the extent to which mechanism is employed in warfare , but the dynamos that feed current to searchlights whose long , rigid white pencils of light alternately sweep the sky for aircraft and the terrain opposite for advancing infantry ; the telegraph and the telephone net that spreads out from the tent of a commanding general to the very firing line ; the mixing machines that supply concrete for anchoring heavy . nortars , which batter down fortresses ; the gasworks that travel on rails and on highways and generate hydrogen for dirigible balloons ; the traction engines that haul heavy cannon and caissons ; the automobiles and the aeroplanes that whirr over roads and through the air ; and the self-propelled machine shops in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placed in the hands of an infantryman to the dirigible silhouetted against the sky , there is not a single mechanism that has not been scientifically studied in physical and chemical laboratories and on proving grounds to note its merits and its limitations . Most of these destructive devices have been evolved as the result of invention systematically conducted for a longer period and at a greater cost than the investigations carried on by physicians to discover a cure for cancer . Ballistics is probably more advanced than bacteriology . Scientific thought has been more intensively applied to discover a way of reducing the erosion of guns by modern smokeless powders than to the mitigation of pellagra 's destructive effects among the peasantry of Europe . In the decade that has elapsed since the RussianJapanese war , field artillery has been more markedly improved than agricultural machinery . And yet despite this immense amount of real scientific inquiry into the surest way of killing the greatest possible number of men in the shortest possible time , war remains in principle what it was when Xerxes invaded Greece and when Hannibal crossed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? that always was and always will be the sum and substance of warcraft . Three hundred years ago a soldier was killed in a handto-hand encounter . At the present time he is more apt to be killed by a man whom he has never seen . The human arm has been artificially lengthened and strengthened . LONGER BATTLE LINES IN THIS WAR Improvement in mechanism has been met by changes in tactics . The armies in Europe are fighting along fronts over one hundred miles long , not only because 250,000 men out of a total of two millions on one side are engaged at a time , but because the infantry rifle and the field piece are so accurate and so deadly that men can not be as thickly massed as they were in Napoleon 's day , or as late as the Franco-Prussian war . At Austerlitz 75,000 Frenchmen fought along an eightmile front ; at Wragram 170.000 Frenchmen along a ten-mile front . At Gravelotte 185 , - 000 Germans formed a line five miles long . Then came the South African war and with it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out the fighting line until the final charge . But not until armies comparable in size with those 439  | now upon the battlefield had been led against an enemy , not , in a word , until the RussianJapanese war had been fought , was it found necessary to make those radical changes in tactical regulations in accordance with which the present campaigns in France , eastern Prussia , and Austria are conducted . At Yalu , General Kuroki distributed 40,000 men in a line five miles long , ? exactly the same front occupied by the 185,000 Germans at Gravelotte . At Mukden , Russian and Japanese armies numbering each over 300,000 men opposed each other along a front seventy-five miles long . Kuropatkin sometimes had only one man for every four paces in the trenches . Since every commanding officer in Europe has learned the lesson of the Manchurian campaign by heart , it is certain that there are not more than 4000 to 5000 men to the mile along the fighting fronts of Europe , instead of six times that many as in the Franco-Prussian war . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infantry rifle which has so far reduced the masses engaged for a given mile . Its range is a mile and a quarter , on the average , and its bullet whistles through the air at the rate of about 2500 feet a second when it leaves the muzzle . The German rifle propels its projectile at the muzzle velocity of 2952 feet a second , and is in that respect superior to any military rifle in the world . On the other hand the French rifle has a longer range by about one-quarter of a mile . By France the " D " bullet is used , by Germany the " S " bullet . The difference between the two is largely one of shape . Both are pointed at the forward end ; but the " D " bullet is longer and tapers off slightly toward the rear , whereas the German " S " terminates abruptly . Of the two the French bullet is the better because it churns up the air less . The German bullet 's greater speed is obtained because it is lighter than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a heavier charge of explosive . The energy of each type of bullet at all ranges has been mathematically studied by French and German ballistic experts , so that its possibilities are known to a nicety . Any French officer can tell you , for example , that the German " S " bullet , weighing ten grammes ( 154 grains ) must have a speed of 300 to 400 feet per second to disable a man , and 625 to 650 feet per second in order to disable a horse at a range of about a mile and a quarter . Need it be said that the powder charges have been carefully calculated to give the bullet that energy ? Consider what this energy means . Drop a ten-gramme weight in a vacuum from a height of twenty-four and a half miles and it will have about the same striking force as a bullet discharged by a German infantry rifle . That amount of energy must therefore be developed in a steel barrel thirty-oen inches long . Were it not for modern smokeless powder that miracle could not be performed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French " D " bullet can kill a man at a mile and a quarter , or penetrate more than onehalf an inch of pine wood . RELATIVELY FEWER MEN KILLED When infantrymen are equipped with such weapons no unnecessary chances are taken . Heroic as it may be to die for one 's country , a soldier no more relishes the idea of being shot than he does of being run over by a railway train . His commanding officer takes good care that he shall not be needlessly placed in danger . Every bush and tree , every mound and hillock is used as a shield . And when there is no natural protection , the infantryman digs one , ? digs an artificial cover of some kind . His trenches are of various degrees of perfection , depending on the time he has at his disposal . In some he can stand and fire over a parapet of earth or through loopholes , and in some he kneels . Some are hollowed out at the bottom , shored up like a mine gallery , and roofed so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is bursting over him . There is more hiding than shooting on the firing line . The covers , some of them hastily improvised during a battie , perform their function so well that it is astonishing how comparatively small is the number of men who are killed where they stand , or who are even disabled . During the Russian-Japanese war it took 1053 rifle cartridges to put one Japanese out of the fight . Contrast that with 1870 , when one bullet out of 375 found its mark , and it becomes immediately apparent that for all the studied deadliness of modern infantry fire , the soldier 's lot has improved vastly and that fewer men are likely to be hit in the present conflict than the newspapers lead us to suppose . Millions of cartridges have already been fired in Europe , but the killed and wounded are numbered only by thousands . TERRIFIC STRAIN ON THE SOLDIERS NERVES Although the tactician has discovered ways of protecting infantry from rifle fire , it must  | not be supposed that the soldier of to-day is less brave than one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a severer strain ; for he is under fire sometimes for more than twelve hours at a time . To crouch in a trench or a covered bomb-proof from dawn until dusk , to hear the incessant whistle of thousands of projectiles , to mark the little clouds of dust kicked up by bullets as they strike the gound near a trench or shelter , to start at the bursting of shrapnel shells , each containing 200 or 300 bullets which are scattered over many yards , is a test of human nerves which Napoleon 's Old Guard was never called upon to withstand . NEW ARTILLERY AND HOW IT IS USED Although the armies of Europe are equipped with artillery of a power and range surassing anything that was used even in the comparatively recent Russian-Japanese war , the great battles that are now being waged will be won by infantry . Yet the steadiest infantry would be helpless without artillery . Not until the enemy 's batteries have been silenced dare the infantry advance . Hence the old Napoleonic artillery duel is still a dramatic feature of modern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ significant are the cannon that roared at Austerlitz compared even with the smallest modern field gun ! How different , too , is the method of firing ! Nowadays the gunners , crouching behind steel shields , never see the object at which they are firing . A battery commander , perched on a support ten or fifteen feet above ground , and screened by foliage , scientifically finds the range and then corrects it by observing how the first shots fell . The accuracy of fire is amazing . If there is any pleasure in the game , the battery commander has it all ; for he alone knows exactly what is happening when the shrapnel explodes . Also he is more likely to be killed than his men because of his elevated station . The guns now employed on the battleground vary from the three-inch field piece with a range of three and one-half miles , firing a fifteen-pound projectile , to the German 8.4-inch field howitzer firing a projectile weighing 250 pounds . For siege work , for battering down fortifications , like those of Liege or Namur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that have a bore over eleven inches in diameter and fire shells weighing 500 pounds and more . Each cannon , whether it be used in the field or behind a fixed barrier , has its special use . Against men under cover , for example , the ordinary field gun is useless . A gun must be brought to bear which throws its projectile high into the air and drops it behind an embankment or on top of a bomb-proof . That gun is the howitzer . MODERN AMMUNITION Guns are a general 's tools , and , if the ammunition that accompanies them be similarly regarded , he has about as many varieties , each serving a special purpose , as a dentist has instruments . At least a dozen different sizes and kinds of ammunition must be kept on hand and supplied when needed . and it is used so freely that a single gun may occasionally fire 400 rounds in a day , as in the Russian war . When it is considered that at Mukden 3000 guns were in position , and that in the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces under the Russian and Japanese command in Mancuhria , the daily consumption of ammunition by artillery alone must amount to as much as 1,200,000 rounds . To provide the immense amount of ammunition which will be used up in the present war will be no easy task . Still , there is no likelihood that the armies now in the field will run short of cartridges and shells . Both small and large arms ammunition is made in government factories , on a scale commensurate with all the demands that can be made upon them . In Napoleon 's time it was otherwise ; for after the great victories of Nelson and the blockading of the French ports it was so difficult to obtain saltpetre that Napoleon even sought to stimulate chemical inquiry into new methods of producing gunpowder by offering tempting prizes . Gunpowder plays but a small part in the present war . The explosives used in guns , large and small , are smokeless powders of various kinds . They are picric acid compounds , nitro-cellulose preparations made from gun cotton , and forms of nitro-glycerine in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these smokeless powders , but Germany most of all . The nature of the raw materials is such that they are easily obtained in abundance and readily worked up by the government factories . It is safe to say that long before the present war started , each of the great European powers had on hand ample stores of explosives for a war that would last for a few months . Modern smokeless powder differs from the gunpowder of old chiefly in the manner  | in which it is consumed in the gun . Common gunpowder is a violent explosive which generates its gases with great suddenness . It exerts a very great and disproportionate stress upon the breech of a gun , but at the muzzle the pressure drops suddenly . The average propulsive force from breech to muzzle is therefore low , yet it is the average pressure upon which reliance must be placed . In order that this old form of powder might perform its function more efficiently , it was finally made in prismatic grains , through each of which a hole was bored , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burning area of the whole was increased . A single " grain " may weigh as much as ninety pounds . A better average pressure was secured in the gun by means of prismatic powder , but not good enough for the ordnance engineer . The modern cellulose powders exert their pressure much more uniformly than is possible even with the best prismatic powder . They enable the ordnance engineer to exert a very nearly uniform pressure upon the projectile from the breech of the gun to the muzzle ; indeed the maximum pressure is exerted somewhat beyond the breech . These cellulose powders can be burned with safety in the open air ; for in order to explode they must be confined . Hence , in loose form they are safer than the black gunpowder of old . Such a smokeless powder can be dampened , and , if it does not mildew , it is as good as ever if properly dried . It can not be detonated by a blow . Indeed , the stick forms of smokeless powder can be burned in the hand like a match @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modify ordnance . Nitro-cellulose would have been used sooner than it was had there been adequate guns . Even as it is the ordnance engineer has not quite succeeded in coping with the high erosive effect of modern explosives . Smokeless powder has an explosive temperature of about 4500 degrees Fahrenheit , ? nearly twice the melting point of the steel from which the guns are made . It seems impossible to prevent some of the hot gases from escaping past , and moving ahead of the shell . They act like the flames of a powerful blowpipe and sear away the rifling surfaces so rapidly that many guns can not be fired more than one hundred times . LIGHT-WEIGHT FIELD-PIECES An immense amount of ingenuity has been expended in reducing the weight of field pieces so that they may be easily brought into position . A three-inch field piece and its ammunition must be easily hauled by six horses , and its weight is therefore limited to about two tons , nearly equally divided between the piece itself and its ammunition . The French three-inch field piece is more powerful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handled because it weighs about five hundred pounds less with its carriage . Indeed , the whole art of gun designing is the art of compromising between the demand for greater mobility and the demand for greater striking energy and range . GUN TURRETS ON FORTIFICATIONS For fixed fortifications there are no such limitations in weight . Nor are any limitations imposed so far as the character of the protection afforded is concerned . In 1886 experiments were conducted at Malmaison which proved that a thickness of a least forty feet of earth is required to protect the big guns of a fortress . While parapets of fortyfive or fifty feet in thickness may be found , concrete is more freely used in order to obtain great strength with less thickness . Moreover , the guns themselves are placed in turrets very much like those of a battleship , but much heavier . A gun turret consists essentially of a dome of armor covering a cylinder of steel , the whole revolving in a well lined with concrete , which contains the necessary machinery and magazines . The concrete walls which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feet , depending upon the type of turret . Heaped up against the external masses of concrete on the side from which the attack is expected to come is a mass of broken stone and an earthwork at least thirty feet thick . The first turrets of this type carried two six-inch guns . Only the dome of cast iron ( sixteen inches thick ) appeared above the massive concrete wall of the well . The whole turret , therefore , offered a target only three and ' one-half feet high and about eighteen feet wide . Yet even this was too much , so accurate is modern gun-fire . A disappearing turret was evolved , constructed for one or two six-inch guns , two three-inch rapid-fire guns , or two machine guns . After the charge is fired the whole turret is lowered so that the guns may be reloaded . It is said that the time which elapses between the word of command and the complete disappearance of the turret is only five seconds and that two shots can be fired every , ninety  | seconds . Turrets carrying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Machine-gun turrets are the lightest of all , because they must be moved directly by the gunners themselves and so easily that they can be made to sweep the whole crest of the glacis during the volley . A revolving turret containing heavy guns must be cracked open like a nut . To perform that task both the Germans and the French have developed the 11-inch siege howitzer . When the Germans brought up their heavy siege guns before Liege and Namur the turrets were burst open with a very few shots . The reason is not far to seek . Most of the turrets to be found in European fortresses are rather old ; but the siege guns are very new . THROWING A TON OF METAL A MILE TO DISABLE ONE SOLDIER Powerful as modern batteries- are , whether they are composed of three-inch field pieces on the battleground or six-inch guns in turrets , the actual number of men killed is fewer than most of us suspect . At St. Privat in 1870 the French fired eighty shots , weighing in all 660 pounds , to kill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ago , it might be supposed that by 1904 the slaughter would be terrific . Yet during the Manchurian campaign the Russian artillery in pitched battles fired about 150 shots in order to disable a single Japanese . The individual projectile fired by a field-piece had increased in weight since 1870 , so that about a ton of metal was hurled a mile or two in order to disable a single Japanese . Shrapnel , a shell which , when it explodes , shoots 200 or 300 balls in all directions , is the favorite ammunition of the field artillery . Of necessity it is more fatal than infantry fire ; nevertheless , more men are killed by rifle fire than by shrapnel . In the FrancoPrussian War , out of one hundred casualties , ninety were due to infantry fire , eight to artillery fire , and two to other causes . In Manchuria over 85.5 per cent . of the killed and wounded Japanese were put out of action by infantry fire . The ratio in the present war will approximate that of the Manchurian campaign . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . COMMUNICATION So many batteries are in action , so many men are distributed along the fighting front that it is a physical impossibility for a general to watch with his own eyes the course BY NEW INVENTIONS 443 of events in which more than 500,000 men are participating . He no longer gallops up and down a retreating line , brandishing a sword and encouraging disheartened and beaten troops to a new attack , as painters were once fond of picturing hint . He is far removed from the battleground . Yet he knows from hour to hour , from minute to minute , what success this skirmishing line or that cavalry raid has had , and what guns are stationed on each distant hill and how they are succeeding in battering down a fortification miles away . His army may cover northern France and part of Belgium , but he knows more about the movements of each regiment at any moment than Napoleon did of his whole army at the Battle of Leipsic . As might be supposed , the telegraph and the telephone have magically extended the senses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extension of himself is effected with wonderful rapidity by men who have nothing else to do but install means of communication . In the German army a mile and . a quarter of telegraph line can be set up by one officer and thirty men in less than an hour . Since dozens of such telegraph companies are at work at once , the headquarters of several army corps are placed in telegraphic or telephonic communication with each other in a few hours . Telephone communication is established even faster than field telegraphs ; for a good speaking connection is obtained at the rate of a mile in half an hour . In the Austrian army each advance company of infantry is in telephonic communication with headquarters . Wireless telegraphy also is used in European armies , but only for communication between high commanding officers . The range of the instruments is about 200 miles . AEROPLANES AND ZEPPELINS AS SCOUTS But the most valuable aid of all is the aeroplane or the airship . Our newspapers have expressed disappointment in the actual performances of aircraft . Romantically inclined writers had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the less picturesque but much more important work of reconnoitering , for which aircraft of all types are primarily intended , has received scant attention . Like the torpedo-boat , an aeroplane fights only when it must . To be sure , there has been some fighting in the air , but only when it became necessary for one aeroplane to prevent another from seeing too much . There has been bomb-dropping , too ,  | most of it just as disappointing as the more conservative officers of Europe had prophesied it would be . Even the shrapnel bombs twice dropped by a Zeppelin on densely populated Antwerp failed to slaughter the sleeping populace in the large numbers that mean complete newspaper success . In the first attempt eight large bombs killed only twelve people . In the second attempt no one was killed . The " Black Hand " record of New York is probably much better than that . Although the number killed in Antwerp was mercifully small , the moral effect was overwhelming . Whenever a Zeppelin appeared on the horizon people took to their cellars . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generals of Europe know exactly the strength and position of the enemy against whom they send their infantry or pit their artillery , which means that feeble forces will no longer be ignorantly ordered to attack points that they could never hope to take . In three and one-half hours an airman can cover a circular area eighty miles in radius . He can note each opposing regiment of infantry , each squadron of cavalry , each battery of field artillery . How is it possible , then , to begin a flanking movement without detection ? How is it possible to concentrate upon a center and hope to break through ? Marches screened by cavalry , feigned movements , all the precious secrecy of the old days is swept away , so long as there is daylight and no fog . A battle has become more than ever a series of shrewd moves on a huge topographical chessboard extending over whole provinces , each move made only after the fullest information has been obtained . Physical exhaustion and inability to draw upon large masses of fresh troops seem to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present war . All this may be safely deduced because there are watchful eyes in the air . FAST AEROPLANES FLYING IN HIGH WINDS Of aircraft themselves so much has been written since the Wright brothers made their memorable flights that the general mechanism of the aeroplane and the airship has become almost as familiar as that of an automobile . Still , refinements have been introduced within the last two years , ? refinements of immense military value , ? of which little is widely known . Aeroplanes are faster and more powerful now than they ever were , not so much because they must cover much ground quickly as because they must be able to fly in high winds . A flying machine that can not travel more than forty-five miles an hour is an inefficient and untrustworthy piece of military machinery . In a fifty-mile gale a pilot would be unable to reconnoiter , perhaps just when a reconnaissance is most needed to ascertain what forces are gathering behind a range of hills ten miles away . But a seventy-mile-an-hour machine vaults into the air with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surely . The fast aeroplane has rendered the ordinary dirigible unsafe for daylight warfare . Most of the French and English airships and some of the German collapsible Parseval balloons have speeds of about forty miles an hour . They are obviously at the mercy of a fast armed aeroplane , able because of its greater speed to choose its own position and pour in a destructive hail of bullets . The great , rigid Zeppelins alone can hope to contend with high-powered aeroplanes ; for they have been so far improved that just before the war their average speed was increased to over sixty-three miles an hour and their maximum speed , with the wind , to ninety-four miles an hour . Armed as they are with machine guns and capable as they are of rising to safe heights twice as rapidly as the highest powered aeroplane , they must be regarded as veritable battleships of the air . But why are there both aeroplanes and airships ? For the same reason that there are dreadnoughts and torpedo-boats . Each has its own function . Aeroplanes are useful chiefly for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armies have entrenched themselves and unlimbered their artillery ; airships are useful chiefly for strategical reconnaissance , in other words , for scouting at a time when armies are moving toward the terrain which they intend to occupy . Although aeroplanes , guided by skilful pilots of marvelous endurance , have stayed aloft continuously for more than twenty hours , " the strain is too great for ordinary human nerves . Even a continuous flight of five hours makes inordinate demands on a pilot 's nervous force . ADVANTAGES OF THE DIRIGIBLE The commander of an airship is as much at his ease as the captain of an ocean liner on his bridge . He can move about in more or less comfort ; he can hover over one spot for hours and study the operations below at his leisure , if he is not disturbed by a flock - of two-seated aeroplanes carrying rifles ; he can stay aloft for a whole day  | Without fatigue . More important still , he has at his disposal wireless apparatus which enables him both to send and receive messges for 300 miles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important discovery in person . An aeroplane pilot may receive wireless messages , but as yet no satisfactory longrange sending equipment has been devised for him ; he must return to headquarters whenever it seems pressingly needful to do so . In lifting capacity , too , the airship is vastly superior to the aeroplane , ? a factor of importance , because if explosives are to be dropped , as they have been at Antwerp , Paris , and other centers , the dirigible airship can carry not only more bombs but much heavier bombs than an aeroplane . What is more , the airship 's ability to float stationary over a given spot ( an aeroplane must be in constant motion to stay aloft at all ) enables it to drop a hundred-weight of explosive with a reasonably true aim . All these frightful advantages have been developed to the utmost in Germany 's colossal Zeppelins , ? slim cylinders as big as ocean steamers that slip through the air with a certain sureness which impresses anyone who has ever beheld them . They have searchlights for nocturnal scouting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as powerful as those of a transatlantic liner , machine guns on top of their long gas envelopes to beat off attacking craft , a crew of twenty , provisions and fuel for a journey of 3000 miles , and bombs formidable in size and number . Compared with them other German dirigibles , as well as the non-rigids of France , Germany , and Russia , seem what they are , ? great mechanically propelled hubbles of hydrogen gas and not real ships of the air . In less than four hours a Zeppelin of the latest type can travel from one end to the other of the 250-mile battle front in France ; in fifteen hours from Metz on the eastern frontier to Konigsberg in eastern Prussia ; in sixteen hours from Berlin to Aberdeen . AEROPLANES EQUIPPED WITH MACHINE GUNS It is evident that some attempt must be made to prevent an air scout from reconnoitering . To accomplish that end , aeroplane must be pitted against aeroplane or an attempt made to bring down a scout from the ground by means of high-powered guns . Both methods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aeroplanes carry two passengers seated in tandem . One man guides and controls the machine , the other observes the terrain below and manipulates either a rifle or a machine gun . Single-seated machines are also used , but machine guns can not be successfully fired by an aviator whose hands and feet may not leave the controls . To engage in a machine-gun or rifle duel 5000 feet above the ground requires courage of a kind that surpasses the heroism recorded in the epics of old . Indeed , there is nothing in all Homer which for sheer daring can be compared with the feat that a fighting air scout is called upon to perform . He risks his life doubly. ? doubly because he is exposed both to fire and to the danger of a vertiginous drop to the ground . If the supporting stays of his wings are clipped , if a control wire is severed , he must experience all the agony of plunging down to a frightful and inevitable death . No wonder that the two dozen aeroplanes which were used on all sides during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flies at a height greater than 4500 feet it is reasonably safe from the fire of rifles and artillery on the ground . But at that height it is extremely difficult to reconnoiter successfully . Whole batteries seem more like minute crawling insects than guns and men , and it is difficult to distinguish cavalry from horse artillery . The temptation to descend into the danger zone in order to see more clearly is strong . In the Balkans at least two aviators were shot by rifles from the ground because they ventured below the safe height of 4000 feet , and in the present war , if the newspapers are to be credited , half a dozen scouts have been killed by fire from the ground . No less than three types of artillery have been designed by Krupp to be used against airships and aeroplanes . One of these is a nine-pounder piece , much like an ordinary gun , hauled by horses , but which can be directed almost vertically upward ; a second is , to be used on shipboard , and a third is a three-inch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a motor truck . These guns can reach a height of about 20,000 feet , which therefore marks the lower limit of safety for an airship or an aeroplane . AVIATION SUCCESSFUL IN WAR How serviceable aircraft have really been in the present war appears from Sir John French 's pointed references to them in his unadorned soldierly reports . " One of the features of the campaign on our side , " he  | writes , " has been the success of the Flying Corps . In regard to the collection of information , it is impossible either to award too much praise to our aviators for the way they have carried out their duties , or to overestimate the value of the intelligence collected . " During a period of twenty days , Sir John French assures us , a daily average of more than nine reconnaissance flights of over 100 miles each has been maintained . How important the air scout must be in the present war follows from the efforts made to prevent him at all costs from carrying out his purpose of gaining information . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward the allies , an English aviator whirrs up to fight him off . Thus no less than five German pilots were shot by Englishmen alone . " As a consequence , " Sir John French states , " the British Flying Corps has succeeded in establishing an individual supremacy which is as serviceable to us as it is damaging to the enemy . " Here we have a distinct attempt to maintain the command of the air , not for the purpose of bomb-dropping or similar offensive practises , but in pursuance of the principle that the main object of military aviators is the collection of information . A modern general deprived of his last air scout is reduced to a state of military blindness . The war is only two months old and it is rash to prophesy what lesson it will teach . But already it seems certain that the exploits performed by the airman will be far more instructive than the part played by big guns .                     