@@466097

WHEN , a year ago , the Nobel prize in medicine was awarded to Dr. Alexis Carrel , of the Rockefeller Institute , there was general amazement that one of the most distinguished scientists of France should be found quietly working in an American laboratory . Dr. Carrel 's own explanation was sufficiently direct : he regarded America , and especially the Rockefeller Institute , as offering unparalleled facilities for medical research . Few Americans realize the importance which their nation is assuming as a scientific medical center . Excepting Germany , there is no other country where such significant work is being done . In fact , the whole history of American medical science is significant . American pioneers can claim a considerable part in the medical progress of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries , not to speak of their great achievements in the field of surgery , which lie outside the scope of the present article . Probably few newspaper - reading Americans are familiar even with the name of the man who is unquestionably the greatest living American medical scientist , and one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Professor Theobald Smith , of the Harvard Medical School . Few living men have made more substantial contributions to our knowledge of contagious disease and public hygiene . Professor Smith is virtually the founder of ? one of the most fascinating branches of bacteriology ? the part played by insects in the transmission of infectious disease . We now know that the anopheles mosquito conveys malaria , and the stegomyia mosq into yellow fever . The every-day housefly carries typhoid , and the rat flea actsas the intermediate host of the bubonic plague ; in Africa the tsetse-fly- performs an identical office for the sleeping-sickness . The laboratories are constantly uncovering new facts-of this kind . The discoveries already made have revolutionized sanitation , have virtually eliminated certain diseases , particularly yellow fever , and have pointed the way to the destruction of others . When Dr. Smith , with F. L. Kilbourne , in a series of experiments extending from 1888 to 1892 , established the fact that the tick is the infecting agent in Texas cattle fever , he laid the foundation for all these similar discoveries , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Smith , in 182o , uttered his famous diatribe against American achievement , he delivered a hot shaft at American medicine . " What does the world yet owe , " he asked , " to American physicians and surgeons : " Twenty-five years afterward America succinctly answered this challenge by presenting the world with one of the three greatest medical discoveries of all time . These three discoveries , of course , arc vaccination , the science of bacteriology , and anesthesia . England claims the first , France the second , and the United States the last . Nor only have Americans , through the discovery of anesthetics , freed the world from surgical pain ; they have become practically responsible for surgery itself , for , without anesthesia , the modern science of surgery would certainly he unknown . It is unfortunately impossible even to touch this subject without plunging deeply into what is unquestionably the most acrimonious controversy in medical science . Books and pamphlets have been written , lawsuits have been fought , interminable official investigations have been held in attempts to settle the question as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present purposes , however , this controversy has no significance . One point , at least , is undisputed ; whoever really did make this discovery , he was certainly an American . There are four claimants to the honor , and they were all born and lived and did their work in the United States : Crawford Long , of Georgia ; Horace Wells , of Connecticut ; Charles T. Jackson , of Massachusetts ; and William T. G. Morton , of Massachusetts . It is certainly an amazing fact that these four men , all working in the United States , should have hit upon essentially the same discovery at almost the same time . Long and Wells worked with nitrous oxide , while Jackson and Morton went far beyond them in introducing sulphuric ether . Probably the French Academy of Sciences offered the best possible solution of the problem when , in 1852 , it presented Jackson with a prize of $2,500 as the discoverer of etherization and made an identical award to Morton as the man who first applied this beneficent vapor to surgical operations . Certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1846 when the medical class at Harvard and the most distinguished members of the profession in Boston gathered at the Massachusetts General Hospital to witness an operation upon a young man suffering from a vascular tumor on the neck . The operator was Dr. John C. Warren , New England 's best-known surgeon . Before beginning his work he made a little speech . Ile had been visited the day before , he said , by a gentleman hitherto unknown to him , who declared that he possessed a fluid which , inhaled by a human being , would make him insensible to pain during the most protracted surgical operation . The visitor , Dr. W. T. G. Morton , called his discovery " letheon " and refused to divulge its constituents . Had Dr. Warren resembled many distinguished scientists , he would have promptly shown the door to any stranger who made such preposterous claims ; instead , he told Dr. Morton that if he would come around the next day , his fluid could have a trial . Dr. Warren , however , could hardly conceal his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I presume , " said Dr. Warren , after waiting ten or fifteen minutes , " that he is otherwise engaged , " whereat the spectators began to snicker . But just at that moment , Dr. Morton entered through a side door . " Your patient is ready , sir , " said Dr. Warren , bowing to his visitor . The stranger stepped up briskly , poured a colorless liquid upon a sponge , and held it to the young man 's nostrils . In a few minutes the patient was in a deep sleep . " Your patient is ready , sir , " said Dr. Morton , bowing to the distinguished surgeon . The operation lasted half an hour . When it was finished the sick man declared that he had not felt the slightest pain . " Gentlemen , " said Dr. Warren , turning to his guests , " this is no humbug . " It certainly was not . That one operation changed the face of the world . It is hard for us to realize just what life was ? its sufferings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In a few months every civilized country had adopted the discovery . In England it inspired Simpson with the ambition to find an anesthetic that would relieve the sufferings of women in childbirth ? the outcome of which was chloroform . Greatly as anesthesia has diminished the agony of the world , it brought only suffering to its discoverers . The many attempts made to recognize and reward the achievement ended only in recriminations and wranglings over the question of priority . The periodical appearance of bills in Congress providing pensions and gifts of money was invariably the signal for the rising of the acrimonious and voluble champions of each man . Bitterness and the consciousness of national ingratitude was thus their portion . They all had tragical ends . Long died in obscurity , Morton died of a broken heart , Jackson ended his days in a lunatic-asylum , and Wells committed suicide . In practically all departments of anesthetics America has been the leader . It was Oliver Wendell Holmes who gave this new phenomenon the name anesthesia ? the word meaning " without feeling , " being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general use in dental surgery , is an American discovery . Soon after Simpson 's achievement , chloroform became the regular European anesthetic , not only in childbirth , but in all surgical operations . Americans , however , refused to adopt it , always maintaining that chloroform was more dangerous than ether and that their own anesthetic would ultimately supersede won ; it . In this contention they have won ? for in all the most enlightened parts of Europe ether is rapidly becoming the regular anesthetic for serious surgical operations . Another notable American contribution is spinal anesthesia . Hardly had ether and chloroform established themselves when certain limitations became manifest . Their administration to patients with weak hearts or weak lungs involved considerable danger . Sufferers from asthma , or diseases of the kidneys or the liver , took these anesthetics badly . Upon advanced alcoholics they sometimes had little effect . There is occasionally a patient who has a morbid horror of losing consciousness , and who will prefer to undergo an operation without an anesthetic ? or , as happens in many instances , neglect the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ether or chloroform will probably be used to the end of time ; but can not something be done for these exceptional patients ? It was a young neurologist of New York , Dr. J. Leonard Corning , who , in 1884 , solved this problem . The reason that ether and chloroform frequently have disastrous effects is that they suspend the operations not only of that part of the brain ? the cerebrum ? that regulates intelligence and consciousness , but that part ? the medulla oblongata ? which controls the functions of respiration and the heartbeat . We can lose consciousness without unfavorably affecting the vital processes ; if we cease breathing or the heart stops beating , however , we immediately die . In an overwhelming majority of cases , the medulla is absolutely resistant to the anesthetic , and no disastrous manifestations result ; in some cases , however , it collapses at once and death intervenes . The nerves , as most people know , are the telegraphic wires that communicate sensation from all parts of the body to the brain . These nerves all enter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has about the same relation to them that a cable has to an intricate telegraphic system ; that is , it gathers them all together in one comparatively large , rope - like structure . Supposing , then , we should cut this spinal cord with a knife . Clearly the brain would have no communication with that part of the body reached by the severed nerves . If we should cut it at the waist , the entire lower part of the body would lose sensation and motion . If we should cut it higher up , say nearer the neck , the larger part of the trunk would likewise be shut off . Clearly so cutting the spinal cord would produce complete anesthesia in the section of the body affected . Such a permanent cutting , however , would involve serious consequences , which it is hardly necessary to detail . But it occurred to Dr. Corning that the injection of a local anesthetic , such as cocaine , into the vicinity of the spinal cord would accomplish exactly the same result as its cut- ting with a knife @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be merely temporary ? when the influence of the drug subsided , the body would again resume its normal functions . While its potency prevailed , however , there would be a state of anesthesia in the parts affected and surgical operations could be successfully performed . As the drug would not reach the brain , the patient would not lose consciousness , nor would respiration or heart action be affected . Medical science has devised few procedures so ingenious as this ; and the discovery of spinal anesthesia , as the new method was called , has secured Corning a permanent place in medical history . It has already been used in between 50,000 i and 6o,000 operations , here and in Europe ? the cases nearly all those in which the standard anesthetics could not be administered . Several drugs besides cocaine have been found useful , notably cocaine , novocaine , and stovaine . More recent work again emphasizes this American pre-eminence in anesthesia . Dr. George W. Crile , of Cleveland , has evolved a procedure , known as auoci-association , which eliminates the last remaining terror @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At the Rockefeller Institute Dr. S. J. Meltzer has discovered a new method of administering ether directly to the lungs through a tube inserted in the windpipe . The advantage of this is that it makes the use of ether fool-proof . When this method is used it is impossible to kill a patient with ether . Deliberate experimental attempts to kill dogs have invariably failed . This new method , known as intra-tracheal insufflation , is now rapidly coming into general use . Nearly all Americans have heard of the experiments of Dr. William Beaumont , the first to penetrate the secret mechanism of digestion ; it is only in recent years , however , that medical men have really understood the accuracy and thoroughness with which his work was done . Beaumont 's " fistulous St. Martin " has held his place for three-quarters of a century in all standard works on physiology . It was only two years after Sydney Smith 's ill-natured challenge to American physicians and surgeons that Beaumont began these experiments . Born in Lebanon , Connecticut , in 1785 , obtaining his medical education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Beaumont for the larger part of his life did duty as an army surgeon , serving with particular distinction in several of the fiercest campaigns in the War of 1812 . In 1820 his country detailed him to an army outpost on the Island of Michilimackinac , in Lake Michigan . One morning in 1822 a young Canadian voyageur , Alexis St. Martin , entered the company store of the fur-traders . In a few minutes a shot-gun accidentally went off and St. Martin fell , unconscious . Dr. Beaumont , having been rushed to the injured man , found a huge wound in the abdomen . " He can not live thirty-six hours , " said Beaumont , after he had cleaned and dressed the injury . Alexis , however , falsified this prophecy . Moreover , as he recovered , something very remarkable happened . The accident had not only lacerated his external abdominal wall , but had blown off an anterior section of his stomach . In healing , the orifice in the stomach attached itself to the orifice in the abdominal wall , so that the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but remained exposed until St. Martin 's death , nearly sixty years afterward . As a result the innermost operations of the stomach were made clear to the outside world . One could look inside and observe all the processes of digestion ; could put food in and take it out ; the human stomach , for all practical purposes , became an external organ . Freaks of nature like this had happened before ; Dr. Beaumont 's glory , however , is that he saw a scientific opportunity and seized it . St. Martin was poverty-stricken , improvident , lazy , and a drunkard ; Beaumont took hint into his family , supported him , and kept him under constant supervision for the better part of eight years . His patience was sorely tried ; Alexis would go off on sprees , break his contracts , and run away for weeks and months at a time . He had absolutely no interest in the doctor 's experiments -- was grotesquely lacking in scientific enthusiasm . Beaumont , however , endured all these tribulations , and his ultimate reward was a splendid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down in medical science , is practically his work . The famous remark of William Hunter , the great English physician , clearly shows how much the world knew about these complicated processes in 1832 , when Beaumont published his work : " Some physiologists will have it that the stomach is a mill ; others that it is a fermenting-vat ; others that it is a stew-pan ; but , in my view of the matter , it is neither a mill , a fermenting-vat , nor a stew-pan , but a stomach , gentlemen , a stomach . " So the matter stood when Beaumont published the results of his 238 observations on Alexis St. Martin . So little have his successors added , that the very words in which he described the actions of the gastric juice are still preserved in the standard text-books . A few years ago the Nobel prize was awarded to Prof. J. P. Pawlow , director of experimental physiology at the Russian Military School at St. Petersburg , for his work on digestion . Professor Pawlow experimented by creating artificial fistulas in dogs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which St. Martin was a victim . The amazing thing is the extent to which the painstaking work of this great Russian scientist , with all the resources of the modern laboratory at his disposal , corroborated the work of this early nineteenth - century backwoodsman . " In reality , " says William Osier , Regius Professor of Medicine at Oxford , " Beaumont anticipated some of the most recent studies in the physiology of digestion . " The most famous of Paw-low 's experiments demonstrated the extent to which digestion is a psychical process ; how one 's state of mind has a powerful influence upon the digestive processes . Enraging his dogs would stop the flow of gastric juice ; the sight of food , the mere entrance into the room of the keeper who fed them , would precipitate the digestive mechanism . This is one of the very first discoveries which Beaumont announced . " His experiments , " continues Professor Osier , " settled finally the chemical nature of the digestive process so much discussed from the days of the fundamental experiments of Reaurnur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be mentioned the confirmation of the discovery of Prout of the presence of hydrochloric acid in the gastric juice ; the recognition that the essential elements of the gastric juice and the mucous secretion were separate ; the establishment , by direct observation , of the profound influence of mental disturbances in the secretion of the gastric juice and in digestion ; the fuller and more accurate comparative study of digestion in the stomach with digestion outside the body ; the rapid disappearance of water from the stomach through the pylorus ; the first comprehensive and full study of the motions of the stomach ; the study of the digestibility of different articles of diet , which remains to-day one of the most important contributions ever made to practical dietetics ; the relation between the amount of food taken and the quantity of gastric juice secreted ; and many other points , the true significance of which has not been recognized until the recent researches of Professor Paw-low . . . . The pioneer physiologist of the United States and the first to make a contribution of enduring value , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persevering research . " Most Americans know Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes as a breakfast autocrat , an essayist , and a poet . Few realize that he made one of the most substantial contributions to the medical science of the nineteenth century . Many medical historians attribute the discovery of the contagiousness of puerperal fever to Ignaz Semmelweiss ? a monument glorifying this achievement , indeed , has been erected to Semmelweiss in Budapest . His life was so romantic and tragical , his character was so splendid and his achievement so great , that his countrymen may well be excused for regarding him as the discoverer . Most of us are familiar with the story ; how Semmelweiss , appointed in 1846 assistant professor in the maternity department of the hospital in Vienna , astonished and outraged his seniors by his insistent declaration that childbed fever was contagious , and that the infection was carried by the attending physicians and midwives from one patient to another . The young man 's pathetic end ? the universities and medical profession so persecuted him for his " ridiculous " heresy that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ madhouse ? is one of the tragedies of medical history . In fact , however , Oliver Wendell Holmes had already undergone a similar experience in the United States . The one difference between him and Semmelweiss was that Holmes 's campaign succeeded . He met ridicule and opposition , just as did Semmelweiss . After several years ' hard and persistent fighting , however , he actually forced his views upon the medical profession in this country . He published his contagion theory of puerperal fever in 1843 , a year before Semmelweiss was graduated . In the same year he prescribed the proper prevention ? washing the physician 's hands with chloride of lime . His great essay , " On the contagiousness of puerperal fever , " in which , with his well-known literary charm , he proved his thesis at length and laid down the proper treatment ? now accepted as one of the classics of medical literature ? appeared five years before anything had been heard of Semmelweiss . " Correct views of the cause of the disease , " says the German historian of Gebunshilfe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the appearance of the letters and monograph of Semmelweiss . " Holmes 's essay created a sensation in England and laid the basis for the reform of maternity practice in that country . In Paris , Holmes had been the student of Louis ? a man who seemed particulady to have the faculty of attracting brilliant young Americans . From 1828 to 1845 Louis had a famous group of American pupils : Alfred Stifle , Elisha Bartlett , W. W. Gerhard , and George C. Shattuck . These men did especially valuable and important work on typhoid fever . Until their time the medical profession had always regarded typhoid and typhus fever as one and the same disease . This group of American students , however , first established the fact that they were entirely distinct . Sir William Jenner spent the last years of his life attempting to teach England that these two diseases were not the same ; he did so mainly by quoting from the writings of these Americans . One of the greatest English authorities on fevers says that the writings of Gerhard , Shattuck and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ student to-day for the main features of the morbid anatomy and symptoms of these diseases . " Bartlett 's book on Typhus and Typhoid , the same authority adds , " is in remarkable contrast with the chaotic writings of English and Continental authorities . " The recent work of American bacteriologists has substantiated the discoveries of these early investigators . When the latter worked , of course , bacteria were unknown ; they made their famous differentiation purely on the basis of clinical observations . One of the notable recent achievements of the United States Health Service is the discovery that typhus fever , far from being , as most of us had been led to believe , an extinct disease in the United States , still flourishes in attenuated form in the foreign sections of most of our large cities . It is another of those diseases which we owe to immigration . The Federal authorities have not only identified the disease , but have discovered its method of communication . The parasite which carries it finds its intermediate host in the common body louse . In ' 872 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Irishman , Dr. Joseph O'Dwyer , joined the staff of the New . York Foundling Asylum . The experiences he met here for the first few years gave a melancholy cast to his character which he retained through life . The terror of the establishment was diphtheria . The appearance of a single case drove the sisters who acted as nurses into a panic ; the mortality ranged from forty to fifty per cent. ; and the sufferings of the little waifs were frightful . Night after night O'Dwyer had to stand by the bedside and watch his charges slowly die of suffocation ; except for what were usually futile attempts to case their agony with narcotics , medical science offered no relief . Occasionally O'Dwyer would try the operation of tracheotomy  - -  the artificial opening of the trachea , or windpipe , for the admission of air to the lungs ? but the procedure seldom succeeded . For centuries medical men had dreamed of introducing air by means of a tube slipped into the mouth and larynx ; many daring experimenters had actually tried to do it , but all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was one of the most discredited ideas of practical medicine ; the mucous membrane of the larynx , his predecessors had discovered , was altogether too delicate to tolerate any foreign substance . When the news went around New York , therefore , that O'Dwyer had taken up this abandoned procedure . little less than a scandal resulted . He was generally denounced as a torturer of helpless children ; even so broad-minded a scientist as Dr. Abraham Jacobi publicly took a stand against him an attitude for which he afterward made handsome reparation . Had it not been for the constant sight of asphyxiated babies O'Dwyer would never have had the courage to go on . His ultimate success was thus the product , more than anything else , of a tender and sympathetic nature . His first case , that of a four-year-old girl , though technically a failure , was , from O'Dwyer 's point of view , a great success . The child died of diphtheria , but her throat tolerated the tube for sixteen hours . The fact that he had saved this child sixteen hours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough . In his second attempt O'Dwyer not only eliminated suffering , but saved the patient 's life . It was in this way that an obscure practitioner in a foundling hospital in New York secured a medical immortality as the " father of intubation . " A few years after O'Dwyer 's success an event happened that tested his character , both as a scientist and as a man . This was the introduction of anti-toxin . Here was something which , if successful , seemed likely to make O'Dwyer 's lifework unnecessary . In spite of this he was one of the first Americans to test the new treatment . He became one of its most enthusiastic champions , in the days when it sorely needed friends ; the fact that it relegated intubation into the background did not prejudice him even slightly . His discovery had saved many thousands of children 's lives before the appearance of anti-toxin ; it is still frequently used , both in advanced cases of diphtheria and in certain other diseases in which the larynx has been partly or entirely closed . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ H. Welch , of Johns Hopkins , calls " the most valuable contribution to medicine and hygiene which has ever been made in this country , with the exception of the discovery of anesthesia . " Dr. Welch refers , of course , to the demonstration , by the Federal commission under the direction of Dr. Walter Reed , that the stegomyia mosquito is the intermediate agent in the transmission of yellow fever . It is hard to transport ourselves back to 1898 , when the whole scientific world accepted the fomites theory ? that yellow fever was communicated through unclean bedding , clothing , and other things associated directly with yellow-fever patients . The story has been told so many times ? how these American investigators and volunteer American soldiers inoculated themselves with suspected mosquitoes , and slept in the beds of yellow-fever patients ; how many of them paid the penalty of their scientific zeal with their lives ; how , as a result of their labors , yellow Fever has been practically banished from the face of the earth ? that it is hardly necessary to repeat it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect upon general history . It has already made practical one enormous undertaking , the building of the Panama Canal . Moreover , it lays open enormous stretches of rich and beautiful tropical country to Caucasian civilization . The last ten years will always figure largely in the history of American medicine , because it was in that period that the country assumed a foremost position as a headquarters for medical research . In 190z , there was not a single institution of the kind in the United States . England had its Lister Institute , Germany its Institute for Infectious Diseases , France its Pasteur Institute , Russia the Royal Military Institute at St. Petersburg ; it was not until the founding of the Rockefeller Institute , however , that America had anything comparable with them . Ten years ago not a dollar was spent in Chicago on independent studies of this kind ; now Chicago has four flourishing research laboratories . Probably the Rockefeller Institute in New York can show the largest harvest . It has given the world Dr. Simon Flexner 's cure for cerebrospinal meningitis , Dr. Alexis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the possibility of transplanting organs from one body to another , and his method of growing cells indefinitely outside the body . These latter experiments have entirely changed modern conceptions of life and death ? have even lent some authority to the idea , with which so many imaginations have busied themselves , that the worn-out , senile human frame itself may sometime be restored to youth . Dr. Samuel J. Meltzer 's method of int ra-tracheal insufflation , already referred to in the use of anesthetics , is also valuable in surgery , in that , for the first time , it lays open to the surgeon the entire chest cavity ? lungs , heart , ( esophagus . Dr. Hideyo Noguchi has worked out a new skin reaction , far simpler than the Wasserman , for the diagnosis of syphilis . This same investigator has also discovered something which Pasteur sought for in vain ? the organism that causes hydrophobia . Only the other day Dr. Flexner announced the discovery of that organism which scores of scientists , here and in Europe , have been seeking for the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infantile paralysis . i A disease in which American scien-tists have especially distinguished themselves is cancer . We have learned more about cancer in the last six years than in the preceding six thousand . Dr. Paul Ehrlich , in the course of his latest visit to the United States , declared that the ultimate conquest of the disease was as certain as was the capture of Port Arthur after the Japanese had taken the first trench . All modern progress in cancer research depends upon one single fact ; the production of the disease experimentally . The first man to do this in any comprehensive way , and by that single achievement Tay the basis of modern cancer experimentation , was Leo Loeb , then of the Chicago Polyclinic . America possesses the first institution , the Gratwick Laboratory at Buffalo , ever established exclusively for the study of this disease . Here under Dr. Harvey R. Gaylord and Dr. G. H. A. Clowes , was made the discovery which furnishes the greatest reason to hope that we shall probably some day be able to treat the disease . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gaylord and others were struck by one significant fact ? that only a certain percentage contracted the disease . In other words , a large number of the animals possessed certain forces within themselves , certain resisting powers , that enabled them to throw off the cancer cell . In watching the inoculated animals , Drs . Gaylord and Clowes discovered a more remarkable fact . Certain cancers reached an appreciable size , stopped growing , began slowly to retrogress , and finally utterly disappeared . When the experimenters attempted to inoculate these animals again , the tumors made no progress . In other words , a mouse that had developed cancer and spontaneously recovered from it was immune against another attack . When carefully considered , these experiments , which were afterward repeated and confirmed by European scientists , demonstrated that cancer , at least theoretically , was a curable dis-ease . The laws of immunity apply to it just as they do to typhoid fever anddiphtheria . When assailed , the body manufactures certain properties that seek to destroy the disease . In a considerable number of these mice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human beings , spontaneous recoveries also occur ; medical literature contains a few cases where malignant growths have mysteriously disappeared . If we could discover the mechanism which nature uses in these processes and succeed in reproducing it artificially , the cancer problem would be solved . And recently the work of another American , Dr. Peyton Rous , of the Rockefeller Institute , promises to clear up the most baffling of all cancer problems ? its cause . The medical world has long been divided into two hostile camps on this question : one holding that an invading micro-organism produced the disease , the other that it was caused always by some mysterious disorganization of body cells . The first theory necessarily implied that cancer was a contagious disease ; the second as clearly implied that it was not . Until Dr. Rous began his work the preponderance of authority was unquestionably opposed to the idea that a living agent produced cancer . His experiments involve too many details and are too intricate for description in this place . The important fact is that , from the cancerous growths of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all probability a living agent ? which , when injected into other chickens , produces true cancer . In the case of these fowls , therefore , cancer is caused by something which comes from without . In any popular sense of the word , however , this chicken cancer is not contagious . Healthy chickens , kept in the closest association with the cancerous ones , never " catch " the disease . Similarly , healthy human patients can associate with cancerous invalids with impunity . Dr. Rous 's discovery is so new and upsets so many accepted ideas that the scientific world has not yet digested it . His one series of experiments has placed the question of cancer causation in an altogether new light . In spite of the ridicule scientists have been heaping for years upon the parasite theory , it really looks , after all , as though this were the correct one . 