@@430633

 | When a long succession of sultry summer days has made the atmosphere murky , the coming of a severe electrical storm often restores clarity and accuracy to landscape perspectives . Such an agency for our philosophical statecrafts is the devastating war in Europe , with all the storm severity and all the storm beneficence enormously magnified to meet a world necessity . Our theories were formulated and our dogmas crystallized without testing their practical application , until now , when the vast hurricane is broken we see many of the most cherished illusions in danger of being swept by the board . Perhaps the most marvelous of recent developments has been the universal spread of democratic propaganda , especially in the phase exemplified by Socialism . In years of comparative tranquility such power has been gained as to sweep into the parliaments of the world Socialist member after Socialist member ? 110 in Germany ; 356 , with the supporting parties , in France ; 156 in Austria ; 50 in Belgium , ? to elect countless minor representatives among city officials , and to carry in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia and Turkey , ( concessions which , however impotent , were nevertheless indications of democratic growth in soil reputed most unproductive ) , and correspondingly to seize men 's minds by spectacular evidence of success . Adherents to any cause are always more rapidly acquired by a demonstration of successes gained ; the call of the conqueror is a most powerful appeal , for men love to align with the " compact majority " or , at least to ally themselves to projects so surely advancing as to permit them to appear as participants in the inauguration of the " coming thing . " To many persons the achievements of Socialism seemed to imply its certainty as a " coming thing . " But to hold the affection of these , and to secure the allegiance of many more , new slogans had to be invented and old war cries enlarged upon . Movements can never remain con- tent with the mere principles enunciated by the founders , new adherents require embellishments in whose formulation they may seem to have shared , while old partisans demand constant stimulation to increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One can not maintain his appetite save by healthful labor in refreshing surroundings , or by some form of artificial stimulation . The working man had quite enough labor , the wearisome factor was that his atmosphere seemed stale , as he thought , with a decaying capitalism . The leaders , and theorists , therefore , supplied stimulation , as leaders and theorists must , for self-preservation . There can be but little red-fire enthusiasm for a cause perennially before the people ; to be truly progressive , new conceptions must be evolved , or minor ideas , heretofore undeveloped , amplified by presentations in a new light . So with Socialism . Latterly , during the old years of peace , there had arisen a conviction that war could not come , that the workers of the world would unite on this one thing as they had never before united on anything . To be sure , Socialists had always denounced warfare , but that aspect had been comparatively neglected while other important assertions had been emphasized ; only within recent years had this pacificist position been fully proclaimed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ally through the platform feature , nor is there a particle of doubt that the leaders were entirely sincere in their peaceful protestations and heartily imbued with the aspirations professed . Then came the war , and when the first clouds had lifted from the prompt censorships and news from the warring nations began to trickle through , it was discovered that these same Socialist leaders , and hosts of the party 's rank and file , were frankly sympathetic with the war parties . It was a shock to the world and a shock to the Socialists themselves . The opponents of Socialism thereupon made much of the virtual betrayal , pointing to this failure as an indication of the eventual collapse of Socialistic manifestation throughout the world . Confidently they assumed that failure to attain one ideal involved failure to attain any of the ideals proclaimed by Socialist preachers . They asserted that the war 's outcome  | would include a not altogether unalloyed regret were the propaganda utterly crushed . There arose rumors that the governments had deliberately endeavored to defeat the rising democratic movement by just such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to delve beneath the ostensible causes and to scratch the surface of an economic motive by declaring that the Czar , burdened by the revolutionist strike , had combined with the British merchants , and the French financiers , and that the Kaiser had gladly seized the opportunity to repress his own meddlesome Social-Democrats . Contempt and pity were expressed for poor Socialist dupes , who forgetful of their " War ? What For ? " had rushed to their regiments . For a time , while query after query was propounded as to them , silence reigned among American Socialists , because convincing explanations concerning this phenomenon could not readily be arranged . No answer was possible which did not comprise either repudiation of previous assertions or miserable evasion by the defensive warfare theory which could convince no skeptic . The truth is that no Socialist could have warded off this war . Germany may be intensely autocratic , but if in any country 38.4 per cent of the voters ? the Socialist vote in Germany unanimously disapproved a vital step , that step would be impossible . The 38.4 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by its rulers , it may have been under-represented through the voting system , but it comprised the rank and file of the army , and no militarism could have forced it into war against its explicit consent . The war spirit is the manifestation of a barbaric instinct which civilization has varnished over rather than eradicated . Only slight abrasions are required to erode that varnish and to restore the impulses and actions of primitive man . Carefully nurtured patriotism and emotional appeal to an instinctive hatred of aliens can implicitly be relied upon to destroy any chance effect that culture may have succeeded in establishing , and when once these instruments have been put to use , the brutalities are limitless for which presumably civilized men may show aptitude . Germany is now the scape-goat by her shelling of Rheims Cathedral and her burning of Louvain . Hence it is  | widely heralded that disregard for aesthetics is instilled by German culture , an assertion steadfastly supported by references to Treitschke , von Bernhardi , and the rest . But Germany is by no means alone in this unenviable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by warfare , has thrust opium upon the Chinese , and has since consistently opposed every effort for abatement of the traffic proposed by the more enlightened Celestials ; our own Sherman cut a devastating swath across Georgia that is still recalled with such bitterness that the exultant song which recounted his exploits is banned below Mason and Dixon 's line ; the Czar 's appeal to his " beloved Jews " is a horrible mockery to those who remember Kieff and Ritual Murder ; while a few scant years ago , Belgium , the innocent , through her treatment of Congo natives , was the butt of petition and the contempt of the world . Brutality is inherent in the best of us ; we all have a large dash of Bill Sikes which needs only the gratings of warfare to bring to the surface , and so , when the drum beats and colored buntings wave to and fro , our finer feelings , even those which we believe deep-rooted convictions , give way , and we rush to the blood-call . Men never consider their own adherents belligerent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into which both parties did not honestly consider themselves unwillingly driven for the furtherance of some divine end , or for more secure defense against supposed aggression ? and are always ready to justify their warrings by the plea of forced necessity . Civilization has required that our natural instincts must be glossed by some plausible excuse , but explanation is never lacking . Thinking men have pointed out that the loss of Rheims roused waves of indignation that our own barbarities could never arouse . The bombardment of Colorado women , the criminal delinquency of a Titanic , the terrible outcome of the Triangle Company 's failure to observe the fire laws are , in a brief while , either palliated or neglected by our people , while the destruction of a medieval cathedral is held in such great horror . True it is that labor is ever abundant ; that the loss of a few workmen is a reparable event , while Rheims represented the irreplacable medieval spirit ; that the patient toil of the loving , devout , artisans who worked so earnestly and fixedly upon the  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and that the majestic symmetry of the Cathedral has inspired holy thoughts and artistic ideals in the breasts of all who have looked upon it . These , unfortunately , are not the sentiments that induced popular outcry against the German forces . They are not entirely the sentiments of all who have seen Rheims , they are the sentiments only of the artists and mystics who have had the privilege of viewing Rheims , and tourists have long been notoriously deficient in either mysticism or artistic appreciation . We have deprecated Rheims and ignored Ludlow because property crime is greater with us than personal crime , because our conception of religion is such that we consider the temple rather than those who fill the temple , and because our culture is u the culture that looks backward to what has been wrought instead of what is yet to be done . Rheims may never be replaced , it may never even suffer restoration , but Rheims will live in picture and in memory hereafter , with neither human tragedy nor want attached to its loss as to the loss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilized nor truly cultured until we can understand that the sacrifice and devotion shown by workmen who are by their little contributions financing labor strikes are of more magnificently idyllic calibre than even the devotion of Rheims artisans . Admitting that their cause may be unjust , that their methods may even be reprehensible , wonder at their steadfastness and willingness for hardship and privation can scarcely be denied . Modern altruism is a universal social altruism , medieval altruism was a local and personal altruism . One of the chief reasons why America is opposed to German ends is that unconsciously we recognize that Pan-Germanism is medieval and not modern , that though Germany is merely applying to the Allies tactics of which each of the Allies has itself made use , the day for such tactics has passed . England may have been the greatest offender in land hungering , Napoleonic France , the great aggressor , Russia , the most heartless oppressor of subject provinces ; but the democratic cosmopolitanism now permeating the world has destroyed forever the toleration once accorded these deeds . The social aspect is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tide as laggard movements are ever caught and condemned by more enlightened succeeding epochs . That Socialists in Germany have failed to appreciate their position in upholding medievalism casts no stigma upon them as individuals . More than any other the progressively democratic mind is impossible to materialize into a definite program . It is a cardinal principle of democratic belief that progress ceases the moment the inspiration underlying that progress becomes hardened into a creed . Though Collectivist in his conception of government , the Socialist is individualistic in his conception of Collectivism . Statecraft , like every other artistic embodiment tends to reduce to routine , to express in terms of some constant the ever variant developments of a given problem . But men 's minds engrossed in study can not conceive that their problem has developed , they are inevitably apt to examine their situation as a cross-section of still-life , though their very hypothesis states that the object is actively in motion . When a group unites in an examination this tendency becomes far more accentuated . A party that attacks but one phase of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for phases vary only slightly in their respective relations ; but men seeking to observe over an entire economic field learn that some political synchronizer is required to maintain their instruments in proper adjustment . In the very nature of the Socialist movement , therefore , a political party is nearly impracticable since it can exist only for opportunist purposes . The policy becomes dictated by momentary advantage rather than eventual success . In order to operate , it must yield to compromise , must stand firm here and give way there , trusting to shrewd political skill for minor strategic gains ; it must lay undue stress upon unimportant lapses of a dominant party ; assume the position of adversary in every dispute guaranteed not to harm the party interest ; must champion a popular cause for purely political effect . Irrespective of whether the false impression was spread deliberately in the nations now at war that each armed merely for defensive purposes and was itself attacked , there can be little serious doubt that the conflict was popular everywhere .  | Travelers , correspondents , communications , all indicate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Those who raised mildly protesting voices were immediately suppressed ; John Burns and Lord Morley are by many British considered traitors to the King , Jaures was shot , Liebknecht arrested as Bebel had been before him . For any party to have set itself officially in opposition to the undeniable national temper must have been suicidal , and opportunist parties , fearful of odium in opposing actions desired by the mass , had no recourse but to support it , even though individual sentiments were strongly hostile . The Socialist parties in the nations at war , like parliamentary Socialists everywhere , could only be opportunist . But to close reasoners it will occur that the evil of alliance by democratic propagandists to medieval methods consists not in the granting of war-funds , but in continued allegiance to outrageous methods of warfare . Germany , for example , violated Belgian neutrality , bombarded Scarborough , an unfortified town , incited the Turk to war against Christians , and similarly with an indefinite series of atrocities which no socially thinking man could condone , yet German Socialists still officially support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In all fairness , however , these actions must be judged as they appear to the Germans , not as they seem to us . America undeniably is indignant at the invasion of Belgium , but our anger arises not alone that Belgium has been trespassed upon , but because we are still chiefly of British descent , that we therefore look upon events with much of British astigmatism , minimizing the wounds which the British inflict , magnifying those things which hurt Great Britain . Our news , moreover , filters chiefly through allied sources , and must necessarily , however unconsciously , be so colored in transmission and translation that the interests of the Allies are enlarged and the detriments caused by the Allies somewhat less urgently pressed . German sympathizers are not depraved , their racial bias is as righteous as the Slav or Latin , their national morality neither higher nor lower than that of Russian or Frenchman . If Germany violated Belgium , Japan and England violated China , yet we con- done the China incident as necessitated by the nature of the case , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not soothe Chinese indignation thereby , though we might justify the incident to ourselves . Had China made war against the Jap and British invader , as Belgium did against the German , we certainly would not have become indignant at Japan or Great Britain . Candidly , we must confess our greater likelihood of becoming indignant at Germany for bringing China , as well as Turkey , into the conflict . With all honesty Germans fail to recognize their peculiar wrong in breaking treaty obligations when every other nation in history has done so , when circumstances rendered their compacts antiquated . If England disregarded her word to the Sultan concerning Egypt , if America deliberately broke her promise to the Chinese by restricting immigration , if France violated the Algeciras Convention when the treaty ink was barely dry , why , in the German view , should Germany be reviled for the same , especially when Gladstone himself had described the Belgian situation as ununderstandable chaos ? If German ships bombarded Whitby and Scarborough , French and British ships had thrown shells into Ostend and Westende , both unfortified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troops were garrisoned there , so the Germans justify attacks upon the British towns by the presence of defensive trenches , coast-guns and Territorials . If Germany brought the Turks into the war , England first brought in the Japs , Sikhs , and Ghurkas , and Oriental intrusion to the German seems certainly less justified than Turkish . The neutral nation must look fairly upon both sides of the shield , and as far as possible consider the deeds of the combatants from the combatants ' point of view . Seeing , then , the manner in which the German Socialist regards what the British Socialist would think indefensible , it is impossible to accuse him of treachery to his training . The Socialist responds to national enthusiasm precisely as the mass of people do . With a dictator 's power , he would immediately stop the slaughter , but having power neither individually nor collectively , he is forced to act as every other of his countrymen acts . In his party he can not run counter to popular de- mand , in his individual capacity the attempt would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not desire war , given the opportunity they would have denied war , but the 38.4 per cent could not defeat the 61.6 per cent who seemingly did want war . It is extremely complimentary to the united Socialists to accuse them of the responsibility , but it is an undeserved and thoughtless compliment . It can not be denied that Socialist prestige has been lowered by the occurrence of this war , nor that the movement now is at a lower ebb than in years . Perhaps it may mean ultimate collapse for the parliamentary Socialism we know today through the transformation of opportunist tactics into a sound , clear-headed progressivism . Every recent conflict has contributed greatly to the spread of democratic principles , every war has seen as its outcome some mighty concession to popular liberalization . Such a result this war will also bring . Militarism throughout Europe , whether German , French or Russian , crushed , electoral reforms introduced , amelioration of poverty and want furthered in some way , these , the years of readjustment must witness when final peace has been declared . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advance in Social Justice no Socialist will regret the loss . The principles of human rights and equalization of opportunity need no limiting label of factions , and both can only be advanced by the revulsions of feeling destined to be asserted when this present preliminary struggle is decided .                     