@@430773

 | We Americans are often accused of being novelty-mad , and although we never inaugurated anything quite so novel as a modern world-war , we must admit that there is much truth in the accusation brought against us . A glance . it the files of any newspaper will show clearly the lengths to which we go in our efforts to do something that has never been done before . A marriage by telephone ; another marriage in a skating-rink ; a man pledged to remain unshaven and unshorn until the election of Mr. Bryan ; a man playing the piano continuously for twenty-odd hours ; a ladies ' afternoon tea at which the guests wear bathing-suits ; a soiree given in honor of a French poodle ? these are a few of the items which add t re spice of life to our daily reading . In this connection we may well note a certain type of religious revivalism : a revivalism generally characterized by a circus-tent , an abundance of noise , the singing of ungrammatical rag-time hymns , the preaching of mediaeval theology in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impatient contempt for anything dignified or reverential . In this same category . too , we must include the revolting crimes committed in the name of church architecture during the past quarter of a century . ( A tour of some of the smaller Western communities will emphasize this last point much mere forcibly than can my words ) . Truly , we are sick of the 2- ncient , the time-honored , the familiar . " Give us novelty or give us death ! " is the way we parody the immortal Henri But if this incessant craving for the new has at important influence upon American life in general , it has ten times greater influence upon the fine arts ; for in this latter sphere the devotees of the bizarre are not the crude , the vulgar , or the unlettered ; but some of the most highly cultivated people , some of the leaders of creative and critical thought , some of that select company who delight in the appellation " high-brow . " Witness , as evidence of this , the continued vogte of Walt Whitman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inter- est in cubism , post-impressionism , imagism , and fifty-seven other varieties of artistic futurism . And note that Joseph Conrad is decidedly more popular here in America than he is in his own England . Verily , we can not abide anything time-worn . Ring out the old , simply because it is old . Ring in the new , for no other reason that that it is new . Give us purple cows , lavender nudes , cubic rivers and mountains and trees , pictures screaming with lurid colors and devoid of outline and perspective ! Give us poetry without metre or rime or reason ; poetry which shuns the beautiful and revels in the repulsive ; poetry which sets at naught all the precepts of bygone saint or sage or philosopher ! Give us narrative presented in any conceivable ( or inconceivable ) order except the chronological ; narrative which begins at the end , continues to the beginning , and ends in the middle ; narrative with seventeen different changes of viewpoint , all of them unexpected and unprepared for ! Give us literature and art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the canopy of heaven ! Give us novelty , or give us death ! A representative piece of futuristic verse which has attracted much attention during the past three or four years is the poem , " In the Garden , " by F. S. Flint . The author is , I believe , an Englishman ; but the piece originally appeared in Poetry , a Chicago periodical . I quote it below : The grass is beneath my head ; and I gaze at the thronging stars in the aisles of night . They fall . . . they fall . . I am overwhelmed , and afraid . Each little leaf of the aspen is caressed by the wind , and each is crying . And the perfume of invisible roses deepens the anguish .  | Let a strong mesh of roots feed the crimson of roses upon my heart ; and then fold over the hollow where all the pain was . As a bit of sheer novelty the above poem is obviously a thoroughgoing success . The picture is a most unusual , most amazing one . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect ? the poet is lying on his back . He gazes up into the night . And what does he see or sense ? A most extraordinary spectacle ! Stars falling , aspen leaves crying aloud , crimson roses growing upon his heart ! One could not possibly wish for a more unusual series of circumstances than that . But the average reader is , I fear , far more bewildered than refreshed by this picture . It is so entirely foreign , not only to his experience , but also , in all probability , to his wildest flights of fancy , that he can but shake his head and yet again shake his head . And meanwhile it doubtless occurs to him that stars do not habitually fall in overwhelming numbers ; that aspen leaves are not ordinarily given to noisy lamentations ; and that the human heart is not , as a rule , the most fertile soil for crimson roses . In other words , he recognizes the striking novelty of the poem ; but he can not help wondering wherein it possesses any further merit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " Rocks , " by Mary Eastwood Knevels . This piece also appeared in Poetry . Through the pasture lie the rocks , gray as the sea in a fog As the sea in a mist . ( 0 breath of my yearning , 0 sea , breaking gray in a fog ! ) The rocks rise tumultuous , the rocks are waves . Flee from them , they are in pursuit ; Lichen-crusted their summits , rolling most mightily . Flee from the rocks , the pale-crested waves of the meadows ! Now why this chaotic jumbling of dactyl , trochee , anapest , and iambus ? Why the flat , anticlimacteric leisure of line seven , after the mad , terrified scurry of line five ? Why under heaven the imbecile hallucination that pasture-rocks , however much like sea-waves they may appear , can pursue the most snaillike body that ever moved ?  | I have chosen these two bits of free verse to illustrate the extent to which the present-day novelty craze may carry us in literature . I might have drawn my illustration quite as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drama ; but I trust that the above citations and analyses have made it sufficiently clear why many thoughtful persons today are seriously questioning the wisdom of this incessant demand for something absolutely new ? seriously asking whether literary novelty as an end and aim in itself , novelty which sacrifices all other merits for its own sake , is really worth while . So far as literature is concerned , this twentieth-century clamor for the unusual is , I believe , based upon something more fundamental than mere faddishness . It is based , apparently , upon the assumption that great literary geniuses have always been characterized more by originality than by anything else . The briefest glance at literary history , however , will show the fallacy of this assumption . As Emerson has well pointed out , Shakespeare , the greatest of all English literary geniuses , was a huge borrower , both in matter and in manner ; and the same may be said of all the other really notable figures of the past . Virtually all innovations have been made by minor writers , being adopted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while . It was not the illustrious Milton , for instance , but the obscure Surrey who introduced the sonnet into English literature . It was not the immortal Thackeray , but the rather mediocre Richardson who dared to write the first English novel . The greatest art generally follows along traditional lines . Apropos of this matter of borrowing , we may well note , also , the Romantic Period , a period especially noted for its freshness and originality . Certainly the Romanticists were strikingly different from their Classical predecessors . Democracy , appreciation of nature , interest in the mysterious and the mediaeval , and diversity of verse-forms were things which Pope and the other Classicists avoided quite as assiduously as the Romanticists cultivated them . But , after all , the Romanticists were renovators , not innovators . If Burns and Crabbe sang of democracy at the end of the eighteenth century , Langland sang with equal fervor of this great human institution  | some four centuries earlier . If Thomson and Collins and Gray , Wordsworth and Shelley and Keats , painted vivid and beautiful pictures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and cloud , of bleating lambs and twilight-crimsoned stubblefields , Chaucer and Shakespeare anticipated them by hundreds of years . If Horace Walpole loved the mysterious and mediaeval , so did Edmund Spenser . If an awakened literary England , as the eighteenth century waned , grew weary of the stereotyped heroic couplet , this same England found respite , not in the invention of new forms , but in the revival of such Elizabethan and Jacobean forms as blank verse , the sonnet , the ode , and the Spenserian stanza . A similar analogy may be drawn in the case of every truly great writer or group of writers that has been regarded as markedly original . The Pre-Raphaelites , for example , were not at all original : their poetic counterpart may be found as truly in Elizabethan and Romantic verse as their artistic counterpart is found in the painters antedating Raphael . The Elizabethans were not original : their indebtedness to the Italian Renaissance was colossal . George Barrow was not original : his gypsy tales breathe the spirit of the old picaresque romance in every paragraph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the objectivism of narrative with the subjectivism of the lyric in much the same way as do Petrarch 's sonnets to Laura or Coleridge 's " Rime of the Ancient Mariner . " Walt Whitman was , of course , original to a certain extent ; but his originality , far from being his crowning glory , was his greatest weakness . The abominable lawlessness which almost ruined his " ' hen Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloomed " is atoned for solely by beautiful nature imagery , genuinely poetic diction , and romantic feeling . Would it not be well , then , for us to pause in our mad rush after literary novelty ? If we do so pause , perhaps we shall find that the past was not utterly stupid or foolish , that originality is not the only virtue under the sun , that wisdom did not begin with the twentieth century .                     