@@486104

" Your art diplomatic , " once exclaimed Coleridge , " is stuff ! " He was declaiming against the conventions and absurd rigmarole and roundaboutness of diplomatic intercourse , and stoutly contended that sensible men did not do business in that way . But what would Coleridge have said of a system of appointing diplomatic representatives which resulted in the choice of men who neither knew anything about the technique of their calling , nor had any real fitness for the actual duties of their position ? He would have used some word more picturesque than " stuff , " we may be sure . The National Civil Service Reform League has to be more polite , yet at its annual meeting in Boston , last week , it made pointed reference to the way in which our diplomatic service has been injured by the Wilson Administration . As to other matters affecting the civil service , the League made hearty recognition of what President Wilson has stood for . What he has done is partly to be measured by what he has resisted Congress has made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these Mr. Wilson has given way in form , so tar as concerns signing bills with vicious " riders " upon them , but has announced his purpose , nevertheless , to keep in effect the principles of the merit system . For this and for his other acts in keeping off the thronging spoilsmen , the League accords him due praise . But the diplomatic appointments are the sore spot . As President Eliot put the matter in his address , the complaint is not only that Ambassadors and Ministers have been dismissed , but that they have been replaced by untrained men . The gravamen of the charge lies in the treatment of Ministers . Out of 35 in the service , 22 have been replaced by appointees whose diplomatic and other abilities have been sedulously concealed from the public . And several of the Ministers removed had the advantage of long experience and were specially competent . To turn them out in. order to give room for greenhorns is surely to make " stuff , " or something worse , of the American diplomatic service . There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any civil-service law has been violated . Ambassadors and Ministers are without protection in their offices . Too often the sport of politics themselves , they always walk , as Lowell said that he did , like St. Denis , with their heads under their arms . This has been a long-standing folly and disgrace But the point is that an eltort had been under way to make an inroad upon this pie-counter theory of diplomatic appointments . The shame of it had taken hold of President Roosevelt and President Taft , and they had set about humble beginnings of a reformation , looking towards something like a permanent career for able men devoting themselves to the diplomatic service . Young men of talent were named , without political dictation , as secretaries of legation ' . In the State Department an efficiency record was kept for them , and they were promoted when vacancies occurred and they had shown exceptional capacity to fill these . Finally , after a few years of training , several of them were appointed Ministers , in comparatively unimportant legations , all as a recognition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better system . But now nearly every one of these Ministers , who had fairly earned their positions without any aid from political influence , is turned adrift at the demand of politicians . Of what use is it , under such circumstances , to point to the fact that many secretaries of legation have been retained ? What outlook have they ? If they prove themselves unusually capable , they will be promoted , it is said ; yes , but ' will they not think , in view of what has happened , that promotion will mean simply an invitation to mount the guillotine and have their heads cut off ? If this thing is to go on , the obvious effect will be to put a premium upon stupidity or inefficiency on the part of young secretaries of legation , and to throw knowledge and skill out of the window as so much trash . For the harm that has been done to the diplomatic service President Eliot chiefly blames Mr. Bryan . This appears to be on the theory of Charles II , that his words were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Of course , President Wilson must bear the ultimate responsibility . It is very likely true that the President turned over to the Secretary the work of selecting the appointees to minor diplomatic positions . It is certain that several of Mr. Bryan 's friends have turned up in these offices . Considering the great pressure of work put upon Mr. Wilson , it is not surprising that he desired the Secretary of State to relieve him of a part of it . But when a principle was at stake , involving the good of the service and the hope of its steady betterment in the future , he should have laid clown a rule for Mr. Bryan to observe . It would have been both easy and right for the President to single out the few Ministers who had risen by desert , and against whom there were no charges , and to order that those men should be kept . They could be transferred , if desirable , but must not be dismissed as if they were so many Janitors . If something of this kind had been done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Ambassadors , frankly political appointees as most of them were  --  though there might still have been criticism of some of their designated successors  --  and the hope of opening at last a permanent career in American diplomacy would not have seemed to be wantonly strangled in its cradle . SENATOR ROOT ON THE BANKING BILL . The speech of Mr. Root in the Senate on the banking and currency bill has been read by most people , we imagine , with a feeling of perplexity . This bill has been before the public nearly six months . It has been under fire of the National Bankers ' Convention , has been examined by numerous financial organizations , has been publicly discussed by anti-Administration Congressmen , including some who had a hand in framing the Aldrich bill , and has been made the subject of exhaustive revision and amendment in the report of the Republican members of the Senate Banking Committee . But the singular fact is that none of these careful , experienced , and more or less hostile critics have included in their objections to the measure the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Senator Root  --  that the currency provisions of the bill are in effect identical with those of the Bryan platform of 1896 , that the note circulation would always expand indefinitely and would never be reduced , and that the consequent perfectly inevitable inflation would be so prodigious as to wreck both public and private credit . We say that the lateness of this discovery of what , if the facts are as Senator Root alleges , not only supersedes every other objection to the banking bill , but must have been patent from the first in its provisionS , is singular . Bift that is no reason fof. dienalasing A from consideration . The katson haS insisted front the start lhaTt the highesi public interest would . be Served by the Urging of every rational objection to the Houk bill . We have ourselves deVoted considerable space to pOinting out with emphasid What we believed to be the faults and dangers which it was necessary td remove , before the bill could be safely trusted on the statute books . If Senator Root 's contentions are well grounded , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be rejected . Let us examine these contentions . First , Mr. Root inferMs us , there is no limit placed by the law on the issued of notes to regional Central banks , secured by an equiValent amount in high-grade commercial paper pledged against them , and by a 33 1-3 per cent . reserve in gold . Secondly , he tells us that the bill makes no provision to compel retirement of any notes from circulation . Therefore , the sure result must be that our trade " would absorb " of the new notes " the Maximum which the requited reserves permit " ; that a period of wild inflation would ensue ; that our gold , as always , would " leave the country in which the amount of currency exceeds the legitimate demands of business , " and that then the whole Structure would come down . The two questions which arise are , whether the facts are accurately stated by Mr. Root , and whether his deductions are correct . No arbitrary maximum is fixed in the bill for the amount of notes to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republican report from the Senate Banking Committee as it is of the House bill . But that the notes , as Mr. Root declares , are " not a currency for which the bill contains any provisions compelling reduction , " is entirely untrue . The moment any notes of one regional bank are received on deposit by another , they must , under heavy penalty , be sent back to the bank of issue for redemption . This clause , wholly ignored by Mr. Root , has attracted the close attention and warm commendation of every other conservative critic . Tiflis for the facts . When one examined the inferences drawn froha- them , one is likely to be perplexed as to what the Senator has in mind when he says that the country absorb the maxi- , qifired reserves permit . " We can unde'rs't6 , nd this statement only if it Means that as much of the currency - Would be abiorbed as the regional ' banks could Conveniently provide a 38 1-3 per cent . gold reserve for . Mr. Root appears to think that no limit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If this were so , the recent well-known difficulties of the European central banks , in obtaining gold reserves on which to build up an increased note circulation of their own , would be indeed mysterious . The Senator further warns us of the outflow of gold from the United States which would ensue whenever an inflation process should be under way . That sequel would be altogether probable ; and with what result ? The gold exported would be taken from the regional bank reserves ; but when the ratio of such a bank 's reserve to its outstanding circulation falls below 33 1-3 per cent. , no recourse would remain for the bank but to reduce its notes . We have failed to find , in the reports of Senator Root 's speech of Saturday , the slightest recognition of this inevitable and automatic Process . Yet that process , along with the raising of the official discount rate that naturally accompanies it , is the historic cornerstone of the regulation of note issues , markets , and foreign exchanges by the central banks of Europe . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of possible dangers in the operation of this bill . We particularly welcome Senator Root 's revival of the question , whether the bill . ought not to adopt the Aldrich plan of an arbitrary maximum of untaxed outstanding notes , with a progressively rising tax on issues in excess of it . But we repeat What we have said before , that extravagant misstatement in regard to provisions of the pending bill will do far mare harm than good That the present bill requires 50 per cent More deposit of commercial paper , as collateral for the notes , than the Aldrich bill requited ; that it doed not , like that bill , piovide that the note 's " shall be received for all salaries and other debts and demands owing by the United StateS , " outside of specific gold obligation 's , and that rts authors rejected ffom the start the Aldtich bill 's proposal for the use of the Rdcit 's consideration ; even though , if our recollection serves us , he himself faVored the enactinent of the Aldiabh. bill . BIOGRAPHY FOR THE MILLION @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hercure de France , now possesses a department called " La Vie Anecdotique . " The matter that falls into this particular pigeonhole represents anecdotal biography . Excessively as biography in general has grown in recent years , this form of it has grown disproportionately . The vogue of the frankly entertaining species of personal history is one of the most marked evidences of the popularization of learning . All the social factors that have helped the short story , the flashy novel , the clever magazine article , and othet products of New Grub Street , have won readers for anecdotal biography . It places no strain upon the modern attention tvhfch regards even Paine 's Mark Twain and Trevelyan 's Macaulay as food for the time before the flood , when men had long lives and endless leisure . It has the merits of unflagging interest , dramatic quality , and a suggestiveness that leaves much to the imagination , without actually requiring a passing of judgment . Above all , it tries to define from a background , of history or society or art , in which few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are interested . It is thus a democratization of the old memoir . It has given the lie direct to Lord Acton 's principle , laid down in his " Advice to Persons about to Write a History , " that " no public character has ever stood the revelation of private utterances and correspondence " ! It is one of the extreme results of the tendency to diseatd the histories of men and " their times " for an account of personality alone . FinallY , it has grown in favor with the biographer , for it is narrative , not analytic ; it is facile , and it relieVeS the writer of much of his responsibility for a formal verdict . All must grant certain of the claims of this kind of writing , frem ? the few who read Plutarch to the many who find relaxation in the last vol. - nine of Redollections . But definition 's are difficult . What constitutes an anecdote is a Matter of perspeCtiVe . And the only valid anecdotal and those only partly so , for any biography since Sir Thomas More @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get from Boswell is a score of pictures of that oaken Englishman , with his heart in the right place , who in his poverty put pence in the hands of children asleep on the doorsteps as he went home from night-work ; who wrote Chesterfield the downright letter that ended patronage ; who did penance one rainy day in Lichfield market for an unkind word to his father ; who went after oysters for his cat Hodge lest his negro servant Frank should think it an insult to have to wait upon an animal . But these are true anecdotes and give us a flash into the soul of the hero . The cheap current anecdote , which might happen to a hundred characters , resembles only a detached incident from a newspaper or magazine . There is nothing in it to chime with the constantly developing character which a really serious biography traces , and harmonizes through every change of circumstance . Thus the purely anecdotal biographies are like the picaresque novels , in that they may often be taken up with pleasure , but never laid down with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Much could be said about the baneful influence of biography of the opposite type , such as Sprat 's " Life of Cowley , " and Jeremy Taylor 's funeral orations , which suppressed definition and familiar detail to aim at " moral effect and solemn grandeur . " But the defect of anecdotal biography is that it not merely fails to touch the crises of life with proper emphasis , its concern being with the minor incidents , but that it fails also to touch the " stuff " of a life . The question is not merely one of proportion , but of insight . Beyond the first duty in biography of making the essential events stand out , is the duty of developing personality and choosing characteristic illustration . But what process of selection is used by the modern scaMped , biographical sketch , with its collection of anecdotes merely ornamental or enlivening ? Their dazzling succession , like a stream of Roman candles , obscures true values , and this is the more regrettable , from the great wealth of present-day social anecdote . In its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clubs , academies , links of a hundred sorts , draw into new intercourse the roster of the great . It deals- by preference with literary men , statesmen of the minor sort , artists and adventurers , rather than austere fighters of the camp or parliament . It is thus sheer want of the art of true narrative that is betrayed by inability to choose anecdotes which illumine character . The true novelist does not forget his plot , or the demands of character-drawing , in attention to incident . The thousands who piece together chatty lives with the intention of thus disavowing any claims to profound insight , or the power of making final conclusions upon character , often expose a worse weakness  --  ignorance of the very principles of sustained story-telling . The simple facts would be less dangerous to them and more satisfactory to the reader . Our flood of anecdotal biography is thus rather a literary fashion than the index of a new and dangerous attitude towards notable men . Multiplication of anecdotal memoirs will only the more certainly end in their classification as a sort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Edmund Gosse noted in the field of the bad novel , when he said that its writers began to apprecite that " there is less intellectual effort involved in writing a story of the third order than in any other work of letters . " Out of the ruck may rise again the biography of sincere conception and careful workmanship . The whole anecdotal tendency is a natural accompaniment of the excess in the habit of modern biography . Nowadays any person who has ever held a transient place in the public eye is entitled to a biography almost before he is safe in the grave . THE CITY MALIGNED . Even so wise and sympathetic an observer as " David Grayson " can not help doing the city an injustice . That part of the Friendly Road ( David Grayson , " The Friendly Road , " Doubleday , Page &; Co. ) which lies in the open fields runs amidst scenes of peace . The wanderer makes no deliberate attempt to deny that there may be evil and sorrow in the " pure " country . Yet it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to show that whatever of evil and sorrow he encounters on the highway is part of an inevitable scheme . Life 's maladjustments in the rural regions need only to be scanned with an understanding eye to be revealed as something other and better than they appear . Whereas the city ? When David Grayson enters the city it must be to find it given over to the grim turmoil of labor war . The men he consorts with must be strikers or labor agitators or dreamers of revolutionary ideals . He must not be long in the city before he encounters its most agonizing problem in the shape of a young factory girl lurking in the night shadows . When he leaves the city it is with a sense of escape . When he turns back to look at the city it is at a monster lying there in the valley . But he is not fair . Here is a problem for the young thinkers of the pragmatic school who believe that the spirit of man is made over every thirty-three and a third years . The steam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ideas . Within a lifetime there may be revolutionary changes in the position of the church , of woman , of labor , of morals . But the belief that the land is good and the city is evil , because the land is natural and the city is an excrescence , seems to be ineradicable . Specifically , we may deny that the contrast exists , and the next moment slip into the ancient tradition . Specifically , we know that good can come out of the city . In the past the city has been the cradle of political freedom . In the present it is described by earnest students as the hope of democracy . In face of city slums we may yet recall that life is as healthful nowadays in the city as in the country , and that poverty , though more conspicuous and sordid , is possibly not more oppressive . City schools are better than country schools . City food is often more wholesome than country food . Hours of labor in the great city are shorter than in the small town or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not worse than rural morals . Great enthusiasms and great charities flourish in the cities . So one will argue point by point ; and having so argued , will unquestioningly subscribe to the hereditary faith that man was made for the land and lives in cities for his sins . So with the " drift " to the cities . One can see why this should be seriously regarded as an economic problem . To the extent that it destroys the balance between food-producers and food-consumers , it is a very real difficulty . But it ceases to be real when we moralize the process , when we describe it as involving a change from a natural life to an artificial life , from essential duties to undeserving duties , from honest pleasures to factitious or reprehensible pleasures . There is no real censure in saying that it is the crowds , the moving-picture theatre , the shops and lights , the dance-hall , that lure the young men and women from the farm . A moving-picture theatre is inherently just as moral in the city as it would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electric light is quite as excusable as dancing on a barn floor under kerosene lamps . And there is nothing immoral in the attraction of the crowd . On the contrary , those who lay stress on the cheap amusements of . the town exaggerate the appeal which those pleasures hold out to the farmer 's children . It is not the specialized appeal of this or that particular pleasure which draws them , but the general appeal of that much-tra- ' duced entity , the crowd . Why not recognize in this longing for the city mass one of the most fundamental of human qualities  --  the longing for companionship , the primitive instinct to huddle together for warmth and protection and cooperation in face of the mysteries of life ? Mr. Chesterton has somewhere protested , possibly in speaking of Charles Dickens , against the uniformly drab pictures which we are apt to paint of life among the poor . It does not occur to us that drab uniformity , as the more fortunate see it , may embrace , to those who live in it , as wide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enjoys . In pictures of so-called " slum " life the tenement house and the corner saloon are part of the same depressing reality . It does not occur to us , as Chesterton points out , that a visit to the corner saloon may be just as exciting an event to the tenement-house dweller as a dinner at a gold and marble hotel may be to the average middle-class citizen . The city as a whole suffers from being reduced to something of the same monotone . We assume that city life , as opposed to an ideal picture of country life , is one thing , whereas it is a thousand things . We assume that city pleasures mean the " Gay White Way " and the " lobster palaces . " Yet we know well enough that city pleasures mean also the libraries , the concert halls , the museums , the decent the-atres , not to mention the quieter pleasures of social communion and quiet talk and the play of healthy children in a million households . Item by item we know these pleasures exist in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city become synonymous with Broadway on New Year 's Eve . Sometimes the city turns . Balzac in " Les Paysans " and Zola in " La Terre " and Hamlin Garland in his earlier vein , have shown how the muckraking method can be applied to life in the open country . And every little while comes a Government report on rural congestion , a study of village industries , a symposium on health conditions on the farm , which seem to shatter the ideal of Arcadia . But the ideal is indestructible . It is proof against statistics and against reason , even as the traditional conception of the city is proof against them . The land obtrudes itself as the only rightful place for man . The city stands out as a temporary abode . Primitive instinct will not down . ? " PORNOGRAPHY FOR HIRE . " The phrase is that of Eden Phillpotts . In a letter defending the rights of the sincere literary artist against the as-saults of a stupid censorship , he referred in a single scornful sentence to " those writers who deliberately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " About them , or those wii3O pub-lish them , Mr. Phillpotts affirmed , " there can exist no two opinions . " But if he had been in New York during the past year he would have discovered several opinions . He would have encountered many men and women , apparently of sound mind and decent life , who defend the commercial exploitation of the baser human instincts upon the stage . In what is , in its essence , a purely money-making venture , they have read , not high art  --  for there is no pretence of that  --  but great and vital lessons to the community . They have resented the in-terference of the police with theatrical shows plainly demoralizing , on the ground that in no other way than by plays could the " facts of life " be pre-sented so as to convey a moral teaching of mighty import to the race . They will - probably feel outraged by the action of the authorities last week in stopping another brothel drama . Of this we know nothing except by report , but it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose own work speaks for the serious conscientiousness and sad sincerity in which he labors , puts the matter as follows : A problem rises before us concerned with some human activity , or danger , or passion . We weigh it in the terms of art , whether it involve finance or politics , sex or religion ; and should the vision grow and take shape and promise a live achievement , we embrace it . From that moment the matter absorbs our best energies , and we devote ourselves heart and soul to the most perfect , beautiful and compelling presentation of our problem that lies within our power to accomplish . This is at least intelligible and respectable ; which is more than can be said of theories that improvise exalted art and deep morals out of the ephemeral coining of money out of filth . We do not say , however , that Mr. Phillpotts satisfactorily answers all the questions which grow out of the relations of the artist to the public . It is said that he " must live " ; but , the austere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n'en vois pas la n  --  cessite . " That is , if he really is devoted to his own vision of beauty he will make . the thought of tangible and pecuniary rewards an entirely secondary thing . If they come , well and good ; but it should be something like a profanation to him to suggest that even the best and noblest in him should be awayed by the thought , of " hire , " 