@@486945

Drama . Moiaire . By Brander Matthews . New York : Charles Scribner 's Sons . $3 net . Professor Matthews states his purposes in a.prefatory note : " In this biography I have striven specially for three things : first , to set forth the facts of Moliere 's life , stripped of all the legends that compass it about ; second , to trace his development as a dramatist , making it plain how cautiously he advanced in his art and how slowly he reached the full expansion of his power ; and , thirdly , to show his intimate relation to the time in which he lived . " The execution of the first purpose has been a little scant , or , rather , the purpose itself has been unduly narrowed ; the execution of the second , the author 's standpoint considered , has been adequate ; that of the third may be called without reserve satisfactory . The story of Moliere 's life is told with the author 's habitual clearness , with " resolute " caution , and with a condensation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the unsavory have equally contributed . His abstinence in this regard impresses us as honorable , but over-strained . In the dearth of facts , legend or even calumny may , in a vague way , define a man in terms of the reaction he produced upon his - contemporaries , and may fix the actuality of a being to whom they can add no trait . Again we may sympathize with the delicacy which ignores the worst scandals with respect to Armande Bejart 's parentage , and yet think that delicacy unduly magnifies its office when it attenuates into a " love affair " - the relation between Moliere and Madeleine Be'jart on which a nearly universal belief has set a more questionable but more significant construction . The re -- suiting picture is inferior in warmth - and freshness to that in Mr. Chatfield-Taylor 's readable and credible biography of Moliere ( 1906 ) , a work which combines wariness in its judgments with liberality in its reports . The Moliere of Mr. Matthews is a highly respectable person who pays the normal price of respectability in a little dulness Mr. Matthews can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deeper problems in Moliere 's life  --  the question , - for instance , of that rare tenacity of the laborious , orderly , and self-respecting  --  one might almost say , the dapper and clerkly ? Parisian bourgeois , on whose mind , to judge from his works , twelve years of the provinces stamped scarcely a place-name , twelve years of the highroad scarcely an image from nature , and twelve years of Bohemian vicissitude and temptation hardly a visible mark Again , the union of independence and ' compliance , of humor and melancholy , is clearly recognized ; but the articles of this union , the modus vzvendi of these opposites , are left unexplained . On " his own ground , however , Mr.- Matthews is usually trustworthy ; yet we note two or three minor errors . " Toulon " on page 32 seems clearly an error for " Toulouse " ; on page 45 the Italian nights at - the Petit-Bourbon are given as Sunday , Wednesday , and Friday , whereas Tuesday , not Wednesday , is meant , as another context shows ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the production of the " Impromptu de Versailles " in 1663 has been disproved by Paul Mesnard ( " Notice Biographique , " page 283 ) . The author 's hatred of legend has found means to adjust itself to some personal excursions into the field of conjecture , but he never forgets that the exercise is merely recreative . In matters of fact he has rarely or never been able to extend or to reverse the data collected by Paul Mesnard in his ample and impartial " Notice Biographique " ( C ? uvres de Mohere , Vol . X , Paris , 1889 ) . In what may be called the heraldry of literature , in noting the family and tracing the pedigree of plays and parts of plays , Mr. Matthews is assiduous and competent . In the earlier and thinner works , the labelling and invoicing which these questions of genus and genesis involve sometimes draw author and reader together in the sympathy of a common fortitude ; the criticism brightens in the treatment of the later masterpieces in which a larger enthusiasm has come to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ author " the chief figure in all French literature " ; the summary and condensation of the French mind ; the inventor of " high comedy , " a type to which all literature has furnished but a handful of examples and Moliere himself only two , one of them rather doubtful ; the associate , if not quite the equal , of Shakespeare ( the comparisons with Shakespeare are extended and valuable ) , and the father of a literary progeny which recalls the Biblical prophecies of the seed of Abraham . The admiration for Moliere is the most candid of all admirations , because it is the most fearless . Mr. Matthews points out errors freely , apparently quite unconscious that the excellence of the aggregate or the average can be affected by the infirmities of the particulars . Moliere is the master of dramaturgy , but , to confine ourselves to . the best and best-known plays , the " Misanthrope " is " a little too empty and too episodic , " the " Bourgeois Gentilhomme " is " a curious nondescript , " " Don Juan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " has " a fragmentary method , " the " Ecole des Femmes " has a " more or less mechanical " intrigue , even " Tartuffe , " the " superb , " the " masterly , " has a dubious ending . It is evident that the voice we hear in Mr. Matthews is the voice of the tradition , happy in the possession of a new mouthpiece . What was really needed was a frank and fearless revision of Moliere 's claims in the light of the clearer sense and the stronger feeling both for technique and for truth that have come to us in the last fifty years . A double proficiency , in these standards and in Moliere himself , might have seemed to point out the professor of dramatic literature in Columbia University as the ideal man for the execution of this task ; but a liegemanship , in itself rather beautiful , has disqualified him for adding this final service to the other claims of his book on the grateful attention of scholars . It lacks that preliminary skepticism which gives value to ultimate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not feel that the case has been retried . The third of the author 's designs , the delineation of the period in relation to Moliere , has been successfully carried out ; the pictures are clear , relevant , and duly subordinated . We are told that this work is the fulfilment of a hope of nearly forty years . The example of Hamlet might show that a long-cherished and long-delayed intention may owe its fulfilment to the spur of impulse ; and the English of - this book suggests a precipitation unknown to its author 's earlier work . Time and the lack of time are the disintegrators of style , but Mr. Matthews in this book has exceeded the bounds of reasonable indulgence . He has not only at times treated simple ideas with a repetition and elaboration which indicate that years have not confirmed his early faith in the intelligence of his countrymen , he not only gives us bulging and congested sentences ; but he warps and perverts the English idiom , uses those novelties of combination which cloak negligence under the guise of originality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the jingling cleverness of " ingenuous ingenuity " may be cited as example . Those who remember the excellence of Mr. Matthews 's style at its best will be the slowest to forgive its deterioration . An elaborate , conscientious , and , on the whole , intelligent revival of " Macbeth " is a welcome incident in these degenerate days , and it is pleasant to think that this enterprise of E H Sothern and Julia Marlowe , which has just been accomplished in the Broadway Theatre , is likely to meet with ample public support At all events , the capacious house has been packed to the doors at the initial performances The interpretation of the tragedy is not especially brilliant in any respect , but maintains a high level of excellence throughout , and exhibits healthy purpose and vigor . Both stars are entitled to hearty credit . Mr. Sothern is not a subtle or inspired actor , but he has ambition and perseverance , and is still making steady progress in the development of his natural resources , which , in the beginning , did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer deficient in physical power , and is acquiring new facilities of expression His monotony of utterance is still his chief artistic weakness , and is , perhaps , the greatest obstacle to his advance in ithe higher Poetic drama . His action is often much more eloquent than his speech Being a student , rather than an interpreter , his Macbeth runs along traditional lines , exhibiting little originality except in minor and unimportant details of stage business . In externals it is , as a rule , correct , but the spiritual side of it is vague , and it is not always consistent . Its alternations  --  manifestly for stage effect  --  between abject weakness and criminal audacity are too abrupt and violent . After the murder , for instance , he is unable to walk or stand without his wife 's assistance , but a moment later , when the alarm is given , he is in full possession of his faculties In the . cauldron scene , again , he rolls in hopeless collapse upon the ground . Macbeth was made of sterner stuff than that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the anguish of the soul . But he gives a thoroughly meritorious performance Miss Marlowe 's Lady Macbeth , if lacking in sustained tragic intensity and power , has some fine moments , and is an exceedingly clever attempt at a compromise between the old traditions and a more human conception of the character Remorseless in her first promptings of her husband to murder , and in her scornful rallying of him after the deed , she strongly and pathetically emphasizes the subsequent tortures of her own conscience and her yearning tenderness for her suffering partner . Her sympathy for him is denoted by secret caresses and - other tokens of wifely encouragement and - caution , and her own anguish  --  to culminate in the sleep-walking episode  --  is most - skilfully and effectively indicated . It would be easy to argue against the legitimacy of this ideal , but it is full of interesting suggestions When Mme Bernhardt , as the young Duke of Reichstadt in Rostand 's " L'Aiglon , " made her first appearance Monday night at the back of the stage , there was such vigorous applause as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flattery , and it would be untrue to say that in repose she looked the part of the boy prance , or that her voice , although still of the same bell-like tone in the calmer recitation , did not show signs of fatigue in the more impassioned parts But her impersonation , which has long been admired in this city , is still a wonderful performance , more wonderful now , perhaps , in some respects than it was in bygone years . Such differences as are to be noted between her present performance and that of ten years ago are those brought about by lapse of time So finished an actress does not make radical changes in a conception that has once been carefully worked out in its minutest details No more now than before can she disguise completely the truth of her sex , but her mimicry of masculine characters  --  the erect carriage , the free stride , and the decisive gesture  --  is as adroit as ever She succeeds also in conveying a sense of personal distinction which is exceedingly effective The Duke of Reichstadt , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but rarely suggests the woman in masquerade The depression of the captive and the fret of a gallant but downcast spirit are expressed in the manner of her first entry The New Theatre management doubtless exhibited enterprise in securing the first performance , upon any stage , of Maeterlinck 's " Mary Magdalene , " but would have been wiser , perhaps , in evading apparent responsibility , or semi-responsibility , for a representation which they could neither control nor direct . This work has been reviewed already in the Nation ( October 20 ) The opinion was then expressed that it is fitted rather for the closet than the stage , and this impression is confirmed by the actual performance . There are several dramatic situations in at , but , on the whole , it is deficient in connected action and is episodical rather than truly dramatic But in the present case at can scarcely be said to have had a fair trial The production , though elaborate , costly , and spectacular , was not enlightened . Perhaps the most nearly satisfactory acting was contributed by the supernumeraries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Sermon on the Mount , by the unseen Galilean , upon which Maeterlinck lays so much stress , was rendered almost wholly ineffective by the theatrical method of the reciter . Another striking scene , the summons of the Magdalene to the Master by the newly risen Lazarus , was made almost grotesque by the unintelligent effort to impart a sepulchral ghastliness to the messenger . But the play suffered most from the weakness of the principal performers . Miss Nethersole 's impersonation of the Magdalene was especially disappointing , for the artificiality of the opening scenes  --  which might possibly be regarded as in some sense appropriate to the character  --  was maintained in the great final act , and was unrelieved by any of those fine outbursts of passion of which the actress is known to be capable Her moderation would have been more of a virtue of her posing had been less suggestive of affectation . Silanus , that clever study of an old Pagan philosopher , was totally spoiled by the self -- conscious airs of Arthur Forrest Edward Mackay 's manly performance of Verus was marred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ touches to Appius ' story of the raising of Lazarus . But the general performance , even when capable , was altogether uninspired Competent producers are  --  almost as rare as great dramatists , and the latter , unfortunately , are almost wholly at the mercy of the stage manager The name of Charlotte Porter alone appears on the three latest volumes of the First Folio Shakespeare ( Crowell ) , viz , " The Life and Death of Richard the Second , " " The Tragedy of Richard the Third , " and " The Life and Death of King John " , but the style of editing remains quite the same as in the earlier issues The many excellences of this edition we have pointed out more than once As the set nears completion , the unusual value of the publication becomes even more apparent . " We Ca n't Be as Bad as all That ! " is the title of Henry Arthur Jones 's new comedy . It is a play of social life in the English upper classes , and is to be put in rehearsal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the personal supervision of Mr Jones " Henry VIII " is expected to run through the winter at His Majesty 's Theatre in London It will be followed by " Macbeth , " which Sir Herbert Tree has been promising foit some years . Undoubtedly , he will make the fullest use of the pictorial opportunities which it will offer to him He himself will play the guilty Thane , and the part is likely to suit him a great deal better than Hamlet and some others Arthur Bourchier will be his Macduff , and Irene Vanbrugh his Lady Macbeth , a character which she has played already to her husband 's Macbeth It is said that Gordon Craig will design a good deal of the scenery . Seymour Hicks is preparing a version of Schiller 's " Joan of Arc " for the use of Ellaline Terriss , who will appear as the maid , soon after Christmas . The production is to be on a lavish spectacular scale . H. B. Irving has just selected the evening of Wednesday , December 14 , for his reappearance at the London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will then present , under the title of " The Princess Clementina , " the new four-act play which A. E. W. Mason and George Pleydell have adapted from the former 's novel , " Clementine . " For the part of the heroine Mr. Irving has specially engaged Stella Patrick Campbell .                     