@@430802

 |p697  WHILE our newspaper strategists are occupied in deciding whether the war will be won in Flanders , in the East , on the Italian line , in the Balkans , or on the sea , it is becoming increasingly apparent that the war may be won or lost at home , here in the United States . Assuming that the war is to be fought to a military conclusion , the nature of its termination will depend in a large measure on whether the American democracy is able to organize its internal resources to a maximum of effectiveness . Only through such organization can the United States eventually become a great force on the fighting-lines . If we fail in organization , it is probable that the Allies can not endure , to so great an extent are they dependent on us . Beside the colossal task of industrial mobilization that faced the United States with its entrance into the war , the problem of raising an army of a million or even several million men is comparatively simple . Already we have been able to mobilize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our national life ; but in order to effect the industrial mobilization necessitated by our entrance into the war we have been compelled to revolutionize our whole industrial scheme . This revolutionizing process is still in progress ; probably it has only begun . The war brought a strain on the industrial fabric of every country that even the most far-sighted statesmen and economists had not foreseen . Everywhere the laissez-faire system broke down completely . Competitive individualism in the processes of production and distribution , which apparently served well enough in time of peace , failed woefully under war conditions . In country after country the governments were compelled to step in and scrap the old systems of free competition , to coordinate the whole machinery of production and distribution under government control . HOW GREAT BRITAIN ORGANIZED ITSELF A striking instance is Great Britain , whose reputation for conservatism toward any change of method has been completely blasted by the war . As soon as Great Britain entered the war the Government took over all the railroads and operated them as a unit to serve the needs of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to stockholders , and skilled railroad men were left in charge , but cooperation replaced competition . At the outset Great Britain found herself deprived of nearly three fourths of her normal supply of sugar , which she was accustomed to import from Germany and Austria . The Government immediately became a purchasing agent to supply the British people with this necessity . It has served in this capacity ever since and has seen to the distribution at a fixed price . It also went into foreign markets for the  |p698  purchase of grain and other food-stuffs . It commandeered ships to carry the grain . It allowed the millers a fixed price and sold the flour at a loss in order to guaranty to the people a pound of bread at less than five cents . The Government enforced a standardization of the loaves in regard to weight , and as time went on it dictated the ingredients of the loaves , insisting on twenty per cent . adulteration . In greater or less degree a similar control has been exercised over other foodstuffs and commodities . In agriculture the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what shall be turned over to the plow . It has stimulated production by guaranteeing prices for certain needed farm commodities , such as potatoes . The Government has assumed broad powers over the labor market . In all industries essential to the war , in which are included all industries essential to the national existence , the Government in effect fixes the compensation of labor . Compulsory arbitration for labor disputes is enforced , and strikes and lockouts are barred under heavy penalties . Through a system of labor exchanges workers are furnished for the essential industries . Through a system of licenses , government control of raw materials , and other methods , industries classed as non-essential have gradually been cut down . No nonessential industry which uses materials essential for war purposes or employs labor available for the manufacture of munitions exists in England to-day . No Englishman could now start in his country a factory to make , let us say , such things as chewing-gum or jewelry or silk shirts . He could not secure the labor or the machinery or the raw material or facilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States entered the war it faced a much larger task of industrial mobilization than any of the other Allies . In addition to our own problem of supporting our own population , raising and training a great army , transporting it to Europe , and maintaining it four thousand miles from our shores , we were confronted with the added burden of the dependence on us of the Allies themselves , struggling against the German war machine with a constantly reduced man power to supply their needs . Among them whole populations and whole armies were relying on us in greater or less degree for war munitions and equipment , shoes and clothing , food-stuffs , ships , railroad materials , metals , machinery for the farm and factory , and automobiles . To meet this tremendous strain on our industrial vitality we had a go-as-youplease system of production and distribution ; a decadent railroad system , suffering from competition and the malpractices incident to competition , laboring under the diverse regulatory laws of the National Government and forty-eight States . with one sixth of our railroad mileage represented by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bankruptcy . We were probably in a state of greater industrial unpreparedness than any other great nation entering the war with the exception of Russia . Our political leaders have always exhibited considerable timidity in facing economic problems . So , for that matter , have our leaders in economic affairs . Perhaps the economic leaders have been not unnaturally distrustful of the politicians , and our politicians have been either too trustful or too distrustful of the economic leaders . Moreover , we have made a practice of electing men to Congress not so much for their ability as for their plausibility . For fifty years our congressmen have attempted to solve most of our internal problems by tinkering with the tariff , and during the last fifteen years this activity has been supplemented in Washington by that favorite latter-day pastime of American statesmen , busting the trusts . THE ANTI-TRUST HANDICAP Nearly thirty years ago , when improvements in transportation and communi/ cation were beginning to make industrial concentration on a national scale inevitable , the Sherman Anti-Trust Law was passed with the intent to make such concentration illegal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in , flagrant injustices had been perpetrated , and the Sherman Law was designed to put an end to them ; but incidentally it served to establish the dictum that a business must he had because it was big . This dictum has been the key-note of our governmental policy in dealing with business ever since . Of course the Sherman Law was no more effective in keeping back the rising tide of big business than King Canute 's broom in keeping hack the sea . The perfection of the telephone drew the nation and the nation 's business together . By 1905 the main office of the Cudahy Packing Company in Denver was talking with the branch manager in Boston every day . Within the next decade the telephone conquered the Rockies , and San Francisco could converse with New York . The result was that , though the Sherman Law hindered business development , it could not stop the increasing concentration , even when , during die Roosevelt and Taft administrations , the trust-busting fury was at its height . Where one business was sliced to pieces under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law was evaded by devious shifts . There were anti-trust cases that the Government spent scores of thousands of dollars pressing to a decision , the only result of which was the establishment of a more cumbersome method of bookkeeping in the desicated - industries , or at best a loss of business efficiency . But there was no let-up . " Competition was the life of trade , " and there was an end to the argument . With our entrance into the war that theory vanished , for a time at least . With war a very stern condition instead of a theory confronted us . The tremendous demand on all our resources of production called for a tremendous acceleration that our haphazard system of free competition could not provide . Even our acknowledged genius for individual business organization could not save us there . We had to supplant individual effort with cooperation , to reorganize on a national scale all industries dealing with war necessities and the necessities of life . We had to burst asunder many of our ill-fitting political garments , the accumulation of thirty years of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When we entered the war we had a Council of National Defense , consisting of six members of the cabinet and seven business men as advisory members . The council , which had power to investigate transportation and war industries and make recommendations for putting these activities on a war basis , had been authorized by law in August , 1916 , and was organized in the autumn . It had been at work about a month when war was declared , and immediately its scope was greatly enlarged . Subcommittees of prominent business men in all lines were called to Washington to assist in its work . The army and navy departments were confronted by a colossal purchasing problem for which their limited organizations were wholly inadequate . They had to secure with the utmost speed materials , equipment , supplies of every conceivable kind , and to spend several billion dollars . The council undertook the task of finding where they could supply their needs , of coordinating and systematizing their purchases , of assuring the buying at the source of production rather than pursuing the governmental method of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was discovered by the General Munitions Board of the council that the army and navy had been accustomed to bid against each other , and even different bureaus in the same department not infrequently bid against one another . This price-raising practice was eliminated , and other reforms were effected .  |p700  In purchasing war materials and supplies the Government had sumptuary powers which enabled it virtually to fix its own prices . If the producer did not agree to a reasonable price , the Government could commandeer the business and run it , with a reasonable compensation to the owner , for the period of the war . Through the Federal Trade Commission it has been able to investigate thoroughly any business whose prices have been subject to question . It has been able to maintain labor standards in manufacturing businesses in which it has been the principal purchaser . It has enforced union rates of wages . It has prevented discrimination against labor organizations . In some commodities , such as copper , steel , and steel products , it has not only fixed a government price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally . " Let us alone , " was a popular slogan of business organizations throughout the country a few years ago . The war put a quietus on this cry . The Government is exercising control over business through scores of agencies to-day . As the war continues , this control will be greatly broadened and strengthened . After the war it is probable that business will never he " let alone " again . UNCLE SAM , SHIP-OWNER . Another agency that the Government found itself in possession of was the United States Shipping Board , empowered to purchase and build . To-day the Shipping Board is the sole customer of every shipyard producing mercantile tonnage in the United States . The Government controls all our shipbuilding activity . In addition it has under requisition all American vessels of over 2500 tons dead weight . The U-boat has made ships the great problem of the war . " We need ships , more ships , and again more ships , " cried Lloyd-George last spring , and the need is even more imperative to-day . We know now that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the war up to last December has been one sixth of the total . Other European nations , neutral as well as belligerent , have sustained a similar loss . Ships mean life to the Allies . In wheat alone , on the basis of the 1917 crop , they have been faced by the necessity of importing 600,000,000 bushels . The United States and Canada had an exportable balance , based on normal consumption , of only about a third of this figure . In addition Australia has had available for export 135,000,000 bushels , India 100 , - 000,000 bushels , and Argentine could have spared a considerable portion of the new crop of 200,000,000 bushels . But so far as starving Europe has been concerned , this potential supply of bread in Australia , India , and the Argentine might as well have been on the moon . The depleted shipping facilities of the world can not spare the bottoms to go so far afield for grain . So Uncle Sam has entered the shipowning field on a grand scale . At the beginning of the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and commandeered the 3,000,000 tons of shipping under construction in our yards for foreign account . In addition he has contracted for the building of about 5,000 , - 000 tons and laid extensive plans , extending over several years . At the conclusion of the war the United States will be the largest individual ship-owner in the world . The American merchant marine will be in a position to press Great Britain hard for the supremacy of the seas . During the crisis the Government has taken a firm grip on American shipping . Government initiative and power , and particularly government credit , were found necessary to meet a great need . It is improbable that the Government will ever permit this business of water transportation , so vital to the industrial growth of the nation , to get wholly without the sphere of its regulation after the war . MERGING RAILROAD EFFORT Our railroads were about as unprepared for the war emergency as our merchant marine . Their earnings in 1916 were  |p701  greater than in any previous year of their history , but when war came to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drought . " Railroads are not a good buy , " had become a truism in banking and brokerage houses where the world comes for advice on investments . The sins of the fathers bore heavily on many of the railroads . The rebate period had left deep scars , and the period of trust-busting and multiform regulation had wellnigh finished our railroad system as a national going concern . A Railroad War Board , consisting of five skilled executives , voluntarily assembled at Washington to run the railroads of the country for war purposes during the conflict . There is something pathetic in the struggles of the War Board to make headway against fearful odds . Ahead of them the members saw Government dictatorship looming , and they hated it . They hated it in the very marrow of their bones . They toiled valiantly and in vain to serve the country and ward off the terrible bogy-man . A fearful handicap was the lack of equipment , due to the long period of financial starvation . The newspapers have printed reams about car shortage , but the matter was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and lack of terminal facilities , particularly in the East . The hoary Interstate Commerce Law of 1897 added to the difficulty . It forbade the roads to pool traffic or earnings . In those desperate days of the past competing railroads entered into pool agreements to prevent rate-cutting wars . To-day the Interstate Commerce Commission fixes rates , and therefore rate-cutting wars are impossible ; but the old law against pooling still holds . To some extent the War Board effected pooling of equipment , but over a period of thirty years the Government had encouraged individualism and competition . Team work did not come easy . Little roads were jealous and fearful of big roads . Big roads were jealous of one another . Individual railroad men acted with the finest sort of patriotic energy , but , after all , it is the primary business of the individual railroads to earn the highest possible dividends . The state railroad commissions ? nearly forty-eight of them ? also complicated matters . Some of them let the railroads alone during the emergency and let sleeping laws of an obstructive nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new order threatened their state prerogatives , and they resented this . So freight of all kinds increasingly clogged the great Pittsburgh gate and piled up along the network of lines running westward from New York . With the beginning of winter the sugar famine in the East and the coal famine throughout the Northern States brought matters to a crisis . President Wilson decided it was time to follow the British example for the duration of the war , seize the roads , ? the whole 265,000 miles of them , ? and have them operated as a unit , under a national dictator , for the needs of the nation and the war . A government railroad dictatorship during the war probably will not harm the railroads as properties . It ought to have the effect of stabilizing railroad securities . It ought to go far toward proving to responsible government agencies the fallacy of permitting forty-eight varieties of state regulation and the fallacy of the small railroad unit . It ought to bring about salutary changes in our anachronistic railroad laws . Unquestionably it will show that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Either the Government will have to let the railroads nationalize transportation after the war or the Government will have to undertake that task itself . Whatever happens , the grand old game of merging two one-million-dollar roads and calling them a ten-million-dollar road , and shouting for higher freight rates to pay dividends on the ten millions , must be ended . Hereafter , whatever happens , all the railroad cards must be on the table . Two other agencies through which the Government has sought to mobilize industry have been the Fuel Administration and the Food Administration .  |p702  ' The Fuel Administration has absolute control of the coal business of the country through all the ramifications of production and distribution . It can fix prices from the mine to the consumer . In cases where its regulations are not obeyed , it may commandeer a business in any branch of the coal industry and run it for the duration of the war . HOOVER 'S TREMENDOUS TASK In the original law the Food Administration enjoyed no such sumptuary powers . It was limited to regulating profits , mainly through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or distribution ; but it had virtually no control whatever over the retailer doing a business of less than $100,000 a year . It is inevitable that the powers of the Food Administration will be greatly extended . They may have been extended by the time this article is printed . When Mr. Herbert Hoover was appointed Food Administrator on August 10 last he faced a tremendous task . In the matter of production and distribution of essential food-stuffs our laissez-faire system had culminated in a condition essentially vicious . In the matter of wheat , for instance , the hard-working farmer received only twenty cents of the consumer 's dollar . The rest was swallowed up in transit . Food-gamblers and manipulators were allowed to prey upon the people 's bread . In some instances as many as seven middlemen all took their bit from the farmer 's product . Throughout the food industries generally the law of supply and demand , which was possibly invented by a food-profiteer at the time of Noah , held full sway , and the food speculators and profiteers were its high priests . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ storage facilities and knowledge of human needs , they made the sacred old law serve their purposes . The Food Administration has been able to eliminate gambling in several essential food-stuffs . In the matter of wheat it has , according to its own statements , doubled the farmer 's share of the consumer 's dollar . It has cut down foodhoarding ; but so far as the housewife is concerned , save in the matter of bread , it has not halted the soaring prices . Bread is a little cheaper than it was when flour sold in the neighborhood of $17 a barrel instead of the present price of about $f o . Apparently there is no limit to the price of most other commodities . The Food Administration , by agreement and through the . club of its licensing system , regulates to a large extent the price of wheat and flour from the farmer down to the baker . It has brought into use a standard war loaf , but it has not been able to enforce a standard price . In the case of sugar it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and has fixed the price of sugar by agreement through every stage down to the wholesale price , but not to the retail price . Through sectional committees it has been arranging milk prices in various cities . It has more or less pegged prices , and stimulated production , in insecticides and certain cattle feeds . But in the great mass of food-stuffs and in most of the things the farmer needs the Food Administration has thus . far had no appreciable effect in lowering prices . In fact , it has only scratched the surface of a tremendous problem ? a problem involving cooperation in the production of farm machinery and supplies , in transportation , in all the agencies of distribution . It is a problem involving labor . It will not get us very far to fix arbitrarily the prices of a few farm products unless we fix the prices of all , unless we extend some sort of regulation to the things the farmer must buy , unless we assure the farmer of a supply of labor . To-day the farmer is unable to compete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things he buys are for the most part left wholly to the law of supply and demand . PRICES VERSUS PROFITS One great handicap to the success of the Food Administration is that it visualizes its task in one way , and the public visual/ izes it in another . The public sees the problem as one of reducing the burdensome prices . The Food Administration sees it primarily as one of stimulating production not only to feed our armies and our own people , but to assure an adequate supply for the peoples of those nations cooperating with us in the War and to let the neutral nations have enough to keep off starvation . High prices stimulate production ; low prices discourage it . According to all our standard economic precepts , unless all the agencies of production and distribution are assured a broad margin of profit , production will fall off . In Great Britain and in Canada the food administrations have explained this frankly and announced that they were not primarily concerned with lowering prices . Our own Food Administration has not successfully made the American people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scented a conspicuous lack of frankness about essential things . When the price of a commodity is fixed , particularly when it is fixed on a basis fifty per cent . higher than obtained the previous year , the average citizen feels that he is entitled to information on the factors that made for that particular price . On the whole it is unfortunate for the morale of the country that the Food Administration has made a practice of calling to its aid only the producer and distributor in connection with price-fixing . Representatives of the consumer could at least present in the price-fixing conferences those human considerations which , in the case of vital necessities like milk and bread , are almost as important as the dividends which we must maintain at all costs . It may be remarked that Food Administrators may come and go , but prices will get steadily higher and shortages increase as both labor and capital are absorbed more and more in war purposes . Every country in the war has found itself id a vicious circle in this respect . As labor grows scarcer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commands greater returns . Then prices go up all round , and labor again demands more , The Food Administration may blunder , but its powers will be increased as the war continues and it will exercise an increasing control over our kitchens and tables . At the start it had to rely largely on voluntary efforts at conservation . Already it is apparent that this plan is futile . We face a compulsory rationing system in the near future . Bread-cards will almost inevitably come in the spring , with adulterated bread . England is already extracting eighty-one per cent . of her wheat for bread instead of the normal seventy-one per cent . France has increased her extraction to eighty-five per cent. , and Italy to ninety-one per cent . In other words , the people of these countries are eating a large percentage of chaff , and bread forms a much larger proportion of their diet than of ours . In France the percentage of bread is fifty per cent . ; here three and onehalf per cent . We must share our bread with the peoples who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food . That is the problem of the Food Administration . Through such agencies as the Food Administration , the Fuel Administration , the Railroad Administration , the Shipping Board , and the Council of National Defense , as well as by direct action on the part of the President , our whole industrial machine has been materially changed . The laws of supply and demand have been suspended in essential industries , and competition has been abolished . Elaboratelybuilt-up rules of procedure have been thrown overboard . For American industry the war has been an adventure in reality , the sternest sort of reality . It has taught us much , and we have much more to learn . BIG BUSINESS FLOCKS TO WASHINGTON Our foremost business executives have flocked to Washington in great numbers to help in the emergency . Their continued presence has without doubt assisted the politicians to a better appreciation of business problems generally ; and the business men have gained a corresponding insight into the affairs of government . The  |p704  fraternization ought to benefit both sides and the country generally . Most of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of patriotism . They have given unstintingly of their time and energy . But it would be more difficult to analyze the percentage of patriotism in big business itself . The great corporations are impersonal things . They are concerned with dividends . Generally speaking , they have reaped a golden harvest from the war needs of the nation . There are many cases presenting the curious anomaly of certain executives of a corporation who have spent themselves most whole-heartedly for patriotism while the corporation has gene in whole-heartedly for profits . That , however , is a moral matter with which here we have no concern . The point is that the flocking of the business men to Washington in this emergency has given both them and the politicians a broader economic and political vision . They have been compelled to think of business problems in terms of national needs . They have been drawn out of their individualism . THE CHANGED WORLD OF INDUSTRY Thus it comes about that on every side in Washington to-day , from public officials , from business men of high and low degree , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " coupled with the phrase , not infrequently expressed with an inflexion of regret , " business will never be the same again . " There is no longer any talk of restoring " free competition , " of breaking up big , cohesive business units into a lot of little squabbling units . The hoary-headed panacea of tariff-tinkering has vanished . Altogether the fogs that have shrouded industrial problems in Washington these many years seem to he lifting , blown off by the winds of war . From our experience several conclusions seem to emerge clearly as a guide for the future . If it is bad policy to have the price of essential food-stuffs and other commodities at the mercy of gamblers and manipulators in war-time , it is also bad policy in time of peace . If cooperation under government regulation makes for greater efficiency than individual effort in war-time , it will make for better efficiency after the war . If the government policy of disintegration toward the railroads and business generally is proved impossible in war-time , its merit must be doubtful in time of peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they will not suddenly become a blessing when war is over . For the future all these things must be considered . But there is another important factor . In solving our problems our statesmen must be careful to avoid building up a political bureaucracy that will strangle business effort in red-tape . That is a danger which all our leaders of industry fear , and their fears must be heeded . All the great nations of Europe are planning to throw around their citizens in business after the war the protecting mantle of government support . Industries will be co ? rdinated on a national basis to an extent hitherto undreamed of . In fact , productive organization will without doubt transcend national boundaries . The future league of nations will be compelled to consider the problem of industries organized on an international scale , and in the statesmanship directed to that problem may lie the possibility of creating the power to weld all nations together for lasting peace . In so far as the United States can organize its production on effective , rational lines , it will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    