@@487170

The call for an organization actively to , combat the present craze for armaments , and . to work along the lines of the President 's message to preserve the moral prestige of the United States that it may lead the world in the direction of peace and disarmament , is headed by such New Yorkers as Bishop Greer , Nicholas Murray Butler , George Foster Peabody , Adolph Lewisohn , and Clarence H. Kelsey . The time has plainly come for those who are opposed to slavish American imitation of European armies  --  the tools , as Dr. Liebknecht , the German Social-Democratic leader , has just pointed out , of " war parties in the obscurity of absolutism and secret diplomacy " ? to speak out . Women , too , are represented on the committee , which will , we trust , soon find an opportunity to protest to Congress against further militaristic expenditures . A great difficulty has been that the armor-makers , or their representatives , and the generals and admirals have been the ones to appear before the committees of Congress , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideals . Hence it has come about that of every dollar appropriated by Congress , 70 cents have gone to wars , past or future , and only 30 cents to the cost of running the country and to every constructive enterprise such as irrigation  --  a state of affairs that future generations will regard as complete proof of our lack of intelligence and enlightenment . But the new organization would be fully justified if it existed only to combat the pernicious activities of the Navy League and those new societies which appear to be so deeply interested in obtaining facts already known to everybody . Rumors are renewed that Prince Billow , the new German Ambassador to Italy , will make glittering offers to the Italian Government in order to keep it friendly to Germany . What is really meant , of course , is that a great exertion will be made to prevent Italy from joining the Allies . To attain this it is plain that Germany would be prepared to go a long way . But to suppose that she would coolly propose , as the dispatches intimate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the price of friendship , is to stretch credulity . Such a step might placate Italy , but it would surely infuriate Austria . If any land-bribe at all is laid before Italy it will much more probably relate to French frigidly received in Italy just now . As one Italian newspaper has remarked , the " nephews of Machiavelli " are not to be easily taken in by blandishments of which the occasion and the motive are so obvious . It is very likely , too , that the Italians will remind Prince Bulow of the rather depreciatory things which he wrote only last year about Italy 's part in the Triple Alliance . He then frankly expected little of it , quoting a remark of Bismarck 's to himself that it would be enough , in case of war , if Italy sent one corporal and one drummer to the French frontier . But even such a perfunctory adherence to the Triple Alliance has failed Germany this year . It is but one of the many broken diplomatic reeds on which she thought she could safely lean . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the 17th of November , reported another great exodus from the region near the Russian boundary , more than 40,000 German refugees having passed through that town in the week previous to the date on which he wrote . He draws a terrible picture of the suffering and woe of the fugitives , of whom 25,000 were placed on trains and sent further into Prussia . Thousands upon thousands of them had abandoned everything except the clothes on their backs , and were seeking refuge elsewhere for the second time Those that had - horses saw them taken from them by the military authorities , and their abandoned wagons were left standing by the roadside . Small cities like Stalluponen , Goldap , and Gumbinnen have been emptied of their inhabitants , not five hundred remaining in the last-named , formerly a large and prosperous town . Having had one experience , they say , of the Russian invaders and their methods , the inhabitants of Gumbinnen preferred to abandon their all rather than risk another occupation . Should the Russians get further into Prussia or into Silesia , the problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Government , which already has to feed and care for fully three hundred thousand Russian prisoners . East Prussia , at least , is a marked exception to the German contention that so far the war has been carried on elsewhere than on German soil . In that province , there ought to be genuine sympathy with the Belgians . The action of the Governing Board of the Pan-American Union , in forming a special commission to consider the new problems of serious and united endeavor , on the part of the nations of the Western Hemisphere , both to improve the body of rules affecting international conduct in time of war and to strengthen their authority , the move may be expected to be fruitful of important results . And the mere fact of this union of purpose , especially in view of the complete harmony of spirit manifested , is of the most hopeful augury . We are getting farther and farther away from the idea of the United States as the " big policeman- of the Continent , and nearer and nearer to that of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and big , powerful and weak . Under the influence of such joint undertakings as this , and of such happenings as that of the A B C mediation of last spring , the jealousy which , C through so many decades , has from time to time manifested itself in the Southern republics must grow steadily less , and may be expected to disappear entirely in a not distant future That the United States is preponderant in population , wealth , and power need be no cause of suspicion or dislike ; and it will not be , if our tact and good manners in dealing with our neighbors are as unexceptionable as the actual disposition of the nation towards them has been friendly and upright . The advance made towards a perfect understanding , within the past two years , is beyond anything that a short time ago seemed possible . This is the short session of Congress , and everybody in Washington vows that there must be no extra session . Yet an amount of legislation is already being pressed forward that it would take months to consider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but they distinctly would not have it a merry one . If only the important bills now urged were to be enacted into law , Representatives and Senators would have to work like galley-slaves from now till the fourth of March . They would have to give up the holiday recess and have one crowded session of glorious law-making . The congestion , and the pushing and hauling- and log-rolling to get the right of way for favored measures , would be terrible . Congress , for the next eleven weeks  --  really only nine working weeks  --  will be like the neck of a bottle through which there will be great difficulty in pouring the necessary appropriation bills But if we are to credit some people , a large mass of other legislation is to be made to gurgle through . But let nobody believe it . The thing is physically impossible . President Wilson proposed only a modest programme  --  as he evidently thought it . In his message to Congress he spoke only of the desirability of passing a couple of pending conservation bills , which are really @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a pledge of independence , and could be passed in a day , if the Senate were so minded ; and the shipping bill . There 's the rub . This whole question of the Government buying and operating ships is too vexed and complicated , the facts are too uncertain , the consequences too perilous , for it to be properly disposed of in the nooks and crannies of time Left from other matters in the hurried two months and a half before this Congress expires . If there were no other argument adverse to the measure , this one ought to be conclusive against proceeding with it seriously at the present time . But in addition to this dubious piece of legislation , what do we see ? The Immigration bill is made the unfinished business of the Senate . All kinds of military projects are to be pressed upon Congress . It is also actually proposed to amend the neutrality laws of the United States , to make this country stand apart from the established rules of international law in the matter of the duties and the rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4 ! Again we say , the thing is impossible . Complaints are heard that there iS not good " team-play " by the Administration at Washington . It is said that the various reports of the members of - the Cabinet do not coincide , as closely as they should , with the President 's views . Special emphasis is laid upon the report of the Secretary of War , which , in tone at least , if not very seriously in effect , differs from Mr. Wilson 's message to Congress . Such lack of coordination is held up by Republican newspapers as a characteristic weakness of the Democrats , who are unfit to rule , and so on . Let 's see , however . Was it a Democratic Postmaster-General who , a little while ago , off his own bat , recommended the purchase of the telegraph lines , and was it a Democratic President who squelched the proposal of his subordinate ? Ask Hitchcock and Taft . The fact is that there has always been a certain leeway given to the Secretaries . Their own good sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without submitting it to the President ; but he certainly ca n't be expected to go over all of their annual reports with a blue pencil in hand . Perhaps he does n't even read them . There are others who do not . The most important administrative recommendation made by Postmaster-General Burleson in his annual report is that the rural free delivery service be put upon a contract basis which should replace the system of payment by annual salaries to the carriers . Mr. Burleson directs the attention of Congress to " the fact that this service is entailing upon the public Treasury an annual expense of $40,000,000 in excess of the revenues produced by the service " ; and he states that the change would " make possible a saving of from $15,000,000 to $20,000,000 annually . " So far as appears in the report , this estimate- is based on a comparison of the average cost per mile of the rural delivery service on the one hand and of the " star-route " service on the other ; a comparison which does not , on its face , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exist between the conditions in the one set of routes and the other . Furthermore , it is generally understood that many of the " star-route " contracts are now being run at a loss , owing to the growth of the parcel-post traffic . The Postmaster-General strongly urges that " the necessary legislation for placing the rural free delivery on a contract basis be enacted " ; but , while it may be quite true that his estimate of the saving that could be effected is correct , it hardly looks as though his data were adequate to establish this fact . Might it not be a good plan to try the experiment of the contract system in a limited but representative area , before going further in the matter ? This would be in line with our usual practice in regard to similar postal prbblems . Are members of Congress as much in need of expert guidance in legislation as members of State Legislatures ? The announcement that we are to have a Federal service analogous to that of a Legislative Reference Bureau comes from the Library of Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State libraries in undertaking such work without special provision . It is true that in 1906 Congress authorized an appropriation to enable the librarian " to prepare such indexes , digests , and compilations of laws as may be required for Congress . " But the Library hopes soon to go beyond the original intent of this authorization . It is to employ a corps of experts in law , competent to analyze , summarize , and compare- , an auxiliary corps of translators and indexers ; and assistants familiar with the bibliographic apparatus of the law . In advance of any requisition by Congress , these men will systematically study portions of the law , and other material , likely to bear upon proposed legislation ; present digests , translations , and comprehensive statements , heretofore seldom or never attempted ; while there is a hint in the Library 's report that they may ultimately provide for bill-drafting . If the experience of the States is any guide , the personal service of specially trained men will be found valuable . But it is to be remembered that in Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on any subject . The death of William W. Rockhill would be regrettable at any time , but it is peculiarly so because he died outside of our own diplomatic service . His was an exceptionally useful and varied career . Few Americans have ever obtained so wide a knowledge of the Far East as came to him during eight years of diplomatic service in China , in addition to three years in China and Tibet on scientific expeditions in the interest of the Smithsonian Institution . When it is added that he served four years in the State Department , was for two years Minister to Greece , Servia , and Rumania , and was Ambassador to Russia and Turkey from 1909 to 1913 , his remarkable diplomatic experience is evident . For special missions such as the representation of the United States in the settlement of the Boxer troubles , he was frequently called upon . Yet when the Wilson Administration came in , this rarely equipped diplomat was permitted to resign . China , however , valued him more highly than his own Government , and he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President when his career was so suddenly and lamentably ended . There has been an alarming recrudescence of lynching in the South , whether as a reflex of the wholesale killing in Europe or for some other reason . In Caddo Parish , Louisiana , no less than eight mob-murders of negroes have taken place within ten days , because of the murders of two white men and an attack upon a white woman . Two hundred whites placed themselves on the level of the lowest negro criminal by Publicly burning an aged colored man who protested his innocence to the end . Not the slightest proof of guilt was forthcoming . One negro woman was severely beaten by the mob . Of the others , several were taken from jails and hanged ; but neither the Governor nor the local authorities , it appears , made the slightest effort to stop the lynching or to punish the guilty . In Fairfield County , South Carolina , they have done better . There , a negro woman was found dead , a victim of the vilest of crimes , and three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom has confessed . As the Columbia , S. C. , State says , this case " promises to test sharply the sincerity of Southern pretensions about the protection of women . " It points out that a negro was lynched in the near-by Florence County merely because he was found under a white man 's house , and asks : " Conffonted with the Fairfield story , what reply shall a Southerner make to Northern critics when they say that talk about ' the one crime ' is the shallow and hypocritical pretext for lawless and savage manifestations of race pre-judice " " A word of commendation is called for by the action of the executive board of the United Mine Workers of America in terminating the Colorado strike . Their statement of the reasons for doing so is dignified and sober in tone , and contains  --  at least so far as the press dispatch shows  --  no matter calculated to renew bitterness or hostility . That in the struggle itself there was fault on both sides , is universally recognized ; but the thing to do now is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is facilitated by the President 's appointment of a Commission to look into any disputes that may arise , and to this fact the Mine Workers ' board makes special reference in announcing its decision . With the withdrawal of the Federal troops , and the apparent realization at last by the Colorado authorities of their responsibility for the preservation of order and the enforcement of the laws , there is reason to hope that this most unfortunate episode in our industrial history has really come to an end . Boston newspapers are indignant over the pardon by Gov . Walsh of John A. Hall , ex-treasurer of the Southbridge Savings Bank . After stealing hundreds of thousands of dollars deposited in the bank of which he was one of the guardians , he has served less than five years of the term of twelve to fifteen years to which he was sentenced . The familiar plea of shattered health was made in his behalf ; " if he were confined in State prison for two years more it would kill him . " The time for Hall to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was out of prison . The Boston Transcript says that Gov . Walsh gave " repeated assurances at the beginning of his Administration that he would not tolerate a return by the Council to the flagrant abuses of the pardoning power which had disgraced previous administrations . " What makes the action of the Governor and Council the more reprehensible is that the Parole Board had unanimously recommended that the pardon be not granted . There is a good deal of point in the Boston Herald 's comparison with the notorious Blease : " When Cole Blease , Governor of South Carolina , ' turns ' em loose , ' he does so without distinction of condition or social backing . " " What excuse , " asks the Transcript , " has the Governor for his action in the Hall case , and what defence dare the Council offer for thus mocking justice in Massachusetts and making of it a commonwealth where the rich thief may rob the poor without fear of paying the penCourt for committing acts in restraint of their trade . Twenty years ago , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours of labor in certain occupations The Court held the act unconstitutional , backing its decision with an opinion that apparently doomed all similar measures Since then the Legislature has placed upon the statute books a juvenile-court law , a parole law , a law creating a mines ' and miners ' board , a structural-ironworkers ' act , an employers ' liability act , an act requiring safety appliances of common carriers , an act regulating the employment of women in mechanical and mercantile establishments , laundries , and factories . During this time , the Constitution has not undergone amendment , nor has most of this legiblation been passed since the raising of the cry for social justice . The Court has simply been reconstituted in the natural process of events , until its Chief Justice is a man who takes occasion to commend the State for its record in regard to legislation of this character . That the American public is not wholly indifferent to coin designs was shown by its characteristic comment on the buffalo five-cent piece  --  that the " E pluribus unura " could now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But how genuine is the feeling for the artistic value of coins ? This is a question which the American Numismatic Society proposes to test . In 1905 it obtained action which gave us Saint-Gaudens 's double-eagle and eagle , and Bela L. Pratt 's half-eagle and quarter-eagle . Its dealing with our more democratic coins will be a fairer sounding of public opinion . Is it true that the figure of Liberty on our silver coins is " a mere cari cature , " " an insult both to the Goddess of Liberty and to the beauty of American womanhood " ? Is it true that " the nondescript effigy called an eagle can not compare with the glorious eagles on the magnificent coins of . . . France , Germany , Russia , and Austria " ? Many artists will doubtless agree ; but will a population whose hands have been subdued to this money since 1892 ? Washington is said to be congratulating itself on the new designs for paper currency , but that is in different case ; the pictures of symbolical figures , of the pioneers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of date , and will be fitly replaced by those of the ocean liner , the battleship , the factory , and the New York sky-line . The pergest better types , and quell the suspicion that a numismatist has professional reasons for wishing frequent changes in coinage , it will deserve to succeed . In Australia , as in Canada , the outbreak of war submerged party animus in Imperial sentiment , though the Commonwealth was then in the throes of a general election . It now appears that the Liberals appealed to the electors partly on the ground that the return of the Laborites would be a vote of censure on the war policy , and an approval of separation from England . This was so unjust that it is not surprising that it carried no force . The six States chose six Senators each , and of the thirty-six the Labor party obtained thirty-one ; while their majority in the House of Representatives is overwhelming . The real issue was a labor-preference bill , the Liberal House having tried for fourteen months to pass a measure forbidding the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been blocked by the Labor Senate . Governor-General Ferguson , at the instance of the Liberal Premier , Mr. Cook , then dissolved both houses . In internal policy , Mr. Fisher , again head of the Labor Cabinet , has announced a programme of Australian nationalism , a higher tariff on foreign goods in protection of native industries , and a referendum for Constitutional amendments to facilitate the suppression of Trusts and the nationalization of public utilities . Evidently , radicalism is in the saddle . As for Imperial relations , the Australian contingent , the Australian navy , and the newly announced preferential tariff rates with England , speak for themselves .                     