@@487127

Gov. - ilson 's election to the Presidenc3 wasexpected by all men able to view the political situation coolly , the extent of- his victory impresses the imagination . Let no man say that his success was undeserved . He had a magnificent opportunity , but he seized it magnificently . Deliberately marking out the lines of his campaign , he clung to them tenaciously , and by the dignity and force of his speeches , the sagacity of his judgment , and the manliness of his bearing , held his party together in the face of a formidable raider , and won the support of thousands of Republicans and independents . This is a shining achievement . No sure good fortune made Woodrow Wilson appear taller from the shOuldera upward than any Other possible Democratic nominee this year . Over any other of the candidates at Baltimore , Roosevelt would have driven his chariot triumphantly . And first among the great gains ' of his Victory , we put the destruction of the hideous superstition about the protective tariff , which was again dragged out the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time that it insulted , the intelligence of the American people . But with the same vote by which Gov Wilson 's wonderful success has been attained , solemn warning has been given . It is not an hour for foolish elation . No man perceives this more clearly than Woodrow Wilson . His earliest words are all of deep responsibility , and of the sobering which such a victory as his carries with it . We may be sure that no eye is keener than his to read . the signs in the political heavens . He secs the breaking up of the great deep in this election. : Party allegiance was trampled upon . In the casting of ballots impatience visibly went with hope , imperious demands for the future alongside condign punishment for the past . The vast and fluctuating electorate . - stands - ready to inflict its dire penalties upon Democratic failure . - Gov . Wilson rut st be fully aware of all this . He must understand perfectly , for example , what courage and strength of will and calmness under obloquy he will need in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into . a -- swinish ' rush for spoils . This would infallibly lead down a steep place into the sea . This is no time to attempt to review Mr. Taft 's Presidency . Every man knows in his heart , however , that it has not been that black betrayal ' and wretched failure which it has been painted . The country has many services to thank him for , as all will acknowledge when the rancorous animosities of the past few months have sunk to their proper level . But in the personal aspect of his humiliation , one fact will remain unchallenged . He brought his fate upon himself . When in 1908 he allowed Theodore Roosevelt to force him upon the Republican party and the country as President , he put his official life at the mercy of one man . Placed in the White House by grace of Theodore Roosevelt , he is now expelled from it by revenge of Theodore Roosevelt . Besides winning the Presidency , the Democrats will have a tremendous majority in the House of Representatives , and , if present indications are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . With the exception of the first half of Cleveland 's second Administration , this will be the first time since the outbreak of the Civil War that the Democratic party will have had control of the three branches of the Federal Government upon which devolves the power of legislation and administration . And in that exceptional two years following the election of 1892 , the situation both of - the party and of the country was so peculiar as to block disastrously the party 's power to make a record of constructive work . The silver question was approaching its acutest stage , and upon this question the party was hopelessly divided within itself ; the national finances were in a critical condition , and preparations had been made by the outgoing Administration for taking the extraordinary step of a bond issue in time of peace ; a desolating panic prostrated business very soon after Mr. Cleveland 's inauguration ; and finally a little group of machine-made Senators , bitterly hostile to Cleveland , was in a position to paralyze the party in the up- ? per branch of Congress . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to-day is in ' most gratifying contrast ' to that of 1892 . The Democratic Congress will have the opportunity , and- we - believe will have the will , to cooperate effectively with the Democratic President in a great programme of national progress . That it may be guided by wise as wel : as patriotic leadership is ' to-day the hope and expectation of the country . Among the influences which will bear on the political - history - of the coming Democratic Administration , there is one of high importance to which little consideration has as yet been given in the forecasts of people or politicians . It has been the peculiar-hit of the Democratic Party- , in each its Presidential victories for the , sixty bad years , to enter office at a time , of business depres-sion . When- Mr.4 Cleveland was inaugurated for the second time , in March , 1893 , the great financial panic of that year was already beginning . His first inauguration , in March of 1885 , occurred when the country was still shaken by the after-effectS of the panic of 1884 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' the Outbreak of the panic " Of 1857 . All three ' of those financial crises were- the outcome of causes world-wide in their scope and purely economic in their Character ; but the handicap imposed by them on a new Administration was inevitable . The Republican party , on the other hand , has been favored by exceptional good fortune in the character ' of the Period when its Presidential candidates have . replaced those of the opposition . ' When Mr. McKinley took Ofilbein 1897 and Mr. Harrison in 1889 , the tide= of prosperity was running strongly in the country 's faVer . Gov. - Wils'on 's Administration will begin under just ' such auspices as theirs . The late Vice . President of the United States , Mr. Sherman , had a genial and attractive personality that made him particularly popular in Congressional circles , and won him a large number of friends . Yet he represented a type of public man now rapidly disappearing from view . The progressive movement everywhere has made it clear that there is no longer place for men who but twenty-five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political parties  --  the men who went into politics because cf business and believed that victories in politics were to be achieved primarily to make money for the victors and their friends . The whole teaching of Mr. Sherman 's party was along that line ; the rich manufacturer from whom one could fry fat and to whom one could grant tariff favors was the exemplar of successful American citizenship . For this kind of business politics the Republican party is now paying a terrible but a deserved penalty . Its leaders of the future can not be men of Mr. Sher-man 's kind , even though they , embody in their personality great charm and all the social virtues , and are skilled party leaders and able parliamentarians . There must be some mistake about the announcement that the Supreme Court of the United States has devised rules for making the administration of justice in the Federal courts more speedy and less costly . The way in which this reform has been brought about naturally makes us very suspicious of it . Judges have been giving a great deal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another and with legal experts ; have had a large mass of evidence before them , which they have painstakingly sifted , and have carefully studied ' the various proposals for improvement laid before them . They have taken their time about it , too , and have- been cautious. , But the country knows very well that judicial reform can not be brought about in any such pussy-footed way. , The thing to do , as v , e have been told . over and over again , is to let loose a hurricane upon the courts , to get the crowd to teach ' the judges hots to decide , and to make an end at once of the law 's delays by taking a popular vote in every case which it is desired to hurry to a conclusion . With all these new principles firmly fixed in the citizen 's ' mind , he will know what to think of the pretence that by study and patience and trained intelligence a reform in judicial procedure has been accomplished . ' since James Bryce wrote : Under the system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But her wealth is so great , her revenue so el , stic , that she is not sensible of the loss She has the glorious privilege of youth , the privilege of committing errors without suffering from their consequences . Any interference with this glorious privilege is still sacrilege in the eyes ci Congressmen , and , accordingly , by means of the convenient device of a " rider , " they provided during their last session that no annual budget should be prepared or the Government until they should so order . The immediate purpose of this action was to head off President Taft and his Commission on Economy and Efficiency , who were known to be contemplating so violent an invasion of our liberties . In support of the position assumed by Congress , grave Constitutional and practical arguments are advanced . These would be much more impressive if Congress itself had been exhibiting a disposition to systematize the methods of raising and spending the people 's money . The advantages of a ' budget are not only in the direction of wiser financing ; of equal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to get an intelligent grasp of this important branch of the Government 's activities . What the country had a right to expect was cooperation between Congress and the President in the establishing of so desirable an improvement , The attempt to thwart Mr Taft in this respect will only delay the triumph of a policy that all other nations have long followed . census bulletin on illiteracy a most satisfactory exhibit of progress . The percentage of illiterates in the entire population has , in a dec-ade , been cut down from 10.7 to 7.7 , and this percentage among children from ten to fourteen years of age has been reduced , in the same period , from 7.2 to 4 1 . The latter showing is both the more striking and the more significant o : the two ; it means that in the rising generation there are but little more than half as many illiterates in every thousand persons as there were among the young people of like age ten years ago . A remarkable feature of the de-tailed showing is that the reduction of illiteracy has not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and is  --  a great deal of room for improvement . Thus ( for children 10-14 years of age ) While the percentage in the South Atlantic , East South Central , and West South Central States fell from 17.8 , 18.2 , and 16.2 , respectibely , in 1900 to 10.0 , 10.7 , and 9.4 in 1910 , the New England percentage was reduced from 1.2 to 0.4 , the Middle Atlantic from 0.9 to 0.4 , the East North Central from 0.7 to 0.3 , the West North Central from 1.4 to 0.6 . This record of advance seems fully to justify the assertion in the bulletin that the figures " show that illiteracy in the United States is being gradually eliminated . " But , while the relative figures of illiteracy , the comparisons between 1910 ' and 1900 , are at all points in a high degree satisfactory , some of the absolute figures are very far from what they should be . Especially is this the case in regard to the negro population . Thus in the three above-named Southern divisions of the country , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ age , the percentage of illiterates is. still 18.9 , 20.7 , and 22.4 , respectively ; which , though it is a marked improvement on the 31.3 , 331 , and 32.7 of ten years ago , yet represents a vast body of neglected childhood . The significance , too , of such a mass of illiteracy is more than what appears from the figures ; for where downright " illiteracy " the inability to read and write  --  is so common , we may be sure that a large proportion of those above that line have the most meagre schooling . There is much uphill work still before the men and women who are striving to procure the benefits of elementary education for the negro population of the South . Our foreign-born children , on the other band , and the native children of foreign parents , make a most excellent showing . Throughout the North , illiteracy among the native children of foreign parents amounts to only about one-fifth of one Per cent. ; and even among the foreign-born children ( of the ages in question ) it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could give stronger evidence of the rapidity with- which the American school system takes hold of the inflowing tide of humanity . While the publication of the Loeb Library of Greek and Latin Classics has new long been a certainty , the actual appearance of the initial volumes of the series is an event that should not be passed by without a word of welcome . With the original text on one page and the best obtainable English translation facing it on the opposite page , and with the price placing the books within the Teach of all lovers of ancient literature , the publication of this great collection brings reinforcement to the friends of " the humanities " at a time when it is sorely needed . But , while Mr. Loeb 's well-chosen munificence is thus an encouragement to what is in many ways a waning cause , we believe that it indicates something more than the feeling of one man , or one small group of men , in regard to that cause . In this day of large-scale operation in all , directions , the currents of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ altogether ; and every once in a while launched , a year or two ago ; and so , we are inclined to think , the Loeb Library will prove to be not only a cause , but also a sign , of a wider interest in the classics than is generally supposed to exist at present . In any case , it will be a fine achievement  --  a notable addition to the higher intellectual resources of the English-speaking peoples , and a credit to our own country . That football makes tremendously for the development of character has long been recognized , but it has seldom if ever before furnished so striking a manifestation of its pdssibilities in this direction as it gave a day or two ago at Dartmouth . On- the squad was a well-built youth from New Hampshire . He had been on the team for a year , but had not displayed the prowess that might naturally have been expected from his appearance . On this occasion he was put in at guard . As usual , he was playing only fair football when something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : he was accidentally kicked on the nose : FroMthat moment , observers say , he was invincible . He played harder as the game progressed , and stopped every play that was directed at him . He now sits among the mighty at the training-table . The regrettable feature of this otherwise inspiring incident is that what could so easily have been brought about by design in the very beginning was left to the caprice of chance . A man who may now make the All-America eleven some day was permitted to find himself as best he could . Evidently , the coaching system was gravely at fault . We trust that no more Dartmouth youths will have to wait a whole year for a trifling but indispensable bit of experience that shall in a moment transform them from bays to men . Cuba 's Presidential election on Friday disappointed the prophets  --  especially the inspired prophets of American intervention  --  by being conducted in the most orderly manner . None of that rioting and bloodshed at the polls which were so solemnly predicted , and which were to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bearing of a peaceful election upon the whole question of their continuing independence . The success of Gen. Menocal was generally expected , and was plainly desired by the most stable and substantial elements of the population . He seems clearly to be the best man for the job , to use the consecrated American phrase , but it is truly a big job that confronts him . President Gomez leaves him the legacy of a discredited and well-nigh wrecked Government . The interval before Menocal is inaugurated will be a critical period , but if that is safely got through , and the new President takes office next spring with the best people in Cuba sustaining him , there is every reason to hope that the young republic will acquire new strength and respect . Mr. Asquith made a telling point in of his recent speeches when , lead-up to a powerful statement of the case against the threatened Unionist policy as to Ulster , he reminded his hearers of two earnest warnings uttered by him in the past , and disregarded by the Tories with disastrous . results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ initiated in 1903 ? " a campaign in favor of a return to the old and discrddited system of protection " ; the second to the rejection of the budget of 1909 by the House of Lords . The Premier has no occasion to apologize for any assumption of prophetic gifts when he points to the fact that he re : peatedly warned the Unionist leaders in 1903 and 1904 that they were " heading straight for the disaster into which they plunged in 1906 , " and that he likewise warned them in 1909 that rejection of the budget would bode calamity to the House of Lords . In both , instances , he was resting not on any special insight peculiar to himself , but on the knowledge that political instincts and convictions which were deeply imbedded in the public mind of England could not be offended against with impunity . The " Tariff Reform " agitation has been a dismal failure ; the rejection of the budget brought d'own on the House of Lords the penalty that levelheaded men , friends and enemies alike , foresaw ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the Ulsterite irreconcilables quite as strong as that which held against the unfortunate positions assumed by the UniOnist leaders upon the other two questions . A step towards the union of cleauli , ness and godliness in India has been taken by the appointment of a commission to inquire into the sanitation of Hindu and Mohammedan centres of pilgrimage . For a series of years there have been outbreaks of epidemics at these points , and the departing devotees have carried away with them the germs of diseases which have later appeared hundreds of miles distant . It is also known that pilgrims carry contagion and infection to these centres , with serious results . Doubtless it is better to be dirty and holy than to have clean hands but an impure heart , and the Government will have to proceed tactfully in any strengthening of existing regulations . The part played in the Mutiny by the greasing of cartridges with the fat of - certain animals must always haunt the ' officers entrusted with the task of " Civiliziiig " India according to kurbean standards and methods . 