@@430593

 | WITHOUT undertaking to consider the causes , the fact is that when Great Britain , Germany , France , Russia , and Austria plunged into war in the midsummer of 1914 , their merchant ships and the ships of the few maritime nations remaining neutral were carrying 92 per cent . of the overseas trade of the United States , ? a trade which in the latest fiscal year was valued at nearly four billions of dollars . Our principal carriers were Great Britain and Germany , and the ships of the latter 's flag were at once removed from consideration , ? bottled up at home or abroad by the superior naval power of the enemy . There ensued , of course , a paralysis of export and import commerce that struck at the prosperity of every part of the nation . What happened was precisely what Washington and Jefferson had foreseen in the last years of the eighteenth century . Then they aroused their countrymen to vigorous measures of self-defense , and in a few years the danger was averted , ? the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same result follows upon the present acute emergency , the loss and suffering now inevitable will not have been in vain . ONLY SIX TRANSATLANTIC STEAMSHIPS But this looks ahead , and present conditions demand all immediate attention . At the outbreak of the war , the American flag was flying over only six steamships out of the two or three hundred liners regularly engaged in the great transatlantic trade between the ports of the United States and the ports of Europe . These six steamships , which have since proved too conspicuous and useful as the favored refuge of returning American tourists , are the St. Louis , St. Paul , New York , and Philadelphia , of the American line from New York to Cherbourg and Southampton , ? 20-knot passenger , mail and express freight vessels of 11,000 and 10,000 tons , ? and the Finland and Kroonland , 16-knot steamships of the Red Star line from New York to Plymouth and Antwerp , ? vessels of 12,000 tons , with excellent pas senger accommodations and a considerable cargo capacity . Not one of the latest Atlantic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these six American steamships are in the service of the International Mercantile Marine Company . The four first named are the regularly subsidized transatlantic postal fleet of the United States , and the Finland and Kroonland were built in anticipation of a later subsidy measure which was not enacted . Occasionally an American steamer of the coastwise fleet , chartered for a particular purpose , makes a voyage to Europe , but these six steamers represent the entire shipping facilities available under the American flag in the regular transatlantic trade when the great war opened . Immediately the six ships were sought by all Americans in Europe who could secure passage by them and realized the safety that lay in the folds of their country 's flag , and they have been and will continue to be sought for the same reason by the shippers of bullion and valuable cargo . Besides these six American steamers , the war at the outset left neutral a few small steamship lines under the colors of Spain , Portugal , and Scandinavia . The HollandAmerica steamers have been forced to traverse a danger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went almost immediately into the belligerent class , and a hazard of eventual participation clings to the steamship lines of Italy . MORE SHIPS IN THE WEST INDIES This was a grave crisis from the standpoint of ocean . transportation , for the United States lost at once the dependable use of its principal ocean carriers . Not only were the regular lines affected , but the slow freighters , the wheat and cotton ships , belonged chiefly to the belligerent nation . They were held at home or at distant ports , and with almost two-thirds of the cotton crop and many millions of bushels of the huge grain crop demanding markets overseas , the United States has been involved by the war in an incalculable misfortune . For it is only in Eu330 THE f1MERIC , IN REVIEW OF REVIEWS  | rope , convulsed by the war , that the great bulk of our surplus cotton and grain can be disposed of , ? relatively small quantities having been sent to the ports of other continents . Though the war in its first effects crippled steamship communication on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the routes to the West Indies and the nearer ports of Atlantic South America . American shipping holds a respectable place in the trade of the Caribbean region , and about one-half of the entire commerce of that region is and long has been with the United States . A strong American steamship service , ? that of the Ward line , ? connects Mexico , Cuba , and the Bahamas with New York . This is a mail-subsidized service , and so is that of the Red D line from New York to Venezuela via Porto Rico . Our West Indian colony is under the coastwise laws and possesses communication in ships of several American . lines with New York and ports of the Gulf of Mexico . The Panama Railroad Steamship line , another American service operated by the War Department , runs from New York to Colon . The Clyde line runs to Santo Domingo , and the Southern Pacific line from New Orleans to Cuba , which has steamship connections also with the Florida peninsula . Ships of the large fleet of the United Fruit Company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of higher American wages and severer requirements of American law ) but so securely American in ownership that they are not likely to be disturbed , ply between our Atlantic and Gulf ports and Jamaica , Cuba , Central America , and the Isthmus of Panama , and the Munson line , also with American owned ships of foreign register , is an important factor in the Cuban trade . The United Fruit Company may come completely under the American flag . The Atlas line of German steamers has been withdrawn from the New York-West Indian service , but otherwise our West India communications have not been and presumably will not be seriously reduced . Nor is there any hazard in the war to what is now the most important steamship service under the American flag , ? the longvoyage coastwise service through the nowopen Panama Canal , between the Atlantic and Pacific seaboard . The intelligent and active preparations for this trade which have been made by American steamship companies were described in an article in the REVIEW OF REVIEWS for May , 1913 . Since that time , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been increased by other new vessels and new companies . The American-Hawaiian Company has completed its great fleet of twentysix steamships of a total dead weight capacity of nearly 300,000 tons ; the Emery Company , of Boston , has appeared upon the route , and the International Mercantile Marine Company has confirmed its purpose to offer a passenger service that will become available as soon as the war will permit . These Panama steamers are all of bona fide American ownership and register , the great present hope of our merchant marines . They are sufficient in number to provide a sailing from the Atlantic or the Pacific every business day throughout the year . On the Pacific , one American steamship of the Great Northern Company from Puget Sound , and four or five steamships of the Pacific Mail Company from San Francisco , run to Japan , China , and the Philippines . The Oceanic Steamship Company operates a reestablished postal subsidy line from San Francisco to Australasia . The Pacific Mail maintains a service from San Francisco to Central America and Western Mexico . Thus , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marine in foreign trade , there are routes upon which the Stars and Stripes still hold a place of dignity and power . There is , however , no American steamship line to the greater countries of South America , with the exception of one freight line operated by the United States Steel Corporation with chartered ships of the American-Hawaiian Company from New York to Brazil . The catastrophe of the war is heaviest in the vast , rich commerce of the North Atlantic . Both the grain and the cotton crops are coming forward . Where are the ships requisite to carry them ? The important service of the two great German steamship companies , the Hamburg-American and North German Lloyd , has ceased to exist . A merchant ship of a belligerent , even laden with cargo that is in itself non-contraband and even bound to a neutral port , is a lawful prize of war . Great Britain and her allies dominate the sea , and German ships and Austrian ships are for the time being eliminated from international commerce . Ships of neutral nations can nominally trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have not been formally blockaded , but in effect the widening of the defini- tion of contraband to include conditionally even such articles as food stuffs very seriously circumscribes all practicable war-time commerce . Petroleum , another of our most important exports , is absolutely under the ban as contraband , and even such harmless artitles as cotton or woolen cloths are liable to seizure and confiscation if of the nature of military uniforms . The truth , is that in a great world-shaking war many settled principles of international law are sure to be denied or disregarded . Each belligerent on the ocean assumes to be a law unto himself . Theoretically , until formal blockade is proclaimed , as was done by our Government in the Civil War with the ports of the Confederacy , an American ship or any other neutral ship has a right to carry a clearly non-contraband cargo to Bremen or Hamburg or Trieste . But , as a matter of fact , no American or other neutral ship will dare to do this , except as a desperate speculation . The North Sea is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , fixed or floating , those deadliest devices of twentieth century war . It is the misfortune both of Germany and of Austria that their coast lines are relatively short and readily closed by an enterprising enemy , and direct communication with their ports even under a neutral flag can doubtless be regarded as an impossibility for the present . Whether or not a blockade is proclaimed , a blockade actually exists , and Germany and Austria must be dismissed from consideration as consumers of products of the United States , ? save , indeed , for what small commerce may persist through the ports of Holland , Scandinavia , and Italy , so long as these remain neutral states . But the ports of Great Britain , except those on the northeast coast , and the ports of France ought to remain open to the neutral commerce of America . Already a large part of the service of British and French transatlantic steamship companies is being cautiously resumed . This points to the possibility of bringing home all the American refugees from Europe in the next few weeks , without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be expected , however , that the British and French steamship schedules will be liable to interruption throughout the war , because of imperative demands of the home government for ships for transport or other auxiliary service . These lines can not be depended on in war as they could be in peace . It must not be forgotten that the German navy contains some of the swiftest and most formidable cruisers in existence . One or two of these ships , slipping out of the North Sea through the British blockade and falling on the transatlantic route , would create a panic and make insurance rates on British and French merchant ships prohibitive . This danger is liable to increase as the war continues and the situation of Germany , ringed in by foes , becomes more desperate . Americans will remember that the Confederate commerce destroyers were relatively harmless in the first year of the Civil War , and that their sharpest depredation occurred in the years 1863 and 1864 , ? indeed , one of these rovers , the Shenandoah , did her deadliest work after the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rates to north European ports have doubled , and there has been an increase of 50 per cent . in the rates to countries outside of the war zone , to Africa and South America . Insurance rates also have attained excessive figures , though they are significantly low for ships flying the American flag , of unquestioned American ownership , on the American register before the war began . The United States , as the greatest and most powerful of neutrals , is in a position to command respect for its own ships and its own citizens . It is very fortunate for the country that the American navy because of the quality of its ships , guns , and personnel is a factor which no belligerent would lightly draw into the scale against it . Our Government in this crisis should insist with firmness on full neutral rights for all its ships and cargoes . If the nation possessed a great mercantile marine , or was rapidly creating such a marine , this would be an unexampled opportunity . Undoubtedly there will be additions to our overseas tonnage from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these have already been chartered and others are being offered by their managers . The Clyde and Mallory lines and their allied companies have signified that eighteen steamers to carry grain or cotton are at the service of the Government . The American-Hawaiian Company has other and larger steamers ready . It so happens that because of the general depression in domestic business many American coastwise vessels have been lying idle in port awaiting an improvement in trade or the opening of the Panama Canal . Seventeen such vessels have been unemployed at Boston , thirty at New York , and more than forty at San Francisco . 332 THE AMERICAN RE  | Some are too small for profitable overseas voyaging , but some are larger vessels carrying from 5000 to 10,000 tons . One factor , beyond the lack of ships , which has temporarily crippled the export trade is the breakdown of exchange . This is a financial and not a transportation difficulty and it can be remedied . Another factor of discouragement has been the heavily increased insurance rate , so high as to leave small profit to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be lifted with the adoption by Congress of the plan recommended by President Wilson for the government insurance of ships of American register . THE EMERGENCY SHIPPING MEASURE Vigorous insistence on the rights of neutrals , the use of coastwise vessels wherever practicable , and national insurance of American vessels will be straightforward and practical methods of relief of the war congestion of our export and import trade . Congress has already at this writing passed the emergency shipping measure in the form in which it was sought by the Administration . This bill passed the House after a very brief debate . In the Senate , an unwise attempt was made to take advantage of the emergency in our overseas shipping business to force foreign-built ships into the coastwise trade , which had been reserved for more than a hundred years to American ships and American citizens . This ill-timed attempt would have destroyed the prosperity of our coastwise shipping and would soon have destroyed shipbuilding in America . If it had been successful it would have defeated the purpose of the emergency shipping bill , which was to provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Such ships , if admitted to American registry , would have preferred the coast trade to the overseas trade , because of the greater security in the domestic traffic from interference by belligerents . Fortunately , the prompt and vigorous opposition of the merchants , shipowners , and shipbuilders was heeded by the public men in Washington and the attack on the coastwise trade which would have resulted so disastrously for the country was defeated in the Senate by a vote of two to one . Then the original emergency shipping bill , as the House had framed and passed it , was adopted . This provides for the admission to American registry of foreignbuilt steamships , without regard to age , owned by American citizens or by American corporations of which the president and managing directors are American citizens . Further to encourage the naturalization of foreign-built ships , the President is authorized in his discretion to suspend the requirement of existing law that the officers of American ships shall be American citizens . The President is also authorized in his discretion to suspend the requirement that foreign-built ships shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measurement . The new law in its terms actually grants a valuable preference to foreign-built ships over existing ships on the American register . It is an unmistakably liberal proposition , ? an urgent invitation to the ships of the world to seek the American colors . Indeed , American ownership may be merely nominal , for it can be secured by foreign capital through the simple expedient of organizing an American corporation in which only three or four officers need be American citizens , holding the few shares of stock necessary to qualify . Unknown to many of the people of this country , a free-ship policy had been in effect here ever since the enactment of the Panama Canal act of August 24 , 1912 . This admitted to American registry for the foreign trade any foreign-built vessel , less than five years old , owned by American citizens or an American corporation and capable of being certified after inspection as fit to carry dry and perishable cargoes . Not one ship of any kind was actually admitted to American registry under the provisions of this law . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the higher wages of American officers , for the higher wages of crews if shipped from American ports , for the higher cost of food and general maintenance on ships under the American flag , and for the foreign subsidies and bounties that would have to be relinquished by some foreign ships if transferred to American registry . GOVERNMENT OWNERSHIP DANGEROUS AND INEFFECTIVE Recognizing already that even the broader free-ship proposition will fail of adequate result , President Wilson has brought forward a new and radical expedient ; government ownership of steamship lines . The maximum of $30,000,000 which the President asks Congress to appropriate for the purchase and operation of foreign-built steamships in government lines under the American flag is only a small fraction of the amount requisite to create an adequate fleet . The proposal is a makeshift , and a perilous makeshift , for the THE WAR AND OUR OCEAN TRADE 333  | mere introduction of it has aroused resentment abroad and provoked warning that the American nationality of ships bought from belligerents in this belated and dubious way would not be accepted for a moment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of government ownership involve grave risk of international complications . Though Great Britain did not sign the London conference agreement of 1909 , the following declaration is at least morally binding as the latest expression of international opinion : The transfer of an enemy vessel to a neutral flag , effected after the opening of hostilities , is void unless it is proved that such a transfer was not made in order to evade the consequences which the enemy character of the vessel would involve . One steamship service is now owned by the Government , ? that of the Panama Railroad Steamship Company , acquired from the French with other assets of the old canal . This line , though favored in the transportation of government supplies , has incurred heavy deficits in some years when privateowned competing lines earned reasonable dividends . It is an unfortunate precedent ; the experience of the United States in ocean trade with the one line which it controls is not encouraging . The great , unmistakable lesson of this war to the American people is that an adequate merchant marine can no more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ navy . The heavy cost of our lack of American ships will be borne throughout the war , not by the maritime States , but by the cotton-growing States of the South and the wheat and the grain-growing States of the Middle West , many of whose public men and public journals have for half a century shown themselves indifferent or hostile to every effort to create an American ocean shipping . It was these influences , from the interior of the country , that defeated the earnest efforts of President Roosevelt and of President Taft to secure national aid for the establishment of steamship lines to South America and across the Pacific Ocean . Both Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Taft pointed out that the inland States needed a merchant shipping even more than the seaboard States . But inland statesmen caused the defeat of the shipping bill by narrow majorities in the House of Representatives . Their own people , their own agricultural constituents , are now paying the penalty , and , in spite of all efforts to prevent it , that penalty will . have been a heavy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century ago , President George Washington and Thomas Jefferson , his Secretary of State , warned their countrymen in a joint communication to Congress that dependence upon foreign nations as our sea carriers was a costly blunder , for aside from the disastrous effects upon . our shipbuilding and seamanship which these two great Americans vividly pictured , " our products , carried in foreign bottoms , would be saddled with war freights and insurance in time of war . " Congress listened , and passed one after another laws that brought the American tonnage registered for overseas commerce up from 123,000 in 1789 to 667,000 in 1800 and to 981,000 in 1810 . At the beginning of this period , American ships were carrying 23 per cent . of this country 's imports and exports ; and at the end of the period , they were carrying 91 per cent . Many of the admonitions of the founders of the republic have been remembered , with profit , by subsequent generations ; this , quoted above , has been forgotten . Another great world-war , as vast and terrible as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unprepared and helpless to safeguard its overseas trade as it was in the first administration of Washington . That this is so is going to prove the shame and the loss of the American people . There are people , ? thousands and tens of thousands of them , ? on the continent of Europe who will go hungry in the autumn and the winter , if the war continues , because of the lack of American carriers foP our abundant foodstuffs . The warring soldiers have left the harvests standing in the fields . The havoc of march and battle over these fields will be tremendous . There will be a grave shortage of food this year in Europe . Great Britain may manage to provide ships to bring supplies for her own people , but she can not do much more . An American merchant marine of unquestioned nationality , ? not a merchant marine of suddenly " whitewashed " ships , ? would now be a boon to the world , ? to the people whom its safe neutral carriage could succor , as well as to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would fly .                     