@@486767

Great American , Universities . By Edwin E. Slosson . New York : The Macmillan Co. $2.50 net . Mr. Slosson has rendered a valuable service to that large proportion of the general public , with or without a tincture of letters , which is mainly dependent upon intercollegiate athletes for its ideas of the characteristics of our leading educational institutions . He has spent a week  --  not an afternoon on the " bleachers " ? at each of the fourteen universities ranked by their annual expenditure for instruction at the head of the list prepared by the Carnegie Foundation : Columbia , Harvard , Chicago , Michigan , Yale , Cornell , Illinois , Wisconsin , Pennsylvania , California , Stanford , Princeton , Minnesota , and Johns Hopkins . The record of his brief sojourns makes without padding a volume of over five hundred pages . It is no exaggeration to say that he presents a more distinct and many-sided view of every institution considered than many an old graduate could give of his own alma mater . The amount of solid information that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has had an eye to the picturesque aspects of undergraduate life He has meditated on the mysteries of university architecture . He has listened to the significant gossip of students and faculty . But he has also invaded the offices of registrars and presidents and presidents ' secretaries ; has visited classrooms and laboratories ; has studied catalogues and university annals . He presents his facts in the effective form of graphs and diagrams , and he relieves the burden of the tale by the help of a dry humor and copious illustrations . He has , furthermore , ideas enough about administration , education , and research to set up a college president . The book is therefore no mere piece of superficial impressionism ; it has what Mr. Slosson likes to call " dynamic " qualities . In order to appreciate its virtues it is necessary to understand that its author is literary editor of The Independent , that he is from Kansas , and that he is an ex-chemist . As a journalist he urges the universities to keep in touch with the modern world . He thinks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mechanical/ appliances such as the stereopticon , the phonograph , and moving pictures to relieve the monotony of their lectures . He is struck by the inability of many of the universities to maintain literary magazines and literary interests among the undergraduates . Perhaps his boldest suggestion relates to the doctor 's thesis in English literature . It touches , at any rate , upon the sterilizing influence of much of our " higher " English study . Mr. Slosson can not understand why doctors ' theses in English should be limited to linguistics or literary history . Arguing from analogy with other professional degrees he says : It seems to me that it would be only fair to require of every candidate for Ph.D . in English literature the writing of a successful novel , a volume of good essays , a poem of distinct merit , an acceptable play , or some contribution to belles-lettres that will meet with the approval of the judicious if not of the public . . . . That is , if literature is a science , it should require original contributions to knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it should require craftsmanship like the other arts . If it partakes of the character of both . it should meet both requirements instead of dodging both by keeping between . As a western man , Mr. Slosson is a modernist , an ardent progressive , and a believer in " the people . " He feels heartily in sympathy with the dominant ideals of the State universities  --  their industry , their democracy , their industrial and professional education , their immediate service to the commonwealth . He experiences no academic languor in the presence of milk tests , cement tests , soil analysis , scientific cookery , and pottery . These things seem to him as legitimate curriculum material as rhyme tests , style analysis , and poetry . For he recognizes , in short , as few Eastern bred men are able to do , the " utilitarian idealism " ? please accentuate " idealism " ? of Martha , busy about many things . Mr. Slosson , as we have said , is , like Mr. Eliot , an ex-chemist , and his scientific proclivities reenforce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the enthusiasm when they talked to him at Yale about their traditions . For traditions as such he obviously does not care a snap of the fingers . On the contrary , that a thing is an . innovation appears to him decidedly in its favor . If it is not an improvement , it is at least an experiment ; and the experimental , temper indicates that a man is looking where the West looks , where science looks  --  into the future . Like Mill , he believes it is important " to give the freest scope possible to uncustomary things , in order that it may in time appear which of these are fit to-be considered customs . " Not disposed , as some renowned educators are , to fir his eyes upon the peerless perfections of a single institution , he deplores the imitativeness of the universities , wishes them to specialize , and differentiate themselves as much as possible  --  each one to work upon an original plan of educational salvation . Mr. Slosson takes what we may call the university point of view as distinguished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " old-fashioned college . " He has the open mind , the catholic taste , ani the optimism of the younger generation which believes in everything . It is interesting to compare with this spirit , the diagnosis of the present educational ? situation recently made by an English journalist , Mr. Chesterton . The one thing from which we are all shrinking to-day , says Mr. Chesterton , is that " ancestral responsibility to which our fathers committed us when they took the wild step of becoming men . I mean the responsibility of affirming the truth of our human tradition and handing it on with a voice of authority , an unshaken voice . That is the one eternal education ; to be sure enough that something is true that you dare to tell it to , a child . From this high audacious duty the moderns are fleeing on every side ; ? quaintanees begins with the Boston and Cambridge group of Holmes , Whittier , Longfellow , Alcott , and Lowell , and extends to John Davidson , A. C. Benson , and William Watson . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a coterie or a parish , but the possibilities have not been realized . The biographer sets out in this lofty and alarming strain : Genius , love , and friendship make up a triple dower which holds within itself the possibilities of high destiny . Their changing combinations comprise all intensities of human joy and human sorrow : the richness of sympathetic companionship ; the enchantments of romance ; the glow and passion of artistic achievement . . . . After such an overture one relinquishes hope of any distinct presentation of Mrs. Moulton 's character or appraisal of her poetical accomplishment . Between her and the reader there has been introduced the veiling enthusiasm of an admirer without a particle of humor , critical discrimination , or feeling for litterary perspective . The result is the more distressing for the reason that humor and a sense for perspective are not prominent qualities either in the specimens of Mrs. Moulton 's letters and journals here displayed or in the abundant extracts from the letters of her appreciative friends . As solemnly as if appealing to the highest tribunal , Lilian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last volume of poems : " ' At the Wind 's Will , ' " says Mrs. Spofford , " fitly crowns the literary achievement of the century . . . . Her work exhibited in previous volumes has given her a rank among the foremost poets of the world . " The labor expended by the biographer in accumulating testimonials of this nature is only equalled by her industry in setting forth the " brilliant " dinners , receptions , evenings-at-home , etc. , at which Mrs. Moulton was present , together with a list of the other " brilliant " guests , checked off with comment suitable to the " Society " column of a daily newspaper . The point of view is parochial . - 