@@493049

Neal REPUBLIC A Journal of Opinion VOLUME V New York , Saturday , December 4 , 1915 Number 57 P. L. A YEAR ago the industry of the United States was prostrate ; property-owners could not sell their possessions and had no means of estimating their value ; business men were as apprehensive about the future as they were depressed about the present ; wage earners were suffering terribly from unemployment and want . But in spite of depleted incomes , an ominous outlook and more than usually costly domestic burdens , Americans responded generously to the cry of Belgians and the other sufferers in Europe for relief and assistance . At the present time business is abundant and prosperous , according to the impoverished American standard of prosperity . Unemployment has shrunk to less than its ordinary level . Confidence seems to be fully restored . Many thousands of people are making many millions of dollars , and they have less reason than usual to spend much of it in giving aid to their needy fellow-countrymen . Yet if there was ever a time in the lives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to deny superfluities to themselves and give generously for the relief of the needy and oppressed , that time is the present . The amount of acute suffering in the world is colossal , overwhelming and humiliating . Much of this suffering is of a kind which can be relieved by philanthropic work without any of the usual drawbacks of philanthropy . Finally the very calamities from which Europe is suffering are derived from the same hideous cause which has in part brought about the prosperity of the United States . Surely we Americans have good reason to search our consciences and open our purses . W HENEVER the nations of Europe are ready to discuss terms of peace , there is a medium through which the preliminary overtures can be transmitted , and this medium is American , It is not , we need scarcely say , William J. Bryan or Henry Ford or any of the people who believe that their sincere and enthusiastic passion for peace will create its own object . It is not the President of the United States or the American State Department , because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not succeeded in convincing any of the belligerents of its ability to be impartial . But there is one responsible , well-informed and completely American organization which almost seems made for the purpose of establishing channels of communication among the belligerents . This organization is headed by a man who lives in London , yet who can travel from London to Brussels , from Brussels to Berlin , from Berlin to Switzerland , and from Switzerland to Paris , and who is received at the chancellories of all the belligerents and at the headquarters of all their armies , without incurring any question as to his ability as a mediator or any suspicion as to his good faith . The individual is Mr. Herbert Hoover . The organization is the Commission for Relief in Belgium . The Commission has been the greatest single agency for lessening the suffering caused by the war . Just // because it has performed so successfully the work of human alleviation in the midst of the animosities and suspicions of the warring nations , is it peculiarly qualified to become the instrument of a negotiable peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to adopt a rule for the shutting off of debate in the Senate will arouse grave misgivings . That the unlimited right of a Senator to maintain his place on the floor brings with it serious evils will be generally admitted . The caucus may succeed in adopting a rule which will serve to diminish the considerable privileges of individuals and of minor groups of Senators , while still permitting all desirable freedom of discussion . But until such a rule is framed , the proposal to limit the freedom of discussion hitherto enjoyed by the Senate suffers under a grievous burden of hostile presumption . The Senate is the one American legislative body which has remained a deliberative agency rather than a mere machine for grinding out a partisan legislative program . In the case of the House the only real discussion by which a contentious measure is tested takes place behind closed doors in the caucus of the prevailing majority . The conversion of the Senate into an equally helpless instrument of a secretive partisan despotism would be a calamity . In the past the Senate , as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ really effective instrument of minority representation . Causes , convictions , protests and rebellions which were ruthlessly suffocated in the House have been fully aired in the Senate , and have flourished or have died according to their deserts in the tonic air of publicity . Any attempt on the part of the Democratic majority of the present Congress to take away from the Senate its characteristic quality of being a public assembly in which every important aspect of every question could obtain a full and free hearing should meet , inside of that body and out of it , an uncompromising resistance . I F the Democrats are wise they will not raise the question of drastic alteration of the rules of the Senate during the coming session . Congress will be confronted with certain novel and contentious problems which need to be fu7Tv discussed , and which can only be fully discussed in the Senate . In its existing perplexities about the need , the scope and the cost of preparedness , and about our national foreign policy , the country needs the education of a free ventilation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side of too much than of too little debate . We admit that error on that side can be carried too far . If the minorities opposed to the administration 's program of preparedness or to the shippingbill indulge in purely obstructive tactics for the purpose of preventing the majority from passing its bills , the Democrats will have established a strong case for the adoption by the next Congress of a rule closing debate . The majority must have the power ultimately of making its decision prevail , and whenever the freedom of debate substitutes minority for majority government , it will have to be curtailed . In the past the Senate rules have not prevented the majority from ultimately having its way . The last Congress passed successfully a large amount of very contentious legislation ; and the present Congress can do the same unless the opposition becomes thoroughly factious and obstructive . The Democratic majority are aggrieved because they could not pass the shipping bill at the short session of the previous Congress , but their real difficulty was not the opposition of the Republicans , it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past difficulties in passing legislation , the Democrats may be justified in serving notice on the Republicans , or on any merely obstructionist minority , that the freedom of debate will be curtailed in case it is used to kill legislation which is backed by a clear majority ; but the opposition should be fairly warned before it is disciplined , and the country fully consulted . W ITH suspicious unanimity , shipowners , ship- pers and seamen are asking Congress to establish a maritime commission with full jurisdiction over our foreign shipping . But it is only verbally that they are in agreement . They are really asking for three different things under the same name . The shipowner is dreaming of a day when navigation laws imposed by a meddlesome Congress shall be no more ; when a board of shipping experts shall have full power to spend money in stimulating , expanding and rendering prosperous the American merchant marine . The shipper has an entirely different vision . He sees a board not unlike the Interstate Commerce Commission , with power to regulate rates and curb the overweening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring complaints and file reparation suits . To the seaman the commission is to be an efficient administrative tribunal to enforce the Seamen 's law . It will be a temptation to many Congressmen to shirk the duty of framing a maritime policy by leaving the task to a commission . Indeed a plan which already has strong backing is that of giving to such a commission unlimited power to develop a merchant marine by subsidy , public ownership or any other fitting means , to draw a large check in its favor , and then to adjourn . We trust that Congress will not thus conveniently shift its responsibilities . A commission is a useful instrument to enforce naln. - gation laws , and an indispensable means of regulating shipping . Without it a government-owned line of ships probably can not succeed . But whether or not the Seamen 's law should be repealed , by what standards shipping should be regulated and whether subsidy or public ownership should be resorted to to procure shipping facilities where our foreign commerce needs them , are questions that should be decided by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be guided by considerations of foreign diplomacy no less than of maritime economics . The transatlantic situation until the close of the war will be so uncertain that its consideration must probably be postponed . With South America the case is different . The larger South American republics are turning more and more for the development of their foreign trade to the United States . They no less than we are clamoring for a permanent line of fast steamships , free from belligerent claims and belligerent threats . At . least two of them have already officially declared their willingness to join the United States in some form of joint maritime enterprise . Certainly they will not consent to share in such an enterprise unless it has behind it the stability and the resources of the government . Here the solution lies , in public ownership with South American cooperation . In the Orient the situation calls for more careful sailing . Japan has set out with thoroughness and determination to insure her own predominance in Chinese investments and Chinese trade . She now controls virtually all the transpacific shipping , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seeing to it that her own trade rather than ours is promoted . Private American shipping interests are confessedly helpless . Competition with Japanese shipping has always been precarious , and the unequal operation of the language test in the Seamen 's law coupled with the Panama Canal act make it almost hopeless . From China we can expect sympathy and encouragement , but not , for the present at least , any active assistance . If the policy of the Open Door in China is to be pursued in the future , it can only be by the establishment of an American steamship line owned and operated by the government . It is the clear duty of Congress to establish such a line . S ECRETARY McADOO 'S proposals for increasing the federal revenues are indicative of the opportunism in the present policies of the Democratic party . There is not the least attempt to coordinate these fiscal proposals with traditional Democratic principle . The retention of the existing duty on sugar is an obvious concession to protectionism . It will be said that the concession is madeinvoluntarily , under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no serious difficulty in making up the deficiency resulting from free sugar by duties on coffee and tea , which would carry with them no incidental protection to domestic interests . A revision of the tobacco duties could be made to yield a certain and considerable increase in revenue . Possibly the national interests will be best subserved by continued protection of the domestic sugar industry , but if the administration believes this to be the case it ought to admit frankly that it was mistaken in its earlier policy , instead of hiding behind emergency fiscal requirements . Protection that is to do any good must be regarded as reasonably permanent . Investors will not undertake to extend the sugar industry if the government proposes to give and withhold protection on grounds derived from fiscal expediency . T HE proposals of a horse-power tax on automobiles and other internal combustion engines and of a tax on gasoline and crude and refined oils were probably made without prolonged deliberation or serious purpose . A tax on internal combustion engines has nothing to recommend it . It would not be easily levied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be high . The internal combustion engine constitutes one of the most rapidly developing factors in our industrial technique . To interfere with this development through a special tax would be bad industrial policy . Nor is there any obvious justification for a tax on gasoline and crude and refined oils . These are sources of power of peculiar importance to small-scale industry . Secretary McAdoo 's underlying motive appears to be a desire to reach the users of automobiles . But if special taxes are to be levied on automobiles they should be levied by the states , in the interest of highway development ; and in any case we have a more certain means of reaching the taxpaying ability of automobile owners through the income tax . 66 AW and order " as they know it in Paterson was well represented at the trial of Eliza-beth Gurley Flynn . Judge Klenert , who a week before had watched the police prevent Miss Flynn from exercising her constitutional right of free speech , presided . Chief of Police Bimson sat in the front row of spectators . Miss Flynn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , words inciting to riot and disorder . The words ? eighty-five of them ? did not appear in the charge upon which she was arrested . But in November , 1915 , almost three years later , a number of policemen swore that they remembered exactly those eighty-five words . The real question at issue was not whether Miss Flynn had or had not uttered those words , but whether the manufacturing interests of Paterson should be allowed to prevent agitation during a period of prosperity by sending one of the agitators to jail . The activities of an organizer like Miss Flynn may cost the manufacturers dear in strikes and demands for larger wages . That is why she is feared in Paterson . That is why she was not allowed to speak . That is why she was put on trial for words supposed to have been uttered three years ago . The jury 's prompt acquittal is sufficient commentary on such proceedings . R EVISION of the income tax law , in the direction of increasing rates and reducing the minimum income subject to the tax by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favor . The income tax is one that is really felt , and the greater the number of persons who must feel it , the more effective the check upon governmental extravagance . Especially at a time like the present , when the conversion of the nation to a policy of large armaments opens a vista to vast and increasing expenditures , some such check is imperative . But the administration of an income tax law is difficult at best , and the tracking down of small incomes tries the resources of the most efficient fiscal machinery . There seems to be ground for believing that the present tax falls far short of reaching all income subject to it . A moderate increase in existing rates would present no new problems of administration . A lowering of the exemption would present very serious problems ; and it is an open question whether it should be undertaken at the present time . A NY plan of financing armaments through taxation , however ill advised in itself , is preferable to a plan of meeting present fiscal needs through a bond issue . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is in the interest of posterity as well as in our present interest , and therefore we have a right to make posterity share the burden . But posterity will have defense burdens of its own . Its burdens are certain to be heavy if to-day we inaugurate the policy of providing ourselves with armaments beyond our present ability to pay . European nations have experimented with loans for military preparedness , and no one familiar with the results will assert that they have been so favorable as to justify emulation . We arc a fairly prosperous people just now , and we shall be more prosperous before the cost of armament begins to weigh on the treasury . If we can ever meet the expense without serious inconvenience , we can meet it now . Pro-German . . a somewhat pro-German weekly in New York , The New Republic . " ? From an editorial in the Boston Evening Transcript . T HIS remark was made by the Transcript just three days after THE NEW REPUBLIC had discussed at some length the desirability of an eventual alliance with Great Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some interest to discover just what the most pretentiously learned newspaper in the United States means by " pro-German , " It means , so far as we can discover , anything short of complete fanaticism about the Allies . There are circles of Boston society where the Transcript is approved , in which it is pro-German to doubt the smallest item in the most jingoistic utterance of the Allies . It is not only pro-German but it is anti-American . You must not mention the fact that French aviators drop bombs on undefended German cities ; you must not believe that the Senegalese are capable of any atrocity ; you must pretend that a Cossack troop in a Galician village has a religious respect for the IIague conventions ; you must believe that a Russian retreat is a Russian victory . Otherwise you are pro-German . Not only is it necessary to see the " Teutons " as all black and the Allies as lily white , it is treason to civilization for anyone to remember that this war must come to an end , that it must end fairly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will still be necessary to live in the same world with the Germans . We can understand that in England and France there is little time for discrimination . Those nations are in a desperate struggle , and their fury has a considerable military value . But for the Transcript in comfortable Boston , for well-fed people in American cities to indulge in these orgasms of hate is nothing less than mischievous stupidity . It destroys whatever usefulness they might have in this supreme contest , and the hurt which they have inflicted on American prestige is incalculable . By their utterances , quoted in the European press , they have given the impression that America accepts the Allied cause without question . Naturally Europeans ask why we 're not fighting if that is the way we feel about it . If the right and wrong of this struggle are so clear , then only cowards would stay at home and curse over the dinner table . If everything that counts in the world is concentrated in the cause of the Allies , then we ought to be fighting in Flanders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Transcript urging our government to enter the war ? Not at all . The Transcript is urging us to hate the Germans ; the Transcript is parroting the wisdom of British recruiting speeches ; the Transcript is ready to pour out a torrent of someone                     