@@466396

URIOUSLY enough , the wage is by no means the most significant factor in minimum-wage legislation , although the establishment of a minimum living wage for women is the immediate object of our American minimum-wage laws ; neither is the attempt to safeguard women from the more brutal forms of exploitation , although the emotional appeal in behalf of motherhood that followed the recent revelations of commercialized traffic in women had much to do with the enactment of eight minimum-wage laws in the single year 1913 . In so far as these laws are merely protective , they do not radically differ from the long sequence of factory acts that have gradually crept into our statutes since the time , almost one hundred years ago , when Lord Shaftesbury aroused the English-speaking world to the dangers of race degeneration latent in the unrestricted employment of women and children . The important contribution of minimum-wage laws to the theory and structure of government ? the factor that distinguishes them from laws regulating the sanitary conditior of factories , compensation for industrial injuries , hours of employment for women and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the creation of a wage board or industrial parliament by virtue of which labor , for the first time in American history , is raised from the level of a commodity , subject like beef and pork to higgling in the open market , to the rank of industrial citizenship . Nine states have enacted minimum-wage laws . Of these a majority establish as their chief administrative body an Industrial Commission with supervisory powers over all industries in the state , and authorized to determine and enforce the payment of a wage to women adequate to meet the cost of living and to maintain them in health . The chief restriction upon this Commission is that the courts , on appeal from one or more employers , may review the Commission 's determinations and set them aside in case they are shown to be confiscatory ? that is , so high as to deprive the employer of a reasonable return on his investment . But how is such a Commission to know what amount will keep women in health and yet not destroy profits ? Clearly , the simplest way is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ budgets of the workers , to test the intelligence of their expenditures , and to ascertain from the employers how they are conducting their business and whether their earnings represent the results of intelligent and efficient management . Who else could be so well qualified to supply the facts ? Accordingly , five of our minimum-wage laws authorize , and two of them require , the Commission to convoke a suhordinare council or industrial parliament , usually designated the Wage Board , in which the employers and employees are equally represented , and before which all the facts bearing upon the work , earnings , and living conditions of the employees on the one hand , and the investment , efficiency , and profits of the employers on the other , are brought for discussion . We have long been accustomed to voluntary conferences between employers and representative workers in organized trades for the purposes of collective bargaining ; but never before has a law compelled employers and employees in all trades , whether organized or not , to come together for the discussion and reconciliation of their divergent interests in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has a law so definitely placed the stamp of Public Utility upon what has always heretofore been regarded as the employers ' purely private business . The time may well come when we shall look back upon these laws as marking the first change from the political to the industrial conception of citizenship . The provision of the laws creating this industrial parliament and defining its powers is of such rare historical interest as to call for direct quotation . Section 8 of the Oregon law , identical in its main requirements with the parallel sections in a majority of the nine laws , provides as follows : If , after investigation , the industrial Welfare Commission is of opinion that any substantial number of women workers in any occupation are working for unreasonably long hours , or are working under surroundings or conditions detrimental to their health or morals , or are receiving wages inadequate to supply them with the necessary cost of living and maintain them in health , said commission may ' ? shall " in Massachusetts , Nebraska , and Wisconsin ' call and convene a conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the purpose and with the powers of considering and inquiring into and reporting on the subject investigated by said commission and submitted by it to such conference . Such conference shall be composed of not more than three representatives of the employers in said occupation and of an equal number of the representatives of the employees in said occupation , and of not more than three disinterested persons representing the general public , and of one or more commissioners Said commission shall present to such conference all information and evidence in the possession or under the control of said commission which relates to the subject of inquiry by such conference ; and said commission shall cause to he brought before such conference any witnesses whose testimony said commission deems material to the subject of the inquiry of such conference . After completing its consideration of and inquiry into the subject submitted to it by said commission , such conference shall ma ke and transmit to said commission a report containing the findings and recommendations of such conference on said subject . Accordingly as the subject submitted to it shall require @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recommendations on any or all of the following questions concerning the particular occupation under inquiry , to wit : ( a ) Standards of hours of employment for women workers and what are unreasonably long hours of employment for women workers ; ( b ) Standards of conditions of labor for women workers and what surroundings or conditions ? sanitary or otherwise ? are detriVOT , CXXX I I. ? No. 783.  - -  33mental to the health or morals of women workers ; ( c ) Standards of minimum wages for women workers and what wages are inadequate to supply the necessary cost of living to women workers and maintain them in health .. ? ? The Commission is not obliged to approve all or any of these recommendations , but such standards as it determines to make legally binding upon the particular industry or occupation under examination must be the standards recommended by the wage board or industrial parliament of such industry . The authority by virtue of which the legislature empowers the Commission to establish minimum wages is the so-called police power , the modern survival of the majesty by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his judgment were required for the good and welfare of his realm . But the will of the legislature , unlike the will of the kings , is not supreme ; it must submit to guidance by the manifest common belief of the great body of the people , without the support of which its decrees can not he enforced . In recognition of this fact , all of our minimum-wage laws rely for their enforcement upon publicity . In the Oregon law , for example , it is provided that if the Commission approves any recommendations of the wage conference , " said commission shall publish notice , not less than once a week for four successive weeks in not less than two newspapers of general circulation in Multnomah County ; that it will , on a date and at a place named in said notice , hold a public meeting at which all persons in favor of or opposed to said recommendations will be given a hearing . " Only after such public hearing may the Commission issue its orders . And in Massachusetts and Nebraska exclusive reliance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Commission , which are issued , not as orders , but as recommendations only . In these two states , when a minimum-wage rate is agreed upon , the Commission is limited to the publication of its findings as recommendations in a specified number of newspapers throughout the state , and , in addition , to the publication of the names of those employers who refuse to comply . An important reason for this limitation is the fear that the courts may hold the compulsory provision of other laws unconstitutional . This very question is at present before the United States Supreme Court in connection with the Oregon law , and if its decision should be adverse , the power of enforcement would probably be superseded by the power of recommendation in all the laws . The first minimum-wage orders promulgated in the United States were those of the Oregon Industrial Commission , fixing eight dollars and sixty-four cents ( $8.64 ) as the legal weekly minimum for manufacturing establishments , and nine dollars and twenty-five cents ( 9. z5 ) for mercantile establishments , in the city of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workers and employers gathered by the Oregon Consumers ' League , whose chairman is the present chairman of the Commission . Regarding the department stores , for example , this testimony shows that the prevailing wage for beginners was three dollars a week , and that slightly over forty-seven per cent. , or nearly half of these girls and women , were receiving less than nine dollars . The clerks , who make up a large part of all female department-store workers , never received above ten dollars a week , no matter how long the term of their service . Among the reasons given by the employers for these prevailingly low standards was the excessive supply of girls and women , a condition which seemed to call for the restriction of births among the working classes . They recognized the value of a scheme of graded promotion on the basis of experience as an important incentive to efficiency , but the degree of expertness required in department stores could readily be mastered by girls of ordinary intelligence in a few months or a year , so that when a woman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rate of from fifty cents to a dollar a year , reached ten dollars , good business required that she should be replaced by other women further down the scale . Another reason invariably advanced was that most girls and women work not from necessity , but from choice and forpin-money ; that they live with their parents , and that whatever they earn is in the nature of " velvet . " As a matter of fact , it was found in Portland ? as it has been found in Boston and New York and other industrial centers where similar surveys have been made ? that fully one-third of these working women are adrift ? that is , without homes ? and that most of those who live at home have to support themselves quite as definitely as the homeless women . It has been scientifically determined that one thousand dollars is the least upon which a man can support a family of a wife and three children in an American city ; yet Prof. Scott Nearing , late of the University of Pennsylvania , has shown from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ males in the United States are receiving wages of less than six hundred dollars a year . A working woman who lives at home needs , as a rule , not only to support herself , but to contribute to the support of younger brothers and sisters . And still a third reason applicable , fortunately , to a very small number of establishments ? is the absentee ownership of certain mercantile establishments and the exclusive interest of non-resident owners in profits . The chief offenders in this respect were the absentee boards of directors of the five-and-ten-cent stores , in which the highest wage paid to any worker was found to be six dollars a week . A commentary on this situation is a circular issued to its stockholders by the absentee directors of a corporation owning a great chain of these five-andten-cent stores , urging their subscribers to further investment on the ground that the stock was sure to yield good dividends because of the low wages paid to clerks by reason of their youth and consequent cheapness . Such conditions are often , however , the result of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or choice on the part of employers . In California , for example , where a law practically identical with that of Oregon is in force , the Retail Drygoods Association conferred with the Commission For the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of the law , and at its own expense made an investigation of practically every large department store in the state , and turned its findings over to the Commission . Their general attitude , typical of a growing body of sentiment among employers , is expressed in these words of their president : " Frankly , " he says , in addressing the merchants of the country , " the minimum wage for women has come . You will have to meet it . And why should n't you meet it ? What harm is it going to do if every merchant has to pay the same wage ? It becomes precisely as other expense accounts . Ilitherto the law of supply and demand fixed the wage schedule . Henceforth it will be efficiency . And if the cost of selling is increased , the purchaser is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employees is pending in some states . When the law first came into our state we thought it was very drastic . Time has proved the wisdom of the law . Merchants have adapted themselves to it . Business proceeds with ever-increasing prosperity , and we are scarcely conscious of ever having worked without an eight-hour law in effect . " After learning from the employers what wages were actually paid , the Oregon investigators sought to determine the amount needful to protect the health and morals of the women workers through an examination of market prices and an intensive study of the actual expenditures of the workers . One hundred and sixteen department-store workers furnished the information for the following table of averages , which , to those with either the experience or imagination to translate figures into terms of the daily struggle for existence , will not be devoid of poignant dramatic interest . AVERAGE YEARLY EXPENDITURES DE ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTEEN WOMEN DEPARTMENT - STORE WORKERS IN PORTLAND , OREGON Recreation $21.48 $36.62 Books , etc ro.ri 6.69 $570.42 480-57 $ 89.8 ; These bald figures mean that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cost them to live . How did they meet the difference ? Many of them , whether living at home or boarding , did extra chores in the morning before going to work and after work in the evening , for which they received the equivalent of money in food or rent or clothing . For example , Nellie B. got breakfast for the family , washed the family dishes at night , and did the family washing and ironing on Sunday . Others went in debt . And still others became charity girls ? that is , they kept company with a man on a financial basis , usually on the pledge of marriage when their " gentlemen friends " should feel able to set up a household . Such tentative arrangements , needless to say , do not always mature according to expectations . The discovery that inadequate wages menace the morals of women had much to do with the sudden flood of minimum-wage laws in 1913 . Happily , the more searching investigations of recent years have greatly reduced the estimated number of these charity girls who go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority of women workers will sacrifice health and the amenities of life rather than their moral integrity . But is it not well for us to consider whether underfeeding , insufficient clothes , and a life perpetually oppressed by the fear of debt are likely to give the nation vigorous mothers of vigorous children ? Upon evidence of this character , the Oregon Consumers ' League decided that ten dollars a week was the least upon which a woman could keep herself in health . But the Commission , proceeding conservatively , reduced this estimate to nine dollars and twenty-five cents a week , the minimum which the owners of mercantile establishments in Portland are now permitted to pay " to any experienced , adult woman . ' In the case of factory workers , the beginner 's wage was also three dollars , but half the women were found to be receiving less than eight dollars a week , as compared with nine dollars for half of the department-store workers , while the cost of living was practically the same for the two groups , except that the factory workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this reason that the Commission fixed the legal minimum wage for " experienced , adult factory workers " at eight dollars and sixty-four cents . The order establishing this wage for factory workers has been made the basis of a suit to test the constitutionality of the Oregon law , which , having been sustained by the state supreme court , is now before the Supreme Court of the United States . A brief reference to the arguments in this case will show the grounds upon which the minimum wage is being advocated and opposed . The suit was brought in the name of Frank C. Stctticr , a manufacturer of paper boxes in Portland , and of Elmira Simpson , one of his employees , who for three years had been receiving a weekly wage of eight dollars , " the best wages and compensation for her labor that she is able to receive for any employment or labor that she is capable of per:orming . " The general ground of complaint is that the order compelling the payment of $8.64 destroys the property of the employer and the employment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that wages have no bearing upon public welfare . The plaintiff declares that " labor is a commodity , whose value , like other commodities , depends on the law of supply and demand " ; that to fix wages by statute is to interfere dangerously " with the operation of natural and economic laws , " and with the " right which nature has conferred on every man and woman to work for a living at such wages as he or she shall deem satisfactory , and at such employment as he or she shall choose , if the employment be not harmful to the laborer or to others " ; and that " the wage paid does not in any wise affect the physical or moral wellbeing of the employee , " since while " it may not be sufficient to support him in health and comfort , it aids in so doing . " Of course , the defense flatly contradicts all of these contentions . But instead of relying upon theoretical argument , the state presents a mass of evidence to show what the actual effects of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condition of the workers and the prosperity of business . The most impressive evidence of this nature is taken from the experience of Victoria , in Australia , where a law similar to the law in Oregon , but covering the wages of men as well as women , has been in operation since 1896 . When the act of Victoria was before the legislature in 1896 , and again when it was up for reconsideration in 1900 , the opposition was led by the Victorian Chamber of Manufacturers . Professor lIammond , of the University of Ohio , has recently visited Victoria , where he interviewed the presidents and secretaries of both the Chamber of Manufacturers , the Victorian Employers ' Association , and the representatives of the mine-owners and operators . " Practically all of them agreed that the system was better for the employers than the old system of unregulated competition . " The main reason for this change of attitude is that the wages fixed by the wage boards have seldom been above those already paid by the best employers , who have thus been protected from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by making the best the standard , the law has had an important effect in stimulating efficiency throughout the industries concerned , ? so that prices have not had to be increased on its account . That it has also had a stimulating rather than a retarding influence upon the growth of manufactures is shown by the fact that in 1896 there were in Victoria three thousand three hundred and seventy factories employing forty thousand eight hundred and fourteen workers ; whereas , in 1911 , there were five thousand six hundred and thirty-eight factories , with eighty-eight thousand six hundred and ninety-four workers . The enterprise of many American business men has long since shown that an increase in wages is not incompatible with an increase in profits . A few years ago the United States Tariff Board examined into the labor cost in the cotton , paper , and woolen industries . It found that because of superior machinery and the higher personal efficiency of the American worker , the American weaver receiving one dollar and sixty cents a day was in certain cases cheaper than the Japanese weaver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wool scouring , " says Mr. N. I. Stone , the expert of the board , " the lowest average wage paid to machine operators in thirty mills was twelve and sixteen-hundredths cents an hour , the highest seventeen and seventy-nine-hundredths . Yet the low-wage mill showed a labor cost of twenty-one cents per hundred pounds of wool , while the high-wage mill had a cost of only fifteen cents . One-half of the difference was accounted for by the fact that the low-wage mill paid nine cents per hundred pounds for supervisory labor ? foremen , speeders , and the like ? whereas the high-wage mill found it necessary to pay only six cents for this purpose . In the carding department of seventeen worsted mills , the mill paying its machine operators an average of thirteen and eighteen-hundredths cents per hour had a machine labor cost of four cents per hundred pounds , while the mill paying eleven and eighty-six-hundredths cents per hour had a cost of twenty-five cents per hundred pounds . This was largely due to the fact that the high-wage mill , which operated at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out more than three hundred and twenty-six pounds per hour , while the low-wage mill , operating at a high cost , was turning out less than forty-eight pounds per hour . " In 1896 there were many workers in Victoria who feared that the minimum-wage act would disrupt the unions , and that the minimum wage would tend to become the maximum . Neither of these things has happened . As parliaments in which both sides have equal representation , the wage boards have greatly stimulated organization among the workers no less than among the employers . It is true that the labor leaders have had to change their qualifications ; they have had to become students of the industry , skilled in reasoning from facts , instead of fomenters and leaders of strikes . Nor has the minimum wage tended tobecome the maximum . Detailed evidence on this point is not available for Victoria , but in the city of Auckland , of twenty-four hundred and fifty-eight workers under the law , nine hundred and forty-eight received the minimum rate , and fifteen hundred and ten , or sixty-one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of twenty-seven hundred and eighty-eight workers , fifty-nine per cent . received above the minimum ; and in Dunedin the percentage of sixteen hundred and thirty-seven workers above the minimum was fifty-one . For years , wage boards or industrial parliaments have been in operation under voluntary agreements entered into by the employers and workers in a number of important American industries , notably in the garment trades in New York City . As a member of the Board of Arbitration of the Waist and Dress Industry , I have had an interesting opportunity to watch their effect upon the relations of employers and employees , and upon the prosperity of the unity . com-munity . Their most noteworthy result has been the substitution of discussion and adjustment of difficulties upon the basis of tested evidence for the strikes and lockouts that , until a few years ago , kept the largest clothing industry of the nation in a state of perpetual uncertainty and turmoil . By the terms of a voluntary agreement , standards of minimum wages have been fixed for the industry , and working conditions in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benefit of the health of the workers , but also to the advantage of the employers through increased efficiency , by a Joint Board of Sanitary Control , to the support of which both sides contribute . When questions arise as to the fairness of wages , the sanitary conditions in factories , or the justice of hiring or discharge , they are brought before a conference in which both sides are equally represented for parliamentary investigation and debate , with the result-that a majority of them are adjusted without serious interruptions of production or loss of employment . An especially significant result of the industrial parliaments has been the modification they have produced in the psychological attitude of the employers and workers toward one another . Under the conditions of modem industry , where large numbers of workers are brought together in a single establishment , and where the tide of business is subject to wide fluctuations , so that there may be fifty workers in a shop to-day and a hundred and fifty to-morrow , the old personal intimacy between the employer and his help has almost totally disappeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their workers , and most workers know their employers only by name . This lack of contact opens wide the door to misunderstandings , breeds suspicion , and often tempts both sides to take secret and unfair advantage . Where no provision is made for conference , the spirit of the factory is likely to become that of an armed peace , which is essentially the spirit of war . I have seen employers and workers come together in the meetings of wage boards , tense with bitterness and hostility . I have heard them wrangle for hours over charges of bad faith and have seen them grow calm and reasonable as the questioning of the chairman brought out the facts on both sides and developed the basis for an understanding . Often both sides will show an unexpected readiness to subordinate what they had considered their absolute rights in the premises to the larger interests of the industry , and to recognize themselves and one another , not so much as enemies fighting for a stake , as industrial citizens with a common interest in the prosperity of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conferences have not , to be sure , obviated strikes and lockouts entirely , principally because , under the terms of a voluntary agreement there is no authority like that of the state commissions , with legal power to call witnesses , to investigate all facts in dispute , to compel candor on both sides , and to place full evidence before the public . In the course of long and tedious debates over the technical details of an industry upon the part of employers and workers who feel that their livelihood depends upon the issue , there are times when individual interest and partisan passion prevail over reason , candor , and mutual consideration , with the result that the conferences break up in explosions of discord . Then follow stoppages of work , as strikes of a few days ' duration are called , or the arbitrary discharge of groups of workers to punish the union leaders . But these failures are exceptional and are usually confined to a single factory . And if the conferences were held under state supervision , in the full light of publicity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the public , under modern conditions of factory production , is so vitally concerned in the uninterrupted and efficient conduct of every business that deals in the commodities of domestic consumption that the wage boards or industrial parliaments , fortified by the police power of the state , are such important additions to the civic structure . And because they give the public and the workers a recognized voice in the employer 's conduct of his business , they are of unique significance in the evolution of industrial democracy .                     