@@430766

 | THE theory of our national military system is that Congress decides when war is to be waged and provides the money and the men , while the President controls the actual use of the armed forces for the purposes in hand . In practise , there is no such sharp division of functions . The President may independently lead the country into war ; his influence may leave Congress little discretion in providing fighting material . Congress , in turn , may put the commander-in-chief under restraint by withholding supplies , by granting supplies conditionally , by dictating a given course of action , by calling for explanations and reports , by ordering investigations , or by setting up special committees of supervision , empowered to inquire , recommend , and warn . In every important war in which the United States has engaged there has been a pull and haul between Congress and the President as to who shall actually say how the conflict shall be carried on . The war with Germany will prove no exception . Indeed the issue has already been brought to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Food bill proposing to create a special joint committee to assume surveillance over war expenditures and otherwise keep watch upon the actions of the Administration . The plan was dropped , but only after the President challenged its sponsors in a letter strongly hinting at a veto of the Food bill itself unless the objectionable feature were removed . This settled nothing . The amendment was a rider , and the fundamental question of policy involved in it was never clearly before either branch of Congress . But enough was said to indicate that , in one form or another , the proposal may be expected to come up repeatedly , and to yield much discussion , if not important action . In his communication to Chairman Lever the President referred pointedly to Civil War experiences , declared that the Joint Committee on the Conduct of the War created in 1861 rendered Lincoln 's task " all but impossible , " and made it plain that he would view the setting up of any Congressional supervising committee in this war as a public calamity . As a precedent to which appeal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be made , the half-forgotten Civil War joint committee acquires a sudden interest . This committee owed its origin to popular demand for a more vigorous war policy in the autumn of 1861 . When the Thirtyseventh Congress met in regular session , December 2 , public discontent quickly found expression on the floor of both houses . The disasters of Bull Run and Ball 's Bluff were fresh in mind . No counterstroke had been delivered , or even attempted , in the East . The Army of the Potomac , under command of McClellan , had reached a strength of 185,000 men , being by far the largest force that had ever been brought together in the western hemisphere ? larger , indeed , than Napoleon at any time led into battle . For five months preparations had been pushed . The army was splendidly drilled and equipped ; it greatly outnumbered its opponents ; officers and men were anxious for action ; weather conditions were perfect . But McClellan was not ready to fight . Indeed , he kept begging for more troops and equipment . Lincoln met @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a forward movement be not longer delayed . In the Senate discussion soon centered on the reverses suffered by the Unionist cause , and Zachariah Chandler , of Michigan , introduced a resolution calling for a committee of three to inquire into the Bull Run and Ball 's Bluff disasters . Grimes , of Iowa . proposed a joint committee of three Senators and four Representatives , with more general powers ; and the substitute resolution prevailed . As finally passed by the two houses , the  | resolution provided for a joint committee of seven members , charged with inquiring into " the conduct of the present war , " and empowered to send for persons and papers and to sit whenever either branch of Congress was in session . The resolution was piloted through the House by Roscoe Conkling , of New York . At the outset , the committee consisted of Senators Wade , Chandler , and Johnson , and Representatives Julian , Covode , Gooch , and Odell . Wade was made chairman , and he and Chandler ? leaders of the Senate radicals ? dominated the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tennessee , and was replaced by Senator Wright . The committee began work with a vigor which was never relaxed throughout its four years of existence . Its first great task was to inquire into the causes of the ineffectiveness of the Army of the Potomac . The Bull Run and Ball 's Bluff defeats were investigated and reported on . But the members conceived their mandate to extend to the operations of war in their broadest phases , and to plans for the future as well as acts of the past . Accordingly , they called McClellan into conference and , to his disgust , plied him with arguments for an immediate advance against the enemy . They made repeated visits to Lincoln and members of the cabinet to urge that McClellan be replaced by a commander who would fight , and were shocked to find that " neither the President nor his advisers seemed to have any definite information respecting the management of the war . " They took independent steps to find out how strong the enemy was , how many men could be spared from the Army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done to strengthen the fortifications about Washington , why McClellan 's plan to advance upon Richmond by the roundabout Peninsular route was allowed to prevail over the wiser plan of Lincoln for a direct advance . When at length the Peninsular campaign was started , they scrutinized every step of it , and submitted a lengthy report vigorously assailing McClellan 's generalship . As the war progressed , scarcely an important operation failed to be brought within the committee 's range of action . In most instances the investigations were ordered by Congress , but Wade and his colleagues did not hesitate to act on their own initiative . Fremont 's campaigns in Missouri , the Hatteras expedition , the Fort Pillow massacre , the battle of the Monitor and the Merrimac , Burnside 's Beaufort exploits , the battle of Petersburg , B. F. Butler 's famous raid on Fort Fisher ? these are but a few of the subjects on which reports , aggregating eight portly volumes , were brought in . Many of the reports were given wide publicity ; some were accompanied with photographs and other illustrative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 1 ) to ferret out the mistakes that were made in the conduct of the war , ( 2 ) to bring together information which the President and heads of departments were too busy to seek , and ( 3 ) to place the results of its investigations at the disposal of Congress and the executive officers , " with such recommendations and suggestions as seemed to be most imperatively demanded . " In carrying out these purposes the committee showed untiring energy and exercised high prerogatives . It visited every section of the country in search of evidence ; it called generals and statesmen before it , and " questioned them like refractory schoolboys " ; it became a stern and jealous censor of army and Government alike ; it brought in bills , and influenced the course of legislation ; it boldly overrode the judgment of such men as Grant and Meade on military matters , and made and unmade reputations with a free hand . It goes without saying that the committee lived perpetually in an atmosphere of controversy ; and it was itself , as Nicolay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ciation and defended with headlong and in , discriminating eulogy . " Its decisions were al times hasty . It habitually sought expert opinions , but its judgments were not always . in accordance with the weight of testimony . Its inquisitorial methods were often irritating . It was not above prejudice . Julian admits that the majority of its members reached a point where it was impossible for them to do justice to McClellan . None the less , the committee steadily retained the confidence and support of Congress ; and the press and public opinion of the loyal States , with remarkable unanimity , not only recognized its earnestness , patriotism , and honesty , but credited it with large usefulness to the country . From the White House it must have been viewed with less satisfaction . Yet Lincoln saw in it an important organ of public opinion and took no such haughty attitude toward it as did some of his subordinates . Its nagging on the subject of McClellan in 1861-62 was wearisome.  | Still , its position was sound , and Lincoln was obliged eventually to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the evidence does not indicate that the committee really hampered the President in the conduct of military operations . On the contrary , it exposed many blunders , gathered much useful information , gave wholesome advice , and served as a useful link between the executive and legislative branches . It is true that in the closing months of the war Lincoln and it were working at cross purposes . But this was because of a clash between the moderateness of the one and the radicalism of the other on questions relating to reconstruction and the status of the negro . The conflict was really between the President and the radical majority in Congress ; and Wade 's unfeeling remark , made when the committee first called to pay its respects to President Johnson ? " By the gods , there will be no trouble now in running the government " ? is not chargeable to the committee as such .                     