@@430662

 | THE personal relation of our President toward the public becomes more and more difficult as time passes and the work of the position expands by reason of the growth of the greatest office in the world . Even in Grover Cleveland 's time the pressure of visitors and of correspondence was slight as compared with that of today , when it has become a serious question how a President can receive the visitors he ought to , answer that part of his mail which requires personal acknowledgment , and still find time to peruse the mass of printed and typewritten matter laid before him for information or for action . Senators , Congressmen , Cabinet members , diplomats must be seen , and newspaper men also . Distinguished visitors from other sections and other countries deem it almost their right to be received . Never again can Presidents be as accessible as were Presidents Cleveland and Harrison . Paul Lindau , the German novelist , tells how he was one day casually asked in Washington by a friend of Mr. Cleveland 's if he would like to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inquired whether he should not put on the dress-suit of European officialdom or the frock coat of American statesmanship . Being assured that this was not necessary , they walked to the White House , passing a single languid policeman , to be asked in at once to the secretary 's office . " You wish to see the President ? Walk right upstairs , please . You 'll find him in his study . " In the next minute they were in the presence of the ruler of the freest of nations . Lindau , who had seen the ceremonial of all the courts of Europe , declared that nothing in his life had impressed him like this simplicity and openness , the absence of guards and chamberlains , aides-de-camp and flunkies . Those were surely the " good old days , " when it was easy for the centenarian from Thatcher 's Run , Chenango County , who had " shaken the hand of every President since Jefferson , sir , " to add still another White House memory to his collection . Had there been sightseers ' cars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by appearing at the front door at 10.06 every morning . Indubitably Mr. Roosevelt was the most skilled President in the technique of his office , in that he could do with relatively little sleep , dispatch business with extraordinary speed , and read with amazing rapidity . With Mr. Wilson the situation has been quite different . As Governor of New Jersey , like Governor Hughes in New York , he governed in the open . The door of his large office stood ajar ; any one had access to him and any one could see how the business of state was being carried on . In Washington the situation speedily changed ; Mr. Wilson for one reason or another , either desired to alter this policy or found that he was compelled to , by the pressure of the situation . On top of everything came two long summers with Congress on his hands , during which much legislation of a highly important character was past by Congress , a good deal of it under pressure from the White House . Then there came his great personal bereavement , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President drew more and more into his shell , secluding himself to such an extent that on the occasion of his second visit to Cornish no one but the members of his family and immediate entourage crost his threshold for a period of twenty-five days , a : happening that one must go far back in the Presidency to parallel . It is an open secret that Mr. Wilson welcomed this seclusion not only for the rest that it gave him , but for the opportunity to exercise and to motor , to reflect quietly , to dispose of much reading of documents , and to prime himself upon many questions besides the then pressing German issues . He was , of course , in touch with the White House at all hours by telephone and telegraph , while the mailbags were heavy ; but the happening appears the more remarkable when it is remembered that this took place in the middle of an international crisis of an importance only equaled a few times in our history . Now , one result of the President 's growing isolation has been that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his subordinates in his own government have not been in close touch with him and have lacked that inspiration which inevitably comes when subordinates are brought into contact with the personality at the head , particularly when the personality is a Woodrow Wilson , one of the most entertaining and charming of men , who can fascinate or inspire whenever he chooses to make the effort . Looked at merely from the point of view of administrative efficiency , or of party loyalty , or of enthusing the youngest men to the future carrying on of the political principles for which Mr. Wilson stands , his isolation , however readily the reasons for it are understood , has done harm . Probably the President himself does not realize this ? I am told by one who was his friend at Princeton and one of his best professors , that Mr. Wilson showed the same tendency there to leave his teachers to themselves so far as their work went . Altho he was a good football coach in his time , he forgets now that a hearty slap on the back , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , helps to make a good team , whether on the football field , or when the game is the administration of the nation 's affairs . It is current gossip in Washington that the President has never talked to the members of the Federal Reserve Board and has only met them officially at one of the deadly White House receptions . The wife of one of the most important officials in Washington , who is today doing a singularly important piece of work for the Government , said to me : " The President is a great figure , but not a personality to us , because we never see him ; we only met him once at a reception . " Upon Congressmen this failure to get in personal touch with the President bears particularly heavily . They are ambassadors from their communities to the seat of government , and their clients picture them as in touch with the inmost secrets of the White House . One Middle Western Congressman , quite an important figure in the House , went to a fellow Representative who was supposed to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ getting an interview . " In the two years the President has been here I have never met him , " he said . " Every time I go home the folks ask me what the President thinks about this or that . I have to lie and tell them what I think he is thinking or I 'd lose my job . Now , I am going home for a long stay , and for the sake of my eternal soul I want to be able to say truthfully when I get home this time : ' Oh , I saw the President                     