@@487171

It can not be said that the French diplomatic correspondence , published in full by the New York Times on Sunday , compels anybody to reconstruct his theory of the causes of the war . No positively new facts are supplied . It is simply the former story again , told from another point of view . But this is a very interesting point of view . The French Foreign Office was particularly well served in Vienna , in Rome , and in Berlin , and the reports from the Ambassadors of France in those capitals are highly intelligent and instructive ) They do not , perhaps , throw any startling light upon the diplomatic negotiations before the war . Those were already pretty clear in the official publications of Great Britain and Germany , Russia and Belgium . But this French version is valuable in the way of confirming and amplifying what was known . It fills certain gaps in our knowledge , and helps to place the affair in its true perspective . In his dispatches from Vienna , the French Ambassador , M. Dumaine , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Austria was . She expected scarcely any difficulty in imposing her will upon Servia . She evidently counted upon Germany 's supporting her up to the hilt . Any movement from the side of Russia she believed would come to no more than did the Russian protest in 1909 , at the time of the annexation of Bosnia and Herzegovina . Here is an extract from the Austrian Hilitansehe Ricridschalt which Ambassador Dumaine , telegraphed on July 15 ? The moment is still favorable for us . If we do not decide upon war , the war we shall have to make in two or three years at the latest will be begun in circumstances much less propitious ; now the initiative belongs to us . Russia is not ready , the moral factors are for us , might as well as right Since , some day we shall have to accept the struggle , let us provoke it at once Our prestige , our position as a great Power , our honor , are in question There is more still , for , in all probability , it is our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be " ? that is really the big business of to-day Passing to another member of the Triple Alliance , we find in the French Yellow Book several significant dispatches bearing upon Italy 's attitude during the crisis Fresh proof is given that the Italian Government was not taken into the confidence of Germany and Austria , in the matter of the Austrian ultimatum to Servia . Ambassador Cambon telegraphed from Berlin on July 25 that he had it from the Italian Ambassador there that " Italy is much surprised , to say nothing stronger , at having been kept out of the whole affair by her allies . " And the French Foreign Office pointed out on July 26 that " Italy is bound by the engagements of the Triple Alliance only in matters an which she has been previously consulted . " That she felt herself not so bound , when the war actually came , has been made abundantly plain . But in these dispatches we have it put down precisely at the time . On August 1 Ambassador BarrOre telegraphed from Rome that the German Ambassador @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war . The Minister for Foreign Affairs , the Marquis di San Giuliano , replied that as " the war had an aggressive character , and was not in accordance with the purely defensive character of the Triple Alliance , Italy could not take part . " Here is plainly an important and contemporary opinion as to " who began it . " It is , however , the information sent to Paris from Berlin that is the most suggestive part of the Yellow Book . It dates back a year . We see more clearly than ever before how narrowly Europe escaped being plunged into war in 1913 , when the Balkan War was having its troubled seq. - welt- v . It was in April of that year that the French War Office came into possession of a secret and official report of the German army . Its authenticity we can not , of course , vouch for ; but it certainly reads like a genuine study of the effect of the new army laws , and of the international situation . The whole document will repay close reading . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " we could not in any way offer Belgium any guarantees of the security of her neutrality . " And no one can doubt that the following figure of speech , referring to what the German army would do , came from a German source , whether it was official or not : " The aroused eagle will take its flight and seizing the enemy in its sharpened claws render him harmless . " We append a statement also made in 1913 , according to Ambassador Cambon , by Gen. von Moltke . He was speaking of the purpose of the General Staff to act by surprise , and remarked : The commonplaces as to the responsibility of the aggressor must be disregarded . When war has become necessary it must be waged by ranging all the chances on one 's own side . Success alone justifies it . Germany can not and must not give Russia time to mobilize , or she will be obliged to maintain on the eastern frontier a force which would leave her in a position of equality , if not of inferiority , in front @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; there are nine chances in ten that we are going to have war , and we must begin war without waiting , in order brutally to crush all resistance . There is no need to extend the citations . They would only piece out our knowledge of the foregoing period and of the days Just preceding the war . It is a terrible impression which the whole must make on a sensitive mind  --  the military party everywhere gradually getting the upper hand , rulers recklessly playing the game of life or death for millions of the people . We are , as it were , let in at the laying of a subterranean mine , of which ' the explosion shook the world . And nothing is more disheartening than the way in which monarchs and diplomats pressed on ' with their plans , in the most perfect assurance that they could not make a mistake , although , as everybody can now see , they were deceived and deluded right and left . This French correspondence once more brings out the fact that Germany utterly miscalculated the action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Berlin : " Up to these very last few days people have flattered themselves here that England would remain aloof , and the impression produced by her attitude upon the German Government , financiers , and business men is profound . " LEST WE FORGET FRANCE . For various reasons , France has seemed during the , past two months to have partially dropped out of American thought and sympathies . Throughout August and the first part of September her apparently impending tragic fate was ever present to our minds . , Next after Belgium , she most appealed . But since the staying of the tide of invasion north of Paris , we have somehow given less attention to the place of the French in the terrible coil of war . Both the pathos and the crisis of the struggle have appeared to be situated elsewhere . And the great qualities displayed by the French people , during all this time of the trying of their souls , have not impressed themselves upon our consciousness and our imagination so powerfully as they might have been expected to do . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the drift of discussion and the perspective of the war news . But few words need be spent upon the military aspects of the matter . That the French army surprised the world , is generally admitted . And it is worth while noting upon what point admiration of it has focussed . This was its splendid recovery of spirit after initial defeats . That was scarcely looked for . When German army after German army drove back the French in August , when there were evidences of uncertainty and confusion in the French military plans , when more than one French general in command was guilty of incompetence or worse , it looked as if the boasts of the German bulletins might be better justified than we liked to admit , and that " Gen. Joffre 's army was incapable of further resistance . " But all this was soon proved false . The morale of the French army reasserted itself promptly ; and the valiant and determined and inexpugnable front which it has since opposed to the Germans has wrung tributes from even the enemy . The transformation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bull-dog grip has been described by the President of the French Republic . " As the course of the hostilities has gone Its way , " wrote M. Poincare " to the Minister of War , " the French soldier , while losing nothing of his impetuosity and courage , has learned by experience to adapt his natural qualities to the demands of the military operations . He maintains an unequalled power on the offensive , and at the same time ischools hiraSelf in patience and in. ter ' Iasi-W . " The known facts bear out the assertion . It is , however , mainly the manifestation of French national character away from the actual fighting that kindles admiration . Even the ardent lovers of France could hardly have counted upon so fine an exhibition . Most of the traits which we proverbially and all too lightly associate with the French people have gleamed by their absence . There was little that looked like unbalancing excitement or panic of soul . Nor was there much posturing or rhetoric . In the face of what was certainly a fearful danger , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France was calm . The people summoned all their reserves of strength and capacity to endure , and gave the world an inspiring example of a nation prepared to drain the bitterest cup without whimpering . The indomitable spirit with which men and women in France made ready to go through inevitable sufferings and misery , together with their energy in resisting the thrust of disaster at every point possible , their fertility of resource and of hope in the dark days , and the fine resilience with- which they bent back like tempered steel to their assigned tasks , will compel many a hasty critic to revise his opinion of French lightness and instability . Never did France rise to a higher stature . To the attitude of her men of science , her writers , her professors , separate reference may be made . Amid the devastation of war , France has clung with pathetic eagerness to her art , her literature , her universities . The University of France opened its doors as usual . What though hundreds of its students were with the army and many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the University to go on with its work in dignity and serenity . The great tradition must be maintained . As it is expressed by Rend Doumic , who himself passed his first year at college in a besieged Paris , in 1870 , " the University does not admit that a single one of those who have the honor to belong to it is not at his post " ? whether that post be in a trench or in a classroom . Either way , the magnificent union of French hearts is shown , as is also the " nobly humane " nature of the culture for which France stands steadfast . All that we have said can be admitted by even those most scrupulous in guarding against unneutral conduct during this war . If the German Crown Prince , if the Kaiser himself , can pause in the midst of conflict to bestow praise upon the high qualities exhibited by the French , Americans need not feel it necessary to stint their applause . For it is a kind of additions to the moral assets of the world which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months . In being forced to think better things of the French nature , we shall be prevented from ever thinking meanly of human nature in general . France has unlocked her soul for the nations to see ; and so doing helps us to understand of what depths and what heights , what tragedies and what splendors , mankind is capable . THE REPORT OF THE TREASURY . The occasions are nat numerous when the annual report of the Secretary of the Treasury  --  usually a matter of routine estimates and forecasts  --  embodies a chapter of great historic interest . It is apt to do so only at times , such as 1894 or 1907 , when the Government has had to intervene with protective measures in a great economic crisis . This , in a notable degree , has been the character of the period since the European war began ; the Treasury report which was submitted to Congress last week is the record of the Government 's part in meeting the financial storm which came with the outbreak of hostilities . The high service rendered by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and vigor of the measures taken , has been fully and frankly recognized , even by political opponents . We have in mind the instance of a financier long hos tile to the Wilson Administration , who , when asked in the early days of August if our lack of a great financial leader in that crisis was not unfortunate , replied that we had discovered such a leader in President Wilson . Certainly , the inspiration and the impetus for each of the expedients adopted to protect the country 's credit situation came primarily from the White House . The cordial personal cooperation of the Administration with men in the high places of finance not only simplified the programme of relief , but was full of favorable omen for the future . It may easily have foreshadowed , as so many other signs of the times have done , a new era in the relations of Government and " Big Business . " Secretary McAdoo 's report reviews the measures taken to meet the midsummer crisis . On July 31 , the day when the sudden closing of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Treasury Department publicly announced its purpose to " help , as far as it legitimately may , in New York or in any other part of the country where it becomes apparent that assistance is needed " ; and it proposed the immediate recourse by the banks to the emergency currency of the Aldrich-Vreeland Act . A day later , the Treasury called a conference of Clearing-House authorities , and on August 2 the Secretary came in person to New York to arrange with the leading banks for protective measures . There was issued to national banks at New York , as the Treasury report now shows , $141,228,000 of this emergency currency , and $228,330,040 throughout the whole country . To this expedient , applied with the greatest promptness , is unquestionably to be ascribed the absence of money-hoarding and of a premium on currency , such as marked our previous financial panics . Indeed , the word " panic " can hardly be applied with propriety to our financial history in the past four months . It was stopped at its beginning , as was the simultaneous London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Government behind them , were united in maintaining the credit situation . The redemption and retirement of these emergency issues , Mr. McAdoo believes , " will not present a difficult problem . " In point of fact , more than $100,000,000 has already been retired by the New York banks alone , and upwards of $130 , - 000,000 in the whole United States . It was directly under the auspices of the Treasury , early in August , that committees of well-known business men were named , after a general conference at Washington , to confer and cooperate with the Government as to the means of solving the unprecedented problems surrounding foreign exchange , ocean transportation , and war-risk insurance . In an attempt to surmount the very great difficulties in these matters the greater part of the work was properly committed to the banks , as in the case of the $100,000,000 fund to take up New York city 's foreign obligations , and the further $100,000,000 gold fund , designed for the regulation of the foreign exchange market . But in each of these expedients @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Board , promptly and wisely selected by the President , and in such other questions as the war ' risk insurance , which for the time was all but prohibitive to our foreign trade , it obtained from Congress the prompt action which was necessary . Not least important was the admitted fact that every unsound and extravagant plan urged on the Government in the excitement of the crisis was summarily rejected . We have mentioned only a few of the protective or remedial measures furthered by the Government , in conjunction with the financial community organized under the auspices of the Government . The Treasury report is abundantly warranted in declaring that the averting of an actual panic , with the gravest after-consequences , was distinctly due to " the prompt and effective action of the Treasury Department , with the cordial and intelligent codperation of the banking and business interests of the country . " Mr. McAdoo takes a hopeful view of the financial and industrial outlook , and in particular " looks forward with the greatest confidence " to the effects of the new reserve banking organization " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , indeed , few people who to-day will dispute the statement that the effective working establishment of that system  --  due to the resolute pressure of President Wilson  --  has occurred at the ideal psychological moment . The provisions of the Federal Reserve law , as enacted , never threatened inflation of the currency . But there were many intelligent observers who had expressed misgiving as to possible over-expansion of credit if the system should happen to go into operation during a business " boom . " There can be no such danger under the present circumstances ? in which , indeed , the business public 's knowledge of the facilities which now exist for granting larger credit , if required , is the surest guarantee that uneasiness over the general situation will be relieved , and borrowings kept down to actual needs . A WESTERN NATURE POET . The distinction of Madison Cawein , whose death is announced from Louisville , was as the best poet of nature the West has produced , and one of the best in the last generation in America ; it was his limitation that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that his work lay virtually in one field the critics have indeed made too much . It is true that his volumes , " Myth and Romance , " " Weeds by the Wall , " " A Voice on the Wind , " " Kentucky Poems , " " Days and Dreams , " are all chiefly of nature , often its mythological or romantic associations , but more often purely descriptive  --  written to render an aesthetic picture . But his descriptions are not purely external or wanting in poetic insight , and their recurrence is far from tiresome . Invited to estimate Cawein 's poetry , Mr. Howells tells us that he asked , " Why always nature poems ? Why not human-nature poems ? " But III seizing upon an objection so obvious that I ought to have known it was superficial , I had wronged a poet who had never done me harm in the very terms and conditions of his being a poet . I had made his reproach what ought to have been his finest praise , , what is always the praise of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ought to have said , as I had seen , that not one of his lovely landscapes in which I could see no human figure but thrilled with a human presence penetrating to it from his , most sensitive and subtle spirit until it was all but painfully alive with memories , with regrets , with longings , with hopes , with all that from time to time mutably constitutes us men and women , and yet keeps us chil-dren And it could be pointed out that the poet at times stepped successfully outside the narrower circle . " The Feud " is a dramatic episode of Kentucky ; " Ku Klux " is as graphic , there are one or two real dramas , and lyrics in numbers  --  for Cawein was over-prolificfull of a rather pensive interpretation of youthful romance , with its incidents chosen impartially from Greece , England , the Germany of his ancestors , or Kentucky . To analyze the qualities which made Cawein unique in his descriptions of Western nature , and discover why , among the Hays , Hoveys , Rileys , Platte , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place , is an interesting inquiry . No other had either his taste for nature or his eiact eye . In this scientific age , when Maeterlinck makes an exhaustive study of the bee an illustration of his poetic philosophy , and Tennyson 's successors know not only that ash-buds are black early in March , but many other botanical facts , he was our one distinctive poet-naturalist . Of dittany and the yellow puc coon he has written exactly , of mallow , iron-weed , bluet , and jewel-weed , the cohosh , the bell-flower , the oxalis , the Indian-pipe , from his books a manual of Kentucky flora and fauna might be made . He is helped by a sense of the atmosphere of place that pervades his larger landscapes ; and by a knack for the felicitous epithet  --  an inspiration , Howells remarked , " for the right word , and the courage of it , so that though in the first instant you may be challenged , you may be revolted , by something you thought uncouth , You are presently overcome by the happy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Rain-crow " : Can freckled August  --  drowsing warm and blonde Beside a wheat-shock in the white-topped mead , In her hot hair the oxeyed daises wound-0 bird of rain , lend aught but sleepy heed To thee ? When no plumed weed , no feather 'd seed - Blows by her ; and no ripple breaks the pond , That- gleams like flint between its rim of grasses , Through which the dragonfly forever passes Like splintered diamond ? Drought weighs the trees , and from the farmhouse eaves The locust , pulse-beat of the summer day , Throbs ; and the lane that shambles under leaves Limp with the heat  --  a league of rutty way ? Is lost in dust ; and sultry scents of hay Breathe from the panting meadows heaped with sheaves Now , now , 0 bird , what hint is there of rain In thirsty heaven or on burning plain That thy keen eye perceives ? And this brief quotation gives little hint of Cawein 's fidelity as a naturalist . Something like this zest for nature we have had from the Merrimac @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mississippi ? In explanation of Cawein 's narrow vein , the natural theory has been the thinness of the social world about him ; he was driven to nature-verse by the same want of background and history of which Haw-thorne complained at an earlier period in the East . But so great is the modern Western solicitude for a poet to express its native social ideals and spirit that the theory hardly holds . What is the glory that is attributed to Riley ? That his very sentimentality is the expression of a sectional attribute , that his verse is rooted in the soil by its dialect and content . Piatt 's " Western Windows " were acclaimed because they looked out on real Western life . Hay 's " Pike County Ballads " had historical truth . In reality , Western poetry has been less inclined to neglect history and life for nature than to do the opposite ; and this tendency is to-day as strong as ever . 