@@486252

social Studies in English Literature . By Laura Johnson Wylie . Boston : Houghton Mifflin Co. $1.75 net . This volume , contributed by Professor Wylie to the Vassar Semi-Centennial Series , consists of four thoughtful and carefully elaborated essays on the following subjects : The English Essay , The England of George Crabbe , The Social Philosophy of Wordsworth , and Shelley 's Democracy . The unity of the studies , as indicated by the author , " consists in their common viewpoint , each essay tracing the relation between a certain body of literature and some aspects of the social conditions out of which it grew . " A deeper unity than this is discoverable in Professor Wylie 's love of truth , her trust in reason , her desire for a social regeneration , and her faith in progress and in democracy . She modestly professes only a " pedestrian effort to ' see the object as in itself it really is ' " ; and her writing has generally the clearness , firmness , and sobriety requisite to presenting " the object " as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the book is in its subdued but pervasive revelation of awakened social sympathies in search of things real and fine . The study of the essay , which she maintains may be called " the characteristic literary art of the nineteenth century , " is full of interesting points . She attempts rather to define its spirit than its Protean form . Reason , she says , discovered the essay " when it attained to an intellectual intuition , parallel in the realm of thought to that of poetry in the realm of perception , and undertook to penetrate into the nature of things rather than to impose its own conclusions upon its environment . " Her sketch of the development of the essay thus becomes a sketch of the growth of the " modern " spirit . Her rationalistic sympathies and her conception of the essay-form as preeminently the vehicle of the realistic inductive mind have perhaps warped her judgment a little here and there . For example , Browne is passed over in a line ; Carlyle is denied the title of " thinker , " is declared " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Mill ; and Arnold is without qualification claimed as a " rationalist . " Professor Wylie 's bias in favor of the age of enlightenment serves her well , however , when she comes to the appraisal of the too-commonly underrated lights of the eighteenth century . Let us hear her on Shaftsbury 's " Characteristics " : They are , indeed , the very incarnation of that ardent faith in intellectual liberty , tempered into courtesy by the decorous ordering of life , that animated the best thinking of the time . Their plea for freedom of discussion ; for a goodness , human or divine , that conforms to law ; for the beauty of intellectual and spiritual sanity ; for a noble virtuosoship in morality , carries the thought backward to Montaigne and Plato as well as forward to the nineteenth century . Their largeness of vision and fervency of conviction lose little and gain much from the fact that " Characteristics " was written by a gentleman for gentlemen , and thus professedly voiced the ideal of a coterie rather than that of humanity . By @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose members are truly equal and free , these essays were able not only to embody the best social philosophy of their day , but , by liberating this philosophy from the limitations of a too immediate application , to establish a more perfect conception of democracy than was possible in the actual society of that time . The standard by which Professor Wylie measures Crabbe , Wordsworth , and Shelley is , Professor Saintsbury would probably tell us , not a literary standard . For her , however , as for Matthew Arnold , literature is essentially a criticism of life . From that point of view her essay on " The England of George Crabbe " is a remarkably fine piece of work  --  the most illuminating twenty-five pages that the present reviewer has seen on this subject . " Because , " she says in conclusion , " the characters and conditions that he pictured give a searching criticism of the society of which , they were the outgrowth , and a clear indication of the necessity for a new ordering of that society , they also reveal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the democracy of the early nineteenth century . " This sentence may serve as the cue to the severe examination of the " Social Philosophy of Wordsworth , " ending in something like the verdict pronounced by Ruskin and Browning and the older Radicals : " This early stagnation of his thinking , and the gradual decline of his poetic and intellectual faculties , is the result of the real tragedy of Words-worth 's life  --  his failure ' to abide in reason to the uttermost . ' " The critical balances which Professor Wylie keeps in hand throughout the " Wordsworth " she pretty completely abandons in the " Shelley , " and becomes a whole-souled exponent and advocate of the poet 's moral and intellectual beauty . Shelley , she appears to believe , expresses nearly everything that the heart can desire , and our progressive thought is finding it out . " Shelley , " she declares , " was at one with Jonson and Dryden in his enthusiasm for reason . He thus took a long step towards reconciling the claims of the intellect , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imagination , the shibboleth of his own generation . " The plea for Shelley is ably conducted . But it strikes us that there is a great deal of room for distinctions between the " reason " of Jonson and the " reason " of Shelley  --  room which Professor Wylie has not occupied . There is not space here to ventilate the old quarrel between the rational and the reasonable people , nor , perhaps , is the occasion propitious ; for the indications are that , so far as Shelley is concerned , it will continue till the Judgment Day . A NEW HISTORY OF THE ROMAN EM-PIRE AND THE MIDDLE AGES . East and West through Fifteen Centuries . Being a General History from B. C. 44 to A. D. 1453 . By Brig. - Gen . G. F. Young , C.B. In four volumes : Vols . I and II . New York : Longmans , Green &; Co. $12 net . This book belongs to a class which was more common a century ago than it is today . Historical works are in our time mostly either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or else elaborately scientific treatments of some one period in some one country . The former are addressed to the so-called " general reader " or designed for use in schools and colleges . The latter are written for scholars who desire to master a single topic with thoroughness . But this history covers a very wide field , and devotes to the part dealt with in these two volumes ( B. c. 44 to A. D. 740 ) no less than 1,274 pages . Large as is this mass of printed matter , a minutely scientific handling of so vast a topic would , of course , be impossible , so the special student can not expect to find much that will appeal to him , except in some few places where the author , having views of his own to put forward , allows himself to expatiate on particular points . The total size of the work , when completed , will probably be about the same as that of Gibbon 's " Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire , " which begins at almost the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planned to end , with the taking of Constantinople by the Turks in A. D. 1453 . A comparison of Gen. Young 's work with Gibbon 's famous treatise is inevitable . Gen. Young , writing nearly a century and a half after his predecessor , has a far greater body of historical evidence at his command . New MS. sources have been discovered and printed ; excavations have revealed many ancient buildings and a prodigious number of inscriptions , while thousands of learned men have carried light into many departments which were dark in Gibbon 's time . On many points , therefore , Gen. Young can give his readers information which his predecessor did not possess . On the other hand , we do not find in him , nor would he claim , either the capacious mental sweep of Gibbon or his command of a powerful , if somewhat artificial and ponderous , style . The point of view and the tendencies of the two writers are profoundly different . Gibbon lost no opportunity of disparaging Christianity , and was sometimes warped in his view of the facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a Christian and a member of the Church of England , though he has not , so far as we have noticed , allowed his theological proclivities to affect his fairness of statement or his desire to describe events just as they happened . The length of time that has elapsed since Gibbon wrote and the accumulation of new materials to which we have referred justify the attempt to rewrite the history of the Roman world and of Europe in the earlier Middle Ages . But it need hardly be said that so ambitious a plan runs the risk of falling between two stools . It is too long for educational purposes and for most busy men . It does not go sufficiently into detail to satisfy the skilled student of history , nor does it give him those references to the original authorities , or to the special treatises of recent writers , which we now expect from scientifically written histories . Without complaining of this omission of references , we conceive that Gen. Young would have made his book more useful even to the general reader if he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and most accessible books bearing on the several periods which he covers . The specialist , of course , knows these , or can find them for himself , but the " general reader " does not , and would find a mention of them helpful whenever he feels tempted to turn aside to learn more about some particular person or event than this book tells him . The execution of the present treatise , if it does not bear comparison with Gibbon in those qualities which make a work immortal , deserves the praise of a clear and easy style , which , though it rises and falls but little in respect of the dignity of the subject , can be read with pleasure . The arrangement is strictly chronological . Gen. Young defends this as being the most generally convenient , and for his purpose , which is that of producing a running chronicle of events , he has done well to adopt it , though historians aiming either at dramatic effect or at the enforcement of broad principles by a philosophic massing of facts , would find it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but is first and foremost a narrator , so he seldom stops to debate controversial questions . He claims in his preface , however , to have taken a new line in respect of some points of importance , a few of which may be mentioned . He argues that Gibbon erred in holding the period from Nerve to Marcus Aurelius to have been that in which the Roman Empire reached its zenith . In his view , which is to our thinking an erroneous view , the Empire was greater and stronger under Constantine , and Constantine himself the greatest of all the Emperors . He thinks meanly of the talents and character of Marcus himself , and defends Tiberius from what he describes as the calumnious misrepresentations of Tacitus , going in this respect much further than most modern students will follow him , even while they may admit that the Tacitean picture is unduly dark . He vindicates the character and conduct of Gratian from the disparaging treatment given him by Gibbon and most other writers , and renders a somewhat similar service to the memory of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accounts we possess of his harshness in the last three years of his reign come from Roman writers hostile to Gothic rule , and likely to put his conduct in the worst light . Another point in which he professes to have corrected views hitherto prevalent is of wider scope . In the account he gives of the conquest of North Africa by the Mussulman Arabs in the seventh and eighth centuries ( Vol . II , Chap . XXV ) , an account presented with care and spirit , he argues that in the course of the long conflict practically the whole of the Roman , or Christian , population of what was then a rich and populous country must have been exterminated . He points out with truth that no vestige of Christianity seems to have remained after a hundred years had passed from the completion of the conquest in A. n. 709 , and that there are at present few , if any , traces of an admixture of European blood in the population of the regions stretching from Tripoli to the Straits of Gibraltar . which were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this reasoning ignores two possibilities : one that the Christian population may have been already , when the Arab assaults had not begun , greatly reduced in number from what it was in the days of St. Augustine , before the Vandal invasion of the fifth century , and the other that this Christian population was never chiefly , or even largely , of European origin . There is nothing to indicate that any large infusion of Italian blood was poured into the veins of the Berber population which Carthage ruled , or which obeyed the Numidian kings whom Rome subdued . Not till the Vandals came in the beginning of the fifth century do we hear of any immigration from the northern side of the Mediterranean , and there is nothing to show that the Vandals were numerous enough to affect the physical type of the provincials . Gen. Young dilates on the destruction of the irrigation channels to which the fertility of many parts of Roman Africa was due . The Arab conquest no doubt led to their destruction and broke to pieces the whole fabric of Afro-Roman civilization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stand the ruins of a gigantic amphitheatre ( at El Djem , the ancient Thysdrus ) capable of holding sixty thousand persons , in a region where there are now not six thousand within a ten-mile radius . But when once the fabric had been broken and the city communities destroyed , the channels ceased to be repaired , the production of food was necessarily diminished , and the country was by degrees reduced to that wretchedness in which the French found it when their conquests began in the nineteenth century . That there was much slaughter by the Arab invaders , Sidi Ukba and Musaoben Nozier , may well be believed , but it need not have been universal , as Gen. Young conceives . It is no easy matter to exterminate a whole : laden ; even the Young Turks , with the best will in the world , have not succeeded in annihilating the Armenian race in those recent massacres which have aroused our horTOT . In point of accuracy , which , after all , is the fundamental merit of every history , without which no other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stands pretty well the tests which we have applied . The author would seem to have consulted not a few of the best modern writers on the several departments of the vast subject which he traverses , and he has used them intelligently . But there are both uncritical assumptions and strange misconceptions which sometimes shake our confidence . Some of these are found in his treatment of early Christianity . He has done well to include the history of the Church , for its influence upon secular history , especially after the time of Constantine , was so increasingly great that secular affairs can hardly be understood without a knowledge of ecclesiastical affairs . But he does not seem to know much which has been recently pretty well established regarding the early Church and the early Christian writings . He is quite entitled to suspend judgment on many points round which controversy has raged , and is still raging . But it is a bold thing to say ( Vol . I , p. 157 ) that the Epistle of Jude was written in the days of the Emperor Titus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no doubt about the matter  --  general opinion now attributing that epistle to a much later date . another defect may be noted in the references to the various sects which troubled early Christianity , some of which are so vague as to be misleading . In the very full and interestingly written account of the reign of Justinian ( Vol . II , Chap . XXI ) Gen. Young seems not to understand what it was that the Emperor did for the Roman law , nor what was the nature of the several parts of that Corpus Juris Oivilis which bears his name  --  an error from which even the old-fashioned Gibbon would have saved him . Oddly enough , in naming the various parts of the Corpus Turis he omits that one part with which the sovereign personally had a good deal to do , viz. , the " new laws " issued by himself ( " Novelle Constitutiones , " or " Novels " ) . As he seldom quotes his authorities , we can not tell what he means when he says ( Vol . I , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an immense code of the Roman laws for use throughout the Empire " ; but Antoninus Pius certainly did nothing which corresponds to this description . Other minor points which we have noted , such as the strange remark that " large traces of the Roman language remain in Spain " ( Vol . II , p. 541 ) , and the inadequate descriptions of the events of A. D. 476 and of the Arab conquest of Spain , and the assumption that the " Anecdota " of Procopius is a forgery ( a view which , though held by some writers of authority , is denied by others , and is almost indefensible after the researches of Dahn ) , need not be dwelt upon . The chief merits of the book , besides the agreeably flowing style in which it is written , are the accounts of military operations , in which the author 's professional knowledge has stood him in good stead , and the characterizations of the Emperors . He has rightly perceived that history is most easily remembered , at least by those readers who have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of biographies and adventures ; and in following this principle has given sketches of many leading figures which , whether correct or not , have the merit of conveying distinct impressions . We can not , however , understand why one of the most striking of all these figures , Mohammed , is left undescribed , though the wars of his followers are treated with great fulness , and an interesting view is propounded as to the causes of the rapid successes which the Muslim armies achieved in their first attacks upon the Roman Empire . Here the author 's military appreciation of the immense importance of morale in war comes usefully into play . FROM JESCHYLUS TO MAETERLINCK . The Supernatural in Tragedy . By Charles Edward Whitmore . Cambridge : Harvard University Press . $1.75 . By the supernatural Mr. Whitmore understands not only the obvious concrete marvels of ghosts and magic , but religion itself and all recognition in the drama of the incalculable intervention in human affairs of powers beyond our ken . This and the difficulty of distinguishing this particular aspect of dramatic economy from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his special study into a general sketch of the history of tragedy from 2Eschylus to Maeterlinck . Reviewing Greek tragedy from this point of view , Dr. Whitmore finds a continuous development in the art of lEschylus from the " Suppliants , " which has no overtly supernatural element , and the " Persw , " in which the role of the ghost of Darius is episodic , to the " Oresteia , " in which the indwelling and all-controlling idea of sin and retribution defines itself more and more clearly till at last it takes bodily shape in those wingless harpies , the Erinyes , " frightening the Athenian wives into fits . " Sophocles , he thinks , is less interested in the supernatural and learns to treat it successfully only in " cEdipus the King " and " cEdipus at Colonus . " Rejecting the fancies of Dr. Verrall and of Mr. Norwood 's " Riddle of the Bacchm , " our author takes the normal and sensible view of Euripides  --  that he was an imperfect artist who could not adjust his new thought to the traditional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relatively most successful in the " Hippolytus " and the " Bacchm " where he follows tradition , or identifies himself in sympathy with his theme . But in the main he anticipates and prepares the mechanical and external treatment of the supernatural of which Seneca is the chief later representative . To this Seneca adds rhetorical descriptions of Hell not found in extant Greek tragedy and a peculiarly Roman , Mr. Whitmore thinks perhaps Etruscan , taste for scenes of blood and horror . Referring to Chambers 's " Medieval Stage " for all erudite detail , Mr. Whitmore in his sketch dwells chiefly on certain distinctions that differentiate the course of literary evolution in Italy , France , and England . In Italy , the classical tradition apparently was revived even before the sacred drama took shape . The two existed side by side ; they did not fuse , and neither developed a great national tragedy . The long history of the mediaeval French miracle play is suddenly interrupted in the middle of the sixteenth century , and with Jodelle 's " Cleopatre " and the theories of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the modern French classic drama . The old French miracle play dealt externally with the supernatural , and the new classical drama adopted after the Italians the supposedly Aristotelian principle that the supernatural is to be tolerated only in the prologue or " outside of the action . " In England , on the contrary , the medieval mystery play by the genius of the people already attained to a deep and pregnant intuition of the supernatural , and the continuity of the English development transmitted something of this quality to the Elizabethans . The York and Chester cycles were performed late enough to exercise a real influence on the generation of Shakespeare . To this must be added the broader and freer use of Seneca by English dramatists . They took from him whatever stirred their imagination or enriched their rhetoric , but rejected the straitjacket of his dramatic form . The result is the supreme art of Shakespeare and the Elizabethans , nowhere more preeminent than in its treatment of the supernatural , which Mr. Whitmore aptly characterizes again after many predecessors . A third part , entitled " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eighteenth century and the isolated experiments of Bed-does , discusses the recent revival of interest in the strangeness , rather than in theterror , of the supernatural , in the work , e. g. , of Yeats , Fiona McCleod , Ibsen , d'Annunzio , and Maeterlinck . We have confined ourselves to exposition because serious criticism would involve a re-discussion of fundamental principles . We should qualify Mr. Whitmore 's exaltation of the supernatural as the chief inspiration of the noblest tragedy by a distinction which he in practice neglects or attenuates  --  the distinction between the religious use of the supernatural and its superstitious or mystic abuse . " Out of absolutely simple elements , " he says , " Maeterlinck has called up the very spirit of Greek tragedy . " We should join issue at once . lEschylus is religious : Maeterlinck is superstitious , or at the best mystic . It is true that the art of the " Agamemnon " induces a mood of expectant horror ; and so does the art of " L'Intruse . " But , even to waive the mysticism , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ You can not call up the very spirit of Greek tragedy with simple elements . The magnificence and , if you will , the rhetoric of the diction are as essential to Greek tragedy as the like qualities of Marlowe and Shakespeare are to the spirit of the Elizabethans . The modernist who deems this style mere bombast is free to prefer the diction of Wordsworth 's " Michael , " of Ibsen , of Maeterlinck , of Spoon River , or North of Boston . But no work composed in these styles can yield ) Eschylean or Shakespearean effects or be profitably compared with lEschylus and Shakespeare . They embody disparate ideals of art and appeal to irreducible differences of taste . 