@@466184

E are in the midst of a rural revolution . The pre-emption of the k , area available for agricultural purposes ' which , according to the Federal census , was practically complete at the beginning of the new century , has set in motion forces that are swiftly transforming the spirit of American farm life and the character of the economic and social institutions in the open country . For more than a hundred years ? approximately from the time when the embargo of 1807 established the " nursing of infant industries " as our dominant national policy ? the industrial revolution , with its teeming commercial and manufacturing centers , has shaped the course of American civilization . Notwithstanding the fact that throughout the nineteenth century the rural population greatly outnumbered the population of the cities , its influence upon national affairs remained definitely secondary . So long as there were millions of acres available for agricultural settlement , the power of the rural majority was subject to ready control . Whenever the farmers attempted to organize , as they did through the Grange in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the early nineties , their ranks were broken and scattered by the opening of vast reserves of arable land . Effective group action is impossible without stability , an economic surplus , and leisure ; cheap lands meant cheap prices for agricultural products ; so long as " Uncle Sam was rich enough to give us each a farm , " the rural majority could be held at an economic , political , and social disadvantage . But the final pre-emption of the " area " available for agricultural purposes has done for the American farmer what powder and the crossbow did for the English yeomen at Crecy . The cheap lands of the Argentine Republic and of Little Russia will not suffice to break their ranks again . The sign of the new sovereignty is on every one 's lips . Not within living memory , certainly not in times of peace , has the high cost of living had such universal currency . Economists tell us that the cause of high prices is to be found in the abnormal increase of the world 's gold supply , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the growth of luxury , the aggressions of labor , and all manner of disturbances in the industrial world . But there is yet another explanation which i has not received the consideration ts re a-sonableness demands . In great agricul- tural states like Illinois and Iowa less land is under cultivation to-day than fourteen years ago ; many important counties in states like Ohio are producing less food than they did before the Civil War . During the last census period population in the United States increased 21 per cent. , but agricultural production increased ro per cent . only . To meet an increase of 21 per cent . in the number of mouths to be fed , the production of wheat increased only 3.8 per cent. , of orchard fruits 1.8 per cent. , while the production of corn actually fell off by 4.3 per cent . The expert of the census of agriculture , in commenting upon the situation , says : We have reached a stage in the history of this country when farmers in average years do not produce much more of the raw materials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needed within the country . Jo poor years the production may not in future equal the demands of the consumers . And while production has remained stationary , the market value of farm products has practically doubled ; while the cities are filled with wailing over high prices , the farmers are jubilant ! ' Within little more than a decade , the pre-emption of the " area available for agricuL tural purposes " has shifted the balance of economic control from the cities to the owners of our agricultural lands . And everywhere the farmers , exhilarated by their new sense of power , are in revolt against the traditional barrenness of agricultural life . Throughout the dominance of the industrial revolution and the era of territorial expansion , they have had to look on from the family circle while the cities sat at the banquet-table of civilization . But their position ? no longer compels them to listen passively to the pastoral flights of uncallouscd after-dinner speakers . They are in a position to demand what they want . They want homes as comfortable and as well equipped as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that conform to the best modern standards ; they want the best facilities for having " a good time " ; they want music and art and the drama : they want their full share in all the amenities of twentieth-century civilization . And if they can not get what they want in the country , they will turn from agricultural production to speculation in land over which they now have a monopolistic control , and move to the cities to get it . All along the line they are in revolt , and already they have reason to wonder at the swiftness with which their rebellion is humbling the cities . For it is from the cities quite as much as from the farmers themselves that the cry for scientific agriculture , soil conservation , and socialization of rural life is coming . It is city capital that is sending agricultural experts by the hundreds to the tradition-bound fields of the farmers . It is city capital that is promoting country-life conferences with their increasing emphasis upon rural credits and economic co-operation . The cities are quite as keen as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the extension of the rural mail and the parcels post . And most significant of all , it is principally city money which , through the country-life departments of the Protestant denominations especially , and the " county work " of the Young Men 's and the Young Women 's Christian Associations , is supporting the men and women who are effecting a reformation in the counVol. 774-117 try church comparable in scope and depth to the great Reformation of Wycid and Hus and Luther . The church has always loomed larger in country than in city life . The city church has been overshadowed by the high-schools and universities , the newspapers and social settlements , the theaters , scientific museums , the ostentatious public and private philanthropies . But the pipes to which the city crowds dance have echoed but faintly in the open country . Throughout the turmoil of the nineteenth century the church remained the dominant social , intellectual , and spiritual institution of rural life . But within recent years the country church has seen its easy ascendancy threatened by the rivalry of the same secular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a century retreated as before a conquering enemy . The development of the rural public-school system , the spreading influence of the state universities and colleges , the " extension work " of the state and federal departments of agriculture , the traveling libraries , the automobile and the motion-picture theaters , have brought it face to face with a crisis with which the city church failed to cope . And for a time it showed a disposition to oppose the demands for a fuller life arising out of the rural revolution , as the city church had opposed the " growth of luxury among the common people " arising out of the development of invention and the machine . " The weakness of the city church , " says Professor Fagnani , of the Union Theological Seminary , " has been and is that with it religion is religion and not life . " And similarly the country church , instead of losing its life in the new movement in order that so it might find it , began by railing against the " Godlessness of the rising generation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waning prestige in the changing wants of the people and its own failure to satisfy them . But this blind policy was proving its own penalty ; the countryside was being strewn with the wreckage of abandoned church buildings . And the injury was not to the church alone . As the central institution of country life , the failure of the church to adjust itself to the new conditions was depriving the nation of its most powerful instrument for turning the rural revolution from selfish into patriotic channels . Fortunately , before the damage had become irreparable , the country church developed a new leadership , which , largely financed by city capital , isreforming its methods in statesman-like conformity with the spirit of the times . The essence of the new reformation is the definite abandonment of authoritarian dogmatism and the candid adoption of the open-minded methods of modern science . In the language of churchmen , they are seeking the will of God , not exclusively in the threshed straw of medieval creeds and scholastic speculations , but primarily in the scientifically ascertained facts of contemporary realities . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the series of rural surveys made during the past four years by the Department of Church and Country Life of the Presbyterian Church , under the general supervision of the Rev. Warren H. Wilson . The Presbyterian Church in the United States says the introduction to the survey of three rural counties in northern Missouri has been ministering to country parishes for more than a century . It has sought farmers through forests and across deserts . It has built innumerable little white churches on the country cross-roads for them to worship in . It has baptized the farmer 's children , taught them , married and buried them . It has striven to save the farmer 's soul ? striven earnestly , valiantly , sometimes heroically . But never until within this year has it made a thorough scientific study of the country community it has attempted to serve . It has done everything in its power to pave the farmer 's road to the Celestial City , but it has paid little attention to his road to the nearest village . It has given great sums to alleviate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make for poverty ? the American system of farm tenantry , the robbing of the soil , and the stripping the hillside of its trees . It has pictured the beauties of the heavenly mansions and taken no account of the buildings in which men and women must spend their lives here and now . Hereafter it is going to know something about the communities it attempts to serve ? of what stuff they are made , what their needs and aspirations . It will take an interest inthe every-day affairs of the farmer ? his crops and stock , his buildings and machinery , his lodge and recreation . The spires of the little cross-road church will still point to the skies , but its foot-stone will lie on the commonplace work of the day . This declaration of principle is as radical a departure from the prevailing policy of the church in our generation as the declaration of Luther that " a Christian man is a most free lord of all things and subject to no one " was from the autocracy of the medieval hierarchy . It marks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new reformation are concerned , of the long war between science and the church . And wherever it has been adopted as a guide to action , in poor lands and rich alike , the church is experiencing a renascence of constructive leadership in both material and spiritual things . In the course of a recent spring , I traveled by buggy through the poverty-stricken fastnesses of the north Virginia mountains . The dogwood and the crimson Judas trees were in bloom . The upward-winding road was fragrant with sprouting fern , its banks mottled with violets , yellow sorrel . bells , and blood-root blossoms ? soft enamel lilies lustrous against the silvery moss . No sharp corners , no checker-board thoroughfares . But the houses I passed in my long climb through the Blue Ridge were , for all their isolation , curiously like the shambling tenements I knew so well in New York , East Boston , South Chicago , and North St. Louis . Women in drab calicoes stared dumbly from ungarnished kitchen doorways . Tousled children fled shyly down the road and hid in thickets and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by , looking oddly like the men in the urban " bread line , " except for a vagrant alertness to the stir of wild life in the brush . Through Simmon 's Gap , along the boulder - strewn bed of a mountain stream , over the hump of a crouching hill , down a steep path broken by gullies and jutting rock , across a plowed field and a half-stumped clearing , I came at last to the Blue Ridge Industrial School and the home of the Rev. George P. Mayo . From the veranda of his house we looked across a valley dotted with THE RURAL orchards , fields of young grain , and soft , green pastures . Beyond the barns and the brook and the meadow to the north , two little white churches confronted each other from opposite sides of a road , like pugilists stripped for a fight . They were the last survivors of generations of sectarian warfare ; all the rest had gone down in the struggle . And while the denominations had fought one another , moonshine had flourished in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boys and girls had grown up innocently dissolute . For all their revival meetings , the " needle 's eye " had remained as an open door compared with the mountaineer 's chances of entering heaven here or hereafter . They had regularly broken the law to make moonshine whisky because they wanted life , and whisky was the only way they knew to a living . Forty per cent . of them had remained illiterate because whisky created neither the desire nor the necessary economic surplus for schools . They had made a virtue of dirt and disease and immorality because the only semblance of spiritual exaltation they had ever experienced came from the momentary thrills of vice . They were criminals for the same reason that the gangs in our city slums are criminals . And the churches , in the intervals of mutual recrimination , preached a flat and irrelevant goodness , ignoring the causes of the general poverty under the cloud of which they and the people perished . This was the situation into which Mr. Mayo brought the policy of the new reformation . " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conviction that the day of doctrinal controversy is over ; that the time has come for the church to give an accounting of her stewardship . " The day before , I had come through Shifflet 's Hollow , the rugged pocket in the mountains where Mr. Mayo held his first charge . I had seen the Settlement House , the base from which during eight years he had served a territory stretching for twenty miles along the eastern slope of the Greene County range . Adjoining the Settlement House , I had seen the small , well-equipped hospital where scores of mountain men , women , and children had had their first experience of decent care in sickness . Across the road , I had seen the first public school ever opened in the region ? built with church money , but operated in co-operation with the state Department of Education . And high up the mountain , on a small plot of relatively smooth soil , I had seen the demonstration acres through which Mr. Mayo had experimentally learned the agricultural possibilities of the mountains . The outgrowth of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the people is the Blue Ridge Industrial School , with its demonstration farm of more than five hundred acres ; its sawmill and dairy ; its dormitories , classrooms , workshops , and kitchens ; its orchards and fields for every grain and grass and fruit that scientific study of the soils and climate has shown to be susceptible of profitable cultivation . Possibly the most striking thing about that splendid church enterprise is the absence of a separatechurch building . That has been left to the last , because Mr. Mayo has informed the every-day life at the school with the deepest though most unobtrusive religious spirit , and because he believes that the only sound basis for a vital church to-day is the spontaneous religious emotion of a happy and prosperous people . During the afternoon I saw fine mountain girls baking bread and studying poultry , mountain boys harrowing after the plow and mending tools in the smithy . And morning and evening I heard them singing together and co-operating in work and in play -- mountain girls who , under the old dispensation , might have been mothers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boys who would have become outlaws in the barren solitude of the hills . And through the children Mr. Mayo is trying to spread the spirit of co-operation and mutual aid throughout the neighborhood . As yet he is not advo. eating church unity or federation , because this , he fears , would only serve to rekindle the old habit of interdenominational strife . " But , " he said to me , " if we arc not yet ready to get together inside the church , we can and must get together outside the church as human beings and citizens . " And so , while administering his school , he is raking the lead in organizing the people into community associations for the spread of the telephone ? the harbinger of the new neighborliness ; for the improvement of the roads , the study of markets , cooperation in production , buying , and selling . Every one in Bacon 's Hollow ? the popular name for the valley ? is gradually coming to see that where blue grass grows wild , and apples will ripen , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and crime have no providential sanction ; that physical vigor and prosperity and happiness are not at variance with the will of God . And the people are gathering in unprecedented number to Mr. Mayo 's support , because through him the church has humbled itself , to be reborn in the spirit of science and to win its claim to leadership by the concrete quality of its daily human service . The Blue Ridge Industrial School is only one of a chain of church enterprises ? largely financed with city capital ? that is being stretched through the southern mountains to meet the reproach : " The poor ye have always with you . " They are acting as a sort of spiritual middlemen to hitch up the farmers ' demand for more life with the cities ' demand for more food . With the mountaineers the primary problem is the elimination of poverty , and this the church is helping them to meet by the development of a community social and educational , and an economic programme based upon scientifically ascertained facts . And the same method is proving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though there the problem is of an entirely different character . The people of the Corn-Belt arc not crying feebly for enough to eat and to wear , but in powerful , full-fed voices are demanding the higher satisfactions of life ? recreation and knowledge and art ? and they are demanding these things with the vigor of men who will and do climb into their automobiles and speed away to the town if the mountain of civilization will not come to them . The cityward migration , the growth of tenant farming , land spec ulation , and absentee landlordism is not only undermining the ancient authority of the country church , but is responsible for the menace to the national food supply . My train , swinging up into Iowa from the South , found itself on a limitless level . It was May , and the corn , which was later to shoot up into green rockets and burst into tassels of showering gold , was just being planted . Everywhere men and horses dragged slowly back and forth , pulverizing the rich brown bareness or turning under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again and again that the coming corn might be fed . The wheat was well up -- great blankets of vivid green , so thick , so lush , that every blade shouldered its neighbor and the roots stole from one another . The fields lying fallow in pasturage were alive with soft , wabbly-kneed calves and the twinkling ears of tiny mule-colts ; and hundreds upon hundreds of fat little red or black shoats scampered away as the train rushed hy . Here in the Corn Belt the prayer for daily bread , which is just being raised in the Blue Ridge , has been abundantly fulfilled . " It is the richest land on God 's green earth , " said a grizzled , red-cheeked farmer leaning affably over the back of my seat . " Rain or shine , the corn crop ai n't never failed in Ioway . Prices been good ? Wal , yes , tol'ble ; but I do n't bother so very much about prices . Where does my money come from ? That 's my land over yonder where you see that maple windbreak . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working it about every month or so . Forty year ago when I come out here you could get all of that land you might want for seven dollars an acre . It 's worth from twenty to thirty times that now . I owned a thousand acres once , but I sold off all but a section and moved up to town . My man he works it on half-shares . But I ai n't wurrying much about prices ; all I got to do is just to sit tight ! " Sitting tight ? especially after moving to town ? has come to be an immensely popular occupation in the Corn Belt . The farmers who have what money they want take the shortest cut to the satisfactions of life , secure in the knowledge that there are no more vast " areas available for agricultural purposes " to break the market for their land . And real-estate speculation and farming on shales have such obvious advantages over the rough work of plowing and sowing and reaping ! Speculation is rife throughout the Corn Belt and production is at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were 11,578 fewer farms in 1910 than in 1900 , and 406,353 fewer acres under cultivation . And whereas a short while ago practically all of the farms were worked by their owners , from two-fifths to a half , and in some sections seventy per cent. , of the farms are worked by tenants , who , having a one-year lease , are compelled to rob the soil to get a living . The effects of this revolution , both upon the church and the nation , are described as follows in the survey of forty-four rural communities in Illinois made by the Presbyterian Church : Only a few years ago this region was entirely farmed by the owners themselves , but within the past few years many of the owners have moved to the cities and towns or sold their farms to speculators , until now fifty-three per cent . of the farms are run by tenants . These tenants have generally a one-year lease ; their chance of purchasing land is very small , and their interest in the community is therefore at the lowest point . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a farmer said that fifteen years ago his land was producing ninety bushels-of corn per acre ; now it is producing forty-eight . Then it was worth seventy-five dollars an acre ; now it is worth one hundred and ninety dollars an acre . The speculative price of land kills the country church . The middle-Illinois landlord is not a friend of the improvement of the country community . In many cases he is a mere absentee , drawing rent from the farm he owns , and caring nothing save for the increasing of his rent with the rising price of land . These landlords should be called to account by the churches . Owners of land in a country where the soil is producing less every year , where the churches and schools are deteriorating , where the human stock is being exploited and an American peasantry produced , are responsible men . Mere evangelism , with talks about saving of souls and promise of heavenly life , is not enough ; in such a situation the unlimited promise of heavenly salvation is false to the kingdom . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forced in the future to promote the conservation of the soil . If they do not save the soil , they will lose the right to save the soul . There is a refreshing courage about this indictment of the past failure of ' the church by a churchman . For it must be rememhered that the deterioration of rural life here described took place while the church was the dominant institution in the open country . The development of absentee landlordism is in large measure due to the neglect of the church to enter into the spirit of contemporary realities and to take the leadership in creating social and intellectual conditions in the country that would have held the owners upon the land . During the early stages of the rural revolution , the church , instead of setting an example of co-operation and broadly humanitarian patriotism , followed the precedent of the city church in concentrating its energies upon a short-sighted effort to preserve its institutional integrity . Instead of making all other considerations secondary ' to the social , economic , and spiritual advancement of the rural communities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its own interdenominational strife . The Presbyterian survey of three typical agricultural counties in Indiana reveals forty-one denominations quarreling for the possession of a population which in 1900 numbered eighty thousand souls , but which in 1910 had dropped to seventy-six thousand . The records of 232 churches for the past ten years show 38.6 per cent . growing , 13.6 per cent . standing still , and 47.8 per cent . losing ground or dead . " It is true , " says the author of the survey , " that many of these churches need to die , " because many of them were built in the first instance to despite denominational rivals , not to serve either man or God . But many of them continue to fail because they place their entire emphasis upon stupid denominational bigotry . As the survey puts it : Denominational strife shows itself in various ways . At its worst it may be seen in the competition of two or more churches for converts and in the jealousy of one church over the success of others in revival meetings . Three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Methodists were accused of proselyting . The United Brethren were censured for build-Mg a church when it was neither needed nor wanted . Both had some grievances against the Disciples . One of the ministers , speaking of the success of his work , said : " I have taken in 113 members in my three churches this year , and 35 of them have come from other denominations . " A certain inhabitant of the village ? no doubt an ardent church member ? said that " if the Methodist church were on fire , and if he shOuld happen to pass by , and if there were a bucket of water standing near , he would kick the bucket over " ! Is there reason to wonder that of ninety-one churches in one of these counties twenty-five have not a single young man under twenty-one years of age in their congregations ? Such conduct on the part of an institution which should have been the leader in the socialization of rural morality ? a course upon which its own life and the healthy prosperity of the rural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attending the changing rural order . The Indiana survey thus summarizes the matter : The influence of the church on the community is individualistic ; that is , its chief care is for individual souls . Few churches have as their mission the salvation of the community . The saving of men for heaven is much emphasized ? with what results the incident of the bucket of water illustrates . The saving of men for Indiana receives little emphasis . The saving of Indiana for men receives from the churches practically no emphasis at all . But a church which can so clearly diagnose its own malady is not likely to miss a cure . In the Salt River parish in Missouri , the churches of all denominations have united in a plan of reorganization ; they are abandoning superfluous churches and are consolidating weak churches of one denomination with weak churches of another . Certain churches in Pennsylvania are preaching the gospel of the agricultural colleges , realizing that their own future is bound up with better farming . In the middle of the Corn Belt I visited a little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social and intellectual life of the open country about it so that it draws members from the nearest towns instead of losing to them , and has actually succeeded in stemming the rising tide of tenant farming . The people there are prosperous , the land is rich ; but six years ago seven out of ten farms on the road on which the church stands changed hands within a year , and the church fell into decay . Then a new minister was sent to them who had in him the spirit of the new reformation . He began by gathering the people of the neighborhood into a singing-club , a non-sectarian form of amusement which the nearest town could not match . Through this singing-club the church developed literary and industrial branches , held picnics , established an orchestra , carried through a fair , supported a lecture course , and organized an Inter-township school contest and annual athletic meet . These were new forms of religious activity ; they gave the people a better quality of amusement than they could get in the nearest town , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ helped to show them how valuable it was . There is something interesting going on all the time ; their imaginations arc alive ; and the man who rents his farm and goes to town is not so much envied as blamed . " You 'd think he 'd do better by his boys than to leave them hanging around Main Street all the time . " " Look at how his land is getting all run down ? the way his renter do n't manure it . " " Ile may not have much to do ; but I ca n't see what he gets out of living in town . " This was a new sort of comment , directly traceable to the fact that one little country church had based its teaching on the holiness of this world and made life interesting by feeding the socially hungry and cheering the intellectually faint . On the June Sunday when I attended service at this church , the automobiles and the fine horses of these prosperous farmers and the town folks from six miles away filled the carriage-sheds and monopolized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a half-dozen old-line denominations , filled the flower-trimmed , newly painted church building THE RURAL REFORMATION . 947 to the very doors . No one had preached church federation ; it had come about spontaneously ! Farther north , I found a young clergyman who had organized a baseball team in the neighborhood , on which he was pitcher , and which played every Saturday afternoon , to the joy of the whole county . In Wisconsin and Dakota there are clergymen who have organized the people into co-operative associations for buying and selling , in order that through co-operative business they may have a daily practical illustration of the Golden Rule . In the country town of Pine Island , Minnesota , I attended a moving-picture show , run in the local opera-house by the board of directors of the Methodist church . As the pastor explained it , the theory was that the young people and the isolated farmers of the district must have the best recreation that could he supplied . Such church activities are springing up in spots throughout the open country ; but in many places @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rising demands of the farming population than to reform ? the stiff-necked churches directly . The young people who have left the churches of the old order to the generation that grew up in them ? who , like the Chinese , see more likeness than difference between Baptists and Presbyterians , and have not acquired religion through the revival meeting and mourners ' bench , but have graduated into Christianity from the Sunday-school ? can not be brought to see religion in sectarian terms . It is because the Young Men 's and Young Women 's Christian Associations serve the purposes of the rural revolution outside of denominational lines , that they are proving such valuable aids to the new reformation . The idea that the Christian exists in a sort of social vacuum no longer obtains to-day . " It makes a great appeal to the girls , " a worker in Red Wing , Minnesota , told me ? " the idea that by joining the Y. W. C. A. they come in touch , not only with the girls of New York and San Francisco , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secretaries of the rural Y. M. C. A. declare that " the inherent organization germ of their work is social , " and that their programmes include , not only Bible study and religious meetings , but also " practical talks , lectures , educational classes , agricultural institutes and contests , literary and debating clubs , boy scouts , athletics , gymnastics and aquatics , summer camps , hikes , educational tours , and conferences . " It is because the demands of the revolting farmers include these social satisfactions that can be had only after prosperity and a certain intellectual freedom have been attained that these extra-denominational associations are doing such effective work . They command secretaries of special training such as is generally outside the requirements for the ministry . The churches accept ministers whose preparation varies from a bachelor 's degree supplemented by a theological course and an assistant pastorate to what is vaguely called " some personal religious experience . " This may or may not be enough ; but the Y. M. C. A. takes no such chances . The international secretary says , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a successful evangelist , Bible teacher , or executive . " The Association 's aim is to provide nothing but college men , preferably graduates of the agricultural colleges . Is it not possibly because of this different training that the average salary of all ministers of all denominations in places with less than twenty-five thousand inhabitants is $573 a year , while the county secretaries can and do command , at the start , salaries averaging Papa ? The leaders in the new reformation are reminding the church that since it has developed a paid ministry , society has also developed a utilitarian civilization and has grown to expect every adult male , parsons included , to earn his keep . They are urging the church to think , not in terms of one person at a time , but of the whole social body at once ; to preach , not a religion of the individual , but a religion of the social order . They are meeting with opposition , as Wyclif and Hus and Luther met with opposition ; but the future of the country church is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force in this vitally progressive rural revolution .                     