@@430693

 | A MILITARY expert with a genius for alliteration has said that modern military operations are based upon brains , boots , and bellies . Brains first and foremost , as in all other endeavors , lie in the sound planning , preparedness , and strategy as demonstrated in the well-known story of the " upper right-hand drawer " of the elder Von Moltke of Franco-Prussian war fame . Brains in the present European War have been and will be needed to a greater extent under the different conditions of forty-four years since . Boots , which constitute the dynamic force of military strength , are measured in the number of men which the combatants put in the field at critical junctures , since no amount of brains in fighting battles can be won without the human equation . The third important element which Napoleon tells us is , when the last word has been said , undoubtedly foremost ? the commissariat must not fail , otherwise both brains and boots fail . The three are interdependent . One can not exist without the due measure of importance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a part in the successes and failures of the combatants in the " crime of the century , " such as very few outside of the theater of war can fully appreciate . The German army , from the writer 's most trustworthy sources of information , has put into the field approximately 80,000 , the French army approximately 100,000 , the Belgian army 6000 and the English army 50,000 to 60,000 motor vehicles of all kinds . These motor vehicles ( 24,000 American trucks were in the service of the Allies up to June 1 , 1916 ) are being used for every possible purpose conceivable wherever a wheeled vehicle of some kind is needed in military operations . Without these vast fleets of motorized equipment , the history of the European War up to this time would be markedly different . THE MOTOR TRUCK IN THE GREAT WAR Motor trucks saved Verdun as they did Paris . Verdun had no rail transportation . The one single-track , narrow-gauge railroad failed to meet the emergency and was abandoned . General Joffre considered it hopeless to attempt to hold Verdun . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Verdun and using enormous fleets of motor trucks , motor transports would provide adequate munitions , leaving the railroad to bring up provisions for the  | troops . This was done , and every shell used by the French in defending Verdun was hauled by motors . This was the most crucial test motor transport had ever undergone . It established beyond question the motor truck as the indispensable transport arm of modern warfare , for never in any single battle had the task imposed been severer . More munition was expended at Verdun than in any other battle of the Great War . Motor transport has entirely revolutionized military operations . A military expert , Capt . A. H. Trapmann , writing in the London Daily Telegraph , tersely says : " It is the motor lorry ( truck ) which has made it possible to supply 800,000 men and more on a single line of battle with perhaps but one line of railway working freely in the rear and carry to within two or three marches of the battlefield . " As more than two-thirds of the extensive utilization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transport service , mechanical transport is by far the most important of the already demonstrated advantages , which are : ( 1 ) Superior speed ; ( 2 ) - ability to travel any length of time without rest ; ( 3 ) large load-carrying capacity in relation to length of roadway occupied ; ( 4 ) lesser vulnerableness to bullets and even artillery fire . These advantages may be separately and collectively of immense value , depending upon the circumstances . In bringing up ammunition wagons or in provisioning the troops and in enabling a retreating army to get away rapidly with their munitions , superior speed has been the greatest asset . Speed has been of little or no value in cross-country service , where even the fourwheeled driven tractor trucks , which can literally go anywhere a four-mule team can travel , are at a disadvantage . Speed may be of little or no value unless great distances can be covered without replenishment of fuel , which may be exceedingly difficult in a hostile country . Although nearly any kind of motor vehicle can carry fuel for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a serious problem . The resistance of motor trucks to bullets or light artillery projectiles enables a machine to withstand rifle fire for a considerable time without being put out of action , even though it may not be provided with protective armoring. 0 n e wellplaced shot will kill a horse or cripple him for  | further service . A motor vehicle may be hit a number of times without striking any of the vital mechanism and still remain serviceable . Indeed , the French and English troops are now using motor trucks to tow supply wagons right to the firing-line and frequently these trailer wagons stand exposed to fire until they can be unloaded and are often left to be shot to pieces after their cargo has been removed . Under these conditions it would be impossible to use animals , as the terrific noise as well as the concussion of modern artillery and machine-guns would stampede the most seasoned animal veterans . Prior to this war it formerly required fiftyfour service wagons of 3000 pounds capacity each for a military division . To-day twentyfour motor trucks or less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ live off the land . The enemy may have destroyed or taken all ; hence an invader must provision himself adequately , and to carry half of his tonnage in horse food when ten million men may be at the front is humanly impossible . A NEW THING FOR THE U. S. ARMY TO USE MOTORS On June 30 , 1914 , our national W a r Department owned but sixty-two motor trucks . Ignoring the leading powers of Europe 's preparations from as early as 1907 to provide adequate motor transports , with military maneuvers lasting weeks to acquaint themselves with the potentialities of motors , the establishment of subvention systems glorifying the motor in the confidence of the civilian-using public and increasing its popularity , most of our War Lords were content to excoriate the motor as an " experiment unsuited to American roads and unproven to supplant the old reliable army mule . " The experiments of the National Guards of Massachusetts and New York with motors in their maneuvers of 1912 and ' 13 , true , stimulated some interest in their possibilities as competitors of animal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an old quartermaster-general expressed himself to the author , even after it had been clearly shown in these maneuvers that motors worsted mules . ADOPTION BY UNCLE SAM UNDER PRESSURE OF EMERGENCY Eleventh-hour emergency , not as a prophylactic , caused the War Lords of Washington to turn to the motor as the only solution of p 416 an insuperable transportation problem with mules . When slippery Pancho Villa , peculiarly flattered with the adulatory title of " General " by the American press , raided Columbus , N. M. , it was necessary to send a punitive expedition after the bandits , our army heads had no alternative but to immediately call upon the motor ? and with much misgivings and trepidation . Commandeering of Mexican railways would have forced diplomacy to the bursting point . European combatants had absorbed the choicest mules , and their price was too high , to say nothing of the expense of feeding and carrying every ounce of provender in a tropical , waterless waste . For the first time in military history entire reliance was placed in mechanical transports . For the first time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the army mule were pitted against each other under the worst conditions ever known in military service ? a tropical , arid , roadless , uncivilized , provenderless ( for man and beast ) country . Commencing with two hurry orders of twenty-eight trucks each ( constituting a company or convoy ) to two large manufacturers , one in Detroit , Mich. , and the other in Kenosha , Wis. , which were filled within thirty hours after receipt , the Quartermaster 's Division quickly placed contracts for more than a million dollars ' worth of motors , and by April 1 , over 200 trucks were actually on the border and in the interior . In six weeks after Villa raided Columbus , more than 300 motors were in the service of the Funston-Pershing expedition . MOTOR TRUCKS THE SALVATION OF OUR MEXICAN EXPEDITION Not so dramatic as in European warfare , but far more dogmatic in results has been the motor truck 's test as an engine of war in the Mexican campaign . In the July , 1913 , issue of the REVIEW OF REVIEWS ( " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ) the author gives detailed figures of the amount of  | provender required to provision man and beast , and the haulage capacity of the regulation four-mule army team . These data apply to " civilized " conditions of warfare ? not to Mexican conditions , which are so abnormally strenuous that even if it had been climatically- practical to use mules , the capacities of the loads would have been more than halved due to Mexican tractive conditions ? roadless deserts with either sand or mud to the hubs of vehicles . It was physically - impossible to use anything but mechanical transports , and that mechanical transport was the motor truck , because the traction engine was debarred by weight and slow speed from practical application . Without motor trucks , the national war department would have been restricted to its operations entirely on the border . HOW THE WAR DEPARTMENT GOT THE TRUCKS ON HURRY ? UP ORDERS With outptits of fifteen of the largest motor truck builders of the United States more than double in normal times the capacity of the combined European motor-truck industry , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry save munitions makers with foreign contracts was better prepared to serve the Government in the emergency . In eight hours after a contract for fifty-six trucks valued at $186 , - 000 was placed , a famous Detroit builder delivered the machines complete with drivers . And an order for thirty three-ton trucks to a Bridgeport builder , placed on Monday , was delivered aboard cars bound forthe border on Tuesday afternoon . A big Detroit builder with - unfilled orders for several hundred trucks for the French War Department was  | told that the U. S. A. came first , and to consider his plant a " controlled " institution until all existing truck orders for the Mexican campaign ? over 700 machines ? were delivered . In a month all of the 700 trucks of this one make had been put on board cars bound for the border . On receipt of an emergency order over long-distance ' phone a Kenosha , Wis. , manufacturer was able to deliver fifty-six trucks complete within three days ' time . During the critical period of early July when war with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short of the all-wheel driven type of truck for the most strenuous tractive problems , placed an order on the evening of July 3 with a Clintonville , Wis. , manufacturer for thirty-eight three-ton units . This manufacturer informed the Government that he had just thirty-eight of the forty-one trucks requested under final test for shipment to one of the nations at war . Uncle Sam immediately told this manufacturer that he had no choice in the matter , and that these thirty-eight trucks were to be turned over to the U. S. War Department within twenty-four hours . As a result of this monarchical message , the factory force , scheduled for a Fourth of July picnic , were compelled to show their patriotism by working overtime on Independence Day , but the trucks were delivered to Uncle Sam . Indeed , not less than half a dozen big truck manufacturers who accepted Uncle Sam 's orders with the belief that they would have the trucks ready long before they were called for , and having continuing contracts calling for fifty to seventy-five trucks pet week from the Allied Governments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governments for being overdue in shipments , and consequently to some of them the profit on the American war-order business was a minus quantity . APPROXIMATE NUMBER OF . TRUCKS NOW IN USE , KINDS AND PURPOSE FOR WHICH USED By August 1 , some 1050 commercial type motors were being used in the Mexican campaign . Of this number , approximately seven-eighths are transport trucks , i. e. , those for carrying troops , munitions , camping equipment , rations , etc . In addition to transport trucks , nearly 100 of both water and gas tank carrying trucks of 600 to 1000 gallons capacity are used to supply fuel to transport and munitions trucks , as well as drinking water to the men in the field , and to cool the engines of the trucks themselves since the water is alkaline 4nd can not be used in the cooling systems of motor vehicles . At first , no repair or portable machine shop trucks were used , the repairs being made either at the base at Columbus or in private machine shops near by . Traveling machine-shop trucks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make roadside repairs , even of a difficult nature , one attached to each company . Armored trucks of the conventional type used in European warfare have been debarred because of excessive weight and hence difficult tractive ability , and because the Mexican campaign has really developed no need for them , of either defensive or offensive nature . But most of the four-wheel driven type trucks are equipped with steel bodies , rifle bullet resistant and with high enough seats for men to crouch behind for protection in manning machine guns placed on either side just back of the driver 's seat . Wireless plants on one-and-one-half-ton chassis establish connections with divisions in the interior and at bases , these operated by dynamos driven by the truck engines . Sectional aerials are carried on these trucks . These wireless plant motors have proved of great value in communicating with detached columns , as bandits early cut all telegraph lines to the interior . Some thirty three-ton combination rail and road motors , consisting of conventional commercial type chassis carrying regulation army bodies and provided with detachable flanges fitting over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are also used . No ambulance or portable hospital and anti-aircraft , guncarrying trucks have as yet been added , as the Mexican expedition has not developed any practical need for these types . Nor have the portable kitchen trucks of the Great ' War yet been found necessary . Trucks for transport are of one-and-onehalf-ton capacity and fitted with regulation army bodies . They are divided into companies or convoys of twenty-eight machines , each consisting of twenty-seven trucks for hauling and one machine or repair truck , each truck company in charge of a truck master having three assistants , twenty-eight drivers , one mechanic , one mechanic 's helper , one machinist . The aero squadron trucks lately added are also one-and-one-half-ton units , carrying light trailers equipped with portable hangars and spares and supplies for the new type biplanes now in service . On June 30 last , the national War Department placed orders for 1958 additional motor trucks to be supplied as called for during the next Government fiscal year . Of this number , representing an additional investment of approximately $5,500,000 , there are to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trucks of the rear-wheel driven type , the remainder of two- and three-ton trucks of the From the Popular Science Monthly  | all-wheel driven kind , and six three-quarterton and two five-ton trucks . The two fiveton machines are the first of this capacity ordered , and are for experimental purposes to determine the practicality of heavy-duty trucks for service where roads and bridges will sustain these heavy machines . The three-quarter-ton units are likewise to be experimented with in ambulance service . The contractors are required , as on the previous orders , to- give- precedence to the Government , even to the extent of the Government prerogative of commandeering the Allied Governments ' machines if the emergency develops . All told , the national War Department has now invested and appropriated approximately $7,500,000 for motorized equipment . Horses and mules were the transport army . Complete reconstruction has occurred in six months , draft animals being completely discarded , and no more use is to be made of animal-drawn transports . PECULIAR PROBLEMS OF TRANSPORTATION ON THE BORDER AND IN MEXICO Far more proof has been piled up by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dependability of the motor truck than the usage of two years in European warfare . In European war service not only have roads been far better than many American city streets , but supplies , repair facilities , etc. , have been constantly hard by . The operation of motors in a tropical climate is prodigiously difficult . Everything needed for the Mexican campaign must be carried ? rations , fuel , water , and that up to distances of 300 miles without the use of railways . Over the boundary are sand dunes into which trucks sink up to the hubs , arroyos , boulders , cloudbursts of tropical climate , making the gumbo soil in a few minutes a gluey morass , sand section deleted  | During the penetration period each truck company parked its machines at night in a hollow square , like prairie-schooner caravans in Indian frontier days , with the soldier guard doing picket duty in two-hour shifts at night . On one truck of each company a machine gun was mounted to fire around a complete circle and a squad of twelve to fifteen soldiers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repair shops for keeping the fleet of a thousand trucks in the highest state of  | efficiency are located at Columbus , N. M. , and Fort Bliss , Tex. , and fifty-two big lathes are now part of the equipment . Truck mechanics are paid approximately $100 per month and required to enlist in the army for a year . Enlisted truck drivers receive the regular pay of their rank as soldiers . TYPES OF MOTORS AND CHASSIS BEST SUITED FOR ARMY USE All of the first 316 Mexican expedition trucks were of the conventional commercial product of their builders , and were about equally divided between the regular twowheel and the all-wheel or four-wheel drive type . The highly creditable performance , therefore , of motors indicated that very little if any changes for military service were necessary . These changes relate principally to the use of larger engines , lower gear ratios to give greater tractive power , large ground clearance , more space between the mechanism to give accessibility , larger radiating capacity to compensate for rapid evaporation of water in a hot climate and to cool @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , standardization of carburetors , magnetos and Society of Automobile Engineers system of standards for all nuts , bolts , and parts so as to give the most versatile interchangeability of parts between any two makes of trucks of the same capacity . The truck which drives and steers on all four wheels has proven the most suitable for cross-country tractive difficulties . But the performance of the conventional rearwheel driven trucks has astonished army officials . For example , on a trip of 1000 miles in transferring supplies between new and old bases in the Mexican interior a convoy of twenty-eight chainless trucks made the last 104 miles of the journey from Casas Grandes across the border to the base camp at Columbus in ten hours . And another rear-wheel driven motor convoy made possible a troop movement which shattered every record made by the Army . An infantry regiment of 850 men boarded trucks at Fort Sam Houston and were driven seven miles to a selected site . The men detrained , formed in battle line , again boarded the trucks and were driven back to the post . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours . The fifteen miles covered in the movement is a good day 's march for infantry under ordinary conditions . A combination rail and road truck was driven on the railway from Columbus to El Paso , a distance of 93 miles , in a trifle under five hours , carrying eighteen soldiers . Converted into a highway truck upon arrival in ten minutes , it was driven back over the roads to Columbus the same day . WEAR AND TEAR OF ARMY USE AND HOW IT COMPARES WITH COMMERCIAL USE Under Mexican conditions motor trucks have had the premier test of their commercial history . Nothing could be more grueling on motor mechanism than operation in a tropical climate in roadless deserts , mountain grades and variations from 40 degrees to 130 degrees temperature . A month 's service under such conditions of a motor is equivalent in severity to three or four years of the hardest commercial service . Yet many of the motor trucks sent to Mexico are still in active service , and the repairs and adjustments have been surprisingly small . If the Government . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mexican trouble is settled their salvage value is easily now 60 per cent . of their initial cost , so trouble- and fool-proof constructed is the modern American motor truck . WHAT KINDS OF TIRES WERE FOUND BEST IN THE MEXICAN CAMPAIGN ? The tires used were almost entirely of the demountable solid rubber type because of the advantage of quick changes in necessity , and , while the pressed-on type of solid tire , the type in which the rubber is vulcanized directly to the steel rim , gives greater mileage , replacement of this type is a machine-shop instead of a roadside job , hence the pressed-on type was debarred . Low-pressure pneumatics were used with good results on the lighter transport trucks . . It is not improbable that in two or three years hence we shall see developed for army service a heavy-duty type of puncture-proof pneumatic which will double the speed of army mechanical transports and greatly increase an army 's mobility . LESSONS FOR INDUSTRIAL USE OF MOTOR TRUCKS FROM OUR ARMY EXPERIENCE The Mexican campaign has shown to Big Business and Little Business alike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Its most carping critic in military and civilian life has been confounded , and former army objections have been met by an enforced test which in the ordinary course of events ' tight have been delayed for years .                     