@@485085

THE BANKING AND CURRENCY LAW . The cloud of dust with which partisan or professional misrepresentation had so long surrounded the Banking and Currency bill , has suddenly blown away , and the public recognizes the measure for what it actually is  --  one of the most remarkable achievements in sound constructive legislation of our time We do not so characterize it merely for the purpose of echoing the belated enthusiasm of those critics who , until the passage of the law had become inevitable , refused to perceive anything of the good that was in the bill . Still less do we dispute the assertion  --  the last stand of the purely destructive critics  --  that cordial approval of the act has been made Possible largely through the amendments of the past two weeks . On the contrary , we wish to-day to express our own emphatic judgment that the result is most remarkable , for the very reason that the effort at currency reform began under such weighty handicaps , and that sober and statesmanlike deliberation has swept them so effectively away . About every great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has been made up of a bundle of compromises with the faction of unsound finance . The Specie Resumption Act was a notable instance of the process ; the Silver Purchase Act was chiefly a surrender to such influences ; the Gold Standard Act of 1900 was enacted only after reiterating the legal-tender proviso for Government paper money . That the present law goes to the statute books without a single compromise of this sort , on any vital part of the working machinery of the bill , is therefore a most exceptional result . That it should have been the work of the party whim , barely a dozen years ago , was captured by Populistic leaders and committed to depreciated money  --  by a party in whose deliberations , during the six months ' Congressional debate upon the bill , the theories of inflation have repeatedly found angry and defiant assertion  --  makes the issue at least a landmark in the history of American politics . No one is likely to deny that the credit for this achievement lies in great degree with President Wilson , to whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ due the defeat of ignorant and factious opposition within the party . Mr. Wilson 's prestige must in justice be divided with the Chairman of the Rouge Committee , Mr. Carter Glass , whose thorough knowledge of the subject , obstinate refusal to yield to the fads and fancies urged by influential public men , and constant readiness to accept intelligent criticism of his bill by the banking community , kept the true ideal of the proposed legislation unswervingly before Congress and the people . Only with Tuesday 's publication of the text of the new measure did those critics who still withheld approval , because the Senate amendments had dispensed entirely with requirements of an actual cash reserve in vaults of individual banks , learn that Mr Glass forced the conference committee to restore that safeguard . By no means least of all , credit for the practical machinery of the measure belongs to ex-Senator Aldrich , the general theory and framework of whose own plan for banking reform  --  patiently and , in our judgment , patriotically shaped by its author during a long examination of the subject  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the law which are copied nearly verbatim from the Aldrich bill ; and the reason is that the wording and purport of those sections could not be improved on . But the act is none the less distinctly superior to the Aldrich plan  --  not only because it has successfully avoided that plan 's , politically impossible expedient of a single central bank controlled by private banking interests , but because certain grave and positive evils in the Aldrich bill have been removed . The present act compels no one to accept the notes except the Government ; in this it stands with the National Bank Act . The Aldrich bill , like the Silver Purchase Act of 1890 , forced their acceptance for all , except the exclusively gold payments , by the Government  --  a long step towards legal tender . The Aldrich bill would have made the new notes , at once and under all circumstances , lawful money for use in bank reserves ; the conference ' committee on the present act rejected even the Senate 's proposal for a - tentative and discretionary use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in commenting on the conference amendments , that there are some provisions left which aught to have been struck out This is true , we think , in a high degree , of the introduc tory language of the note-issue section , wherein it is declared , as it was in the first draft of the bill , that the notes are to be issued " for the purpose of making advances to the Federal reserve banks , . . . and for no other purpose " Our opinion , ever since we first referred to this declaration , six months ago , has been that , considered merely as a statement of facts , it is untrue . The notes , to be sure , are " issued , " in a technical sense , by the Government to the regional banks ; their issue differing in this respect in no wise from the manner in which the present national banknotes are assigned to individual banks . But it follows from this very comparison that the new notes will no more be " advances " by Government to banks than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foolish enough to describe our existing banknote circulation as such an operation . Since , then , a condition is declared to exist which palpably does not exist , it follows that , so far as regards its bearing on actual operation of the law , the declaration is a mere dead letter . The real evil in it is the possibility that at some future date it may be cited as a precedent for the actual issue of Government paper , as a loan to private industry . Its incidental evil has been the handle which the futile declaration gave to critics like Mr. Vanderlip and Senator Root , in their contention that the measure created fiat money . To believe that absurdity , it was necessary first to believe the absurdity which the bill itself declared . - We are confident that the general public will appraise this undoubted defect at its proper value , and will recognize that it neither does nor can injure the practical efficiency of the new provisions . Meantime , such reservation of judgment as still exists among competent students of the Banking and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be fixed in the naming of the national board . REPUBLICANS AND THE FUTURE . There has doubtless been some exaggeration in describing as a great " crisis " the situation which confronted the National Republican Committee - last week in Washington It has been said that their decision would be big with the fate of their party The party itself has been pictured as standing , at this juncture , between two worlds , one dead , the other powerless to be born . In all this there is more rhetoric than cold analysis . Yet it is not to be denied that much importance attaches to the deliberations and conclusions of the Committee . This is shown both by the eagerness with which the meeting was looked forward to and the general sense of disappointment at the result . The Committee may say that too much was demanded of them . But both the demand and the regret that it was not fully met are clear indications of the feeling that the Republican par , ty , after a life of sixty years , had reached a turning-point in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There was the proposal of a special National Convention next year , to take the work of party reform vigorously in hand . This was rejected , but a series of State Conventions are to be asked to ratify the work of the Committee That work itself is neither one thing nor the other , but a , little of each It does not strike at the root of unfair representation in the Convention ; but it lops off a few branches . The South is to lose some eighty delegates , but will still be , on the basis of the actual Republidan vote cast , grossly over-represented . On the other hand , the unreserved acceptance of the primary laws in all the States , coupled with the agreement to shear the National Committee of the power to " go behind the returns , " and seat or unseat delegates atter contests have been argued before it , will go a long way towards placating many hostile to the old regime . Evidence of this is furnished by the acquiescence of such men as Senator Borah and Gov @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to party machinery . How about the pulse of the machine ? What driving impulse , what new outlook , what inspiring issue , came out of this gathering of Republican leaders in Washington ? Here we put the finger upon the real source of disappointment with the proceedings . It was hoped that some promising step would be taken towards winning back the Progressives to their old allegiance . There was also the expectation that a strong lead would be given as to the fuAdministration could be successfully attacked ; a cry raised to which the counmittee thought it wiser to leave measures of conciliation between Republicans and Progressives to be worked out quietly in the separate States , as they are actually working out in Indiana and Michigan and elsewhere . But as to thrilling appeals , or hailings of inspiring leaders , the difficulty was fundamental . Their lack was made light of by the ingenuous Senator Smoot . " Issues , " he cried , " what other issue do we need than mills closed and men out of work ? And why deplore our dearth of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rail at the blunders of the leaders on the other side ? " This is not a very exalted sentiment , but it undoubtedly meets with temporary applause . That the Republican party stands to profit , to an extent , by the inevitable reaction against the party in power , is as certain as anything in politics can be . But there is scarcely an entire platform in. that . A great party ought to be able to show that it has some other reason for existence than the desirability of having a club with which to beat over the head the men who are in office . The United States is still a good country to " bet on . " In fact , intelligent foreign opinion just now favors the idea that this country is in better shape to face the existing world-wide financial depression than is either England or France or Germany . The check here ought to be slighter and the recovery more prompt But whether it come soon or late , the expectation of business disaster is a mighty poor diet for a national party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groping by the party of moral ideas for a moral issue . Such an issue could have been found if the spirit of its birth-year , 1856 , still burned within its bosom In that case , it would have done something to deal , not with the over-representation of the negro vote in the South , but with its suppression . All that class of ideas , however , seems to have gone bankrupt in the Republican party . It could not even assert , with any effect , its later grandiose programme of a strong central GovernStates ' rights party has gone Republicans several better . But a political parhistory ; and the mere fact that the Republicans are to-day so obviously without definite plans and forceful leadership , does not at all prove that the party may not , before many months , pull itself together and enter upon a new period of power and usefulness . BURLESON 'S HAPPY THOUGHTS . When Postmaster-General Hitchcock came out with a sudden declaration in favor of Government ownership of the country 's telegraph system , it was presently made perfectly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Postmaster-General 's report , and he expressly repudiated the proposal . It seems in the highest degree improbable that any such situation existed in relation to Postmaster-General Burleson 's recommendation of the same step , in his report made public last week . There can be little doubt that President Wilson had been in touch with Mr. Burleson regarding the matter , and that the discussion of it was not inserted in the report without the President 's assent . But it does not in the least follow that he wished to be understood as committed to the scheme . Only a few days ago , another member of the Cabinet expressed himself with a good deal of freedom on another large matter of Governmental policy ; but the country has not taken Mr. Redfield 's exposition of his views on Trust legislation as indicating any practical purpose on the part of the Administration , at least for the immediate future . All the indications are that , after a preliminary ripple of more or less excitement , the country will settle down to the opinion that the President 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Burleson was given merely with the idea that there would be no harm in throwing out a " feeler " on the subject . Indeed , an examination of the way in which Mr. Burleson presents the matter should suffice , on general principles , to class his recommendation rather in the category of vaguely conceived plans for the future . He introduces it in immediate sequence to , and in the closest possible connection with , his statements concerning the fiscal results of the parcel-post undertaking That this had long been a general desideratum , that it has supplied a public convenience , and that it is destined to become far more useful in the future , nobody denies . But it is certainly premature to pass upon the question of the degree of its profitableness . Mr. Burleson simply says that " it is expected that after the allowance of proper compensation to railroads for all service rendered there will come annually hereafter , as the result of the development of the parcel-post service , an increasing surplus . " But waiving this Point , there is between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operations of the Post Office and the taking over of the enormous plant and organization of the telegraph and telephone system a difference so vast and so vital that to make a simple inference from the result in the one case to the result in the other is almost ludicrous . And yet Mr. Burleson gravely sets it down that " the successful operation of the parcel post has demonstrated the capacity of the Government to conduct the public utilities which fall properly within the ' postal provision of the Constitution . " In one sense , of course , the conclusion here stated by Mr. Burleson is entirely true , whatever may be thought of ins argument . it requiieU uo klealueel , rati-on ; rby means of the parcel post or otherW'ise , to show " the capacity of the Gov ; AA-lent to Conduct " the telegraph and telephone system . Everybody - knows that if the Government were to take over that system , the system would go . The question is one of better or worse , of cheaper or dearer , of politically desirable or politically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Post Office performs its present functions with anything like the perfection which is to be desired . In some important particulars , its service is notoriously behind that of the best European post offices . As to the cost of the service , it must always be remembered that interest on the cost of the great plant of the Post Office Department in the shape of buildings and land is not reckoned as part of the annual outgo of the service as a whole ; and as regards a special addition like the parcel post it requires the most conscientious , as well as the most careful , computation to determine how much of the general " overhead " charges should justly be assigned to it before a conclusion can be drawn . It must be recognized , on the other hand , that in the event of the absorption of the tele systems , a missed . Whenever this vast scheme may seriously be brought before Congress , with the Administration for its sponsor , the public will have a right to expect that its recommendation shall be accompanied by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phases of the problem . The total absence of such examination may be regarded as indicating that no such practical purpose exists at present . Nevertheless , we can but regard the utterance as untimely and unfortunate . A radical revision of the tariff had just gone into effect . A far-reaching reorganization of our banking anti currency system was about to ne instituted . Business is , owing to a number of causes , some of them of worldwide range , in a condition of great sensitiveness and of considerable depression . There is a time for all things , and this is not a time for injecting into the situation unnecessary elements of doubt It is this consideration which is supposed to govern the President in the purpose generally ascribed to him to let Trust legislation alone for the present . If such is his feeling , it is evidently desirable that there shall be no needless disturbance of the public mind concerning the prospective attitude of the Administration . If he desires the country to have a period of rest during which the two great measures enacted at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results , Cabinet officers should not be permitted to create the impression that other big issues may be crowded close upon the heels of those which , for the past twelvemonth , have absorbed the attention of the country . If we are to have a rest , let us have a rest . THE VOLUNTEER ARMY BILL . The passing by the House the other day of the long-pending bill prescribing the methods to be pursued in raising a volunteer army was erroneously described as giving the President power to call out 200,000 men , while the suddenness of the House 's action was attributed to the Mexican emergency . Undoubtedly , this may have had something to do with it , but the Senate plainly does not recognize that any crisis is at hand , for three weeks have passed and there is no expectation that it will act on the bill in haste . Probably it will not even take it up until well into the new year . When it does , it will merely act on legislation long urged by the War Department and proposed when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not follow that the bill is unimportant . It is important , if only because it radically alters the historic volunteer policy of the United States in various particulars . By it there is an effort to remedy the defects of the volunteer army of 1861-65 , as well as others developed in 1898 . It extends Federal control over the organization of volunteers to a degree which in 1861 would have been regarded , even in the North , as a serious invasion of States ' rights , or at least the politicians ' rights to appoint officers : Needless to say , it fixes no limit as to the number of volunteers the President may call out . The Washington- correspondents who telegraphed the 200,000 figure could as truthfully have said that an army of a million was in contemplation because of Mexico . The bill merely prescribes how the President shall raise an army of volunteers after Congress has given him authority and has determined the number . Primarily , he must follow the procedure of the regular army , whose laws , orders , and regulations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the volunteers . All threp kinds of troops are to be on an exact parity as to organization and rights , no distinction being made even in the composition of courts-martial , - which , differing from those of the past , may be composed of militia , volunteer , and regular officers without - restriction . The men of the volunteer forces are to be taken " as far as practicablb " from the several States and Territories in proportion to their population , as heretofore . It is in the appointment of officers that we have a radical change , for these are all to be appointed by the President , subject to confirmation by the Senate . The officers from a State will perhaps be suggested to the President by the Governor of that State , but the President does not have to accept them unless he sees fit . He may appoint every single volunteer colonel from the regu. lar army , for instance , for the bill permits the appointment of four regular officers to each volunteer regiment . Moreover , officers are not hereafter to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instance , the First Massachusetts or the Tenth Connecticut , but will be appointed as captains or lieutenants or majors of Massachusetts or Connecticut volunteer infantry , so that they may be promoted according to seniority in the entire branch of the volunteers in which commissioned , and transferred from one regiment to another at will . Indeed , it is not clear that the old State titles will be preserved ; so far as this bill is concerned , there is nothing to prevent every regiment 's being called " The Regiment of Unit-ed States Volunteer Infantry . " Commonsense will , however , doubtless dictate the retention of the State designations so that local pride and the spirit of emulation may be cultivated . The great point is that under this bill the President can prescribe the qualifications for officers and , if he chooses , exclude politicians like William Jennings Bryan when they aspire to be colonels without military knowledge . Still another break with the past which will appeal particularly to our Civil War survivors is the provision requiring the establishment of a recruiting battalion for each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and forward to the regiment men to make good the losses at the front . There was no greater military mistake in the Civil War on the part of the Federals than the recruiting of their armies by new regiments . Instead of being reinforced , the veteran organizations at the front were allowed to shrink to almost nothing . Sometimes a State would forward recruits if the regiment persisted in demanding them . Far more often the regiment was allowed to dwindle away . Thus the Twentieth Massachusetts , one of the bravest regiments that ever fought , took 243 men into battle at Get-tysburg ( where they lost 127 ) , and similar figures testified to the fidelity of the First Minnesota and many other veteran organizations . Brigades were frequently half the size of a full regiment ; yet as late as the Wilderness campaign , new regiments which had never heard a shot fired were placed in line of battle with officers as inexperienced as the men . The politicians liked the system for the patronage it created , and the army paid the price . Every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entire war . There will be no more three-months or three-years men , if the bill passes ; but it expressly stipulates that all volunteers are to be promptly mustered out as soon as the imminence of war passes or the war itself ends . Needless to say that the President will also appoint all staff officers of volunteers , including the quartermasters and the medical officers on whose efficiency so much depends , and this ought to insure the selection of as competent men as can be obtained . On the whole , the bill marks a distinct advance . There are things in it about which there will be two opinions , of course , as for instance whether under its Provisions the regular army will not be robbed of too many of its officers at the beginning of hostilities in order to benefit the volunteers . But providing as it does a modern machinery to be used only in the event of war and replacing antiquated enactments , it is in principle unobjectionable . TEN YEARS OF THE AEROPLANE . With true dramatic sense Orville Wright chose the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carolina sand dunes to announce that the real problem of the , aeroplane today , the question of automatic stability , is on the point of solution . Improvements in mechanical invention do not always come from the hand of the original inventor . Yet it will seem eminently fit if the problem of making flight in a heavier-than-air machine normally safe should be solved by one of the men who made flight in a heavier-than-air machine normally possible . The achievements of the aeroplane need not be rehearsed in detail . We have travelled far from the first successful experiments at Kitty Hawk . The European seas have been forded by the aeroplane . The land area of Europe has been criss-crossed from north to south and from the Atlantic to St. Petersburg . The Alps have been surmounted , and altitudes higher than the tallest of Alpine peaks have been attained . The aeroplane omnibus has carried nearly a dozen men with safety . At the present moment an ambitious airman is on his way from Paris to Australia by way of Indo-China and the East Indian land bridges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ near future . But it has been a process of development not devoid of vicissitudes . With continuous improvement in the gasolene motor , the radius and lifting power of the aeroplane have advanced rapidly . The element of safety has not kept pace . It is a regular feature of the day 's news that the story of another triumph of airmanship in the matter of distance covered or altitude attained , or a difficult bit of navigation accomplished , should be followed by another of the disasters such as have marked the past year . In the public mind the question has remained whether the achievements of the aeroplane are not , after all , the achievements of specially qualified or exceptionally daring navigators . This suspicion is justified , though only in part . In reading the almost daily record of aeroplane mishaps , one must keep percentage in mind . In relation to the number of airmen now plying their trade and the air-mileage covered , it may probably be shown that the ratio of accident is decreasing . Nevertheless , the fact remains that , because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the laws of the medium it moves in , the element of accident is always present ; and the expert is hardly more immune than the novice . The marvellous feats of a Pegoud are no guarantee that disaster will not overtake him in the course of a comparatively simple flight . In one respect , the aeroplane , like its rival the dirigible , has failed on the whole to justify the first confident predictions . And this is in regard to the part that aeronautics was to play in revolutionizing warfare . The idea of aerial navies has fascinated the public mind ; and more than the public . The zeal with which the Governments of Europe have gone in for airship construction would seem to run counter to our statement . Germany and France both claim the supremacy of the air , according as the dirigible or the aeroplane , on which they have staked their respective hopes , comes to the front in the news of the day . At the present moment , for instance , the succession of disasters that has befallen Germany 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the heavier-than-air machine . But it is to be noted that the expert military partisans of neither aeroplane nor dirigible - are over-sanguine in their claims . The popular conception of aerial Dreadnoughts battling in the blue behind skirmish lines of aeroplane destroyers is not entertained on the General Staffs . As yet , the only service expected of the new military arm is that of reconnaissance . And even in that field it is doubtful whether aeroplane and dirigible in the present stage of their ? development imply sweeping changes . A great European war would supply a thorough test . But in such military operations as have witnessed the participation of the aeroplane or the dirigible , their achievements have not been remarkable . The fact that bombs thrown from Italian airships have scattered a horde of Tripolitan tribesmen is of little meaning . A modern army equipped with high-elevation artillery might easily dispose of an airship raid . Skilful rifle fire has been shown to be effective in at least one instance , by picking off the aeroplane pilot on the wing . The wars in the Balkans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recorded achievement of the airmen was around Adrianople , where a Bulgarian navigator was described as encircling the city ; but at a speed that would hardly make his observations of great value to the commander in the field . In general , one is inclined to think that the stress laid on reconnoitring in the air is exaggerated . A modern war on a large scale is not likely to be decided by superior information . Wireless , the field telephone , and the older systems of military signalling have reduced the possibility of secrecy to a minimum . Nor does it fail to be gratifying that this stupendous human invention should not first be turned to the uses of slaughter . Orville Wright has stated his belief that the aeroplane will soonest come into use as a mail-carrier in sparsely settled regions devoid of railways . The aeroplane , for one thing , to be of practical value , must have its chain of stations , where it can take on supplies and make repairs at leisure ; a condition hardly attainable under the stress of a military campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see navies battling in the air we shall see aeroplanes crossing the Sahara along established routes and on something like schedule . CAN THE " FOOL " BE REVIVED ? Though Shakespeare even in comedy gave the " fool " only a minor part , he seems to have felt with Jaques that for pure fun " motley 's the only wear . " After his day the fool fell into disuse ; and if he may be said to have been re-vived at all , it has been at the hands of Bernard Shaw . But Shaw , for all his excellent nonsense , has taken the fool too seriously and made a hero of him . It would not be difficult to show that several of his leading characters embody the spirit of Touchstone , Feste , and oth-ers of that merry company . This is what must be meant when it is charged against Shaw that his personages , though seemingly versed in the ways of human nature , have no sense of emo-tional values . Like Touchstone 's brain , theirs are as dry as the remainder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to chaffer in the dry light of reason , where mere feeling never en-ters , and on the surface they are expert logicians . If Touchstone could convince the shepherd offhand that polished man-ners were an ample passport to the court , Mr. Shaw takes a whole play . his latest , " Galatea " ? to snow that the acquisition of a refined pronunciation of the English language is all that is needed to make a duchess of a flower-vender , and an M.P . of a garbage col-If the fool in " All 's Well " can a ' specious justification of the unfaithful wife , . Shaw constructs another play , " Man and Superman , " out of a similar process of reasoning . Some might wish , indeed , that Shakespeare had given greater latitude to his fools , but he at least kept on the side of safety . There is , in any case , an excellent chance for something approaching the Shakespearean fool on the stage to-day . The difficulty with Shaw 's way is that , being so elaborate and pretentious himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arguments to prove that he must be fooling . But the true fool , by admitting himself a fool , is disarming , and despite ? his protests may chance to earn ' a reputation for profundity ; just as in " Lear " the fool seems sometimes to be the only sane person on the stage . Our present American conditions are ripe for just such a minor personage , as may be seen by glancing at the usual method of dramatic satire . Suppose eugenics to be under fire . The ingredients of the play would be sure to be in part as follows : The son of a right liver would display a marked tendency to rakishnesS , after the manner of the traditional clergyman 's son ; and the marriage of an All-American centre rush with the intercollegiate woman champion at high jumping would be blest by a son who at the final curtain would perish of nervous exhaustion . The play might awaken laughter , but , with others , it would excite a still greater zeal than exists at present for statistics . Now , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of figures is bound to be futile . What is needed both for the pure fun of the thing and to make eugenic faddists uncomfortable , is small doses of shrewd logic delivered by a character with whom it is impossible to take offence . The American stage seems peculiarly suited to some such equivalent of the Shakespearean fool as we have in mind . For our audiences have sufficient homogeneity to catch the casual satire . Owing to the fact that everybody reads the newspapers , and the newspapers publish everything , top gallery and orchestra circle have much the same knowledge of current events and are not far Separated in respect to tears and laughter . At present , the typical American 's conception of comedy is largely shaped by so-called musical reviews , the spirit of which has affected the comic parts in even dignified plays . Every one knows what the humorous specialties are , The courtesies of subway life , the integrity of the political boss , the casuistry of the married man supposed to be passing the evening at his office , the politest ways @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are grist to the comedian 's mill . In so far as the compass of his part is concerned , he corresponds well enough to the fool . He is an onand-off-the-stage character , and often has no more lines than ; " say , Touchstone . But he is a clown , not a fool , expert in clever tricks of countenance and intonation , and usually is also something of an athlete . He is dexterous in broad slap-stick humor , but knows nothing about the dry wit which was the tool 's stock in trade . Owing to the wide influence of these musical comedies , wit , strictly so-called , has almost disappeared from the American stage . Yet to many wit , properly administered , would seem to be about the best antidote for the super-optimism and gush enveloping many of the modern movements of which the stage should take account . Here is an admirable opportunity for the smart essayists who in increasing numbers are presuming to deal summarily with contemporary life . When they take to writing plays , as every one does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full career of a hero , let them concentrate it upon a minor character to serve as a sort of chorus . It is a character which should allure them . For the fool would also furnish them with an excuse for employing that modicum of cynicism which is the salt of wit and wisdom . Such a personage , if well contrived , could unquestionably be introduced with profit in light comedy and , once successful there , would quickly find his way into worthier drama . It would be something of a distinction to be the first to adapt the Shakespearean fool to modern American conditions . RECENT GERMAN FICTION . The schoolmaster plays a conspicuous Part in contemporary German letters , not only as a type of frequent occurrence in drama and fiction , but as a writer of both Hermann Stein ' , the Silesian , is one of the most interesting personalities among the authors that have graduated from the schoolroom His stories have much of the spiritual and the imaginative quality of his compatriots , Carl and Gerhart Hauptmann , with an indefinable individual flavor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aus dem Mandelliause " ( Berlin : S Fischer ) , is typical of his manner . German folklore has so frequently associated the tailor 's trade with eccentricity , that Stehr could not quite get away from that preconceived notion , and has made his hero a very curious representative of his kind . But the interest really centres in his son , the child that had cost his wife her life , and that the lonely man adores as her precious legacy . The boy has inherited from his mother a morbid sepsitiveness and the gift of song , from his father the tendency of weaving strange fancies and dreams . The widower and the motherless boy are taken care of by a deaf-and-dumb woman , who after some years of faithful service awakens in the emotional tailor a belated love-desire . He plans to make her his second wife , but the boy 's singing keeps alive the memory of the first and troubles him ; and when the boy is forbidden to sing , he pines away . Then the paternal love of the man asserts itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the woman with her bundle leaves the house , the tailor is reverently bending over a chest in the garret which contains some relics of the dead wife . At this moment there comes from the room below the voice of the boy , who had long been silent on his invalid couch , bursting forth into a song which seems like the call of a new life and a brighter future for both . The mystic atmosphere of the land that bred Jacob Bobme hovers over the book and exercises a haunting spell upon the reader . The latest novel by Arthur Schnitzler , " Frau Beate and ihr Sohn " ( S. Fischer ) , has an absorbingly strong plot and a powerful psychological interest . The heroine , widowed at an early age , has a son who has just come to manhood and is infatuated With a former actress , from whom the mother is determined to separate the youth . But while she is devoting herself to this mission , she experiences an awakening of the love instinct and weakens at the plea of a college @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the part of a Mephisto in this complicated dramatic situation . The characters are all of the world that Schnitzler knows so well and has familiarized us with in his plays and novels , and are drawn with his usual clear , firm touch ; the actress is an especially sympathetic figure . When Frau Beate realizes that she is no better than this woman and discovers that her name , too , is lightly treated by the young men , she finds herself involved in a hopelessly tragic conflict , for which there seems to be only the conventional dramatic solution  --  expiation by death . Traugott Tamm is not a well-known author , but one possessed of distinct merit . " Die Hingstberger " ( Munich ; Albert Langen ) is a story with a very pronounced physiognomy . The call of the city has come to a little community in the heather-grown plains and has brought discord and distress to many a home Young Jes Ole follows the lure , and out of the peace and the quiet of the paternal homestead drifts into the tumult of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his commercial career and becomes involved in a love affair which threatens to demoralize him , but he issues as victor from the emotional conflicts and the economic struggles of his youth . Although his individual fate is the centre of interest , the charm of the story is largely derived from the animated background against which it is relieved : a city life full of color and light , of sharp contrasts , and dramatic interests . But its most commendable quality is its wholesomeness . Ernst Weiss is a young Viennese writer , whose first work , " Die Galeere " ( S. Fischer ) , is a most remarkable specimen of that analytical fiction which seems irresistibly to haunt the generation of German intellectuals , whose work responds to the demand for a scientific reading of lite and for a close-welding of life and letters . The hero a young scholar engaged in. study of the Roentgen-rays and haunted by the vague fear that their powerful influence upon the human tissues may produce fatal changes . Absorbed in his work , he does not notice , until it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of that destructive force . The gradual decline of his mental powers is a rather depressing theme , but it is relieved by elements of conventional romance which lend a wider human interest . Gerhard Ouckama Knoop is one of those authors who have always a surprise in store for their readers . He has no formula , no model that he faithfully observes in the construction of his stories . Each of his books has its own individual character and makes the impression of a rare spontaneity . His " Nadeshda Bachini , " " Die Hochmogenden , " and " Aus den Papieren des Freiherrn von Skarpl " are as widely apart in matter and manner as possible ; and his latest book , " Unter Kbnig Max " ( Berlin : Egon Fleischel &; Co. ) , is again as different from its predecessors . He revives in this book the old Munich of the mid-c6ntury , and on the thread of the narrative , which is concerned with the experiences of men and women of the aristocracy and of the middle class , whom the exposition tempts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes in the city 's physiognomy when the newer parts are settled by foreign newcomers . The note of humor which enters into his sympathetic attitude towards his characters is especially charming ; he succeeds in awakening in the reader a genuine interest in the ups and downs of their existence and in their mild emotional experiences , Glimpses of aristocratic and of " bourgeois " . interiors , conversations suggesting the intellectual tastes and pursuits of the period , incidents which show the almost insurmountable barrier that separated the castes in that good old time , combine to make a very vivid and fascinating picture of the Munich that is no more . The book is such a novel and sfriking achievement that one is curious - to see what the next development or the author will be .                     