@@493166

Vfie NeW REPUBLIC A Journal of Opinion VOLUME XXI NEW YORK , WEDNESDAY , DECEMBER 17 , 1919 NUMBER 263 The Week IT is highly significant that the first sign of corn- the Promise and adjustment between Germany and Allies should occur after the failure of Ameri-'an ratification . The dictatorship of the continent , w hieh is the central object of the Treaty of Ver-es , rested upon the American guarantee . The 1:erusal of that guarantee is immediately effective in f ? reing the abandonment of claims like those in b l'esPect to the Scapa Flow sinkings and the protocol . it . the withdrawal of America the dictatorship a'c 's down , and the first grudging steps are taken 4 ? : e , rieds a revision of the spirit of the Versailles whLent . That settlement was conceived on the ? ? 11Y indefensible theory that it could be enforced xl.i-Alnerica . It was never conceived as a peace in inthr eci ? Pe hy Europe for Europe . It was always an toe ? s , an artificial , and a dangerously unstable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American entanglement in the perpetu ? Of an eternal feud . THE settlement would never have been enforced except by the application of violence in which America carried the burden . It can not possibly be enforced if America retains liberty of action . The inherent bluff and unreality of the whole business will gradually reveal themselves in the next five years or so , and with the passing of the politicians who bungled at Paris , there will arise the necessity for a revision of the settlement on terms which permit the restoration of normal life on the confluent . The logic of the facts will dominate passion and propaganda , and when the world conference reassembles to undo the blunders of Versailles the statesmen will proceed on an estimate of the real forces in Europe and not on the fantastic theory of a dictatorship a la Louis Quatorze . SENATOR Fall brings a serious charge against the Mexican Embassy in Washington . He asserts that this agency is " deliberately stirring revolutionary troubles " in the United States and , engaging in " Bolshevist propaganda . " This point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who are attempting to uphold Carranza . " But his evidence he believes to be incontrovertible . That evidence is being issued in serial form , and only the first instalment is at hand as this paper goes to press . Its chief exhibit is a booklet called The Conspiracy Against Mexico , which Senator Fall declares Ambassador Bonillas helped distribute . T HIS pamphlet does not establish even a prima facie case against Carranza as the would-be plotter of American revolution and dismemberment . Referring to Mexico 's new constitution the pamphlet declares that " outside of Soviet Russia no country in the world has taken such a step toward real liberty . " But a comparison of this sort can scarcely be called Bolshevist propaganda , particularly if conditions in Mexico are as bad as Senator Fall says they are . The bulk of the pamphlet , as it is described in the newspapers , apparently consists of such allegations as that President Wilson changes his mind , that " Wall Street " wants intervention , and that part of the American press is pro-annexation . With the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " Let it be the business of American labor , of all lovers of freedom and fair play , to keep hands off Mexico . " SENATOR Fall 's evidence , however , does confirm what was already known , namely that President Carranza distrusts the United States . Thus his letter to the lady who was writing a book on the " Carranza Doctrine " refers to the " tortuosity of American policy . " . If the Mexican President is wise , he will leave such judgments to the verdict of history , and will at this moment consult the interests of Mexico and not his own prejudices . He will listen particularly to the advice of those Americans who are resisting intervention when they tell him to hurry and put his house in order . The plain fact is that the next administration will be Republican ; in all probability that means intervention unless Mexico in the meantime removes the main cause of the interventionist campaign and the basis of its propaganda . Specifically , Mexico should settle the oil controversy by enacting the law proposed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involving prestige and national punctilio to arise , and President Carranza might well come down off his high horse , and offer some concrete plan of friendly cooperation for the settlement of claims and differences . T HROUGHOUT the course of the Jenkins case Senators and editors have insisted that our real grievance against Mexico was not based upon this one affair but upon the fact that a long list of American citizens had been killed in Mexico ? and that their slayers have gone unpunished . A recent report published by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People draws a shocking comparison . Nine Americans have been killed in Mexico since July 31st ; thirty-six Americans have been killed by mobs in the United States , since the same date . Our own record is no apology for anyone else . It does not bring back lives lost in Mexico . But there are public men who cry war with Mexico for a crime whose commission they will pardon by silence , when it is done on our own side of the Rio Grande . " TO save @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be recognized now that there is nothing to be done with the White Russian armies as at present constituted . " That is the frank message which one // of the correspondents of the New York Times , Mr. Walter Duranty , sends to his editor . There is jealousy and intrigue among the officers who follow Yudenitch : they seem to have " every object save that of getting the best results for the whole army . " There are stories of the actual sale to the Bolsheviki , by Denikin 's subordinates , of war material supplied by the British . And there are reports , from Kolchak 's army , of " an exceedingly low state both of morale and discipline . " MR . DURANTY goes on to point out more fundamental weaknesses in the position of Kolchak , Denikin and Yudenitch . All three , he says , " refuse to recognize the independence of the small nations formerly attached to the Russian Empire , thus alienating all their desire to cooperate . " More over , " their severity toward the population of the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their rear . " And finally , " what guarantee is there that these Tsarist reactionaries , for they have shown themselves to be nothing else in conduct , despite vague professions of liberality , will - stand for a moment after Allied bayonets are withdrawn against the people of Russia who have tasted freedom ? " Mr. Duranty pleads for Allied corn . mand of the anti-Soviet armies . But in the columns of the Times he has made one of the best cases that has yet been drawn against intervention . C ENSORSHIP applied somewhere on the line of communications makes it difficult to tell what is happening in the conference at Dorpat between the governments of Esthonia and of Soviet Russia . The Esthonian delegates are reported as agreeing t ? accept no conditions of which the Allied powers disapprove ; but apparently they have gone so f3t as exchanging terms with the Russian delegation . Meantime representatives from Letvia , Finland and Poland sit on the fence , watching to see what will happen . Of the politics that preceded these negotiations at Dorpat no reports reached the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Baltic states are exerting an increasing power . The German press reports a recent meeting of socialist delegations from Esthonia , Lithuania and Letvia at which an ultimatum liv35 presented to the several governments on the subject of a peace . THE Allies have announced that they are 1041 to recognize the new Hungarian cabinet as a Pi ) ; visional government with which the Sore ' Council can negotiate until elections are bell , provided the elections are free and democralle . Thus , for the first time in the long sequence of Karolyi , Bela Kun , Peidl , the Archduke Joseph , Friedrich , and now Huszar Hungary has a government of diplomatic standing . One guesses that it is not a very different government from the one that preceded it . In the cabinet appear Friedrich and other friends of the Hapsburg circle . These ' lien have tolerated a White Terror in Budapest ; ' Will they now tolerate free and democratic elections ? MR . CHARLES GRASTY is one of the most optimistic ' correspondents on the staff of the Times , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a peaceful partition of Turkey may prove to be more difficult than the enforcement of a treaty with Germany . The most dangerous situation , he thinks , is around Smyrna and the Meander River ? where the Greeks have 70,000 troops facing the Turks . Immediately to the south are the Italians , with Adalia as their port . To the east General Gouraud is organizing a French c ? 10by , and further east , in Mesopotamia , are the British . The secret treaties are being applied under the guise of temporary military occupations ? and a:PPlied , Mr. Grasty thinks , to the detriment of the inhabitants and the making of fresh quarrels . WRITING in the Philadelphia Public Ledger Mr. Taft advises the American Legion against the 11 , se of violence . His warning is a gentle one ; and ' II the case of the Centralia riots he assumes an unprovoked attack by " bloody handed murderers " which the coroner 's testimony by no means establishes as a fact . A piece of plainer speaking comes from inside the Legion itself , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York . This officer declares that men are holding back from joining the Legion " because they have got the impression from he various reports of mob violence in the news- papers that the organization does n't stand for any- thing but lawlessness and disorder . " . . . When We quietly countenance the mob rule that has been 8 ? et ' IP by some American Legion posts in some of the cities and towns over the country we are paving she Way for the discrediting and perhaps the dettuction of the Legion . " LAWLESSNESS in the Legion reached a point h week that should startle even the most complacentcent leaders of the organization into an apprecia.t ; lon of the dangerous drift they are tolerating . St. , Committee of 48 had planned a convention in " uis . If any one political element dominates the le C ommittee of 48 it is the Bull Moose group 912 . This is what happened in St. Louis , according to a dispatch in the Times ; " Five men , each wearing the button of the American Legion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department of Justice , in the Federal Building . They said they had notified the management of the hotel and of other hotels that the Legion would prevent the holding of the meeting if the government should fail to act in the matter . " ? If such action is not repudiated by responsible leaders of the organization , the American Legion might as well abandon the conviction that it represents anything but the organized hoodlumism of the country . T HE NEW YORK WORLD has exposed a vicious social and industrial order by sending one of its reporters into the Guyan coal fields of West Virginia . " The only law , " this reporter finds , " is the will of the Logan Coal Operators ' Association " ? and that law is enforced at the point of a rifle in the hands of men nominally known as deputy sheriffs but admittedly in the pay of the operators . Grievances get little attention , and union organizers are not welcome . " No one comes into the Guyan field that is not approved of by the operators , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in it that for any reason is objectionable to the operators . And in all cases the operators get the benefit of any doubt . " WHAT to do with the railways is a question upon which Congress might spend months of investigation . But the Senate , after a hasty consideration of the Cummins bill , a consideration which lasted just five days , was apparently ready for the question . And it was about to decide the matter by a viva voce vote , without even the formality of a roll-call , when Senator LaFollette suggested the absence of a quorum . A count showed less than twenty members seated . When others arrived , in response to the call for a quorum , it developed that there were many amendments still to be proposed to the bill , and a great deal to be said about it . Practically all of the legislating done by Con , gress is done by a minority . But most of this legislating is trivial . In the present case the bill was one of unusual importance . And it came close @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system which requires our legislative officials to spend most of their time away from the Capitol , occupied with administrative errands . AT its recent annual meeting the National Consumers ' League adopted as part of its ten years ' working program the promotion of the movement for fixing women 's wages through minimum wage commissions . The League points out that only fourteen states and territories have as yet taken any action looking toward this obvious and necessary reform . That the free play of competition does not uniformly give to women workers pay on which they can live decently , even when the industries can well afford it , is now so generally understood that argument on the point is superfluous . It is also superfluous to argue about the desirability of removing the exploitation of women workers from our overburdened budget of causes of unrest . What we now need is action , and the National Consumers ' League has a record for persistent and jddicious promotion of good causes that justifies the hope that it will make rapid progress toward the establishment by law of a decent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Would Cost F OR the present , it appears , we shall continue at peace with Mexico . There is to be no American War of Jenkins 's Bail , to be confused in future centuries with Britain 's War of jenkins 's Ear . But it would be fatuous to assume that the danger of war with Mexico has been removed beyond the horizon . There are too many politicians and editors reiterating : " Since war must come , the sooner the better . " A refrain of that character has often enough gained the credit of prophecy . Something like it was popular in Europe before 191.4 . It is true , there are few men living in Europe today who would assert now , that the war was so desirable that those were right who wasted no time in bringing it on . The fact remains that anticipation of war makes for war , especially where there can be no reason for expecting such consequences as fell upon Europe . We may war upon Mexico without the risk of national dismemberment and economic decay and social despair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ costs ; and it is time to calculate the costs while the inevitableness of war is still in the condition of a resolution in the minds of Hearst , Doheny , Fall and Co . There will be costs , and heavy ones , in spite of all that the propagandists for a short war and a merry one may imagine . A Mexican war , on such grounds as we can plead , must affect profoundly our moral position before the world ; at home it must affect the relation between economic groups , at present not too harmonious . It must affect our foreign commercial development and our national finances . These effects are worth examining in detail . How shall we stand before the world if we follow the counsel of those who are deliberately seeking to pick a quarrel with Mexico ? We shall convince nobody of the sincerity of the charge that Mexico is a menace to our national safety . The allegation that Mexico has secretly conspired with our potential enemies , European or Asiatic , to invade our Southwest will be placed in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a conspiracy with France and England to attack Germany . Indeed , the German allegation will always command greater credit . Nor will anyone not expecting to profit by war on Mexico take any stock in the allegation that Mexico is plotting to overthrow our institutions by fostering the propv ganda of the I. W. W. and the Bolsheviki . Mexico does in fact grant greater freedom to radical pub ' lications than we do , and those publications come across the border when we permit them the use of our mails . If we do n't like them , why do we not exclude them ? Americans do suffer regrettably frequent in juries in person and property at the hands of lawless elements in . Mexico . So also do they at home , any unbiassed foreign critic would point out . With our record for lynchings we are not in a good moral position to shriek about lawlessness in Mexico . In parts of Mexico there is evidentlY hostility to aliens , especially Americans . But it may justly be remarked , anti-alien sentiment is nothing so unknown within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overlook it in other countries . American property interests have , Per ' haps , been impaired by certain provisions in the new constitution . But we tolerated impairment ? foreign interests when we permitted California t ? enact anti-oriental land laws . And as against the injuries Mexico and her people have inflicted upon Americans , the world at large will set the fact that there has not been a single disorder in Me'dic ' in the last nine years in which Americans have not given support to the anti-governmental sie ' Americans helped Madero against Diaz , Fluerr against Madero , Carranza against Huerta , and Zapata against Carranza . Even after the itb Columbus raid , Americans were dickering the unspeakable Villa and supported him , Amer ' ' ' cans who are now crying out for vengeance upon 0 Mexico for injury to Americans . If any foreigo element were so perniciously active in our oW politics , could even the innocent members of that element hope to escape unpopularity and occasional injury ? 