@@493114

the pledge which the American people will utter when they ratify the treaty of peace . If the informing principle of the treaty is , as the President proposes , a League of Nations which embodies the reign of law , based on the consent of the governed and sustained by the organized opinion of mankind , they will sign a document which is the realization of the noblest traditions in America 's foreign policy , which will emancipate the American nation from the temptation of entangling foreign alliances , and which will earn hereafter the most complete and solemn loyalty of the American people . But if , as the Knox resolutions propose , the attempt to associate with the treaty of peace an instrument and a rule of impartial justice among nations is abandoned , the American nation by ratifying the treaty will renounce the greatest benefit which our forbears crossed the Atlantic in order to obtain , and the present American government will sign a pledge that some future American government will repudiate . The Knox resolutions would commit the United States to a hideously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the French , British and Italian interests involved in the settlement , no matter whether they proved to be justifiable or not . The United States might be placed in the impossible position , even from the point of view of power politics , of promising to fight for all the special national policies of its Allies but for none of its own , because none of its own would be embodied in the treaty . The bargain looks absurd , but it would not be so absurd as it looks . It would leave this country free to take advantage of the economic handicaps of the other Powers in order to push an aggressive policy of foreign trade expansion . The obligations which America would assume under a League of Nations would prevent American business from enjoying a free hand in the future competition for international markets . The obligations which she would assume under the alliance proposed by the Knox resolutions would not involve any such drawbacks . The bargain might consequently be profitable for American capital , but what an ignoble harvest from the blood with which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Reparation WT HEN Germany , bragging of her bright V V sword and her " good old German God " came marching triumphantly through Belgium , destroying as she went , the people of the Allied and neutral countries were first stunned , then outraged . They solemnly vowed that the invader should pay in full for his ruthlessness . German lands sliould be plundered for the Belgian lands laid waste , and for every Belgian killed , wounded , robbed , enslaved or constrained due reparation should be exacted . There were many passionate men and women who went further and dreamed of a revenge on Germany that the world should never be able to forget . They pictured the burning of German cities , the slaying of panic-stricken , fleeing German citizens , the ravishing of German women , even the spiking of German infants upon the long lances of cavalry ' men . The horrors of the Thirty Years ' War , as depicted in contemporary chronicles and in intoler. ably realistic wood cuts , should again be visited upon a people that had forsworn its civilization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intense , still survives . You still meet charming well ' gloved , low-voiced women who frankly hope that the sixty-seven million Germans will be painlessly , or painfully , exterminated . Today Germany has surrendered unconditional ' ly , and the people who desired full reparation as well as those who demanded revenge have seeming ' ly a blank sheet upon which to write down the terms of peace . Here is a chance for reparation , retribu ? tion , security for future conduct . Germany call make no conditions . Yet conditions are set by our own necessities and desires and we find . ourselves limited in the writing of the treaty by a mass of restrictions that we had not anticipated . The truth of the matter is that our rash , uncircumscribed phantasy treaties were written in air ; they were dreams in which no 013 ? stacles of reality were met . The actual treaties , however , must be written on the skins of living men ' capable of anger , obstinacy and affection , men wil ? in defeat as in victory help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are also written on an even more delicate fabric , a texture that holds the world together , that rips and tears and ' unites again . We have got to live in a world with Ger ? mans and Austrians as well as with other poPlei : whom we do not love and who do not love each other , and by one means or another we must biniue these peoples together in a not utterly intolerab ' association . Whatever else happens we con ? t afford to destroy ourselves in order to destr ? Y others , to cut off our nose to spite our face . At every point the advocates of a vindictively uly compromising peace run into unforeseen dilemmas ' Either you make reasonable terms with your enell , or you prevent the terms from being carried note either you make reasonable terms or you injure yourself . You levy heavy indemnities and theY 31.9 not paid or they are paid by you yourself . Y " the Kaiser by more or less due process of law an you hang him by the neck until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? and all you have 3 complished is to restore life to the things for which the aging and inconsequent Kaiser stands . You kill the body and give life and vigor to the tradition . All these dilemmas restrict our freedom of decision . Consider the choice between what are probably the minimum Allied demands and the actual needs of future peace . In a noteworthy article in Sunday 's New York Tribune Mr. Frank H. Simonds points out this dilemma . You may have either reparation and justice , he says , or a real League of Nations ; you can not have both . Justice and reparation , he believes , means the cession of Alsace-Lorraine , Schleswig , Prussian Poland , including Danzig , and the German colonies , together with a payment by Germany of from ten to twenty billions of dollars . But we also want a League of nations to keep the peace of the world ; and " unless Germany is a willing and sincere partner in this enterprise the League of Nations will be a failure , for its success must rest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become such a willing and sincere partner if the League is " organized by their enemies who have just imposed upon them this terrific sentence . " At the Congress of Vienna the Allied monarchs , having banished " the Corsican usurper " and restored the true King , allowed France to go almost scot-free in order to bring her into the Alliance and thus perpetuate peace . Will the present enemies of Germany , faced with a similar choice between retribution and the hope of Peace , be forced to forego a part of what they feel to be their just claims against their late enemy ? In the matter of the size of the indemnity a similar dilemma presents itself . An indemnity is made to be paid ; it is not a mere example in mental arithmetic . If it is too large it will not be paid at all , and even if not excessive it must be paid partly at the expense of the nations receiving it . Germany Can Pay only by manufacturing and exporting goods that would otherwise have been manufactured by England , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Belgium may throw Belgian workers out of employment and even force them to emigrate . Even in the midst of an election camPaign Lloyd George is forced to see this dilemma . Germany must pay , he says , but she must not be allowed to dump her goods upon England . Still she must either dump them then on neutral markets , Where they will displace British goods , or the indemnity payments can not be met . Where even reparation is difficult , how is l'engeance safe or even possible ? Wherever we strike we hit ourselves . If we hang the Kaiser we rengthen the Imperial ideal . If we root out the ? henzollern brood we create a Hohenzollern myth , immortal as that of the " martyred " Charles the First . If we destroy the present moderate So-cialist government in Germany , as we easily can by the imposition of certain terms , we defeat our purposes in two ways ; we throw northern Germany into the hands of an ultra-revolutionary party , willing and able to play a desperate game of passive resistance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us , and , further , we split Germany into a group of little nations , among whom it will be difficult to distribute the burden of the indemnity , and none of whom can be easily forced to observe the treaty . To go arms in hand into such a dismembered and perhaps chaotic Germany in order to restore order and create a government with which to deal is possible but for internal reasons delicate if not dangerous . No doubt the recognition of a moderate Socialist government in Germany would give to German Socialists the leadership in the world 's proletarian movement but not to recognize it , and not to help it , presents more immediate and more menacing perils . What is to happen no one can foretell . It will depend upon , the mood , the purpose and the philosophy of the great Congress of Versailles . More and more , however , it is becoming apparent that the peace can not be written , and , if written , can not possibly be enforced according to the earlier ideas of the Allied statesmen . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It must have as its ideal the reconstruction of the world far more than the punishment of evil-doers . We are facing the danger of international chaos , and there is nothing in all the discussions of international crime and punishment that carries us very far towards the avoidance of that chaos . The possibility of chaos arises from the fact that the old land-marks are gone . The war has pulled up the anchors of the world and has nullified and destroyed powerful conservative forces . To have ended the imperialist regime in Germany , destroyed the Tsardorn and shattered the oppressive and ridiculously inefficient Austro-Hungarian tyranny were great accomplishments , but against the permanent good we must balance a temporary evil . These old tyrannous institutions had the convenience of conserving , binding , holding . Today we have new states born and about to be born , rash and ambitious states , ready to risk the world peace in order to extend their frontiers . At this moment , Poles are fighting Ruthenians and are killing and being killed , and a Polish pogrom against the Jews @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eastern Europe there hovers the cloud of internecine warfare . There is also the danger of an international class war . If Germany and Austria join Russia in an ultra-revolutionary movement , it will be difficult to avoid conflict with 182 western Europe . Only a wise moderation and a tolerant attitude towards Germany , Russia and the new states of Austria-Hungary will solve the problem . The problem is one of prevention , of healing , of rehabilitation ; it is not primarily a problem of gaining " just " rights by force . At the Peace Conference , if it is to be fruitful , every nation will be compelled to make sacrifices , to content itself with less than it desires , with less than it considers the absolute minimum of justice . The peace can not be dictated by revenge or even solely by an unyielding demand for just reparation . It must be a peace intended to bind together in harmonious association nations that do not love each other and that believe that they have divergent national interests . ' The Meaning of Reconstruction rr HE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us make I money , and have a good time . That is the characteristic mood of peoples issuing from under the frightful shadow of war . It is a mood one can detect today wherever men of affairs feel themselves free to give expression to their lied sentiments . Of course there is something to be done in the way of reconstruction , they grant . But when one knows of parcels of real estate absolutely certain to jump in price , of stock exchange values to be had for a song , of markets going begging and promising enterprises to be floated , when down on Broadway or State or Main the theatres and cabarets are offering rich entertainment , it is difficult to give large space in one 's mind to so vague a conception as reconstruction . What does it mean , after all ? Everyone knows we ought not to return to exactly the state of affairs that obtained before the war . The most devoted admirer of the days gone by does not want the railways returned to their owners under the old injunction to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sails to the blasts from forty-eight independent regulatory jurisdictions . Nobody wants business to go back to its old condition of skating over the thin ice of the Sherman law whenever it is disposed to do anything daring . And only the most reactionary few would desire to see the relations of labor and capital restored exactly to the pre-war footing . A patch is obviously needed here and there on the old garment clothing the naked play of selfish interests out of which we derived our national power and welfare . Is that all that reconstruction means ? Then , in Heaven 's name , let us drop the term and talk about the specific things we propose to do . Let us forget the high-sounding phrases of the statesmen when // they promised working humanity , as the price of their labor and blood , that a new democratic era should succeed upon the old era of exploitation and class rule . The cynical are saying , nowadays , that President Wilson 's disquisitions on a peace of justice have served their purpose in undermining German morale , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the disquisitions on democracy , for which the world was to be made safe ? Were they just phrases , intended to bolster , up our war morale , and therefore of no further use ? No . The statesmen who uttered them have too many interests at stake to allow themselves to be parties to so barefaced a fraud . What do the peoples in fact expect from recon struction ? They do not expect a millennium , when there shall be neither rich nor poor , when the soil will yield its fruits by any other title than hard and continuous labor . Working humanity is ' 110t utopian . But it does expect that national purpose , national foresight , will permeate the system of in ? industry from which the average man must win . enk employment and the necessities of life . Does anyon . allege that we had arranged matters well under the pre-war scheme , when a change in the financial skies might at any moment thrust hundreds of thousands of workingmen into enforced idleness , their wives and children into misery and despair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices of necessities would not soar beyond the purchasing power of those who needed them ? When we relied upon excessive infant mortality and the disability and premature death of hosts of children and adults to effect a rough adjustment between the supply of labor and the demand for it , to Mitigate the effects of a system that might or might not provide sanitary housing , wholesome food and decent clothing for all who needed them ? Consider how we licensed the captains of industry and the steamship coo panies to flood the country with immigrant labor the rare times when prosperity was at its crest , to weigh down the fortunes of the masses with an army of the unemployed when prosperity declined toward its crisis . It is incredible that we ever en " dured such a system . Plainly , we shall not return to it if we can see beyond the possibilities of inn " mediate profit to the requirements of a sane and orderly national development . Employment , then , first of all , must become an object of national solicitude . At all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for everyone , man or woman , who wants work . But suppose there is not work enough to be done ? That is absurd supposition . So long as there are waits urgently demanding satisfaction , there is work to be done . It may be that private enterprise will not mediate satisfactorily between productive                     