@@467017

WE shall need many years in which to appraise the lessons of the war . In every direction the stress and strain of the unprecedented emergency modified the structural organization of government , industry , finance , and education . How many of these modifications contained elements of permanent value , how many had a merely transient validity , no one can say . The manifest disposition of the recognized leaders in almost every major field of national activity was to regard most of them as temporary aberrations . With the signing of the armistice the captains of commerce , industry , labor , and education called with singular unanimity for a return to the SiaIteS via ante . On the eve of his first departure for Europe , President Wilson voiced the apparently unanimous sentiment when , in his address to Congress , he declared that the time had come to dismantle the special agencies that had been set up to concentrate the nation 's resources upon the achievement of victory ? to throw all war-time harness off . But if our war-time experience effected no permanent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , nevertheless , define certain of their more serious de : fects with immensely increased i preci-sion . None of our democratic nstitu-tions has traditionally been the object of greater pride than our system of public education . Whatever the recognized limitations of our public-school system , however ready we might be to admit the desirability of certain extensions and improvements , we did , nevertheless , entertain the confident conviction that it had made our citizenship the most literate and enlightened in the world . By effectively opening the essential channels for the transmission of knowledge and the exchange of ideas , it had , we believed , securely safeguardedour democracy against the unreasoned assaults of blind and misguided mass ignorance . Before the war we had never made a serious attempt to test the substance of this conviction . We had relied upon the incomplete evidence of our decennial census which seemed to substantiate our faith . But in February of this year , a representative of the Surgeon-General 's office appeared before a Congressional committee in support of a bill designed to give Federal aid to the states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nonEnglish-speaking immigrants . He laid before Congress the data accumulated by the War Department during its examination of drafted men . These records show that 25 per cent . of the men who entered the draft army were unable to read the newspapers or to write letters home . A large proportion of this 25 per cent . were as completely incapable of writing their names as the coolies of inland China . This shocking extent of illiteracy among the adult men whom our system of public education had certified to citizenship , not only in terfered with the exigent training of the new army , but seriously embarrassed field operations . Moreover , it placed grave obstacles in the way of efficient industrial mobilization . Accidents that hamper production occur twice as frequently among the illiterate as among those who can read and write . No doubt the rate of illiteracy among the drafted men was somewhat higher than among the population as a whole , with its large increment of children of compulsory school age . But the draft army was , after all , a selected body of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illiterate throws a disillusioning light on the elementary efficiency of our publicschool system . Another common belief upon which our war-time experience placed the stamp of illusion is the prevailing opinion that America is peculiarly rich in trade and mechanical skill . In discussing the problems of international mercantile competition , it has been an almost settled habit with us to make magnificent gestures about the intelligence , initiative , and mechanical resourcefulness of the free and self-reliant American workman . This facile generalization was also subjected to its first exacting test during the war . The requisitions of the Army Staff Corps called for 82,000 occupational specialists in every roo , 000 men enlisted in its service . Forty thousand occupational specialists were required in every socs000 enlisted in the infantry divisions . The army 's trade classifications enumerated 71 ? distinct occupations . For every job , the army had an exact definition of duties . In an emergency , the all-round workman , the clever , adaptable , self-made jack-ofall-trades was at a prohibitive discount . The exigent demand was for specifically qualified men , for precisely defined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ job , the army set up a personnel organization to subject men claiming to possess trade skill to trade and occupational tests . Two hundred and fifty thousand draftees ? a quarter of a million men ? were trade-tested by this personnel organization . Of this very substantial number only six in a hundred turned out to be experts ; twenty-four in a hundred were journeymen ? that is , men who regularly followed particular trades and who possessed a measurable degree of skill ; forty in a hundred were apprentices whose skill was embryonic ; thirty in a hundred were without any ascertainable skill whatsoever . As in the case of the army 's records of illiteracy , these trade records call for important qualifications . In mobilizing the field forces , the government made more or less serious attempts to keep skilled men at their customary jobs in the mines and industrial plants . Nevertheless , when it is remembered that the 230,000 soldiers under consideration were not dragnetted at random , but were men who professed special trade experience , the fact that only six in a hundred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another of our most cherished American illusions . Instances of a similar character might be multiplied . During recent years our high schools and colleges have made a great to-do about their interest in the popularization of science as against their old exclusive preoccupation with the literary classics . To man its experimental stations , ordnance works , gas and gas-shell factories , the army developed a pressing demand for chemists and chemical workers . Fifty-five degrees and varieties were included in its classification of " chemists and chemical workers . " Even a little reasonably precise knowledge of chemistry or of the processes of chemical manufacture was a highly prized qualification . But most diligent search by the army 's personnel organization discovered only 18i men in every ioo , 000 who could possibly be accepted either as chemists or chemical workers . Knowledge which should he the common possession of every man and woman in our modern industrial and democratic society , our schools , high schools , colleges , and universities have apparently succeeded in imparting to only a small fraction of i per cent . of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rests upon the liberal education of the great masses of the people , the foundations of democracy in America can hardly he reckoned as solidly built . Confronted by facts such as these , it is a common habit with educational reformers to criticize the " content " of the courses of study both in our elementary schools and in our high schools and colleges , to disparage the so-called liberal studies , and to advocate the wide extension of vocational and trade training . Any such extension would involve a much more elaborate and costly school equipment , a greatly added burden upon the taxpayer ; and the educational reformers almost invariably seek to placate the business men and propertyowners upon whom this burden would in the first instance principally fall by insisting that business would profit in the long run by the enlarged supply of skilled labor . This point of view would seem to have been the dominant inspiration of the men to whom the government intrusted the task of meeting the war demand for occupational specialists . The War Department 's Committee on Education and Special Training @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National Army training detachments would graduate 50,000 men from courses in essential trades every two months . To execute this formidable program , the committee virtually com-mandeered more than a hundred of the better equipped schools and colleges . By October , 1918 , five hundred such schools were to have been converted into " a perfectly marvelous machine " not only for the production of officers , but also for the wholesale standardized production of machine operatives , truck-drivers , wheelwrights , tinsmiths , electrical workers , locomotive engineers , and every other required variety of specialized mechanic . The marvelous machine had been running only a few months when its creators began to advertise its almost miraculous achievements . In a room in Washington the Committee on Education and Special Training displayed samples of work turned out by its graduates . An intricate electrical appliance was labeled , " Made by a student who two months before entering school was a traveling salesman " ; samples of sheetmetal work bore the legend , " Two months ago the maker of this was a hank clerk in Chicago . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production of craftsmen may have been all that was claimed for it . But it was not merely as an emergency device that the enthusiasts of the Committee on Education and Special Training regarded their innovation . For the first time in the history of the American education system , the schools , colleges , and universities , they said , were being intelligently used " to teach what life requires . " If only the war had lasted another year or two , they sincerely believed that they would permanently have " rebuilt the educational structure of America , " along practical , pragmatic lines . Three months after the armistice , the National Army Training Detachments and the Student Army Training Corps had vanished like the snowflake on the river . Not unnaturally , perhaps , the promoters of the new scheme of " practical education " attributed the quickdismantling of their perfectly marvelous machine to the hide-bound hostility of the old-fashioned college professors , university presidents , and public-school superintendents . But it is noteworthy that the magnificently conceived scheme of vocational training met with little lasting enthusiasm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was designed magically to improve . In discussing the response of the workers during the war , one of the leaders in the great educational reformation said : " What we are doing is plain common sense . We are not giving these men any unusual instruction . But their psychological state , their motived condition , is such that they will do anything we tell them . They are such students as the ordinary professor never dreamed of having . It is said that every man and woman in this world is longing for an object of devotion . Give them an object of devotion and see how they will grow ! This war has provided an object of devotion to every man called in the draft . At last we are able to make them go to school as if they were going to war . Fighting mechanics , we call them . What that means you can see in a town like Indianapolis , which is on tiptoe to make its 23,000 students appreciate that they have a real job . If that enthusiasm can be carried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we shall at last have a really dynamic system of education in America . " He believed that his dream was secure in the newly awakened devotion of the workers to a system that had proved its capacity to lift them in two months from the undifferentiated mass of low-paid common labor to the dignified ranks of occupational specialists . But the Student Army Training Corps and the National Army Training Detachments ? the perfectly marvelous educational machine ? passed out of existence with as little protest from the workers as from the old-fashioned college presidents and professors . Both of these groups were either indifferent or hostile ; indeed , more often hostile than indifferent . But their hostility appears to have sprung from widely divergent causes . Many college presidents and university professors resented the intrusion of uncouth hoi polloi into precincts traditionally reserved for the leisurely cultivation of choice spirits , men and women whose parents can afford to support them at least until they reach their majority . The workers , on the contrary , resented the implications of a system which over-stressed the so-called practical side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up new barriers between them and the leisurely privileges of university life . They resented , too , the claim that the craftsmanship which with them had been a matter of lifetime acquisition could be imparted to novices in two months . Most of all , they feared that the perfectly marvelous machine would flood the labor market with an unlimited supply of half-baked occupational specialists who would undermine the already precarious security of their jobs , handicap them in their attempts to improve their working conditions , and debase such standards as by patient and persistent organization they had been able to establish . For the more alert and ambitious wage-workers look forward to a new order of society in which class demarcations will have disappeared , where all men will be required to share the burdens of necessary work , and in which all men will have an equal opportunity to enjoy the spiritual benefits which are associated with university education . This to them is the crowning hope of the new nationalism and the new internationalism which is to arise out of the ruins of defeated autocracy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colleges have promptly cast off all war-time harness and returned to their ancient ways . Except for a slightly stimulated interest in Americanization and the teaching of English , the experience of the war has left them essentially what they were . But in the case of education , as in the fields of commerce and industry , the mere act of unharnessing has not sufficed to restore " normal " prewar conditions . The war has created a new world , geographically , economically , and , above all , spiritually . Politically and economically , the last vestiges of our traditional American provincialism have been destroyed . Our military intervention was a final recognition of the fact VOL . C=Ik. ? No. 830. - 23that we are vitally concerned not only in the politics of Europe , but also in the affairs of Asia , Africa , and the southern seas . The economic life of America has been inextricably enmeshed in the economic life of the world not only by the direct cost of the war , but by our enormous foreign loans . Moreover , the emphasis of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war and the increased participation of the masses of the people in the fundamental processes of government , especially of industrial government , have immensely stimulated the desires of the common man For an enriched economic and spiritual life . It is this influence of the war upon the common man 's conception of his rights and due privileges in a democratic civilization that probably accounts for the fact that the single comprehensive program for after-the-war educational reconstruction has come not from the universities , nor indeed from those at the opposite end of the educational scale ? the unskilled and illiterate who have suffered most from the inadequacies of our present educational system ? but from the solid intermediate body of relatively skilled and highly organized workmen , Inasmuch as it is this group that in America , as in England and on the Continent , has forged to the front of the critical opposition to the established order in business and government , its educational program has a special immediate interest . Both in England and America the great trades-unions , whose members operate the basic industries ? the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the machinists , or engineers as they are called in England ? are demanding the nationalization of these basic industries and their operation , not by a state-socialistic bureaucracy , but directly by the workers themselves . If they should succeed in realizing their aspirations , as they already appear to be on the point of doing in England , in what spirit would they attack their grave responsibilities to the nation and to organized society ? Would they drift toward the anarchy of irresponsible communism like greedy barbarians drunk with unaccustomed power , or would they act like civilized men with a due sense of the importance of science and of specialized technological discipline in the conduct of modern industry ? Would they be guided by the dictates of a gross materialism or would they subordinate material interest to the spiritual ideals of civilized life ? To attempt to answer such questions in the solemn spirit of prophecy would of course be preposterous . But they are not negligible questions ; the unprecedented events of each new day force them upon our attention . Are we foredoomed to cataclysmic revolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blindly toward a Russian catastrophe ? For one , I do not believe so . And the principal reason for my faith is the program of educational reconstruction which , originating with the organized workers of England , the organized workers of America have made their own . More than a year ago , a sub-committee of the British Labor Party formulated a program of social , industrial , and educational reconstruction . The program called for more human warmth in politics , less apathetic acquiescence in the miseries that poison the well-springs of life , for " increased study , for the scientific investigation of each succeeding social and economic problem , and for a much more rapid dissemination among the whole people of all the science that exists . " An autocrat , the program conceded , may govern without science or a system of democratic education if his will is law . " But no labor party can hope to maintain its position unless its proposals are , in fact , the outcome of the best political science of its time , or to fulfil its purpose unless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Equally lofty sentiments with respect to the worth of science and the importance of its wider dissemination have , to he sure , been expressed by men and women far removed from the ranks of wage-working labor . But as considered expressions of the dominant labor group these sentences do , nevertheless , have a fresh significance to-day , especially when they are examined in the light of the specific proposals of such subsidiary organizations as the British Workers ' Educational Association . This association has " sprung from the workers and derives its strength from the workers . " It is hacked by 1,034 trades - unions , trades - councils and branches , 4.65 co-operative societies , 189 adult schools , 8 university bodies , 12 local educational authorities , 96 working-men 's clubs , 199 teachers ' associations , 77 educational and literary societies , and 629 other societies , mainly composed of working-people . With it are affiliated the British Trades Union Congress , the General Federation of Trades Unions , the Co-operative Union . The association has issued a series of pamphlets in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defined . One of these pamphlets bears the title What Is Democratic Education ? In contrast with the usual schemes of " practical " trade and technical education by which educational reformers commonly propose to improve the quality of the labor-market , this trenchant document is an impassioned protest against the " utilitarian aim which is the curse of our schools . . . Harrow was founded for poor working-class boys . The education provided was classical . It was an education which makes not only freemen , but leaders of men . The upper class flung themselves on this school . Its sons filled Eton , Winchester , Rugby , as well as Harrow . . . In Denmark , Grundtrig wanted to lift the agricultural population sunk in miserable poverty . Did he begin to give instruction in the raising of crops and feeding of poultry ? On the contrary , he banished the ' useful ' subjects and gave a humanistic training pure and simple . The results have amazed the world . . . . To come to our own land . Why has our elementaryschool system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our domestic-economy lessons in particular an illusion ? Because the teaching was based on the false assumption that useful information forced on undeveloped minds educates . . . . We thought the banquet of life was to be spread for all ? all , the best that is , the best that will be , open for those who can receive it . . . . The really great thing is that liberal education should be open to all who can profit by it . " Is it not a noteworthy thing that at the very moment when our great university foundations are coming increas-ingly under the sway of business men with a predominantly utilitarian conception of education , when specialized technical schools are steadily encroaching upon the province of that " idle curiosity " ? that pursuit of matter-offact knowledge for its own sake which is the distinguishing characteristic of the university proper ? the keenest minds in the wage-working group should be insisting with increasing determination upon a liberal education for every boy and girl , every man and woman , as the indispensable qualification for democratic citizenship ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extension of the period of compulsory school attendance from the age of fourteen to the age of sixteen and then eighteen as a preliminary to its ultimate extension through the college and university . The platform of the Labor Party of Greater New York , which fairly illustrates the educational aspirations of the most alert of the labor leaders both of America and England , calls for the creation of a national department of education whose head shall have cabinet rank ; for the democratization of education government in the grade schools , colleges , universities , and libraries through the participation of labor and the organized teachers and librarians in the determination of new methods , policies , and programs ; and the extension of the principle of free public instruction to colleges and universities . Just as the medical and legal professions have come to require a liberal unspecialized training of college grade as a prerequisite to professional specialization , so the organized wage-workers are demanding high school and college training in the liberal arts and sciences that " quicken the mental life " as a prerequisite to craft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course , involve an enormously increased expenditure upon public education . But these wage-workers insist that no other expenditure could promise a comparable return to a democratic community . They see the consequences of an undemocratic educational policy in Russia . They point to the dangers latentin the results of our own parsimonious educational expenditure -- 2s per cent . of the adult males in America illiterate ; only six in a hundred of those claiming special trade experience experts ; our industries shot through with Ca ' canny , sabotage , and all the byproducts of a sluggish mental life ; our municipal , state , and even federal governments the easy prey of the demagogue , the ward heeler and the self-seeking politicaster ; the instinct of workmanship and the inventive genius of the masses balked , paralyzed , deadened . And they argue , wisely as authorities like Dewey , Veblen , Marot , and Tead seem to think , that the spirit of creative workmanship can not be effectively generated under the conditions of modern machine industry by early vocational specialization ; that a general quickening of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " increase and diffusion of knowledge among men " can alone release the craftsmanly instinct which is inbred in the race . The essential increased production of wealth and its more efficient distribution would follow , they believe , as it did under the quickening inspiration of the war , as the inevitable byproduct of an education directed , not in the first instance toward concrete utilitarian ends , but to the liberation of the creative impulses which are the glory and the richest asset of mankind . But , attractive as every humanely disposed man and woman would freely admit such a program to be , is it not fantastically Utopian ? does it not put the cart before the horse ? Does it not call for a vastly increased industrial production as an essential prerequisite ? What reasonable hope is there that such an elaborate structure of liberal education can be built with its own future hypothetical by-product , especially at a time when the workers who are its principal advocates are demanding the restoration of pre-war restrictions upon output and progressive reductions in the working week and day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand before we can reasonably consider the full democratization of educational opportunity ? With this argument the workers are in fundamental agreement . What the nation undoubtedly needs , they agree , is a great hound onward in its aggregate productivity . " But this , " they contend , " can not be secured merely by pre sing the manual workers to more strenuous toil or even by encouraging the captains of industry to a less wasteful organization of their several enterprises on a profit-making basis . " It can only be secured , they argue , through " a genuinely scientific reorgani-zation of the nation 's industry " by the democratization of the national policy with respect to the utilization of the economic surplus . Both to stimulate the immediate increase in production and to secure the requisite democratization of the national surplus , the workers in England and America are moving along two major and for the most part complementary lines ? the lines of political action and direct economic action . The general outlines of the program of parliamentary reform have become familiar to the American public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labor party , published under the title of " Labor and the New Social Order . " The first principle enunciated in this report is the securing to every member of the community in good times and bad alike ( and not only to the strong and able , the well-horn or the fortunate ) of all the requisites of healthy life and worthy citizenship " through the universal application of legally prescribed minimum standards of leisure , health , education , and subsistence . The establishment of these standards they propose to realize through the extension of the democratic principle to the control of industrial plants ; the direct taxation of all incomes above the necessary cost of family maintenance ; the immediate nationalization of railways , mines , and the production of electrical power ; the progressive elimination from the control of all essential industry of the private profiteer and the systematic application of science to the problems of industrial technology . These are among the major planks of the parliamentary platform of what has come to be numerically the second largest political organization in Great Britain as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its infancy , counts among its active support ers an increasing number of the ablest trade-union leaders in the country . But there is a powerful and aggressive body of workers in the United Stares , as in England , who look with skepticism and impatience upon the slow processes of political reform . In the state of New York , for example , it took more than a generation to secure the enactment of laws giving reasonable protection to children and women against the evils of night work , and limiting the hours of work for women to fifty-four in the week . During March and April of this year some thirty thousand girls and women in the Ladies ' Waist and Dress Industry decided to establish the forty-four-hour week . They organized , struck , and secured their objective in a few weeks . These workers have become a unit in a national organization affiliated with the American Federation of Labor , which covers the entire industry devoted to the manufacture of women 's wear . They look forward to the time when the entire clothing industry will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they will regulate hours , wages , and physical working conditions conjointly with their employers , but in the sense that the industry will be owned by the community and managed directly by themselves . When that time arrives , they will have established what the younger economists in England would call a National Guild of the Needle Trades . This tendency to subordinate political to direct economic action has made very great strides even in England , where for more than twenty years the workers have had their independent party representatives in Parliament . Its principal promoters are the members of the great Triple Industrial Alliance ? the affiliation of the miners , railwaymen , and transport workers ? whose strike threat last winter prompted Mr. Lloyd George to interrupt his labors in Paris and to set up a national commission to consider the demand of the Triple Industrial Alliance for the democratization of England 's basic industries . The proposals of the Triple Alliance that these basic industries shall he owned by the nation and administered by the organized workers have recently been adopted in principie by our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America . The relevance of these programs of political and industrial reconstruction is that they express the judgment of the most influential body of workers in England and America as to the practical means that must be adopted to make the realization of their program for the democratization of educational opportunity possible . The growing prestige of the fourth estate is the characteristic fact of our generation . What is conventionally described as the rise of the proletariat has been attended by a flurry of nervous apprehension among those who fear that the controlling motive of the workers is a kind of barbarian envy , a brutal desire on the part of the propertyless to possess themselves of the property which " superior ability " has allotted to others . We hear a great deal about the follies of " dividing up , " of expropriation , confiscation , and reckless plunder as the insensate craving of this modern Samson who , in a blind effort to free himself , would pull the pillars of organized society down upon his own head . But a considerate examination of the workers ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the minds of those who are themselves free from envy and luxurious self-indulgence . Men who dream of the democratization of knowledge , of science and the liberal arts as the chief end of civilized government will not ruthlessly destroy the recognized material foundations of civilized life . Rather they will seek to strengthen those foundations and broaden them . For it is their eager and instinctive hunger for the spiritual values of life that principally accounts for their growing insistence upon the extension of the democratic principle in industry , for the humanization of industrial processes , for the more equal distribution of the benefits that accrue from the national surplus . Their programs of political and social reconstruction are inspired by their realization that it is only when all men are guaranteed equality of educational opportunity that any man can be certain of access to the spiritual banquet of life . They have been compelled by the conditions of their lives , as no other social group has beencompelled , to accept Christ 's Great Commandment as the first rule of political conduct . All this is out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the men and women of our cultured society . But the researches of modern psychologists make it clear that men at all economic levels are subject to the impulsion of those instincts , aspirations , and desires which are the common inheritance of the race . Possibly the greatest of our American authorities in this field has recently demonstrated that civilized men have come to hold truth , the " matter-of-fact knowledge of things , " as the only end in life that indubitably justifies itself ; and that the genesis and growth of the system of knowledge which has come so to be prized may confidently be traced " to the initiative and bias afforded by two certain impulsive traits of human nature : an Idle Curiosity , and the Instinct of Workmanship . " Much of the social unrest which disturbs the civilized world to-day is directly traceable to the crushing pressure which modern machine industry and its attendant commercial , political , and social class stratification have imposed upon the native and normal instincts of the common run of man-kind , and more especially the instincts of curiosity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward the light can not he balked with impunity . The repression of the normal instincts , the denial of opportunities for free spiritual growth results ashy a law of nature in sporadic violence , insurrection , or revolt . The great task of democratic statesmanship to-day is to understand these inbred instincts and dynamic impulses of the common run of mankind and to find channels for their fruitful release . Only so can the pre-war governmental and social structure of our political democracies be adapted to withstand the unprecedented currents of hope and aspiration set in motion by the war . The test of governmental capacity will increasingly be the ability of those in positions of authority to find ways and means for the democratization of educational opportunity .                     