@@486723

the capacity for observation of that earlier traveller , Sir Walter Raleigh , and more than his restraint , and gave out to the world a vast amount of ' impressions concerning the countries where his little schooner yacht touched , especially Iceland . The introduction to the present volume by R. W. Macon , master of University College , Oxford , is the frankest eulogy , yet interesting , too . The Third Volume of H. 0 . Sommer 's " Vulgate Version of the Arthurian Romances " ( Carnegie Institution ) contains part i of the fanipus Old French prose-romance , " Lancelot del Lac . " This is the third member of the so-called Walter Map , or Vulgate , cycle of the Arthurian romances ? the cycle which Dr. Sommer is engaged in publishing  --  and it is much the longest , being equal in bulk ( approximately ) to all the rest put together . The editor intends issuing this romance in three parts ( including the " Agravain " ) , and the whole will not fall far short of being double @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sure , it is hardly the work of a single hand . As was explained in our notice ( May 26 , 1910 ) of the first two volumes of this publication , Dr. Sommer 's edition is merely a printed transcript of the British Museum MS . Additional 10292-4 , with occasional collations from other MSS . In the present volume these collations are much more meagre than in the previous volumes . Nevertheless , this third volume is of very superior interest to the first and second  --  containing respectively the " Estoire del Saint Graal " and the " Merlin " ? for no text of the " Lancelot " has been printed since the sixteenth century , which was not true of the two romances just mentioned . Only time will show whether the MS. used by Dr. Sommer is one of the better MSS. of this work . It is a reasonable conjecture , however , that the large collection of MSS. of the prose romances in the libraries at Paris  --  much the largest in the world  --  will be found to contain the best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other branches of the cycle . In - the case of the " Lancelot " it is known that the MSS. show very material variations . As regards the intrinsic interest of the present romance , one must confess that , despite the unparalleled reputation which it enjoyed in the Middle Ages , it is not easy reading for the twentieth century man  --  much less easy than the admirable modernization by Paulin Paris , which has rendered the main outlines of the story familiar to students of inedimval literature for the past thirty years or more . The endless fighting and the absurd extravagances of the amour courteis , which constitute so large a part of the book , weary the modern reader . After making these deductions , however , we still have in this romance an interesting reflection of feudal society in war and in peace . The narrative of the wars of Claudas leaves one with a vivid impression of feudal strife  --  its confusion and its violent contrasts of treachery and loyalty  --  and it would be hard to point to more charmingly tender pictures of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lancelot and Lionel . On the other hand , the account of Lancelot 's love-affair with Guinevere is stiff and artificial with the artifice of the " Courts of Love . " But for the author of the " Mort Artu , " who breathed into the two lovers something of the passion of their great originals ? Tristan and Iseult  --  it is safe to say that their story would not be still a living one , as it is , in the modern world . The Middle Ages , however , were not conscious of the above-mentioned defects , and the scene  --  contained in this volume  --  in which Lancelot first kisses Guinevere has been rendered forever memorable by the greatest poet of the period in the incomparable episode of Paolo and Francesca . A country with a most unique political status is Sarawak , situated in the northwestern portion of Borneo . Although it is nominally an independent state , governed by its Rajah , Sir Charles Brooke , as an absolute monarchy , with an administrative council , it is at the same time under British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resident of Sarawak , have recently produced as collaborators a readable volume entitled " A History of Sarawak under its Two White Rajahs " , ( London : Henry Sotheran &; Co . ) . The story reads like a fairy tale . Sir James Brooke , the first rajah , was born at Benares , in India , in April , 1803 , and was the son of an Englishman in the employ of the East India Company 's Civil Service . While he was on a yachting tour in Malaya , Brooke visited Sarawak , and later aided its weak native governor in suppressing an insurrection ; in return he was made Rajah and Governor of Sarawak , a feudatory province of Brunei . Rajah Brooke gained the good will of the natives , steadily strengthened his position , brought about various territorial accessions , and succeeded in forcing the Sultan of Brunei to bequeath to him the governorship of Sarawak in perpetual right . He immediately set himself to the task of putting the government of his state on a sound footing , of reorganizing the revenue system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and freedom from oppression . In his policy and actions Sir James Brooke was guided by no personal ambition , the great desire of his heart having been the amelioration of the lot of the oppressed natives whom he came to love . His services as Rajah , instead of enriching , left their author " broken by illness and weariness of heart , with threatening poverty . " He died in 1868 , after twenty-seven years as ruler , leaving behind him " one of the noblest records of a life devoted to the cause of humanity . " The present Rajah , Sir Charles Brooke , is a nephew of the first Rajah , and has admin-. istered the state since the death of his uncle , nearly half a century ago . The guiding principle of his policy has been sympathy between the ruled and the rulers , with the result that the wheels of government run with a singular smoothness . Mr. Alleyne Ireland , who was sent out from the United States by the University of Chicago to study British and other tropical colonies , published @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ severely on the methods adopted-inthe Philippines by the United States , he turned to Sawarak as offering a sharp contrast . He declared that in no other country which he had ever visited were there to be observed " so many signs of a wise and generous rule , such abundant indications of good government , as are to be seen on every hand in Sarawak . " Walter G. ShOtwell 's " Life of Charles Sumner " ( Crowell ) , though compressed by means of thin paper into a manageable volume , is in reality of considerable compass , extending as it does to more than three hundred and twenty thousand words . For readers who wish an abundance of personal details , old-fashioned summaries of writings and speeches , and a general tone of unquestioning approval , the book should prove eminently acceptable . The narrative shows intelligent use of Pierce 's " Memoir , " and acquaintance , often intimate , with the Massachusetts politics of the time . Unfortunately , however , for the historian , Mr. Shotwell 's point of view is so exclusively that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slight . Only once or twice does he seek to defend Sumner against imputation or animadversion , and then only at quite unimportant points , while of " apparatus " there is none , not even a footnote . There is no indication that the author , any more than the man whose life he writes , understands the real nature of negro slavery , or the causes of secession , or the profound political issues involved in reconstruction . It is , indeed , curious that , a generation after Sumner 's death , it should be thought worth while to offer the public a biography which , however meritorious as a piece of orderly narration , is historically no more enlightened than Sumner himself might have written had he framed his own Apologia . " Italian Fantasies " ( Macmillan ) , by Israel Zangwill , is a highly colored book written largely in neo-Carlylese . The author is for the full emotional flavor , and quite frankly scorns those writers who deal in tinctures . He summons up what he loves to call the " Afagnificences , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He is best , it seems to us , in rather simple description , as in the essay on the Gonzaga Palace at Mantua ; he is most characteristic when he muses cosmically on life and death , anent the Naples Aquarium , or overhears the gossip of the carpenter 's family concerning Jesus . Lucrezia Borgia , Dante , St. Francis , are among the biographical topics . For your reviewer almost everything seems shockingly overwritten . But tastes differ , and Mr. Zangwill 's style and favorite doctrine may be Judged from an extract that represents him favorably ' Only less arrogant than seeking " impressions " of nations is it to place one 's soul in patronizing " Appreciation " before some great historic structure  --  a cathedral , a mosque , a palace , a library . These works or man so immensely transcend any man 's works that he fits into them as ludicrously as a mouse A cathedral that represents the genius and labors and sacrifices of generations towers so immensely out of all proportion to any individual that he can only recover a reasonable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stature of the race . To be solely concerned with its impingement upon his own soul is an impertinence , to pass his life in contriving such impingements is to live by robbery , and to enjoy these secular products of human solidarity on the Paterian pretext that the only reality is the fleeting and isolated Ego , is peculiarly paradoxical . Many readers will , with us , on the whole , approve the sentiment , while preferring rather to take the chances with the isolated ego of Pater than with Mr. Zangwill vociferously " fusing himself with the life and stature of the race . " It is doubtful if an immoderate person " can understand Italy . Getting excited about Italy is a different matter It may be symptomatic that the single illustration in this volume , a good color print after Stefano da Zevio 's Madonna of the Rose Garden , reproduces the least Italian picture ever painted by an Italian artist . " The Favourites of Henry of Navarre " ( Badger ) , by Le Petit Hommel Rouge , covers wide historical ground , gathers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volume , gives the authorities upon both sides of disputed questions , and with admirable impartiality sums up the five women ? Marguerite de Valois , Corisanda ( Diane , Duchess of Gramont ) , Gabrielle D'Estrees , Henriette D'Entragues , and Marie de ' Medico  --  most closely associated with Henry 's life . At the same time he sketches briefly the almost numberless women with whom Henry had ephemeral liaisons , and crowds his pages with persons not familiar to the general reader . The author writes pleasantly enough , though his time-worn trick of taking the reader into his confidence with , " We will now return , " or , " As we shall see further on , " soon becomes irritating , but through the very scope of his effort to be at once accurate and comprehensive , his book falls between two stools . It is too sketchy for the serious student ; the reader familiar with French history will find in it little that is new except a few unimportant facts concerning Henry 's various mistresses , and those who do not know French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ events , dates , and authorities , compressed into one volume , and made less clear by the author 's failure to arrange them in logical sequence . He also fails to make his men and women live for us , except Henry himself , whom ( alas for Ivry and the oriflamme of war ' ) we see very vividly  --  a gross , uncleanly creature . The book is illustrated with six portraits , is well indexed , and has carefully prepared footnotes , and an appendix containing the names of the women associated with Henry 's life , the names of his natural children and their descendants , and two songs attributed to him . Dr. Delos F Wilcox . in " Great Cities in America " ( Macmillan ) considers the organization of government in Washington , New York , Chicago , Philadelphia , St. Louis , and Boston . Charter change is now going on so rapidly in this country that any fresh collection of data is valuable , but it is one thing to gather facts , and another thing to interpret their significance Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city administration " of Philadelphia , and in his summary of conditions in great cities he observes that " everywhere are proofs of extravagance , waste , and downright thievery " If one asks why , the answer that Dr. Wilcox 's work seems to give is that there is a peculiar depravity of human nature in American cities . He intimates that this is to be attributed to immigration , remarking that " the presence of the children of so many nations in one community offers the greatest obstacle to the municipal salvation of the great cities of this country " But is there a marked influx of immigrants from any country lacking decent municipal institutions , and is there a great city in the world that does not have a mixed population ? Sounder analysis might discover that the American defect is rather in the character of the institutions than in the character of the people living under them . " The Humane Movement , " by Roswell C. McCrea ( The Columbia University Press ) , is a descriptive survey of the work and methods of humane @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directory of names of officers of societies , names of special policemen employed , sample educational leaflets , etc . The bibliography is also strikingly comprehensive , ranging from children 's books of animal stories to such weighty treatises as Hobhouse 's , , " Mind in Evolution " and Wassman 's " Comparative Studies in the Psychology of Ants and Higher Animals " In the chapter on antivivisection a quotation is made from a prize essay to the effect that it does not matter how vivisection may be i cstricted or what scientific gains may accrue , the taking of life is a sin and should be condemned as such . " It would be better indeed to die of lockjaw , diphtheria , tuberculosis , cancer , scrofula , or all combined , than to be responsible for such , offence " Under the head of " bird protection , " statistics are cited to the effect that 200,000,000 bird lives are sacrificed annually to supply the demands of fashion , but it does not appear that this inspires such a degree of indignation as in the case of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medical science . The gist of State laws for the protection of children and of animals is given in a tabulated synopsis difficult to follow and really not economical of space . Within the 110 pages thus occupied on a system resulting in numerous blank compartments , it would ' have been feasible to have given a codified statement of the laws themselves . " How to Judge a Book " ( Houghton ) , by Edwin L. Shuman , is described with sufficient accuracy by its sub-title , " a handy method of criticism for the general reader . " Mr Shuman believes that it differs from other volumes of similar purpose by respecting " the right of every individual to shape his reading primarily by his own tastes , rather than by the dictates of any other man 's taste , however enlightened " " He believes , furthermore , that the general reader is primarily interested in contemporary fiction . Accordingly , a large part of his book is occupied with an analysis and valuation of the constituent elements of fiction , with numerous applications to contemporary writers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests and work upward to the masterpieces ; instead of beginning with the masterpieces and working downward to one 's interests , he proposes nothing especially novel or debatable . Like a voice from the thirteenth century is Comte de " Un Crime du Second Empire : le Guet-Apens de Castelfidardo " ( Paris : F. Juven ) . In It the aged Legitimist relates with medimval fervor the formation and ignominious snuffing out of the Papal army , which the fanatic Mdrode organized in 1860 and the boastful turncoat Lamoricifire led to defeat at Castelfidardo and . Ancona . Colleville 's thesis is that the Papalists were betrayed by Napoleon III into believing that he would not allow the Italians to attack , their nondescript army . The count , who is an immovable Ultramontane , brings no new proof to support his insinuation , but perhaps his own display of pious zeal is the best historical contribution in his book . He and a few of his friends evidently took seriously Lamoriciere 's declaration that they were crusaders defending the Pope against new Islamites , to wit , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Christianity and Social Questions " ( Scribner ) is a clear understanding of the nature of the Christian religion , and a firm belief that Christian organizations for social betterment must hold to Christian principles and methods . Dr Cunningham 's chapters on " Mundane Theocracies " and " Non-Christian Methods of Reform " are specially to the point He insists that the task of the church is a spiritual one , and can he accomplished only by spiritual strength and through spiritual means His presentation of the case against what is termed Christian Socialism is a strong one At all points his reasoning is cogent , and he possesses abundant mastery of facts , as might be expected from his earlier volumes on " Western Civilization in its Economic Aspects " and " Growth of English Industry and Commerce " The present volume he defines as " an attempt to set forth , from a Christian standpoint , the relative importance of all the forces which make for human welfare , or militate against it " In his medley of reminiscences of his pastorate of the American Church at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presents a curious example of ex-cathedra optimism running riot in literature Nearly everything is lovely in Berlin , and nearly everybody with whom the author comes in contact is perfect , hence " In the Kaiser 's Capital " ( Dodd ) ought to satisfy his Imperial Majesty , to whom the volume is by Permission dedicated We are gravely told that " there is nothing he ( the Emperor ) touches that he does not adorn " ( witness a six-page sermon at sea quoted in full ) ; - " whoever has looked at close range into that eye never ceases to admire and marvel " ; the Empress is " that noblest of all Women " , and even for the Jew-baiter , Stoecker , Dr Dickie has a kind word after his funeral . " it was universally acknowledged that a great man had gone home to God . " And so we need not be surprised that even Certain sinister aspects of the Thiergarten lcse all sombreness in the eyes of the genial doctor . " When one has grown weary of the weight of life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , out to the Thiergarten he goes and shoots himself there . It is i'ed with the blood-spots of many a suicide , and yet kind Nature washes out the stains . . . The gladsome faces ' of the riders as they gallop past you in groups effectually vanish ( sic ) every dreary thought , and the Thiergarten has only pleasant associations " Perhaps the severest censure of which the author 's kind heart is capable is reserved for a deplorable feminine weakness which crops out in connection with the Berlin registration office . " I have known , " Dr Dickie remarks sadly , " matrons of seventy or unmarried ladies of a similar age to give themselves out as forty-five or , at most , fifty . " The book contains a number of anecdotes of distinguished men  --  the bright sayings recorded , including the author 's own , always come " quick as a flash " ? but the authenticity of at least one of them is open to question ' At a little dinner where the Emperor was present Harnack was placed between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heard him tell this story : " Once before I was placed between two sisters . Their name was Hagen . I noticed that the name of the one was A , Hagen , and the name of the other was C Hagen My host came up to me afterwards and said that he hoped that the young ladies and I had had a good time together . I answered in one of the few boa mots I have made in , my life ? ' between A Hagen and C Hagen I found B Hagen ( Rehugen , , i. e , comfort and pleasure ) . ' " This story has often and often been told IL refers to the Hagen sisters , charming actresses who flourished more than half a century ago The boa mot is generally credited to the Vienna actor and wit , Friedrich Beckmann Robert Lynd 's " Home Life in Ireland " ( McClurg ) does not pretend to be scientific , it is a series of desultory and pleasantly written essays on the Irish people , their characteristics , and their lives The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more interested in the industrial than the agricultural problems of his country , but he is an ardent Home Ruler , and an admirer of the Sinn Fein movement , to which he devotes a chapter . The Sinn Fein policy is to unite all Irishmen , whether Unionists or Nationalists , for Irish ends . They are invited by the Sinn Fein , as Dean Swift invited them in the eighteenth century , to boycott English goods " Burn everything that conies from England , " said Swift , " except the coals and the people " The strength ' of Sinn Fein seems to lie in having a nonpolitical as well as a political side , though one can not imagine that a Sinn Fein enthusiast would long remain a Unionist Mr Lynd thinks that the Sinn Fein school of Nationalism is the one with which the future will have to reckon . He admires the work of the Gaelic League , and believes that the revival of that language is essential for Ireland 's regeneration The bobk is attractively got up and well illustrated from photographs of scenes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Deutsche Zentralstelle fur Internattonalen Brief-weasel , the object of which is to promote a regular interchange of letters between the pupils of the German and those of the French , British , and American schools , announces that it has during the past year received for distribution from German students 3,139 registrations , 2,012 of which were in English , and 1,127 in French , makmg a total since the foundation of the bureau in 1897 of 31,392 . A marked increase in the number of English letters is noted . There is bitter complaint that the number of French schoolgirls who are studying German is hopelessly inadequate to the task of coping with the epistolary ardor of the French-learning madchen , they , as well as the French-speaking Swiss and Belgians , are all too busy learning English It has been difficult , too , to find enough students in Great Britain who are willing to write German letters In fact , the whole enterprise would have fared badly , if it had not been for the extraordinarily lively interest in the German language among the high schools of North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to muster a sufficient number of English replies The bureau complains that it finds it hard to decipher German script when written by an American hand , and that the ambiguity of American baptismal names makes it difficult to tell the girls from the boys a matter of some importance in an enterprise of this kind . A number of letters from teachers and students point out the merits of the scheme . A pupil , by sending his name through his teacher to Die Deutsche Zentralstelle fur luternationalen Brieltoechsel , Feehnerstrasse 6 , Leipzig , may obtain the " Rules " for atoo-cent stamp Membership costs six cents ( international money order ) , and for an adult , fifteen cents Those desiring French correspondence should address gerzeu , of Rebietvs , Bank Buildings , Kings-way , London , W C Adams Sherman Hill , professor of rhetoric and oratory in Harvard from 1876 to 1904 , and since then emeritus professor , died at his home in Boston , December 26 Dr Hill was born in Boston in 1833 , and graduated at Harvard in 1853 , receiving a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years he acted as law reporter , correspondent , and editor in Washington , New York , and Chicago , and was then called to Harvard . His books are . " Principles of Rhetoric " ( 1878 ) , " Our English " ( 1889 ) , " Foundations of Rhetoric " ( 1892 ) , and " Beginning of Rhetoric and Composition " (                     