@@465591

THE American college , " Dr. Woodrow Wilson says , " has played a unique part in American life .... It formed men who brought to their tasks an incomparable morale , a capacity that seemed more than individual , a power touched with large ideals . . Men were bred by it to no skill or craft or calling ; the discipline to which they were subjected had a more general object . . . . The ideals which lay at its heart were the general ideals of conduct , of right living and right thinking which made them aware of a world moralized by principle , steadied and cleared of many an evil thing by true and catholic reflection and just feeling , a world not of interests , but of ideas . " The great purpose of the old college was the formation of character . It did not draw within its walls the boys who after leaving school must turn attention at once to some art or profession . Colleges appealed to the comparatively few , whose conception of life so emphasized moral and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before undertaking a business or profession to know the value of learning pursued for its own sake . Most college students were of slender means , many working their way or being assisted by scholarship aid ; and nevertheless , for over two centuries , the best instruction which the country could give to start these young men upon their path in life was directed to no more useful purpose than the intellectual and moral strengthening of the boy himself . Literary and classical courses were offered which had no advantage beyond training in the ability of continued concentration , and of constituting an introduction to the vast realm of books . History was taught that the student might know something of the influences which have been moulding thethought of man for centuries . Above all , college teaching was stamped with the character of the Puritan movement ? a movement whose doctrines of individual freedom and responsibility are so a part of our political institutions that the definition of the word liberty as now fixed in American constitutional law comes not from the legal history of the English term , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Puritan church government . The Puritan movement was essentially democratic , with this limitation , however , that it tolerated no notion of ultimate power as a property of popular will . Every individual stood without distinction of rank or fortune before his God , but his soul was " of infinite value and the possession of it was the subject of an everlasting struggle between the powers of heaven and the powers of hell . " In no smaller dignity , then , and with a claim to no less respect than was his in the drama of eternity did he stand before his fellows on earth . Here , and not in Rousseau or in the teachings of French philosophy , is the origin of the doctrine of the rights of man , and the establishment of government upon these principles was the beginning of a new social order , which Lafayette termed the American era . Such a lasting impression as followed the teachings of the Puritans could have been produced only as the result of a profound conviction and purpose in the minds of men . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to learn man 's duty to God and man 's duty to his neighbor ? the principles of religion and democracy . In this study , so far at least as concerns democracy , their success was notable , and perhaps the more easy because they understood that , like religion , democracy is something which we must not only work to obtain , but which demands constant effort and watchfulness for its preservation . The history of Puritanism in this country centers about the establishment and administration of free government in towns , colonies , and States . To this purpose the reading of history was so largely directed , and public discussions were so occupied with ancient and modern . precedents , that one might almost regard American democracy as no less marked by practical success than by the influence of classical literature in its establishment . A boy brought up among these influences found , both in the life about him and in the teaching of school and college , an excellent training in the principles of government . Within recent years the advance of science into common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purposes of education . In very large fields of work young men can no longer go directly from school to employment . Technical training has become a necessity , and with this has come a change in. the relative position of educational institutions involving reappraisal of courses of study . The great State universities , now so important ! - take their students from high schools , offering in college and university courses a training as a preparation for some professional or commercial career , and so great is their support in men and money that one who has thoroughly studied the situation recently expressed the judgment that " the scepter has passed from the private school and is threatened in the privately endowed college . " The tendency of modern institutions , then ? if we disregard their distractions ? is to make breadwinners , to fit men to earn money . State universities are necessarily of this character , and the influence upon all institutions which compete with them is strong . Size itself almost irresistibly drives this away . The revolution , indeed , seems to have gone from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system had little place for men who sought technical training , the new system has but scant place for those who desire learning for its own sake . In fact , the old system outlasted the period of its greatest usefulness , and when the change came offered but slight resistance to new methods . It is becoming evident , however , that the change has gone too far , and that there were some features of former methods worth preserving . The country is too large and the demands of society are too complicated to be served by any single system . One of the greatest misfortunes in the education of a nation , John Stuart Mill said , would be the establishment of uniformity under the name of unity . There is room in this great country for institutions of every kind , and an increasing need that different colleges turn their attention in different directions . Moreover , the new system is beginning to disclose some defects . Classes are so large that there is comparatively little individual training , and at the same time the compensation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into its ranks its due proportion of talent . While such conditions prevail it is inevitable that college and university work throughout the country should be marked as it is by lack of seriousness . It is for these reasons that at Amherst , for example , the movement has arisen which seeks in some respects to return to the old purposes of education . History can be taught better than ever before . We have far ampler means for instruction in democracy and the principles of government , while the need for unyielding moral standards in public opinion was never greater . It is proposed , therefore , to make the moral character of the student the first purpose of the college ; to teach concentration and application , making the college work real as work in a business or profession is real ; to give individual training of the best character ; and to create an environment of vivid intellectual life , a current where yielding shall be easy and resistance hard . These purposes , it is urged , may be accomplished by adoption of a distinctive policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given at Amherst hereafter be a classical course made up according to the demands of modern scholarship , emphasizing strongly the literary and historical courses , and including thorough scientific courses so far as science is part of a liberal education . 2 . That to raise the standard of instruction and for its influence upon the compensation of the teaching profession throughout the THE NEW OPPORTUNITY OF THE SMALL COLLEGE 135 country the College adopt the deliberate policy to accept no gifts which involve increased expense , but to devote all its means to the indefinite increase of teachers ' salaries . 3 . That to secure individual instruction of the best character the number of students attending the college be limited . 4 . And that to effectuate this limitation applicants for admission undergo some selective process ? preferably , it is urged , by competitive examination . " The colleges and universities of the United States , " President Schurman recently said , " address themselves to the average student ; and in a democracy there will always be a strong feeling , which is also perfectly natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the boys and girls of the country who are able to pass the requisite examinations . The practice of this theory necessarily tends to make the college and university of the country revolve about the average student with a strong pull in the direction of mediocrity . " But we need institutions of learning quite as much as institutions for the instruction of the average student . Upon this subject President Schurman 's suggestion , made after the movement at Amherst had arisen , but before its publication , was that " A seminary for the aristocracy of talent would be the highest and noblest institution in the world . And no other service to a democracy could compare with this ; for to form the mind and character of one man of marked talent , not to say genius , would be worth more to the community which he would serve than the routine training of hundreds of average students . " This is the function which it is proposed that Amherst shall undertake , and in doing so shall arrange its courses of instruction with direct reference to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evident that technical education does not answer all the needs of civilized life . " Among the ancients , " Mr. Lecky said , " the Stoics , who regarded virtue and vice as generically different from all other things , participated actively in public life , and made this participation one of the first of duties ; while the Epicureans , who resolved virtue into utility , and esteemed happiness its supreme motive , abstained from public lifeand taught their disciples to neglect it . " We have seen the repetition of this phenomenon in our own day , and in addition we have learned something further ? that public life pursued for private ends is the degradation of politics . A system of education which teaches its students to work in order to be self-supporting and successful is praiseworthy and advantageous to the community only on condition that higher motives are given their place . The race for wealth becomes a mere exhibition of varied forms of corruption , public and private , unless there be some force in the community to maintain and defend an idealism remote from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commercial motives only . The savage in the forest with his bow and spear , conscious of duties of self-denial , courage , and self-sacrifice , must have looked with contempt upon those whose occupations called for no such virtues . Whatever may be the merits of individuals educated in commercial life ? and in this country the ranks of commerce from the earliest days have furnished noble examples of high character and the greatest liberality ? nevertheless commerce itself teaches but one motive . The moral standards of business life owe their existence to the fact that business training has never been permitted to stand alone . On the contrary , the religious teachings which had in this country such extraordinary effect in forming the standards of the nation , as well as the influences of the colleges , subordinated commercial success to the dignity of a place in the vast world of science and letters , where the standards of trade find no place whatever . Phe influence of college training , then , has always magnified the ideal . As society forms upon commercial lines and becomes more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade becomes greater ? not less . If office is sought only for what can be had out of it , as business is done for profit , if society educates no sense of honor , if it creates no restraining public opinion . to judge of acts by some other standard than that of individual gain , democratic government becomes impossible , and the seeds of an overturning of some character are sowed . The purpose of the college which has been proposed , therefore , should be learning for the sake of learning itself . A nation without some schools devoted to this purpose is undermining its own foundation . We can hardly conceive of a national system of instruction based on the motive of utility only , nevertheless we see a system developing in which the technical schools are the dominating influence stamping their purpose upon college courses , upon high schools and grade schools . If this movement continues with its present force and direction , we may see the time when a national system of instruction based solely on the commercial motive will be well within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will be found that this motive , standing alone , is inconsistent with the existence of organized society . In our great democracy , the duty of a citizen to support himself and his family is no greater than the duty to support our form of society . Democracy is not simple , but extremely complex . We have been accustomed to say that when government is established upon the popular will the pyramid is set upon its base . Were this true , the history of the race would be a history of . pyramids . Democracies once established , unless overcome by military or commercial conquest , would have endured . It would not have been true , as Rousseau says , that popular government , more than any other , strongly and constantly tends to change its form , and that there is therefore no government which demands more courage and vigilance for its maintenance . The course of history shows that government founded upon the popular will , so far from being in a state of equilibrium ? a pyramid upon its base ? in fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ popular will is but another name for popular power , and power alone is a wholly inadequate support for anything . What is needed is knowledge , patience , moderation , the perception of and adherence to sound principles . If the majority values the security of its rule , it must assume and follow a correct and consistent policy ? must have perseverance . These are not qualities of the popular will , unless that will be guided and restrained , and they are not thequalities which in political matters distinguish technical men . Technical education , which gives careful training in commercial affairs but no training in the history of institutions ; which , so far as government is concerned , leaves its pupils to whatever devices business training may suggest , proceeds upon the hopeless assumption that there has been no progress in the past ; that retrospect is not wise ; that the task of statesmanship is forever to start afresh ; and that in any difficulty we should consider not how we got there , but how we can get out ? as if , said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reject our experience . " Here , indeed , is to be found one of the causes of the increasing excitability of American politics . Invention is the parent of Utopias , socialism , radicalism of all kinds . Experience is the parent of improvement , progress , conservatism . It is therefore proposed that Amherst College shall select as its special field the subjects of history and literature , including the classic languages , and the history of the democracies of Greece and Rome . In this field the politics and literature of the past can be made the present life of the college community , free from the distracting influences inseparable from the life of a great university . Students can be made to live over again the old issues , to debate former questions , and so to recognize under the disguises of modem politics the forces which have been the makers and destroyers of government . With this instruction the teaching of science , so far as science is part of a liberal education , should be made as thorough and broad as possible . In giving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of work both among teachers and students , so that in the special fields which are covered , the instruction shall be the best in the country . The profession of teaching is of vital public importance and dignity , and the compensation offered to teachers should be such as to draw into the profession men of the highest talents and effectiveness . That this is not so is common knowledge . To remedy the existing evil it is not necessary that teaching be made a conspicuously lucrative profession . What is needed in the first place is that the compensation be not conspicuously THE NEW OPPORTUNITY OF THE SMALL COLLEGE 137 low , and in the second place that the position of a professor in a prominent college be made to compare in dignity with the position achieved by success in other professions or occupations . No such condition now exists . The average salary of an instructor or professor is insufficient to support his family . The great injustice of this condition and its serious consequences to the national life need no demonstration . The evil is fundamental and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a slight increase of salaries , but a radically new standard of compensation throughout the country . It is proposed therefore that Amherst should adopt the settled policy to use all its resources for indefinite increase of teachers ' salaries ? to make unmistakably plain that it is uninfluenced by ambition for numbers ; that it has no desire to use its students to magnify the institution , but , on the contrary , will use all the means at its command for the greatest advantage of every student . When this is done , Amherst will do something more than her share to restore the dignity of a great profession , and will represent a great public service which deserves support . There is no other force in the world so powerful in making individual character as personal acquaintance and association with a man of strong moral and intellectual purpose and accomplishment . For this there can be no substitute . More than anything else we desire for our boys that they should be thrown under such influences , and here is most evident the great disadvantage under which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible when rooms are so crowded that a lecture of an hour a week must be supplemented by two hours a week when the class in small groups meets many tutors , hardly their seniors . Hence comes the suggestion of Mr. Charles Francis Adams that Harvard , " save in name and continuity , should cease to exist , " and in its place should be a group of colleges , all independent so limited in size that individuality would not only be possible , but a necessary part of the system . " Hence also the " quadrangle system , " so called , the " preceptorial system , " and whatever other devices may be used to make a large institution do the personal work necessary for education ? in short , to secure for large colleges the inherent advantages of the small ones . All this is to offer substitutes where no effective substitution is possible . At a small college there is no such problem . Here is individual training capable of unlimited development , and if , among its surroundings , only those students were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there would develop in the college community that unequalled intellectual life and vigor which comes not merely from compulsion , but from the stimulus of the associations . " It is curious , " Mr. Adams said , " to think how much the standard of classic requirements might be raised were not the better scholars weighted down by the presence of the worse . " It is inspiring to think what might be the effect upon college standards and the life of the country if , even in but one institution , instead of being hindered by this drag of poor scholarship the better scholars were assisted by a living interest of their fellow workers . In these four propositions there is contained the substance of what has been called the Amherst plan . It is an effort to use a single college as an instrument for a wide public reform , and , like other reforms , the movement depends in a minor degree upon the instrument , and chiefly upon the nature and extent of the public response . There is no college in the country at present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been described . Sooner or later , at Amherst or elsewhere , when the public demand shows itself , the college will be created . Nevertheless , the need for such an institution is present , and it is to be hoped that in such a matter the support will not be lacking .                     