@@486107

The feud between playwright and theatre manager is of long standing , and perhaps eternal . Shakespeare , who was both dramatist and manager , in the famous prologue to " Henry V " affirms vigorously the inadequacy of the stage , and inferentially the superiority of the play : Can this cockpit hold The vasty fields of France ? or may we cram Within this wooden 0 the very casques That did affright the air at Agincourt ? This subordination of stage effect to the recitation of the lines has prevailed until recent times Unquestionably , texts have always been handled cavalierly to suit the whim of managers or the capacities of players , but until the breaking up of the stock companies about a generation ago the play got at least equal consideration with the individual actor and the staging . Where the stock company survives , respect for the play still is found . At the Odeon I have frequently heard in not too long an evening two comedies and a tragedy . Such a feat was possible because the waits averaged two minutes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  just enough to indicate the place and to dispatch the business . What counted was the sharp rendition of Moliere 's action and dialogue and the eloquent declama : tion of Corneille 's sonorous verses . In. such a theatre one breathes the air of the golden age of the European drama ; but such theatres to-day are mere survivals , supported not by popular favor , but by state or private subsidies . The modern theatrical trend is distinctly anti-dramatic , an exaltation of the stage as such against the play . Hence Huntly Carter 's book , * " The New Spirit in Drama and Art , " is misnamed . Drama barely appears in his survey . He does , however , give a comprehensive account of the modern theatrical ferment as it may be observed in London , Paris , Berlin , and Leipzig , and perhaps more significantly at Vienna , Budapest , and Moscow . In all he describes the activities of nearly a score of art theatres . As a chronicler he is enthusiastic and eminently uncritical . Whatever is new and sufficiently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the arts must evolve . This biological analogy will hold when two plays or pictures unite to form a younger artistic unit , not sooner . However , Mr. Carter provides a sufficiently vivid and accurate resume of the uneasiness and striving for novelty that shows itself to-day wherever the art of the theatre is taken seriously . It will be my task to seek the common spirit that underlies these apparently al-verse endeavors . In shortest words , the new theatrical tendency is almost exclusively scenic , and generally anti-dramatic . Its most significant and most successful achievement is the revival of the dance , not as an incidental dzverttssement to the play , but as the play itself . The worldwide vogue of the admirable Russian dancers , the acclaim of Professor Reinhardt 's pantomimes , are capital instances in point . The sudden popularity of the one-act piece is another indication of restlessness and of discontent with the traditional forms of the drama . Moreover , in its more significant phases the scenic movement is resolutely antirealistic , here agreeing with the parallel drift in painting and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the contemporary and the classic drama . Before following these several lines of interpretation and considering the value of the new solutions , it may be well to inquire how the drama was deposed . On the one hand , the drama was smothered by elaborateness in stage setting , with the exaggeration of the star as a contributory cause ; on the other , ? T7be New Spirit in Drama and Art . By Huntly Carter New York Miteheli Kennerley In quarto , fully illustrated . by the narrowing of the drama as literature implied in modern ideas of the right construction of a play . Whether or not the opera inherited its ornate furnishing from the court masque , is a matter of antiquarian curiosity . In any case , it was apparently the opera that early in the last century forced upon the theatre the most cumbersome scenery and accessories . Wagner is the central figure of the movement , but before his time the tendency was pronounced . In 1835 Eugene Delacroix admired the " magnificent moonlight " in Bellini 's " I Puritan , " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his journal . Wagner naturally marked the high point in scenic elaborateness and realism . He has not really been surpassed . His perspective audacities in " The Flying Dutchman " and " Lohengrin " ; his forests , caverns , and celestial bridges in the " Ring , " his interiors as in the Wartburg of " Tannhauser , " his public squares in " The Meistersinger , " have tyrannized the imagination of managers for two generations . In England Irving added to the tendency a somewhat pedantic and archeological exactitude , in which Sir Herbert Tree has loyally continued . In America Augustin Daly contributed the coquetry of a collector , setting his scenes when possible with properties of the period represented . Sardou made the spectacular piece international . So was lovingly but ignorantly wrought the gorgeous funeral pall of the drama . Scenic profusion became a substitute for well-balanced companies Besides , where many intervals of nearly half an hour were involved , a great play simply could not be run off with that continuity which is of the es , - sence of every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intervals between the movements ! To restore continuity , the circular stage has been contrived , but the true remedy is at once simpler and more drastic . What we need is not elaborate settings more swiftly changed , but simpler settings and fewer . Thus Professor Reinhardt 's sumptuous pantomimes are not in the direction of reform , but of reaction . They have meaning chiefly as the last logical step along scenic and realistic lines . He has perceived that a spectacle of sufficient ornateness and dramatic tension requires no lines . The moving-picture theatre is repeating the demonstration with world-wide and impressive success . To say that the drama has suffered from the logical , over-sharpening of its own ideals is at first sight a paradox . Yet I believe that one might pretty definitely date the decline of the drama bOth as literature and as theatrical value from Eugene Scribe 's famous doctrine of the piece Bien fade . It is about eighty years since he threw off the phrase which has affected all modern dramaturgy . The well-made play must have a closely knit and logical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including all incidental poetry , are forbidden . The soliloquy becomes an anachronism . Everything must move swiftly to a satisfactory climax with the logical denouement hard on its heels . No principle of relief or variety is tolerated Dramaturgy becomes a form of dialectic . Powerfully reinforced by the mature work of Ibsen , the theory of the well-made play has been exemplified inexorably by Hervieu and Becque in France and by Pinero in England . The doctrine has produced some excellent plays . Its weakness is that it proclaims all the acknowledged masterpieces of the acting drama to be ill-made . Under the strict rule , Moliere , a constructor of the neat sort , would come off hardly better than the notoriously loose-jointed Shakespeare . A graver defect of the theory was that the well-made play turned out to be sadly ephemeral . Some thousands of pieces been fades have had their day , but after eighty years there can not be said to exist a modern repertory . Clearly the difficulty is that the well-made play is made well in respect only of a particular moment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ audiences , and the well-made play of to-day , with its precise adjustments to our present sensibilities and prejudices , is likely to seem Merely old-fashioned to our wiser sons and daughters . Possibly , what Scribe regarded as poetical surplusage and lumber was , after all , the unconscious appeal of the playwright from a particular audience to posterity , a denial of that relativity within which great drama has ever been reluctant to confine itself . Here I am not raising the vexed question of the literary drama . It is important for the well-being of the theatre not that plays should be masterpieces of literature , but merely that they - should last long enough to provide a standard repertory and withal a sound tradition of acting and setting . But the well-made play has signally failed to do this , and therein its bankruptcy is revealed . Between the smothering of the play under scenery and the reduction of dialogue to explosive ejaculation , between the star and the long run , opportunities for education in acting have been curtailed , tolerable declamation has become exceptional , personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All remedies for the evils described above may be comprised in two main categories : first , simplification of the setting and rejection of bad theatrical conventions ; secondly , the reform of the star system through a potent and enlightened stage-managership . ' Both remedies look towards the reform of what we may call the stage picture . Simplification has taken two roads : one somewhat archeological , as in the revivals of Mr. Benson and Ben Greet , another quite abstract and modern , as in Gordon Craig 's recent settings and in the representations of the Kunstlertheater at Munich . In most cases , significantly , the point of departure has been Shakespeare . So it may be well by a brief comparison between the Elizabethan and the modern stage to suggest what the problem of the stage picture is. , The stage of Shakespeare presented no picture in the modern sense . Shake-speare 's despairingly humorous chor-uses for " Henry V " show plainly that the only possible and tolerable picture must be evoked by his lines in the imagina-tion of the audience . His stage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the time the actors were among the audience . No illusion of setting was possible . The actor was deprived of glamour and driven back upon the ele-mental devices of expressive action and fine declamation . Behind the stage was a narrower portico with a curtained door . Indeed , it is probable , though not certain , that the entire portico could at need be curtained off . Above the por-tico was a practicable gallery . With this meagre and fixed setting all places . of a Shakespearean play could , with a little good will on the part of the audi-ence , be sufficiently suggested . The pro-jecting fore-stage was any large public place . Let us say , indifferently , a square in Verona , the ballroom of the Capulets , a street and a churchyard in Verona , a street in Mantua . The space under the gallery was at will a room in the Capu-let palace and Juliet 's chamber . The central curtained door admitted , accord-ing to circumstances , to Friar Lau-rence 's cell , or to the tomb of the Capu-lets . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All that the dramatist re-quired was an indication that the Place was large or small , indoors or out , on the ground level or high . When am-biguity arose , as it did but rarely , the lines set the audience right . Only the indispensable properties were used , and these had to be carried on and off in view of the audience . This still is occasionally done in the classic French the-atre without giving offence . The ac-tors had , with trifling exceptions , to come on and go off without the aid of the curtain . So cruel a condition must , have made for a stately and command-ing port . In resume , there were no stage pictures in the sense of illusionary inscenation , either of particular plays or particular acts or scenes of any play . Or better , the actors were like statues set on a broad base before a fixed and impressive architectural background . The conditions were not unlike those prevailing in the Greek theatre and the requirements upon the actor were similar . It was a sculptural , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was sculptural , the modern stage is at least in intention pictorial . The proscenium arch constitutes a definite boundary or frame , within which the picture is composed . The lighting from the front gives brilliancy to the picture . By drops and flats any setting can be simulated . A well-painted back , such as Mr. Belascb presented in the last act of " The Girl of the Golden West , " may open up miles of land and sky . Modern illuminants make it possible to reproduce the most fugitive and poetic phases of lunar or solar light . Mr. Daly provided in " The Midsummer Night 's Dream " a moonlight that holds its glamour after nearly thirty years . On penalty of long waits , to he sure , properties can be multiplied ad libitum , mechanical devices of all sorts make the ghost an horrific plausibility and permit the bodily presence of the chariot race . A whole range of incidents that a Shakespeare could only describe may safely be put on in any country theatre . In fact , the pictorial apparatus of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more enlightened managers are bothering about the stage picture What is the difficulty ? Simply that the actor can not effectively be fitted into any pictorial scheme which requires more planes than a foreground and a remote distance . To the eye the actor diminishes inappreciably within the range of up and down stage He belongs , and is in proper scale , only in a foreground which has no middle distance . Anywhere else he is too big for the picture . The false ingenuity of decorators multiplies flats and makes the stage a tunnel No real effect of depth is attained . The actor merely dwarfs the scenery as he retires from the footlights . No actor can gradually approach from a distance or gradually withdraw . You may describe his going or coming , but if you present him in the flesh , the more you complicate stage perspective , and the more intermediate objects you introduce to express farness , the more you emphasize his palpable and ridiculous nearness You can not safely set him against any back scene supposed to be a hundred yards away . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his spoiling the picture . Against a very near or a very remote background you may set him with impunity : Of course , I am aware of the heroic attempts to defeat stage limitations in the ascension of the soul of the Flying Dutchman , and in the gradual coming of Lohengrin in his swan boat But without the music both effects would be ridiculous  --  as theatrical effect Little Eva 's apotheosis is really more tolerable  --  and Lohengrin 's advent invariably strikes me as mildly absurd , despite the most enchanting music imaginable . In short , the stage picture is in one plaPe as regards the actors , and in two at most as regards actors and scenery . Which comes to saying that the art Of the stage is Still not a pictorial but a sculptural art . A good deal of the recent reform of inscenation , in h England , Germany , and Austria has been in the way of recognizing this fact and clearing away the rubbish between the stage front and the background , with the frank perception that the actor has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times the classic theatre has unconsciously obeyed this law . And some recent effective designs show a return to it . The scene already cited from " The Girl of the Golden West , " and the island setting for " The able Crichton , " are examples . How compatible these limitations are with spacious and romantic effect , Gordon Craig 's designs for Ibsen 's " Vikings , " or , better yet , for Laurence Housman 's " Bethlehem , " show convincingly . III . A reform which clears off the canvas and papier-mache atrocities from the stage is wholly good , yet I doubt if we have yet reached a new rule of simplicity . For an audience that really loved the drama , the sparse and austere realism of the French state theatres would serve every purpose ; but the modern audience cares much for stagecraft and little for drama .. No purely archeological reaction is likely to succeed . Salvation is not through abolishing the curtain and restoring the apron stage . Nor do some of the boldest new experiments seem to have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on simple geometrical repetitions , are the most worthy of attention in this class . He works with uniform series of massive rectangular columns , which may be set close or far , in pale or solid , simulating a grandiose architecture or merely forming a pattern to be artfully illuminated . The effects which he obtained upon his little model stage at Florence were delightful . They depended on right setting of the columns and upon lighting which shot the uniform pale buff of the columns with the most varied and charming complementary tones of blue or violet . Since then Mr. Craig has proved the entire practicability of what I may call the basaltic idea by thus mounting " Hamlet " at Moscow . I feel sure that he will continue to produce fine designs in this geometrical mode , as he did in his earlier mood of simplified realism . But the method seems to be too subjective for general application It is , however , much in the air both in painting and stage setting . The Austrian and Hungarian managers work very much in Mr. Craig @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' The whole movement will at least impose a syStematic and disciplinary principle of theatrical design . Personally , I am surprised that the experiment has not been more frequently tried of giving the old poetical plays without specific setting . A mere bacKcloth of verdure tapestry or the like has sufficed admirably for the play of " As You Like It . " Other Shakespearean plays might require a few specific back-drops , the stage itself remaining frankly an architectural enclosure which becomes out-of-doors , or in , according to the clue afforded by the back-cloth . A modern audience of the sort that will go to Shakespeare at all would readily accommodate itself to such conventions . The settings should be made intrinsically handsome , but decorative rather than realistic . Once established in the classic repertory , it seems to me that the policy of a decorative simplicity would invade the modern field . Merely a reasonable economy would require the manager to use generalized decorative settings whenever he might , and specific and realistic settings only when he must . Such flexible opportunism would expedite performances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permit the giving of classic plays entire , would make for a freer modern drathaturgy , and relieve the pedantic oppression now imposed on the stage by the well-made play , IV . On theatrical reform through ideal managership , just a word . The idea of an omniscient r  --  gisseur remains permanently attractive  --  one who holds that unruly member , the player , in the hollow of his hand ; one who is the ideal and reverential interpreter of dramatic masterpieces , the tireless overseer of the minutest details of action , declamation , lighting , decoration . Mr. Craig , who adds to the expansiveness of the creative artist much of the ruthlessness of the abstract logician , has long dallied with this notion of the ideal regisseur , eventually finding it bankrupt , for the good reason that the actual actor is often ignorant and almost always hopelessly insubordinate There was a moment when Mr. Craig , despairing of the actor , had recourse to the puppet The puppet is tractable , and , as for the declamatory part , any manager may hope to engage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I think no one who saw the puppets in action on Mr. Craig 's tiny stage found the idea ridiculous or their presence otherwise than piquant and charming . Indeed , aside from being mechanically controllable , puppets have distinct advantages over flesh-and-blood actors . All perspective illusions are possible with them . Mr Craig could deploy an army upon a distant horizon and countermarch it in middle-distance before presenting the chieftain down stage . The whole dilemma of the middle-distance is readily solved by the puppet manager . I have touched on this clever experiment , first , because it reveals quite concretely the limitations of the ordinary stage picture , next because I feel that the puppet theatre contains unutilized possibilities . But despite the puppets , and their more formidable allies , the dancers , pantomimists , and figurants for the cinematograph , the theatre will be redeemed by the actor and the manager , or not at all . By a detour we are once more confronting the problem of the r  --  gisseur . Common-sense clearly suggests that we must , while accepting broadly the conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or make of those limitations sources of strength . The theatrical art necessarily deals not in absolutes and unities , but in happy compromises and approximations . Something of this relativity there is in all the arts , but it dominates peculiarly in those arts in which the creator is not sole performer and interpreter . To carry over from such unmediated arts as sculpture , painting , and poetry the requirement of a unified and absolutely original impression  --  to require this of such mediated arts as music and acted drama is an obvious solecism . And precisely the so-called infidelity of musician , actor , or conductor to the artist 's original intention  --  an intention which is only matter of surmise after all  --  may result in illuminating the play or score from novel points of view , may legitimately enhance the masterpiece through sensitive and reverent interpretation . That the regisseur may recover power usurped by the actor , that stage-managership may increasingly assume the responsibilities of a fine art , we must devoutly hope . Revipwing broadly the new theatrical unrest , it seems valid , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realism . It strikes at an admitted evil , and provides a remedy . But the final simplification of the stage is not likely to be achieved along Mr. Craig 's lines of austere symbolism , nor yet by the more bizarre and decorative methods pursued in Austria-Hungary . A degree of naturalism the theatre can hardly dispense with . Excessive devotion to the dance and to pantomime are probably transient and merely incidental phases . The stage can not long afford to repudiate or minimize the drama . On the contrary , reform is likely through a new entente between the stage and the drama .. We need perhaps not exclusively the literary play , but at least some literary plays , and , above all , liberation from the well-made piece cobbled together to match the passing Whim of indolent and surfeited playgoers . Hauptman. ; Ttostend , Barrie , have been good risks even for modern managerdom . There is naturally money in appealing to the baser side of the playgoing there is also money with self-respect in appealing to its better side . Sp far as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is full of promise . It is likely to provide a stage stripped of trumpery and cleared for action . Such a stage , however , must overcome a stubborn predilection for mere gorgeousness . The brunt of the reform must be borne by a few farseeing managers , and these must be supported by the friends of the new movement . Once tided over their beginnings , theatres thus organized shwild. prosper . Freed from the burden of speculative salaries and costly mountings , the new-style regissenr would have dis , tinct advantages . Very likely he would have imitators when the commercial managers realized the folly of competing with the cinematograph in naturalism , with the music hall in splendiferousness . Indeed , the present formidable rivalry of vaudeville and the moving-picture show may rather sternly direct the theatre towards its finer traditions as the very condition of survival . P. J. M. , " Tn . Mr Clayton Hamilton will bring out in January , through Holt , his " Studies in Stagecraft " Johnston Forbes-Robertson played Othello for the first time in this country in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult task with more success , perhaps , than was generally expected . His characterization , of course , was marked by intelligence rather than robustness . Even in the opening scenes his Othello savored of the court rather than the camp , exhibiting a suave and courteous dignity and to Brabantio a most tender and compassionate patience . In the oratorical passages , such as the address to the Senate , he was entirely satisfactory , although even here the absence of all suggestion of martial or rugged force was felt . He was most completely satisfactory , perhaps , in the scenes in Cyprus in the second act , when he showed picturesque qualities as the devoted over of the fair Desdemona and as an energetic and efficient officer in time of broil and battle . His rebuke of Cassio was exceedingly effective . In the succeeding acts , as the victim of Iago 's intrigue , he was extremely felicitous in marking the effects of the first gradual inroads of suspicion upon faith , but he failed in giving real tragic , expression to the storms of Jealous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In these great crises the physical effort was more eloquent than the emotional utterance . But the impersonation was in many respects a remarkable one and was especially inter : esting in its earliest and latest phases Unfortunately his suPPOrt was of very in , different quality . The Iago , S. A. Cookson , in trying to , be entirely natural became wholly dull and inefficient , and Gertrude Elliott played Desdemona without sympathy or insight . The stage management was excellent , but the general standard of the acting was low . The name of Sydney Grundy 's new Play , which will soon be produced in London , is " World Without End . " Fred . Kerr will produce the piece and sustain one of the leading parts in it , that of a judge whose experience of life has taught him to temper justice with mercy . Among other important characters in the picture are the governor of a jail and his wife , formerly a nurse , who has left at least one momentous incident in her past unrevealed to ' her husband . Alan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a four-act play called " The Night Hawk , " by Lechmere Worral and Bernard Merivalethe latter a nephew of the author of " All for Her " and " The White Pilgrim . " The Incorporated Stage Society , of London , starts its fifteenth season with the production of a new four-act play , entitled " Change , " by J. Q. Francis , a new dramatist . To the piece was last year awarded the prize of ? 100 offered by Lord Howard de Walden for the best original Welsh play by a Welsh writer . " Mr. Wu , " the new play at the London Strand Theatre , appears to be a pretty highly seasoned bit of melodrama . Mr. Wu is a Kowloon Mandarin , a blend of Oriental duplicity and ferocity and Oxford culture . When his beautiful-young daughter fails a victim to the impetuous suit of Basil Gregory she disappears from public view . Then Basil also vanishes , and when his father threatens Wu with a revolver , he suddenly finds himself completely in the Chinaman 's power . Wu then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her that his daughter is dead , having paid the price of her shame , and that her son will soon be dead also , unless she , his mother , will sacrifice her own honor to save him . Mrs. Gregory tries to poison herself in a cup of tea , but Wu  --  who is as polite as he is relentless  --  insists upon drinking with her , and , having sipped , dies quickly in horrible convulsions . Wilfred Sheridan writes as follows to the London Times : In referring to an impending sale at Sotheby 's , you wrote of the " original manuscript " of " The School for Scandal " as being among the items to be sold . I think it may interest the public to know that the original manuscript of " The School for Scandal " is at my home at Frampton Court , Dorchester . My grandfather , who was Sheridan 's grandson , had this original MS. laid down and mounted with a specially printed text . There are , as I know , several stage copies in existence One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sheridan ; possibly the one advertised may be something of this kind . Stanley Houghton , a prominent young playwright , died last week at Manchester , England . " Hindle Wakes " and two short plays , " Fancy Free " and " The Younger Generation , " by Mr Houghton , have been given in this country . " Hindle Wakes , " which was produced in New York on December 10 , 1912 , went upon the road a few Weeks after its first appearance In spite of its somewhat cold reception , it was recognized as a powerful piece of realism , and the young playwright was regarded as one who had a big future ' before . him . The setting of the play was Lancashire , and the characters spoke a broad Lancashire dialect . " The Younger Generation " was produced at the Lyceum Theatre this season , with Grace George in the cast . Music " Hansel and aretel " : A Guide to Humperdinck 's Opera . By Lewis M. Isaacs and Kurt J. Rahlson . New York : Dodd , Mead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Young . New York : Henry Holt &; Co . Stories of the Operas . By Ethel Shubert . Philadelphia : The Penn Publishing Co . Wagner 's " Tristan , and Isolde . " By - Oliver Huckel . New York Thomas P. Crowell Co 75 cents net . Opera and Drama . By Richard Wagner . New York : Chas . Scribner 's Sons . Two volumes . Twenty years have elapsed since Engelbert Humperdinck surprised the world with an entirely new kind of opera  --  a German fairy-tale amalgamated with the Wagnerian orchestra . At first thought this seemed a ludicrous rofisalliance As the authors of the guide to " Hthisel and Gretel " remark : The same method which Wagner devised as an accompaniment to the passions of Icolde and the woes of Brunnhilde is here employed to give musical utterance to the playfulness and the trifling griefs and fears of Hansel and Gretel The heroic side of the Valkyries is painted in colors no more brilliant than the broomstick ride of the Witch The incongruity between means and end is glaring Yet , wonder of wonders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all-pervading charm and sincerity of the work Inasmuch as this opera was an iinmediate success , its popularity spreading like wild-fire all over Europe , it should seem as if a guide to its beauties were superfluous . Yet , while the opera makes an immediate appeal to everybody by its emotional melody , it contains a wealth of detail that escapes the casual listener ; and it is to call attention to these subtle merits that the guide was written The story is told in full , the leading motives , twenty-six in all , are given in musical type , and the ingenious use made of them is fully explained . Special emphasis is placed on a misunderstanding which in some minds has prevented Humperdinck from getting all the credit due him . His occasional use of a borrowed folk-song has misled these persons into the belief that none of the music is wholly original . The four folk-songs used by him are named in the - guide . It is altogether an excellent little book , which should find its place on the shelf next to the guide to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Filson Young 's collection of opera stories includes " Hansel and Gretel . " The other operas in it are " Faust , " " Carmen , " " The Magic Flute , " " Don Giovanni , " " Aida " " Madama Butterfly , " " The Bohemians , " " Cavalleria Rusticana , " and " I Paghacci . " The writer 's method consists in telling the plots of the operas as short stories without reference to the acts and scenes in the opera  --  a method which has its advantages . Ethel Schubert , on ? the other hand , follows the usual way of telling the plot , step by step . The forty-six operas chosen by her are those usually sung now at American opera houses or exploited on the singing machines . The composers are arranged alphabetically , and a few biographical facts precede the description of each one 's operas , or opera ; for of the twenty-four composers included , no fewer than fifteen are represented by only one opera . Of Massenet 's , two are given . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the fact that " Puccini 's opera , Manon Lescaut , ' tells the same story as Massenet 's , and is now more frequently sung " ? which is not true . Of Wagner 's operas , ten are included Oliver Huckel has his own way of Englishing , Wagner 's operatic poems , Putting the stage directions into blank verse , together with the poetic lines That his Way has its admirers may be inferred from the fact that his " Tristan and Isolde " is the ninth of - Wagner 's operas thus treated by him . Mr. Huckel looks on this poem as the high-water mark of Wagner 's genius . His book is printed in black-letter type , with red heads , and half a dozen full-page illus trations or scenes in the opera . That Wagner wrote , besides a dozen operas , the same number of volumes of prose works . not to speak of his letters , which make another dozFn or so , is well known . The most important of his treatises on music is " Opera and Drama . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one by W. Ashton Ellis , and another and better one by Edwin Evans , sr. , a splendid specimen of the translator 's art , which even those will do well to consult who can read the original ; for Wagner 's treatise , as printed in German , is " one unbroken sea of prose-matter . " Besides doing this into idiomatic English , Mr. Evans has provided chapter headings , section and subsection headings , as well as subdivision of paragraphs , with numbers and separate titles for each , thus making it a much more helpful book than the original . The table of contents takes up twenty-one pages and serves not only as a guide , but an appetizer ; with its aid any one can in a moment satisfy his curiosity as to - Wagner 's opinions on the relation of music to poetry ; the aria as springing from folksong ; the ballet as springing from the folk-dance ; limitation of the poet 's means of expression ; Mozart and Mendelssohn compared ; Rossini 's bid for popularity ; the chagrin of Rossini at Meyerbeer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operatic material ; Beethoven 's great inspiration ; Beethoven 's mistake ; degradation of modern opera ; terminal rhyme and conversational speech ; the womanly relation of the tonal language to dramatic art ; and a hundred other topics . The latest biography of Wagner is by John F Runciman The peppery London critic evidently does not like " Parsifal , " but for the other works of Wagner he has the utmost admiration . Even in the " Flying Dutchman " he finds " pages which Wagner never afterwards surpassed . " Wagner 's first wife " ought to have married a pork-butcher " His opinion of Wagner 's character is summed up in these words : " He was one of the noblest , most generous men that have lived There is not a mean trait in his character . " Ernest Newman confesses that he has treated Wagner 's love affairs in detail in his forthcoming life of that composer , which will be his third book on Wagner . " Richard Strauss , " writes a correspondent , is a well-nigh all-convincing apostle for his own music @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his works in Karlsruhe recently , he went over to Vienna , where , at the head of the Tonkunstler Orchestra , he gave a concert which must have made him realize how firm his hold has become in the Austrian capital on a large contingent of the musical community . He gave a stirring interpretation to his latest opus , the Festival Prelude , written for the opening , a few weeks since , of the new Coneerthaus , which originally had been heard in a far less authoritative and impressive manner .                     