@@430553

 | A country young in development , like Mexico , might consider itself fortunate to be the next-door neighbor of a great nation like the United States , possessing such powerful moral and material resources , were it not for the fact that such close contact may turn out to be very dangerous to its own economic and political development , merely because its peculiar conditions of life are not fully understood . And such is the case today with Mexico . Indeed , Mexico feels that its next-door neighbor has not yet taken any real pains to get an insight into that complex process . of evolution thru which it is now passing as a new and undeveloped country . The United States knows very little about the grave problems Mexico is now facing . Had the people of this country a deeper knowledge of the real situation they would long since have assumed a more benevolent and forbearing attitude toward the struggle now being carried on to better both mbral and economic conditions . Mexico ? which was Spain 's most important colony ? had at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of whom were semi-civilized , while the rest were absolutely savage . This great mass of population was , after the Conquest , brought into a somewhat higher state thru the direct influence of a small group of Spaniards , mostly made up of adventurers , priests and literary men , who , nevertheless , eagerly devoted themselves to their exploitation . If Spain had not , by wise and appropriate laws , known as the Leyes de India , taken these natives under a species of paternal protection , they would later certainly have perished . The long Spanish rule gave rise to privileged castes , such as the clergy , the nobility , the landowners , and the army , who gathered unto themselves the powers of government and monopolized the public offices and the direction of private enterprises , forming an organization to whose interest it was to combat the aspirations of the native Indians and half bloods . The first important war in Mexico was that of Independence , and this was inspired by purely social ideas . The privileged castes , of course , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when they realized the futility of their designs , and became convinced that Spain lacked strength enough to hold the colony under control , they cunningly allied themselves with the revolt , and turning their arms against the government , assisted in bringing the war to a successful conclusion . They conceived that after the King of Spain should have ceased to exercize his former powerful influence , the Church , the Army and the Aristocracy could take control of the country . In September , 1827 , Mexico succeeded in obtaining its political independence , but from that date , its inhabitants became social slaves . It is worthy of notice that at this point in its history Mexico had a population of 4,000,000 , and that of these 3,500,000 were Indians . In the second half of the last century another important war broke out . This revolution was the result of the unbearable situation in which the masses had  | been placed by the privileged classes . A middle class , well educated and full of democratic ideals , had steadily been growing during the fifty years following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the movement , embodying the aspirations of the common people , who struggled to better their social and economic status . A great struggle followed , full of dramatic episodes , among which the intervention of certain European Powers and the frustrated attempt to establish a European monarchy were the most important . After the execution of Maximillian , which marked the end of the strife , the Church became separate from the State , the priests were forbidden to interfere with public administration , and all property in the hands of the Church and ecclesiastic corporations was declared to belong to the nation . More than two-thirds of the country 's property was then owned by the Church . All privileges , prerogatives and medieval customs that placed the whole weight of taxation on the shoulders of the poorer people , were abolished . At this time , it should be noted , the population of Mexico had increased to seven millions , and of these , three and a half millions were native Indians . This shows that the mixt population ( mestizos ) had considerably increased and was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Mexican people tolerated the long dictatorship of Porfirio Diaz because they were exhausted , and they looked upon it as a means of gaining new strength ; but under the Diaz rule a new privileged class arose , made up of unprincipled politicians and clever financiers who soon gained control of the public wealth , and practically of all public resources . Everything was in their hands . In the meanwhile , however , the country had been steadily and wonderfully developing . Then came once more the inevitable clash between the upper and the lower classes . The cost of living had become very high , while wages remained unchanged . The middle class had become conscious of its civil rights and those of the common people generally . Meanwhile also political and administrative corruption had bred large landholders , owners of immense tracts of land acquired thru illegal transactions , while the petty farmers and the Indians , the legitimate owners , were denied the right of appeal to the courts of justice for redress of their wrongs , the administration having converted the judiciary into a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was thus that the third great war began in Mexico . This revolution , like the others , sprung out of the impending need for the improvement of social and economic conditions of the people , who for a long time had looked forward to the establishment of justice and equity , to be applied to all men alike , without discrimination . It also aimed at raising wages , the breaking up of land and a fair distribution of taxation . At this time the population of Mexico had risen to sixteen and a half millions , the Indian population , however , still remaining the same . These figures further show  | how the mixt population continued to absorb and assimilate the Indian race . From the above it can be seen that thruout all our revolutions there has always existed a tendency to bring about an evolution of the country. , aiming at the harmonization of the peculiar condition of our people with the establishment of democratic institutions . Learning in Mexico , it should be noted , is very unequally distributed , for while there is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is also a highly cultured class made up of men who have been educated in the best European and American institutions . The revolution now raging in Mexico is nothing more than an episode of the third great revolution , which broke out in 1910 . The movement today , however , has a distinct characteristic , namely , that its cause was the murder of the Constitutional President , Francisco I. Madero , brought about by the reactionary element when it usurped the power . Three different aspects may be observed in the present movement , as foIlows : First in order , altho not in importance , is what may be termed the sentimental aspect . After the outrageous murder of the President and Vice President ? a deed that made Mexico appear before the eyes of the world as a medieval nation ? there was a demand for the immediate punishment of the murderers , in order that the national honor might be vindicated . This feeling of public indignation may be regarded as the emotional cause of the struggle . Second in importance is the political aspect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to restore constitutional order and to establish a new administration , based on legal elections , to take place as soon as the country has been pacified . Finally , there is the social aspect , which is in fact the most important of all . Among the main reforms to be carried out , the following must be noted : The weeding out of the administration personnel and the reconstruction of the judiciary ; honesty in the management of the treasury ; equitable distribution of taxes , legislation to better labor conditions , so as to develop better relations between capital and the working classes , especially in respect to the peasantry and the great landholders ; establishment of agricultural banks ; legislation providing for extensive irrigation thruout the land ; passing of necessary laws to make titles to real estate respected and easy of transfer ; revision of civil laws ; fair distribution of communal land ; the breaking up of large estates by means of proper expropriation ; the betterment of the farming population ; the construction of roads and turnpikes , and the imparting of public instruction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quite ready for democratic institutions . That is especially true of the middle and lower classes . Of course , they lack experience and , above all , confidence that their rulers will abide by the law and interpret their wishes and ideals . In this connection it can be said that most administrators in Mexico have done all in their power to keep the people down , rather than to uplift them . Most of the rulers of Mexico have been far below the expectation of their countrymen , but in spite of poor administration the country has greatly advanced , because the common people possess qualities ' and virtues fitting them for a higher and better stage of civilization . The Mexicans in general are forbearing , patriotic and progressive , and all they need is proper government to develop their energies . The United States can do much good or much harm to us . Natural conditions have placed us side by side , and the development of these two countries will necessarily follow along parallel lines for many years to come . It depends on the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disinterested and generous support to carry out our ideals , or whether they will hinder our political development , thereby taking a great responsibility upon their shoulders . I can not forecast the future , but this much I can say , namely , that I am optimistic in my belief that the United States will surely cast aside all current ideas about " imperialism , " and thus will gain the lasting good will of my people . The Mexican Constitutionalist party , standing for law and constitutional                     