@@486382

CONGRESS is by no means satisfied with the distinctly subordinate position which it occupies with reference to the administration of the war . Its functions have been confined to raising revenue , making appropriations , block  --  ing out policies for the raising of an army , food control , etc. , and granting enormous powers to the Executive . All this has been done under what amounts to Presidential dictator  --  ship , and it is entirely against the inclination of Congress as a whole or the individual members willingly to accept effacement . The legislature wishes to share in the conduct of the war . But more important than this desire not to have the pow  --  ers of a " coordinate branch " of the American Government diminished , is the fact that Congress retains but a very nebulous check upon the activities of the various depart  --  ments and war commissions , and upon the President him  --  self . Granting the largest appropriations in history , Con  --  congress desires to know how they are spent . The speed and unanimity with which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the appointment of a special committee to investigate the shipment of defective ammunition to General Pershing is indicative of something more than a desire to embarrass the Administration . Congress sincerely feels that , while dictatorial powers must be granted to the Executive , it should retain some right of supervision , since , in cases of disaster , blame will rest not only on those offi  --  cials who have misused their authority , but in part , also , upon the body which delegated its own functions without adequate safeguard . Yet , as President Wilson very clearly pointed out while he was a teacher of politics , " Congress stands almost helplessly outside of the departments . . . . Hostile or designing officials can always hold it at arm 's length by dexterous evasions and concealments . " Never was this more true than at the present time . A Committee on the Conduct of the War , composed of five members of each house and with its authority limited to the supervision of expenditures , was objected to by Mr. Wilson . It would , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impossible ; it would " amount to nothing less than an assumption on the part of the legislative body of the executive work of the Administration " ; responsibility could not be divided , and very properly Congress gave in and refused to insist upon this rider to the Food Control bill . Further attempts to create a general Congress:onal committee will doubtless meet with the same opposition and consequent defeat ; it might furnish an effective check , but delays , friction , and embarrassment to the Executive would be unavoidable . Even more certain , however , is the fact that Congressional committees to investigate various ques  --  tions , or the committees of each house on expenditures in the various departments which are now moribund , but which could be used , will not solve the problem of controlling the Executive . They might assign responsibility for mistakes , but they would not operate to prevent errors in the future . Nevertheless , as President Wilson himself very keenly ap  --  preciated , the problem is a vital one , and , if possible , some solution ought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There the execu  --  tive and legislative departments are in close union ; theexecutive is part of the legislature and the legislature does its bidding . If one thinks that the American Congress has done well since April  --  and according to our standards it has done wonders  --  one should examine the record of the British Parliament , which , following the declaration of war , passed thirty-seven important statutes in seventeen work  --  ing days . The bill declaring a moratorium was rushed through all its stages and received the royal assent in one day ; and many other measures were adopted with almost no debate . The reasons for this Parliamentary effacement are , it may be said summarily , that the executive , with per  --  manent , expert assistance in the drafting of measures , is accustomed to initiate legislation and to insist upon its pas  --  sage with no substantial changes ; that defeat means a change of government or perhaps an appeal to the people ; that minorities and individual legislators do not receive the rights accorded them under the American system , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party advantage , and since May , 1915 , a coalition Government , have in a large measure stifled all effective opposition . But , although the English House of Commons has declined to the point where some eminent publicists insist that it is destined to remain inanimate and powerless , the danger to democratic institutions is not nearly so great as that of a similar effacement of Congress . In England the legislature controls the executive , and one of the distinctive features of the Cabinet system is that the Ministers stand or fall to  --  gether . They are the leaders of their party , but they are also its trustees . Their responsibility is joint ; an attack on the conduct of one Minister is an attack on the Govern  --  ment  --  at least this has been so up to the inauguration of Mr. Lloyd George 's smaller war Cabinet  --  and the legisla  --  ture can thus force the Government out of office on account of the inefficiency of one department . Consequently , it is a matter of party importance to have in charge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fidence of the legislature , and to see to it that their acts do not shake this confidence . Many of the Cabinet changes in England during the last three years have been owing to a lack of Parliamentary and popular approval of certain offi  --  cials . In the United States , on the other hand , only Con  --  gressional resolutions calling for information , investigating committees , interference with appropriations requested , or public opinion , which must be outraged before it is effective , may be used to control the Administration . These are in  --  adequate and dangerous expedients , and in the last analysis only the cumbersome machinery of impeachment will suffice to remove officials who retain the confidence of the President . That the President and his appointees hold their offices by the calendar and not through legislative , and ultimately popular , acquiescence may be , in some respects , a distinctive merit of the American system . It reduces the untoward effects of popular but ignorant passion which changes to approval when time justifies the wisdom of the apparently erroneous decision . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fails to provide any efficient check on executive action , and , whether or no Congress is in session . we are now , as a result of legislative delegation and consti  --  tutional authority , living under a government by executive dictators . That they attempt to do their best and that President Wilson listens to public opinion makes the fact none the less true , but only less alarming . Now , all this does not mean to intimate in any way that democracies should not take the necessary measures , how  --  ever radical and autocratic , to eliminate the delays and dis  --  sensions which seem to be their fate when called upon to organize for a great war . In time of crisis a wrong decision is sometimes no worse than a delayed decision ; responsi  --  bility must be concentrated under what are admittedly in  --  adequate safeguards ; public discussion must be reduced if not eliminated so that military information may not reach the enemy ; innumerable restrictions on personal liberty must be cheerfully endured , and consent must be given for governmental interference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would be instantly condemned . Yet should not every reasonable effort be made  --  keeping these necessities clearly in view  --  to enable members of the legis  --  lature , the direct representatives of the people , to have an adequate grasp of what is being done to carry on the war , to have just as complete a knowledge as is possible the American Constitution in close and sympathetic harmony ? This prob  --  lem has been seriously discussed in every one of the demo  --  cratic nations now at war with Germany , and if it is impor  --  tant in countries which have Cabinet responsibility , how much more fundamental is it in the United States , where Congress stands helplessly outside the executive depart  --  ments ? The nearest approach to a solution seems to have been arrived at in France through an extension of the old system of Parliamentary committees . These are chosen in a com  --  plicated manner . Each of the French chambers is divided into Bureau ; of equal size , every member receiving one as  --  signment by lot . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is entitled to elect one or , in the case of im  --  portant committees , two or three of its members . The Bureaux are chosen afresh every month by lot , but in prac  --  tice , for obvious reasons , it has been found necessary to have the committees virtually permanent . To them all legisla  --  tion must be submitted before it is introduced in the cham  --  bers ; Ministers have no right to be present at the meetings , but they are invited when they wish to express their views , and the committees claim the privilege of volunteering ad  --  vice , examining books and papers , and supervising admin  --  istration . In the past such a system has not worked with entire success . As President Lowell pointed out in his study of " Governments and Parties in Continental Europe , " these committees are inconsistent with the principle of Parlia  --  mentary government  --  that Ministers may present their policies to the legislative chambers and stand or fall by rea  --  son of the resulting decision . With such committees Minis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dissen  --  sions , and it has been said that harmony exists only when the Ministers accede to the wishes of the committees . Never  --  theless , since the outbreak of the war the system seems to have developed some unexpected merits , and the adoption of it , in some modified form , has been strongly urged upon the English House of Commons . Writing to the London Times two years ago , Lord Murray of Elibank , who had just re ? turned from a visit to France , was enthusiastic as to its advantages . These Commissions he said work in conjunction with every department of the State . During the last three months a new departure has been made by the establishment of an " Inter-Commission " representing more particularly the Commissions of Foreign Affairs , War , and Marine . This Commission sits in secret s  --  ance on an average of three times a week ; it consists of thirty-six members of the Lower House , with a chairman and secretary . As it is the custom for Ministers to appear before the Commissions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become the practice for this newly constituted body to invite to its deliberations the parliamentary heads of departments and others whose opinions might be considered of value . I give an example : The Ministers for War and Marine appeared before the Inter-Commission to discuss the Dardanelles Expedition . Further , all questions affecting the war , whether from the point of view of the supply of men , armaments , or munitions  --  in fact , everything affecting the policy and progress of the war  --  are subjects of well-informed discussion before this Commission . It is this plan of the Inter-Commission that I would respectfully urge upon the consideration of his Majesty 's Government , If such a body were instituted , Lord Murray argued , it would sit in secret s  --  ance and would be kept in touch with matters of national importance by the respective Ministers . " Under this scheme , " he thought , " Ministers would benefit by the fresher ideas and stimulus of their unofficial Parlia  --  mentary colleagues , who would thus be brought into confi  --  dence in a manner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House of Parliament would feel that steps had been taken for more effective Parliamentary consultation than hitherto , and those who had complained that the coun  --  try is the victim of secret knowledge entrusted to a few offi  --  cial individuals would be in some measure satisfied . " De  --  bates , when they arose in the House of Commons , would be better informed , and finally , Lord Murray said : " If the war is to be waged by a Parliamentary Government and not by a dictator , some system must be devised to bring the repre  --  sentatives of the people more into the confidence of the Cabi  --  net , and I believe that the French have reached the best possible solution . " A Foreign Affairs Committee to advise with the Cabinet on treaties has long been mooted in England in order to provide some Parliamentary supervision of foreign policy , but while the French proposal has been strongly urged , it has not been seriously considered by Mr. Asquith 's or Mr. Lloyd George 's Government . Two halfway experiments have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secret sittings of the House of Commons , at which the Government pre  --  sented facts and arguments concerning the necessity for conscription which it was not thought desirable to make public . The experiment was not such as to encourage repe  --  tition . Secrecy could not long be maintained , and public discussion is the essence of Parliamentary government . On June 2 of the same year , however , Lord Kitchener held a conference with members of the House of Commons . About two hundred attended voluntarily , made a gentleman 's agree  --  ment not to take notes or to divulge any information , and listened to Lord Kitchener while he discussed the problems of the war in a simple and straightforward manner , answer  --  ing questions when it was possible for him to do so . Three days later the ship bearing him to Russia was sunk and the great soldier disappeared . How fruitful this experiment , initially successful , might have been , no one knows . It was an informal approach to the French plan , which undoubtedly makes for greater con @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Why could not something of the sort be attempted in the United States ? Congress will hardly consent to the pro  --  posal frequently made and renewed the other day by Senator McLean , that the Cabinet members and chairmen of the more important boards and commissions be entitled to oc  --  cupy seats on the floor of Congress with the privilege of en  --  gaging in debate on matters relating to their departments , and the duty of answering questions . And with the present committee chairmen frequently hostile to the Administra  --  tion 's programme , it is doubtful whether any beneficial re  --  sults would follow informal and confidential consultations between Cabinet members and Congressional committees . A change in the seniority rule governing committee chair  --  manships is highly desirable , but if men in sympathy with the Administration were chosen , they would simply give the President a greater control over Congress . Would it not be possible , however , for the department heads  --  those officials directly charged with the mobilization of America for war  --  to try Lord Kitchener 's experiment and meet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conferences ? It would not be difficult , under the voluntary newspaper censorship , to keep these deliberations absolutely secret . Without resorting to formal committees as have the French , without being able to hold the Govern  --  ment responsible for the activities of separate departments as in England , and without the worry and publicity of Cabi  --  net members appearing on the floor of Congress , Congress would become better informed , more sympathetic to the aims of the Administration , more inclined to delegate dic  --  tatorial authority , and less anxious about its misuse ; it would be more inclined to pass laws exactly as they were de  --  sired by the Executive , and it would feel that it was not standing helplessly away from the departments , but was in  --  formally asserting some check upon them . Formal inves  --  tigations , embarrassing to the Executive and disquieting to the people , would be less necessary . Democratic autocracy , if I may use this hybrid , would then be more palatable and perhaps more efficient . Correspondence What an American Soldier Reads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the article on " What Do Soldiers Read ? " in the Nation of October 25 , appealed to me with peculiar interest . What I read , wherewithal I while away my hours of leisure , that is one of my largest little problems . I set myself a certain vague standard , and only very seldom , when none of my genuine " eligibles " are obtainable , am I com  --  pelled to resort to books of no particular reputation . Perhaps the Nation would like to have my list , carefully kept , of the books I have read since my arrival in France in July , 1915 . I consider it rather an accomplishment : " The Cloister and the Hearth , " Reade ; " Toilers of the Sea , " Hugo ; " Adam Bede , " Eliot ; " Adrian Savage , " " Lucas Mallet " ; " Last Days of Pompeii , " Bulwer-Lytton ; " Incomparable Bel-lairs , " A , and E. Castle ; " If Youth but Knew , " A and E. Castle ; " Tale of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " James ; " Hard Times , " Dickens ; " Pictures from Italy , " Dickens ; " Sense and Sensibility , " Austen ; " Lorna Doane , " Blackmore ; " Thaddeus of Warsaw , " Porter ; " Theatre , Choisi de " ( 2 vols. , 12 plays , in French ) , Corneille ; " Owd Bob , " Oliphant ; " A Son of Hagar , " Caine ; " The Right of Way , " Parker ; " Seats of the Mighty , " Parker ; " When Valmond Came to Pontiac , " Parker ; " Donovan Pasha , " Parker ; " The Marriage of William Asho , " Ward ; " Woodstock , " Scott ; " The King 's Mirror , " Hope ; " Let the Roof Fall In , " Denby ; " Jeanne " ( in French ) , Sand ; " Westward Ho ! " C. Kingsley ; " Vailima Letters , " Stevenson ; " Sketch Book , " Irving ; " The Bible in Spain , " Borrow ; " Ravenshoe , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Serge " ( in French ) , Tolstoy . Periodicals ? The Nation , Life , Punch , London Opinion . And of more or better , what need has any man ? Some of these books I found in hospitals , some I bought almost in the trenches where civilians still clung to the wreckage , some I borrowed from Y. M. C. A. libraries , some I raked out of the jaws of " death by incinerator , " some I swapped with comrades , and others I simply " acquired " ( whereof the less said the better ) . The best and largest Y. M. C. A. library I have ever seen in France is at 31 , Avenue Montaigne , in Paris , and Ameri  --  can soldiers of literary bent should consider themselves for  --  tunate in the way their needs have there been met . During my ten days ' leave to Paris , the American Y. M. C. A. was the chief centre of interest . One may read the Nation there , too . If you consider that any of the above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be well to communi  --  cate them in whole or in part to people in New York . They constitute one experience among many thousands ; perhaps they are not even approximately typical . They are merely the reply of " One who has done so " to the question , " What Do Soldiers Read ? " RUNDALL M. LEWIS Somewhere in France , November 25 Our Provincial Education To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : Professor Judd was undoubtedly right in saying , in the Nation for December 13 , that foreign languages are badly taught in many of our urban elementary schools . But it may be doubted whether he was right in asserting that the introduction of such languages in the schools was because , as he says , " somebody from Europe wanted it done for rea  --  sons nationalistic but not American . " Is it un-American to teach foreign languages to American school children ? On the contrary , it ought to be decidedly the American school policy to teach American children a good deal about non-American peoples and institutions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we as a people know so little about non-American affairs . Take the man in the street  --  the product of our American schools  --  and how clear  --  ly , if he knows it at all , does he know the difference between the flexible parliamentary system of government as ex  --  emplified in Great Britain and the fixed-term system of our government ? A monarchy is a monarchy . Eng  --  land and Germany are monarchies ; therefore they are both alike in government ! Guatemala and Switzerland are both republics ; therefore they are alike in form and substance ! The man in the street can perhaps tell you where Berlin and Dresden are on the map , but if you ask him about plural voting and responsibility of the Ger  --  man Prime Minister to the people , he is in the densest igno  --  rance . Suppose you ask for a comparison of the power of the German Emperor and the British King in actual gov  --  ernment  --  and what is the answer from your average Amer  --  ican voter  --  the man who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America in the world , and occasion  --  ally , as in the present case , almost determines the state of world civilization ? It was nothing but the abysmal ignorance of the AmeH                     