@@465528

FROM the time when man first be- gan to work for man , there has been a constant conflict for labor on the one hand to secure the highest possible wages , for capital on the other to secure the lowest possible cost of production . Men have taken as an hypothesis that an actual gulf yawns between the two conflicting forces ; they have assumed that the best they could do was to build new bridges of the materials at hand each time the old ones were swept away , when they should have recognized that the seeming chasm is but a mirage , speedily dissipated by the penetrating rays of that new light which is now shining upon industrial relations . It has commonly been accepted that the interests of capital and labor ought to be identical , yet , as a matter of fact , they have rarely been so considered . The new force , which is called Modern Scientific Management , says , " If they are not identical , - then make them so , " and having flung the banner bearing this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from systems and systematizing , from card indices , vertical filings , and cost tabulations . It recognizes all these as necessary details of system , which in turn is a necessary ingredient of Scientific Management , but as a science it concerns itself with cause and effect rather than with records or figures , which are usually obtained so late that they possess only historical value . Welfare work has been successful in improving the physical conditions and . environment of labor , but it has not accomplished the ultimate results toward which it directed its efforts . An industrial establishment in the Middle West , which has carried its welfare work perhaps further than any other , is to-day operated by workmen far less satisfied than they were before . This is not the expression of consummate ingratitudewhich it is commonly considered ; it is rather the natural protest , as old as the world . is old , against having some one other than itself spend labor 's money . Capital proclaims its desire to cooperate by expending the necessary sums to improve labor 's environment ; labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might otherwise have come to it in the form of increased wages . Labor , therefore , not capital , has paid for these improvements , but capital has taken upon itself to say how the expenditures should be made . If wages had been increased , labor would have accepted this further evidence of good-will with appreciation , but under no other conditions . Until now , even modern industrial methods have considered this double demand of labor as unreasonable and impracticable . Capital could pay higher wages or could give improved conditions , but not both . Scientific Management , however , blazes the path to the common meeting-ground , where the seemingly impossible is accomplished ? not as an altruistic expression on either side , but as an act of supreme business judgment on the part of both ? by the equal division of the burden which has been and always will he too heavy for labor or capital to bear alone Scientific Management , while new , is not young . It came into being thirty years ago at the Midvale Steel Works , where labor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end of a bitter struggle , and learned the surprising lesson that the foreman who conquered declined to take the usual advantage of his victory , but instead showed the workmen , as their friend , a new system which demonstrated the possibility of having their interests , and those of the corporation for which they worked , the same . When conditions can be established under which capital and labor can live together in harmony instead of discord , with the productivity doubled , and the workmen receiving from 33 1-3% to 100% higher wages than are paid in other similar lines ; when for thirty years no strike has been recorded in factories where the principles of Scientific Management have been in force , where contented workmen seldom relinquish their positions , the means by which these conditions ( already affecting thousands of employees ) are created and maintained , " ( lust attract the serious attention of thinking men . The mechanism of management , as exercised by the present movement , is too extended to be included within the scope of any single article , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may advantageously be considered as coming under these heads : 1 . The development of management as a true science . 2 . The . scientific selection of the workmen . 3 . The scientific education and development of the workmen . 4 . Intimate friendly co-operation between the management and the workmen . Tinder the first head arises the pertinent question as to why science , which has produced such marvellous advances in other lines , should not earlier have been applied to labor . The giant strides which surgery has made during the past two decades could never have been taken had dependence been placed , as in the mechanic arts , upon simply the ingenuity of each generation to develop quicker and better methods , with no attempt to secure uniformity in the new means evolved . An industrial establishment employing from 500 to 1,000 workmen has beneath one roof perhaps thirty separate trades . Each man , working at each separate trade , performs his task in accord with traditional knowledge , handed down to him by word of mouth or learned by observation of those around @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technical knowledge far beyond that in the possession of the management . The foreman , therefore , assigns the work , and leaves the method of execution to the workmen . The inevitable result of this is that in a single department theremay be fifty or a hundred different methods employed in performing the same kind of labor . The foreman makes no attempt to reduce this number . His duty , as he understands it , is to induce , each workman to use his best endeavors , his initiative , his skill , his ingenuity , his industry , and his good-will so as to yield the largest possible returns to his employer . Yet , obviously , out of these various methods there must be one which is faster and better than the others . To discover this one way is the province of Scientific Management , by means of study and analysis , and then to effect its gradual substitution for the less efficient methods . The scientific method insists upon an almost equal division in the daily performance of the work as between the management and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can perform better than the workman , and these are properly assigned . Every task of the operative is preceded by preparatory co-operation on the part of his employer . When the order Teaches him , every detail has been provided for : he has no questions to ask ; the proper tools are placed beside him , and the materials themselves are near at hand . All his time is spent upon productive labor , and his output is proportionately increased . He is told how many minutes each operation should require , this time being scientifically determined , and by performing his task within the given time he secures a welcome bonus for himself . The management shows him how this may be accomplished with no undue demand upon his strength . Several causes have previously operated against securing from the workman a " fair day 's work , " the greatest of these being the greed of the employer and his ignorance as to what constitutes a day 's work . No man can give his best efforts , day after day , when these efforts do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ giving his best in quantity and quality , but it is against human nature to do this when he sees a less skilful or less conscientious man beside him receiving the same wages for a smaller day 's work . It is this unfair attitude on the part of the employer which has in the past forced the workmen to combine for self-protection , and has also encouraged labor unions to restrict a man 's output to the limitations of the slowest operative . But with the recognition by the employer that extra output entitles the workman to extra remuneration , self-respecting labor refuses to be held back by its less able or less active associates . Touching more specifically upon the methods of Scientific Management , a few details will be enlightening : The single foreman is superseded by several different men , each of whom , acting in close eon. - junction with the " planning-room , " has his own specific duties as an expert demonstrator throughout the shop . The planning-room prepares the detailed instructions , while these demonstrators , selected for their knowledge and skill in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carried out . They assist the workman whenever needed , showing him the best and quickest methods , arid studying the individual temperaments and capacities , with a view to changing a workman from one grade of work to a higher one if he possesses qualities which warrant it , or to a lower one if he proves unequal to the task before him . This constant and personal observation incites the ambitious workman to his best endeavors , as he knows that any special proficiency which he may show will result in his rapid advancement , and every such advancement is an object-lesson to the other , less ambitious workmen about him whom he has left behind . One of these demonstrators makes certain that the drawings and instructions are clearly understood ; another , how best to set the job in the machine , and how to eliminate any unnecessary personal motions ; another sees that the machine is run at the most efficient speed , and that the particular tool is used in the proper way to enable the machine to complete its product in the shortest time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greatest output and in maintaining the required standard of workmanship under the most ideal conditions . Reference has just been made to the elimination of unnecessary personal motions , and this is so important an element in Scientific Management that it deserves greater amplification . Familiarity breeds more than contempt ; it breeds lack of observation as regards one 's self . Many of the daily acts of every individual would appear ridiculous if he were called upon to explain the reason for their performance ; and even with his attention called to them , the average man would pass them off lightly as the resnit , of a " habit . " This universal custom , a " habit " in itself , is perhaps unimportant in trivial matters or in individual eases , but when multiplied by thousands of employees , and collectively operating against the expense account of a single organization , the figures become appalling , and demonstrate a national waste of human . effort which demands conservation . The essence of Scientific Management , then , as already considered , is to assist the workman by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ close co-operation on the part of the management in laying out his work for him in advance ; by showing him how to make ii every portion of his work , however simple , a scientific performance ; by studying his own individuality to the extent of assisting him to correct methods which militate equally against his own highest efficiency and the obtaining of the highest efficiency of the machine he operates ; by bringing him to a realization that traditional knowledge of his specialty is a lower grade of skill than that knowledge gained by modern scientific study . On the other hand , Scientific Management undertakes to correct faults of administration as well as inefficient methods of execution , demonstrating to the employer the cash value to himself of this close co-operation with his workmen . Ile is shown that greater product is obtained from workmen who perform their tasks under conditions which tend to make them happy and contented , which give them opportunities to advance themselves to points marked only by their personal limitations ; where they can maintain their self-respect and with his help increase it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skilful operatives in their particular specialties , and to earn higher wages than any employer could afford to pay under other conditions . With every machine , human or mechanical , running each day at its maximum degree of productivity , the employer can afford to share his largely increased income with those who have co-operated with him to secure it ; and the workman can not begrudge his employer the augmented profits , since he not only has received his share , but because he knows that the increase is the result of the efforts of the management quite as much as his own . The great business successes of the past have been achieved by the genius of single individuals , who have excelled their competitors in some one clever characteristic . A thoughtful consideration of the qualities possessed by the great captains of industry of the past twenty-five years will show that one was a great salesman , another a great financier , another a great organizer . Their successes do not mean that the great businesses which gave them their fortunes were scientifically managed . For example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after negotiations which had extended over several 3ears , in the course of which it developed that each principal entertained the utmost contempt for the other 's abilities . When a careful examination of the two sets of books was made , it was found that one proprietor was producing his goods more than forty per cent . cheaper than his rival , while the other made up the difference by his superior ability in buying , selling , and management . The combination enabled each to exercise his particular skill in the interests of the whole , with a net saving of forty per cent. , which was previously lost . This loss permeates every industrial organization . Each superintendent and foreman has unconsciously a greater interest in some particular department or factor of the work than in the others , becanso his knowledge in this branch has reached a higher point of excellence . That department , or factor , will he run always at its maximum of efficiency , oftentimes in striking contrast to the glaring inefficiency of the others . Scientific Management assumes that the day has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposed to the co-operation of many , in which each man scientifically performs that function for which he is best fitted , from the highest to the lowest . It is true that he is taught to perform this function in one particular way , but this by no means destroys his individuality . He is shown that this one method is the best yet devised , but he is encouraged to demonstrate any original improvement , which , if adopted , carries with it a reward for himself , and is an advancement of the science . No one thinks of condemning the exact methods of surgery . The student is taught that one instrument , and one only , is to be used for a specific purpose . and that the stroke is to be made in one particular way . If , later , he can show his colleagues an original method which is better than that accepted by science , then his method becomes the standard . but only after exhaustive scientific consideration . So it is with Scientific Management . No claim is made that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that knowledge lies been secured as to what the highest efficiency is and what it must remain until some new method , measured against it . demonstrates its superiority . And , most important of all , it teaches men how to handle themselves , increases the financial value of their personal asset , and puts them in the way to discover that which is now unknown . The ambitious workman of the past has sought to advance himself by attending night school , and in other ways which are a strain upon the time which he requires for rest and recreation . Scientific Management gives him this opportunity , under the most skilful instructors , while actually employed in his day 's labors , fitting him , at the expense of the concern which employs him , to become qualified to earn higher wages from the very source which gives him his education . Theory becomes convincing only when supported by practical application . Bricklaying , one of our oldest trades , is today carried on , except where Scientific Management has transformed it , with the same materials , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ era . Science promptly inquires why an intelligent man should lower a hundred human pounds to elevate a four-pound brick , and receiving no satisfactory answer , supplies the bricklayer with a simple scaffold which keeps the pile of bricks always at the proper height . The workman takes the brick in his hand and tosses it twice or thrice , to find its best face ; science has the bricks laid upon the scaffold with the best face out , eliminating lost time and motion . The workman uses mortar of varying consistency , which requires tapping with the edge of his trowel ; science provides for mortar always of the same consistency , and does away with the tapping . The workman assumes any position to which he may accidentally become accustomed ; science studies out the exact position for each foot in relation to the wall , the mortar-box , and the pile of bricks , and teaches the workman to pick up a brick in his left hand at the same moment . that he takes a trowelful of mortar in his right . The net result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lay a brick , where the workman averages eighteen , and the educated bricklayer can now lay 350 an hour , as against 120 for the workman who remains outside - the beneficial zone of Scientific Management . In one city in England the bricklayers ' union has restricted its members to laying 275 bricks per day when working for the city , and 375 per day when working for private individuals . Probably no one of these workmen realizes that his day 's work is dishonest , or that he has committed a greater crime against himself than against his employer . He justifies himself by the knowledge that if he increased his speed he would simply receive a lower rate per brick , and his less skilful brother would be detrimentally affected . Scientific Management removes all necessity for deception . A " fair day 's work " is determined by scientific analysis instead of by guesswork , and is so estimated as to become no burden to the faithful workman . It means steadier , not harder work . Whatever he accomplishes is measured in scales which are neither @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knows what it is requiring , and the workman knows that it knows . The average man would hardly think that science could be applied to any performance so simple as shovelling , yet a moment 's consideration will convincehim that a shoveller should be fitted to his shovel as carefully as the ball-player is fitted to his bat , or the oarsman to his car . What except traditional ignorance , rather than knowledge , hands the same length shovel to the tall workman and to the short , and expects each to produce with it the maximum degree of efficiency ? What difference does the load make , and what weight of load enables the workman to perform the largest day 's work i These questions were answered at the Bethlehem Steel Works . Eight or ten different kinds of shovels were provided by the management after careful scientific examination . Experiments demonstrated that a shovel-load of twenty-one pounds enabled the workman to produce the greatest average results , so it was evident that the same shovel could not be advantageously employed to move iron ore and rice-coal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handles , therefore , similar variations were introduced into the scoops , so that whatever the substance , the shoveller could take up only the proper load at each lift . Here are the results of one year 's work : One naturally inquires how much additional expense was incurred for the extra superintendence , foremanship , clerical work , and time study ; but this is all included in the low cost of $0.033 per ton . The attitude of the workmen toward Scientific Management is brought out by a recent investigation from this standpoint in the Link-Belt Company of Philadelphia . Here the " differential rate piece " plan ( 1 . e. , rates per piece varying in proportion to the speed at which the task is performed ) is fully established and is in active operation . The burden of the testimony given by the workmen was the same : they had to work more steadily , to pay strict attention at all times to their work , to follow their instructions implicitly ; but they made more money than they could earn in any other shop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave them a " square deal , " and the greatest calamity they could imagine would be the necessity of giving up their jobs . With these practical examples , this brief exposition of the Philosophy of Management is concluded . There is nothing new under the sun , but there are differences in methods of application . Scientific Management divides the functions of labor , and distributes them in such a way as to secure absolute interdependence of capital and labor ; it applies science to the most minute detail , and establishes standards through the means of analyses and codifications instead of traditional guesswork ; it transforms the mental attitude of the management and the workman , giving to each a supreme respect for the other ; and it establishes itself upon a movable basis , but one which can only move upward . Frederick W. Taylor , the father of Modern Scientific Management , still a young man , has many years ahead of him in which to enjoy the gratification of seeing his life theories and efforts become greater and more forceful elements in the development and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Having stepped aside from active participation , he is able , because of his in. dependent position , to render even more effective service to the army which is constantly becoming larger and more insistent . When the University of Pennsylvania conferred upon him his doctor 's degree , the characterization of the man explains with peculiar fidelity tho basic strength of his work : Frederick Winslow Taylor : Thorough and industrious in preparation for his life-work , patient in investigation and experiment , logical in analysis and deduction , versatile in invention , his labors have brought system out of disorder in the organization and management of industrial establishments , and with his epoch-making discoveries in the arts of treating tool steel and the cutting of metals have enormously reduced the cost of production of machinery . A writer of distinction , The American Society of Afechanical Engineers has done well to make him its president . Those who have questioned Mr. Taylor 's slogan of " good principles follow good habits " have seen it proved true ; those whose conviction has been matched with their courage are reaping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " traditional ' ignorance , will trail along until grim necessity , or legislation enacted to conserve human effort , forces them to recognize that science is absolutely vital to successful business organization and conduct . 