@@487062

The astounding turn in the McNamara trial last Friday stirred questions in every mind . Why did the two brothers decide to plead guilty to infamous crimes ? What were the real motives of their counsel , lawyers who were fully conscious that they were defending , not merely two indicted men , but the whole cause of organized labor ? Did they feel that it was better to sacrifice two guilty individuals , rather than face the damning revelations which the actual trial might bring in regard to the complicity of labor-union officials in a systematized conspiracy to destroy property on an enormous scale and to commit murder ? These - questions can not be positively answered as yet , but the very fact that they spring to the minds of all thinking men shows how deep and widespread is the conviction that the officers of the law in California had at last got their hands upon plotters who , in the name of organized labor , were deliberately perfecting and operating a system of terrorism and crime that makes the blackest deeds of Camorra or Mafia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Angeles , he has placed the whole country in his debt by his attitude . To all suggestions of Compromise he was adamant . He was urged to accept a plea of guilty from one of the brothers and to let the other off , but he stood firmly in the position that both were guilty , that the proof against both was overwhelming , and that , if they dared not face an honest jury , the only thing for them to do was to confess their crimes . Particularly admirable was his response to those who approached him in a tremor of apprehension about the indirect consequences of the prosecution , and who begged him to consider the effects on " society . " Mr. Fredericks tersely said : , " I am not running society . " He was in office simply to make the law a terror to evil-doers . It was his sole duty to see to it that , so far as lay in his power , no criminal should go unwhipped of justice ; and all the mushy pleadings about the danger of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aside as having absolutely nothing to do with the case . Such a clear-cut conception of the function of the sworn officers of the law it is refreshing to encounter . For there has already been expressed  --  and we shall doubtless hear much more of it  --  a great deal of foolish sentiment about the McNamara affair . People of Socialist sympathies , who call themselves so- cial reformers because they have vague and weak suggestions to make in connection with the inevitable hardships of the human lot , who mistake benevolent emotions for reasoned or practicable plans of action , are telling us that what we have to deal with is not individual crime but a state of social " war . " They point to the evidences of bitter feeling among certain groups of workingmen and argue that , as we may be headed for an Armageddon in. which all our institutions will perish , the only safe course is to be very patient with criminals and show ourselves very considerate and conciliatory with men who incite to crime , and who profit by it , lest the pillars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answer to all such well-meaning but harmful persons is that , for the present and in their sense , we are not running society . One thing at a time . If anything can be done to make capital and labor see eye to eye , by all means let it be done at the fitting occasion . Any opportunity that offers to either employer or workman to confer together amicably in order better to understand each other and to devise means of securing their common interests , should never fail to be embraced by one or the other . But at this moment we have a sterner business in hand . A series of atrocious crimes have been committed , and we have just got into a position where there is every prospect of being able to run down and punish their infamous perpetrators . Every man who keeps his eyes open has known for years that violence and a deliberately plotted system of terrorism , going to the length of brutal murder , have been the accompaniment of strikes and the winked-at method of certain labor unions . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foul conspiracy . The two wretched men who admitted their crimes at Los Angeles on Friday are but tools in the hands of others . Who sent them on their errands of destruction and death ? ' Who supplied them the money for their murderous work ? To these questions the proceedings at Los Angeles and the investigations of grand juries in ' California and Indiana now bid fair to give us an answer , and are we to be stayed from pressing for it by ante that has come from Mr. Taft . In his free and familiar conversation with Mr. Leupp , the President lets us see his real , inner quality . This is of more importance , just now , than any discussion of his outer successes or failures . For the country is at this Moment seriously debating the Presidential succession ; and the question whether Mr. Taft is to be renominated or not , and whether , if renominated , he is to be reelected , will turn very largely upon the popular estimate of his personality , of his fitness for the work of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this the interview throws much light . So far as his amiable personal characteristics are concerned , the general impression is here confirmed . We see once more , as we have often seen before , Mr. Taft 's unaffected simplicity , his modesty , his hatred of anything that looks like clamor , his patience , his calmness , his philosophic poise . All these are admirable qualities , but the doubt remains whether Da Mr. Taft they combine with others in a way to give the nation altogether what it desires and needs in the Presidency . He has firmness , but has he the steady push of the born executive ? Does his tolerance make him tend to be slack ? Has he a vivid and instinctive sense of a given political situation , with a prescient knowledge of the way to deal with it ; or is he too often compelled to appear in the role of one earnestly laboring to repair damages which a surer insight and a more resolute attitude would have prevented from being inflicted at all ? Answers to these queries can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The easy-going and almost happy-go-lucky way in which the President has prepared too many of his public utterances , stands confessed in what he himself , with amazing frankness , says of his ill-starred Winona speech . He " dictated that speech to a stenographer on the cars between two stations . " Then he glanced at it only sufficiently to " straighten its grammar , " whereupon it was given to the press , with the unhappy result which all know , including the President . He now says that if he had got the speech ready " two or three weeks before , and revised it deliberately , as .1 ought to have done , " he would have Made " several passages read differently ! This is almost pathetic . Here was eaSply the most important speech which the President was to make in the course of his whole tour , yet he delayed its preparation and tossed it off lightly at the last moment without once thinking , apparently , how it was going to fall upon the ear of the people and mar so sadly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a President were never more glaringly exhibited or more terribly punished . But behind this laxness lay a graver fault . Mr. Taft was playing with fire but did not know it . The Payne-Aldrich tariff was visibly inflammable and explosive , politically , yet the President of the United States was the only man who appeared not to be aware of it . There can be no doubt that the outcry which followed his Winona speech was a startling surprise to him . He never knew that the gun was loaded ! But ignorance of this kind is almost fatal in a political leader . If he does not know by instinct , or can not discover by careful inquiry , what the people are saying of a capital measure , the inevitable result is that he will make such blunders as Mr. Taft has made , and , too late , wake up to what he has done and seek to retrace his steps . But this necessarily gives to his course an air of uncertainty and vacillation . Worst of all , it robs him of the appearance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or of having a full command of the material with which he has to deal . It is of the essence of high statesmanship in a democracy to be able to know the times and seasons , to grasp the skirts of circumstance , to perceive what effects will follow what causes , and never to seem to misunderstand hopelessly the people whom one is trying to lead . But Mr. Taft 's own story of his dealings with tariff revision , with the confessed divergence between his position now and the one he blithely assumed two years ago , is enough to show how deficient he is in all that . It may even be said that some of Mr. Taft 's virtues swell , like immoderate valor , into a fault . His lofty indifference to the'political consequences of doing what he thinks is right , all must praise . His calm readiness to retire to private life , if the people so will , is a fine trait of character . Yet in this very . nobility and philosophic detachment there is a peril  --  a peril @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a great leader in a - - ? democracy . Such a man ought not , indeed , to be greedy for high office , but he ought to have an instant and quickening sense of the immense things which can be done in high office . The possibilities of service and of leadership ought to Ere him . There should be in him a kind of infectious enthusiasm , as he contemplates the appealing opportunity , so that he can make others see the gleam as he does and be eager to follow it with him . In a word , a President of the United States has to be something more than a philosopher . It is for him to stand forth as an inspiring leader , capable of winning not merely cold approval but warm devotion , and of raising a shining standard to which an acclaiming multitude will repair . That Mr. Taft has thus far shown either the eminent sagacity or the consuming energy needed for the task of leadership thus described , not even his best friends can assert . And the conviction is slowly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so in the future . EX-SENATOR EDMUNDS AND THE ANTI-TRUST LAW . The article on the origin , purposes , and meaning of the anti-Trust law , written by en-Senator George F. Edmunds and published in the December North American Review , is highly important . Mr Edmunds , at the age co. eighty-three , is the only surviving member of the very remarkable Senate Judiciary Committee which drew up the law of 1890 in its present form , and which included , besides himself as Chairman , such other eminent and experienced lawyers as Senator Hoar of Massachusetts , Senator Evarts of New York , Senator Vest of Missouri , and Senator Pugh of Alabama . The publication of Mr. Edmunds 's article happened to coincide with the testimony of Mr. Seth Low before the Interstate Commerce Committee of the Senate , giving the results of a poll of one thousand business men on the question whether the law should be retained or amended Briefly summed up , Mr. Low 's poll of the thousand manufacturers , merchants , and bankers showed a heavy majority of opinions that the anti-Trust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ larger majority favoring the - judgment that the Sherman Act , as now interpreted , is not clear and workable , that a Federal commission should be created to su- ' pervise trade combinations , and that return to old-time competitive methods of business is not feasil5le . Now it is , of course , true that polls of business men , like " straw votes " in politics , have their limitations as accurate reflection of public sentiment . But we think it highly probable that the Civic Federation 's canvass represents with sufficient correctness the present trend of opinion in the circles to which the inquiries were addressed . It is to precisely these shades and varieties of business opinion that Mr. Edmunds 's article is directed . Mr. Edmunds fully confirms the view as to the circumstances of 1890 and the general purposes of the legislators , which was set forth in the Nation a week ago . He goes with great detail into the nature of the discussion , in committee and on the floor of Congress , con-chiding with the reminder that the bill as eventually enacted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reported it , received a unanimous approving vote in both houses of Congress . Of much importance is his description of the amendments or alterations proposed in the debate and of the reason for their rejection ; including the Houde amendment defining illegal contracts as those only which were " entered into for the purpose of preventing competition . " This introductory part of Mr. Edmunds 's narrative is most convincing witness to the thoroughness and care with which the measure was prepared and the high judicial spirit in which it was debated . It leaves no reasonable ground for the favorite assertion of opponents of the law , that it was a crude and hasty bit of " happy-thought " legislation , enacted by political opportunists and constructed with no eye to the longer industrial future But the question of larger interest is , what opinion this eminent statesman , whose span of life has enabled him intimately to observe the construction , enactment , and application of the law , has formed on its suitability to the conditions of to-day First , Mr Edmunds disposes once again of the extraordinary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forbade contracts in restraint of trade , therefore it prohibited plain and ordinary partnerships or corporations . He says : The Judiciary Committee believed that the well-known principles guiding the courtsin the application and construction-of statutes would lead them to give the words of the act a beneficial and remedial rather than an injurious and technical one hurtful to any honest trade . . . It was believed that the time-honored maxim of the law , " haeret an Itttera haeret in cortice , - " and the Holy Scripture , " for the letter killeth , but the spirit giveth life , " would aid the executive and judicial authorities in construing and applying the statute justly in all cases as they should arise ? . The fear that some literal construction of the words " restraint of trade " in the act might lead to the sacrifice of some just , fair , and wholesome business arrangements may be safely dismissed , for if the principle and purpose of the Constitution and act have any foundation at all , there can be no such restraint , because such conduct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the public interest Here we have the " rule of reason , " asserted by the chief author of the act as a definite part of tae purpose and expectation of the legislators who enacted it . The ex-Senator believes that " no case founded on the Act has been finally decided by the courts adversely to the contracts or conduct of parties accused . in which such contract or conduct did not offend against both the letter and the spirit of the Act , as well as against the sound public policy underlying both the provisions of the Constitution and the Act of Congress touching the subject " He believes as strongly that the continued application of the law is necessary to restrain or remove the evils against which it was originally directed Combinations to dominate trade , crush out fair and useful competition , and absorb into a few hands the business of the country , have been conducted on such a scale , since the enactment of the law , " that the result is the unnatural and unequal distribution of wealth and power , which ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great evils that affect civilization and true progress . " It was exactly these great and growing evils which were dealt with by the Act of 1890 . Finally , what of " amendments to make the law clear , " or a " Federal commission to supervise industry " ? Mr. Edmunds has not a word to say regarding them . All of his exposition is opposed to them . The absolute consensus of the Judiciary Committee was , he says , that " it was quite impracticable to include by specific definition " such words as " trust , " " restraint , " or " monopolize , " and that " these were truly matters for judicial consideration . " And if business is disturbed , what then ? Well ; if the " business interests " of the great and widespread combinations , as now carried on , are crushing out smaller enterprises and monopolizing industries that should be fairly and equally open to all , and controlling and enhancing the prices of almost everything needed in every household , and must suffer from the enforcement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is the consequence of their evil doing , and must be borne , and every honest and fair enterprise will survive for the good of all THE CHANCE THEY GET . What European diplomats say concerning Mr. W. Morgan Shuster is quite true He is n't a diplomat , and he is stronger on finance than on tact . When this young American was made Treas-urer-General of Persia he must have dreamed great dreams . Here was an an-cient people that had cast off the bonds of political superstition and set out in the ways of progress . It had won its freedom unassisted , and when the Shah who had been sent packing about his business came back , supported by for-eign intrigue , to trouble the peace of the country , he was beaten a second time The first difficult steps of parlia-mentary government were being mas-tered . The reestablishment of public or-der was under way . What , with such a people , might not an ambitious and energetic administrator hope to accom-plish ? Mr. Shuster had been called to set the country 's finances in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Persians meant to be as thorough in that process as they had been in sweeping out the old monarchical system . If Mr. Shuster went at his task in a mood of high en-thusiasm , determined to do the very best he could for the Government that had hired him and for his own reputation , it was exactly the spirit in which an ambitious and clean-cut young Ameri-can business man goes about his work . But the reality was that young Mr. Shuster , from the moment of his arrival in Persia , was a Parsifal in a garden inhabited by all the Kundrys of diplomacy . He had imagined that his business was to go straight ahead , and raise as much money as he could for the Persian exchequer , and put the new regime on a foundation of financial independence . He has now found that the process of going straight ahead is made imposSible by an entire mass of such nonfinancial considerations as spheres of influence , political balances , Russian rights , civilization into Tripoli Dr. Dillon accuses the present Young Turks of criminal incompetence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to watch and the uprising in Yemen on its hands , what could the Government at Constantinople have done to safeguard a distant and isolated province ? Merely to have kept alive under such conditions is an achievement of which any new Government might be proud . At the present moment , the best conscience of the civilized world rejoices at what is going on in China . Whether the revolution triumphs completely or the throne succeeds in saving something out of the wreck , one thing is sure , that a new era has opened in China , that a great nation has definitely pronounced for modern democracy and modern progress . But will China be allowed to work out her fate ? Will the world make allowance for the tact that 400,000,000 people can not clean house without a certain amount of travail and embarrassment ? The answer is that , from different quarters , there already comes an uneasy stirring among the Powers . Civilization 's appetites are flaming up , and once more we shall learn of the brown man 's and the yellow man 's burden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . MONUMENTAL REALISM . The Arnold Bennett who has just left us after a brief but triumphal progress from New York to Chicago , stands out as the author of three big books . The general reading public has probably been chiefly impressed by the bigness of quantity . But there are enough critics who have found in him bigness of the other kind . Mr. Bennett is a veteran at the writing game , but his present reputation is founded on the " Old Wives ' Tale , " and the two published volumes of his " Clayhanger " trilogy . In these three books he has displayed a method of minute realistic detail that is studiously undramatic in plot and studiously unemotional in development . His ambition , as evidenced in his novels and as expressed in his critical opinions of the great writers of the past , is to see life clearly and to see it  --  and - there comes the uncertainty with regard to Mr. Bennett : whether it is his ambition also to see life whole or only to see it minutely . Both in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preoccupation with the souls of people , rather than their acts , this Englishman has invited comparison with the giants Of an earlier age . In the opinion of more than one enthusiastic critic , he easily takes his place with the writers of other " big " books , with Balzac , with Tolstoy , and with the early eighteenth century English realists . To decide whether he deserves the place , we must rid ourselves of the impression which mere bulk and a serious purpose are bound to produce , even in the professional critic . The question is whether Mr. Bennett 's subject matter , which is of every day , goes well with the spread of his canvas , which is epic . Novels longer than " Clayhanger " have been written and will continue to be written from time to time . But it may be said at once that the pulse of vitality must beat in them much stronger than it does in " Clayhanger , - " if they are to take their place with the literature that lives long . We can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we can not see any bounds to its capacities . Because the author is at liberty to pour into the novel anything and everything  --  prose and poetry , drab reality and imagination , history , philosophy , criticism , anecdote , autobiography , argument , and preachment ; because he can people it with any number of men and women endowed with any amount of emotional variety ; because he can multiply incident and situation at will  --  for these reasons " Tom Jones , " " Vanity Fair , " " War and Peace , " " Les lilisdrables , " and " Pere Goriot " are possible . You can write a novel of epic length if you give it epic food , and that means a crowd . Seven hundred pages of drab analysis of a single ordinary man can not , for all its truthfulness , make " Clayhanger " alive , for the reason that the book simply has not bone and muscle enough to carry the lat . There are dull stretches Balzac , in Tolstoy ; and possibly in " The Newcoraes " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flat interludes between periods of splendid emotion . You skip these dreary periods because you are in a hurry to get to the delectable feast . But in " Clayhanger " there is little to skip from or to . The plain stretches on endlessly ; you walk till you get tired ; then you rest and walk on again . If it is psychological dissection you are after , one mood is as good as another . And therein consists one objection to the " Clayhanger " method . The writer has attempted to do a novel of analysis on a scale that will tolerate only , the novel of magnificent creativeneSS. - But " Clayhanger " is true ! Well , it is true in the sense that it gives us a vast succession of veracious detail . But , al , ter all , is it the business of the artist to draw up catalogues or to create something that is single , harmonious , rounded out , whole ? Artists may create in a flash or may create with patient and minute craft , but the required @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ woman , a concrete , individualized Form . For minute craftsmanship can never be its own object , and Clayhanger 's sensations in putting on a new suit or procuring the use of a study-room all to himself simply will not bear the pagefuls of analysis Mr. Bennett brings to bear upon the subject . We can readily allow pages of psychological analysis to such tremendous crises of the spirit as Dostoievsky can evoke in " Crime and Punishment " ; we can allow it even to Jean Valjean , because  --  well . there is no other word for it  --  we feel that such moments are " big , " are truly fraught with eternity ; whereas the boy Clayhanger 's emotions as he leans over the bridge-railing and pitches stones into the water are not . To the extent that Mr. Bennett in " Clayhanger " is true to his ideal of an impassive and minute realism , his work leaves us comparatively cold . To the extent that he forgets and permits himself a dip into old-fashioned emotion , into old-fashioned dramatic situations , he has made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clayhanger , " the two chapters that stand out clearest in. the memory are the magnificent early chapter which describes the pitiful experiences of the infant factory-slaves of early industrial England as Edwin 's father had lived them , and the chapter in which that same father dies . In both places , Mr. Bennett has been deeply moved , has written with passion and with tears , and has attained effects that are never attained , unless you are stirred by the deeper things The matter is simple : while we are what we are , the putting on of a new suit of clothes will remain a less import-ant thing than a death-bed , and no matter in what dazzling psychological Phenomena we may dress the former event , it will still be the same . Of course , in saying this , we may be the slave of the old-fashioned romantic literature , which the new realism relegates to the scrap heap ; but as a realist , Mr. Bennett must acknowledge the reality of prejudice . Thus , one 's objections to a Clayhanger trilogy in two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two fundamental errors in Mr. Bennett 's method  --  the belief in psychological thread-spinning for its own sake and the belief that emotion has no place in the creative artist 's soul . The great realists have never been ashamed to shed tears . Balzac did it over the death-bed of old Goriot , as Thackeray did over the death-bed of Col. Newcome , as Dickens did over the death-bed of Nell , as Tolstoy did over the death-bed of Prince Andre  --  a scene in which he has put enough psychological verity , one feels tempted to say , to carry an entire " Clayhanger " ? as Turgenieff did over the death-bed of Bazaroff , as Hardy did over the death-bed of Jude . The " big " books have always been written about such big things as birth and love and death .                     