@@487046

Prof. SLOphane Leduc 's " Theorie physicochimique de la vie at generations spontanees , " which has been translated by Dr. W. Deane Butcher , will shortly appear from the press of Messrs . Rebman " Landscape Gardening Studies " ( Lane ) , by Samuel Parsons , is the work of a man accustomed to do rather than to talk . Its brief and almost dry presentment of the results of more than a score of undertakings of the most - varied kinds is a record of achievement rather than an explanation of methods ; it is only seldom that Mr Parsons pauses to show either principles or processes . Nevertheless , the book is suggestive . Its illustrations , from photographs and plans , are worth much study ; and its chapters on evergreens and rhododendrons are valuable for their advice and lists of varieties Perhaps the most needed chapter in the book is on a Japanese tea garden , with suggestions calculated to bring hesitation to those ' who have yearnings toward imitation of the characteristically foreign Several years ago the Swiss government Published a wall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then and still is the finest work of its kind An " Atlas fur Schweizerische Mittelschulen " has now been issued , which enables Switzerland again to break former records in educational cartography The atlas is published by the Kartographia-Winterthur - Actien - Gesellschaft , 1910 and is to be ordered through the " Sekretariat der Konferenz der kantonalen Erziehungs-direktoren " in Zurich . It contains 133 pages , with an extraordinary variety of maps , some 280 in number , mostly physical and political , but showing also language , religion , industries , geology , and products . The intelligence in planning and the skill in executing the work are admirable . Projections and scales have been systematically chosen and are conscientiously indicated The color schemes for altitudes on the relief maps , for temperatures on the climatic maps , for density on the population maps , and so on , are uniformly graded through the entire volume . Cities are not crowded in to 1111 blank spaces , but are critically selected , and their names are Printed in a different sized type to indicate their population . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest . The large scale relief maps of parts of Switzerland are unusually effective in representing form . A little corner map of Swtizerland , set into the maps of distant lands , illustrates relative areas . When shall we reach a standard of educational publication to be compared with that here set by the little mountainous republic of Europe ? The mathematico-astronomical public will welcome the appearance of the third volume of Sir George Howard Darwin 's " Scientific Papers " ( Cambridge University Press , Putnam ) . The title of the volume . " Figures of Equilibrium of Rotating Liquid and Geophysical Investigations , " fairly indicates the general nature of the content . or the fifteen papers included , the first , which . deals with the question of geological changes on the earth 's axis of rotation , discredits a current view of geologists regarding the causes and effects of the glacial period Time has deprived the second and third papers of the relatively ' little value they originally had The same can not be said of the next four , which have to do with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paper was virtually superseded by PoincarCe now famous memoir on the equilibrium of a rotating fluid mass , a fact that Darwin was prompt to see and prompt to own . The chief of the remaining papers are devoted mainly to extension of the results achieved by the great French savant , whose genius thus accompanies and interfuses that of Darwin in this third volume as did Kelvin 's in the two preceding ones . " Education in Sexual Physiology and Hygiene , " by Dr. Philip Zenner ( Robert Clarke Company ) , is described as " a physician 's message " on topics whose presentation to the young is much discussed 3ust now , both here and abroad A considerable part of this little book contains talks to school children and to college boys , as actually given by the author They are said to have been directly productive of good results , There is also a general , though very brief , discussion of the scope and method of such instruction which may well be helpful to those who are interested in these questions .    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        