@@430609

When Samuel Johnson , Fanny Burney , Hannah More , and other celebrities of their time meet together in a critical volume , that book is assured of readers ; for who can resist the appeal of the Age of Tea and Talk ? If the book succeeds , it may be due to no special merit of its author , ? his audience is predisposed to enjoy his work . However , . in the case of Professor Tinker 's study of " The Salon and English Letters , " the author 's part is of an unusually important and distinctive character . Unostentatious , sympathetic , thoroughly keen in his analyses , this professor of English Literature at Yale has presented a new view of the years 1760-1790 by means of centring his observations on the salon and its influences . Until the publication of this book we have had no authority , in English , upon the salon , and have been forced to gain information from dozens of scattered volumes . Now we possess , in Professor Tinker 's work , a scholarly and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often amusing , phases of human history . Beginning with the French salon , Professor Tinker outlines rapidly the origin and development of those " literary courts , " and traces their relationship to the courtly groups of the Renaissance which were presided over by such women as Beatrice d'Este , Caterina Cornaro of Browning 's Asolo , and the ladies mentioned in Castiglione 's " Book of the Courtier . " The Hotel de Rambouillet , most distinguished of all the French salons , was established , in direct imitation of these Italian assemblies , by a lady half Italian herself ; and in the chambre blue d'Arthenice the select few , not more than eighteen , carried on their exalted conversations . Very briefly , Professor Tinker characterizes the salons , showing how important was the place of gathering , the cesthetic background , in establishing the right tone ; and he makes clear the earnest effort of the leaders to promote a real democracy of intellect , by giving encouragement to any person of genuine wit and originality . Dominated by woman , the salon expressed her " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , provoking conversation on topics literary or philosophical . Sermons and profane literature were themes for all to discourse upon ; and in those days " club " folk read the works they discussed . Out of the talk grew some species of literature , chiefly those forms which express more intimately the ideas and sentiments of every-day life , ? letters , memoirs , and similar friendly productions in both prose and verse . Perhaps more significant than the attitude toward letters and art are the relationships , the friendships , fostered by the salons . On this topic Professor Tinker is almost too brief ; he does not bring out the fullest meaning of the development of personality , the shaping and enriching of individual talents , stimulated by the familiar intercourse of these coteries . From France to England the sentiment for similar literary groups was speedily transferred ; and England did justice to the ideal , not by any means wholly new . Elizabethan England had had literary courts , and the Countess of Pembroke will be remembered as one of the noblest patronesses of all time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the salons , turning the library coterie into a school for scandal . By the end of the seventeenth century the feminist movement was well under way ; and of the manifestations of literary militancy Professor Tinker has little to say , since that aspect of life has little to do with the salons , which are devoted to conversation . It is with the rise of the Bluestocking Club that the salon definitely reappears in England . This Club , which was probably in existence by 1760 , was composed of " Vesey , " " Boscawen , " " Montagu , " " Carter , " Hannah More , Lord Lyttelton , Horace Walpole , and others . " Bluestocking , " that genteel by-word of contempt , is discussed by Professor Tinker very fully , although he says plainly that no definitely satisfactory conclusions can be reached concerning its origin . It would seem that it arose from the practice of ridiculing the severely plain dress of the Puritans , who , in their homely woolen hose , made up that " Blew-stocking Parliament " so odious to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reproach upon really sincere and high- minded folk was no bad title for a group who , feeling the popular associations with that word , rather enjoyed assuming its connotations . " Blues " and " blue " came to mean cultured ladies , or " shocking females " according to the intelligence of the critic . It is in these chapters dealing with the Bluestockings that the volume is most interesting , for the author has put together various fragmentary bits , making a comparatively unified whole . Of course any work which considers so miscellaneous a subject as the lives and attitudes and accomplishments of numerous minor personages can not possess perfect smoothness of transition . The difficulties of the case , however , have been well met ; and Professor Tinker has furnished us with a storehouse of information , anecdote , criticism , interpretation of character , and small talk delightfully arrayed . Special praise is due for the sane , generous , respectful tone in which he writes . To all except anti-suffragists his studiously judicial manner will appeal strongly . It is easy to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artificial intellectual life of the Bluestockings . For instance , revered Hannah More has been made the subject of many gibes ; but just as Professor Tinker publishes a charmingly youthful portrait of her , so he endeavors to present , not the apparent pedant and literary trifler , but the woman who sincerely strove for high accomplishment . With the best of opportunities for making merry over " lovely woman , " the critic has not indulged in caricature , or satire , or condescension . This is not saying that he lacks humor . Some of the charm in these chapters lies in the shrewd brevity of the recitals that reveal all the truth , the ludicrous self-esteem , as well as the inner motives , the highest aspirations , the fine ideals of the members of the English salons . Engaging minor details are given generously , and in such a quotation as the following one perceives the Spartan nature of the day : " I never knew a party turn out so pleasantly as the other night at the Pepys 's . There was all the pride @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spirit of the evening was kept up on the strength of a little lemonade till past eleven , without cards , scandal , or politics . " For portraiture there is the sketch of Mrs. Vesey , or " the sylph , " who was most supreme when youth and beauty had long left her alone with her unflagging imagination and her friends . The third section of the book concerns itself with the expression of the social instinct in Conversation , Familiar Correspondence , the Diary , and the Intimate Biography , illustrated of course by the famous names of the day , ? Johnson , Fanny Burney , Walpole , and Boswell . These chapters , dealing with ma1tter more familiar to the general reader , are written in a lively yet non-partisan fashion . They show the results of long study of these special themes , hence they will prove to have . critical freshness . Johnson is revealed in all his irrevocable humanness , not as Ursa Major , but as the intensely social being who lived on talk , and whose talk roused and galvanized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conversation . Boswell 's efforts are appreciated in the spirit of understanding vouchsafed him by later criticism . Instead of listing him , as Fanny Burney did , as " that biographical , anecdotical , memorandummer , " Professor Tinker interprets Boswell very justly . The immortal diarist herself is almost too summarily dealt with ; and at the conclusion of the chapter , the critic mourns the presence in the Diary of so much selfpraise , so much quotation of the agreeable things said to the blushing but quite appreciative Miss Burney . Why mourn over this trait in her more than over a similar trait in the great lexicographer ? Is vanity a man 's right ? Within the book is a mass of information gleaned from very extensive reading , but so effectively and so crisply condensed , so briskly phrased , that each re-reading will yield a reward . The author 's individual appreciation of his subject gives vivid insight into that age which has a singular charm for our mad epoch , in which such things as polite conversation and long , fastidiously composed letters are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ponderous size . It is a pleasure , in these days when " openmindedness " is synonymous with vacuity , to read of people who were not only positive , but actually bigoted . What an enviable age it was ! No automobiles , no electricity , no strikes , no Sunday papers , ? time for dignity , deliberation , reading , and thinking ! They had a happiness , a content , we shall never know , except in retrospect through the charmed medium of the printed page .  |                     