@@466861

WHEN my official relations with Kaiser William II began he was just completing the twentieth year of his reign . He had attained to the prime of mature manhood , he had never suffered any serious reverse , and he was fully conscious of his unquestioned power . Not only had there been during this long period no European war , but the general conditions in Europe were favorable for the organization of permanent peace . And yet , notwithstanding serious efforts , peace had not been organized . On the contrary , the efforts to organize it had terminated in the conclusion at The Hague of a series of general treaties nearly all of which were constructed in open anticipation of future war , being composed chiefly of rules intended , if possible , to render war only slightly less horrible than the growth of military science had made it evident that it probably would be . There was , it is true , no reason inherent in the social order why war should then be regarded as inevitable ; and the chief ground for believing it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make the necessary provisions for averting it . If , in fact , it was inevitable , it was owing solely to ambitions that were not open to discussion . At that time the German Empire had taken a place in Europe which made its action of the highest importance ; for no international question could arise without suggesting the inquiry , " What will Germany do about it ? " And the answer was complicated by the fact that Berlin was an enigma . All depended upon the uncertain mood of Kaiser William H. How incalculable a factor the Kaiser really was the year 1908 was to reveal VOL . CXXXVII. ? No. 819. - 48in an astonishing manner . Not only was it a critical time for the international relations of Europe , as the events will show , but a trying time for the theory of personal supremacy that underlies the conception William 11 had formed of his position as German Emperor . His pretensions , his purposes , his character , and his popularity among his i own people were in that crucial period to be subjected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vivid contrast two conflicting conceptions of diplomacy that had there come into collision : on the one hand the secret , obstructive , and evasive procedure characteristic of personal sovereignty ; on the other the open , constructive , and frankly avowed statement of purposes aimed at for the common good , advocated and practised by the great democracies . The fact that the new American ambassador , who had received from the German Emperor his agrement in December , 1907 , but was not actually transferred from The Hague to Berlin until June , 1908 , had not only been a delegate to the second Hague Conference , but had for many years been closely identified with the movement represented there by the American delegation , did not add to the probability of his being persona gratissima at the Court of the Kaiser . It was , in fact , understood that the government of the United States intended to accomplish , if possible , by separate negotiation , what it had failed to achieve at The Hague . It was further known that the new ambassador , during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that separate treaties were to be made , if possible , with each of the Great Powers , by which the ground would be prepared for a better international organization . It was , in fact , with special reference to his aiding in this task of separate negotiation at Berlin that the new ambassador had been selected . The mission , it was evident , would not be so much an affair of ceremony as a sober business undertaking , having in view the establishment of the future relations of the two countries upon a basis of mutual understanding and legal engagements , with provision for adjudicating through improved treaty arrangements future difficulties that might arise . There can be no doubt that many of the German people , as well as the American people , greatly desired such open and duly legalized relations , but this was not the Kaiser 's personal conception of diplomacy . In such a system the personal element would be practically eliminated . Nothing can be more certain than that William II earnestly desired to maintain friendship with the United States , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foothold in Europe , or that international relations should be made to rest upon a body of well-defined law and a tribunal with authority to interpret and apply it . Such a system would inevitably in time , if logically carried out , diminish the necessity for armies , and what would then become of the War Lord ? IF the people ? manufacturers , ship - owners , and traders , doing business internationally ? could carry their wrongs to a court of justice , it could not fail to affect the status of kings and emperors as well as of armies and navies . What the Kaiser wanted of America was peace , trade , and neutrality so far as Europe was concerned . For these he looked largely to the racial loyalty of men of German blood living in the United States . With this support , war with Germany would always be difficult . Disputes , if they should arise , could be dealt with as occasion might require ; but enlarged treaty arrangements were not , he thought , desirable . They would , perhaps , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States , other nations would demand them and refusal would thereby be made more difficult . It was perfectly natural for the Kaiser to take this view . It was a necessary corollary of his theory of personal gov ernment . For twenty years he had promoted amities , softened asperities , and kept Germany prosperous by a regime of personal visits to othersovereigns , personal telegrams of felicitation and condolence , secret correspondence , and casual words dropped into the ears of ambassadors at Berlin which he knew would he repeated to their sovereigns . A Europe based on public treaties , open , known of all men , would take all the charm out of a sovereign 's existence . All the plot interest of diplomacy would he gone . Could anything be more inartistic than playing a part so commonplace as that of an emperor who had no secrets and in case of controversy would be required to assent to the decisions of a court ? To the . Kaiser , as to most sovereigns before the constitutional era , the essential part of diplomacy is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ambassadors , upon this theory , is to bridge distances by creating a common court life , where personal influence can be made to count . An embassy , therefore , is from this point of view merely an extension of the court of the country it represents , and should be constituted and maintained for the performance of that function . As between personal sovereigns , there is , no doubt , much to he said in support of this idea . The ambassador is the direct and authorized representative of his sovereign . He lives in his sovereign 's house , receives his bread from his sovereign 's hand , is his servitor , keeps his secrets , and concerns himself only with his sovereign 's interests . But the United States has no personal sovereign ; and the Constitution provides for no personal representation of the President , who has no court and is supposed to have no court favorites . There being no power in a constitutional government to exchange secret understandings between the heads of states , such a nation must base its international relations on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public , and sufficient to safeguard its interests , regardless of personal sentiments or personal influences . To such nations diplomacy means international business , a very serious and exacting business , upon the proper transaction of which the most Important interests of a people , and even life itself , may depend . However widely imperial purposes and republican conceptions of international relations and intercourse may differ , both sides must admit that between sovereign nations a basis of mutual understanding must be found . The amenities of life are not incompatible with the serious discussion of business , even where contradictory views are held . On the contrary , the wider the chasm of differences the more essential these amenities become . When , therefore , on June 8 , 1908 , the new American ambassador made his appearance at Berlin , it was with the conviction that , whatever the chances for the success of his mission , he would receive a cordial welcome ; and in this he was not disappointed . The provincial Prussian capital of other days had been in twenty years transformed into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the wonderful material progress of the Empire . From a sleepy thoroughfare Unter den Linden had become a cosmopolitan bazaar with shops of unsurpassed brilliancy of self-disclosure , as if to challenge comparison with their rivals in older centers of merchandise . Of its new Hotel Adlon , in which all that could be learned of sumptuous hostelries from our most splendid American experiments had been embodied , the Kaiser , who had honored the opening with his presence , had condescended by way of encouragement to say , " Es ist schOner als bei uns . " The Wilhelmstrasse , which in one 's student days had seemed so impenetrable and mysterious , now flung wide its doors of welcome to cheerful interiors , where the amiable Baron von Schiin presided over the Foreign Office , and Prince von Billow , affable , courtly , and always adjusted to the situation , however complicated , sat in the chair of Bismarck in the Palace of the Chancellor . Whatever may be said of the Kaiser 's personal rule , the machinery of government is very much in evidence in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organized for obtaining information , influencing the press , or handling with expert knowledge every question affecting the political or economic interests of the Empire . When treaties are to be made , there are at hand all the knowledge and all the skill for making them prudently and to the advantage of Germany ; and , in addition , all the agencies for the accumulation and presentation of obstacles to making them , when impediments are the order of the day . And when it is deemed desirable to fix a policy in the mind of the country , the Chancellor ? especially Prince von Billow , who was a past-master in the art of public statement ? speaks ex cathedra with an authority hardly known elsewhere . But concealed behind all this complicated apparatus of bureaus is the personality of the Kaiser . From the Chancellor down to the humblest assessor , all are obedient to his will when they know it . In order to know what you can or i can not do in Germany it is necessary to know the mind of William II . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ambassador looked forward to his first audience of his Majesty . He had not long to wait . With unprecedented promptness the notice came that on the Sunday morning following his i arrival in the capital he would be received at the Old Palace in Berlin . It seemed perfectly natural that the audience should occur in the open air , under the trees in the little garden of the Schloss . The seclusion and intimacy of such a meeting gave it a welcome character . The three flamboyant court carriages , each drawn by six horses , with bewigged drivers , postilions , and foot-men clinging on behind , made a spectacle for the crowd that lined the way ; but neither these nor the red-breeched lackeys that formed in open column on the grand staircase awakened the slightest interest . The twenty-one volleys at the castle gate were hardly heard . All this was the old story , the stage trumpery that is supposed to enhance " the divinity that doth hedge a king , " the commonplaces of every royal court . Invited by the Grand Master of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to descend alone an outer flight of steps into the garden , one was surprised to see , standing like a statue , perhaps twenty yards away , a solitary figure , clad in white , covered with a silver helmet bearing on its crest a high-poised eagle , adding considerably to the apparent height of a medium-sized man . Seen in the coulisses of an opera-house , this apparition might have been taken for Lohengrin waiting for his cue . It was the Kaiser in the brilliant uniform of an officer of the Garde du Corps . From the embankments of the Spree outside the garden the Sunday promenaders , of whom there were many , could behold , at a discreet distance , his Majesty in all the glory of his war-like panoply , and the black-coated ambassador approaching ; a picture of imperial magnificence , on the one hand , and republican simplicity , on the other , in which for impressiveness the odds were far from even . Presently the statuesque figure moved , the shining metal flashing radiantly in the soft June sunshine that glinted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand was extended , the mask of monumental sternness fell , and a pleasant smile lighted up the well-browned features and the unfathomable gray eyes . Unimportant what was said . It was all of the friendship that should exist between two great peoples , of their community in blood , religion , science , interest , good-will , and a common civilization ; spoken on the Kaiser 's part in very English English , fluently , accu-rately , expansively , with a roll in the " r " when President Roosevelt 's name was mentioned that had in it a strong suggestion of the North Sea . Ir seemed like a real personal contact , frank , sincere , earnest , and honest . One could not question that , and it was the beginning . neginning of other contacts more intimate and prolonged ; especially at Kiel , where the sportsman put aside all forms of court etiquette , lying flat on the deck of the Meteor as she scudded under heavy sail with one rail under water ; at EckernfOrde , where the old tars came into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drink to his Majesty 's health a glass of beer . " Did you ever see anything more democratic in America ? " the Kaiserasked , gleefully , one time . " What would Roosevelt think of this ? " he inquired , at another . Hating him , as many millions no doubt do , it would soften their hearts to hear him laugh like a child at a good story , or tell one himself . Can it be ? Yes , it can be . There is such a wide difference between the gentler impulses of a man and the rude part ambition causes him to play in life ! A role partly self-chosen , it is true , and not wholly thrust upon him . A soul accursed by one great wrong idea , and the purposes , passions , and resolutions generated by it . A mind distorted , led into captivity , and condemned to crime by the obsession that God has but one people , and they are his people ; that the people have but one will , and that is his will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is his purpose ; and , being responsible only to the God of his own imagination , a purely tribal divinity , the reflection of his own power-loving nature , that he has no definite responsibility to men . No one who has personally met the Kaiser in friendly mood has failed to note the fascination he is capable of exerting when he is disposed to exercise his talent for making himself agreeable . The human side of him , when he consents to be for a moment just a man , is undeniably engaging . It is only when he feels called upon to play his part as Kaiser that one sees him in a different light . Then he becomes a wholly . different character , an anachronism in an age of liberal thought . Undoubtedly William II is conscious of his personal power of fascination , and he uses it with consummate art . To be made by an environment of pomp and ceremony to feel the presence of majesty and to expect at most a stiff and formal condescension , and then suddenly to be greeted with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seem like an old friend delighted to see you -- could human skill devise a more subtle way of drawing a doubtful human being into the orbit of a sovereign 's interests and confidence ? It seems to say : " At last you have broken through all these stupid barriers that my people employ to shut you out , and me in , and keep the crowd away ; but here we are now , at last , face to face . Let us open our hearts to each - other l " I am not sure that this often happens , but it has happened ; and something of it is felt by every American who has been personally presented to the Kaiser . And some , once drawn into that orbit , have always remained there . And it is not the meeting alone that binds . Some added delicate remembrance ; some word of praise or approbation spoken by the Kaiser in the presence of a courtier or a minister designed to be repeated to the person it concerns ; in due time the suggestion , perhaps , of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who is under no compulsion to do them , the recipient naturally reasons , must be from his heart . And in this he may be right . To scorn such courtesies would be ungracious ; but to overvalue them , to see in them all that vanity suggests , to forget that these attentions are the warp and woof of diplomacy , would be to fall asleep on a pillow of illusion . They might even make a messenger forget the errand on which he was sent ! Although my main mission was never for a moment forgotten , and notwithstanding obstacles was never wholly despaired of , the chances of success seemed to grow less promising as time passed by . In the Foreign Office the temperature was chilly when the arbitration treaty was discussed . The bankers of Frankfort had been in communication , and out of dusty drawers had been recovered musty papers yellow with age , old securities , probably bought for a song by speculators , but represented by their owners as valid debts owed by some of the American States . One lot in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed a bill making a State liable for the payment of an issue of bonds by a Southern railroad . The next legislature , placed in power by the indignation of the taxpayers , had declared the indorsement by the State to he illegal . As the railroad was bankrupt , the bonds were found to be worthless . Unless the government of the United States was ready to assume responsibility for these " sacred obligations , " an arbitration treaty , it was held , would be regarded as valueless in Germany . The Frankfort hankers would condemn such a treaty if they did not receive full payment . What they actually paid for these bonds , if anything , was never disclosed ; but I should have a new opinion of Frankfort bankers if it could be proved that they ever really paid anything for them . If the government of the United States should agree to be responsible for these alleged debts , the next exhibit , I suppose , would have been a collection of Confederate notes , if they could have been borrowed from some museum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make an obligatory arbitration treaty was , of course , the personal aversion of the Kaiser to abridge in any way his absolute sovereignty . It is no violation of confidence to say that , in conversations upon this subject , William II , while not denying that monetary matters might , perhaps , in many cases be properly left to a court ? in questions of civil rights his own German courts have sometimes decided against him ? has declared his opinion that nothing of political importance can he subjected to the judgment of an international tribunal ; for no principle of law can be permitted to constrain the free exercise of a sovereign will . On the social side , a generous hospitality made life at Berlin very pleasant for the new American ambassador . One occasion , soon after his arrival , is memorable for the kindly effort made to point out the close similarity between the American and the German systems of government . A distinguished company of men was assembled , as a token of welcome , in the Palace of the Chancellor . After dinner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open air , in the spacious garden under the starlight of a glorious June sky . It was the gracious host himself , Prince von Biilow , who led up to the close friendship there had always existed between the two countries since Frederick the Great had expressed his sym-pathy with the American cause , and Franklin , Jefferson , and Adams had signed the unique treaty of amity with Prussia in 1785 . But these were not the only bonds of mutual sympathy . Both countries had triumphed over separatism and become Great Powers , America by preserving the union of the States , and Germany by the formation of the Empire ; which gave the ambassador an opportunity to remark upon the loyalty to the Union of our citizens of German origin and their important services in the War of the Rebellion . Into the minor details of the method by which national unity had in each case been accomplished , and especially the manner in which the victors had treated the vanquished , it did not seem at the time necessary to enter , although they could hardly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one present . The really original stroke , however , in this conversation was the statement by the Chancellor that a deeper analogy was to be seen in the fact that in neither form of government was the ministry dependent for its continuance upon the approval of the parliament ? a point which he considered of prime importance to the continuity of public policy . " Besides , " he added , " your President has a power of appointment that is unsurpassed . " I was , I must confess , for a moment slightly startled by this sudden identification of the two systems , which I had thought of as almost diametrically contradictory . I could not , of course , deny the verity of the Chancellor 's statements ; but I ventured to suggest that , although the President 's Cabinet could not be changed by the Congress after the members had once been installed , except by impeachment , they , and all other appointed officers , must be confirmed by i the Senate ; and I had never known m-portant public duties to he assigned to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least one chance to judge . As for permanence of policy , I added , that the people were supposed to frame public policies in their party platforms , and reservedthe right to choose the Chief Executive every four years ; so that , if our President did possess certain constitutional powers analogous in some respects to some of those exercised by the Emperor , the electors could at intervals withhold or renew their mandate as they thought best . A slight almost imperceptible titter of laughter , emanating from the shadows where some of the gentlemen sat , caused me to wonder if I had been indiscreet . Really , there had been no intention to reflect upon the Kaiser ; but the suspicion was at once formed in my mind that perhaps they had been thinking of him ! Of this there is , however , no further evidence . The subject was changed , the conversation followed other lines , and in due course a pleasant evening came to an end . The ( minus mirabilis of 59o8 , as it has been called , brought sore trials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reign he had never attempted so much , never succeeded in so little , and was never so distrusted . It began with a private letter , written by him on February uth , to Lord Tweedmouth , First Lord of the British Admiralty , the letter being supposed to contain a defense of Germany 's naval policy and a criticism of Great Britain 's attitude toward it . The letter was never published , and its full contents are not publicly known , but the mere fact of its existence raised a storm of objection in Germany and created resentment in England . In the British press it was represented that the design of the communication was " to make it more easy for German preparations to overtake our own . " In Germany the fear was that it had contained some indiscretion compromising to Germany 's position . So long as the letter was not published its contents were open to almost any interpretation , and even the most extravagant theory could boast that silence left it uncontradicted . The really important utterance concerning it was that of Lord @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Such a communication as that in question must not be allowed to create a diplomatic situation different from that which has been established through official channels and documents . " This was statesman-like , but it assumed that a distinction existed between official acts and the utterances of the Kaiser . Obviously , this was not in accordance with the Kaiser 's own theory of government ; for , being the highest authority in the state , what he said was more than ordinarily official ; it was final . He could not , in any circumstances , disavow himself . When , in March , Prince von Billow was obliged to express himself upon the subject , he also had to oppose the Kaiser 's theory . The letter being a " private " one , he said , he could not lay it before the Reichstag . That its contents were political , he frankly confessed ; but he held that " the letter of a sovereign , an Imperial letter , does not , from the fact that it deals with political questions , become an act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question , How far does the political authority of the German Emperor extend , and how must it be exercised ? Would a secret treaty , " signed before God " with another sovereign , but without the presence or knowledge of public ministers , be considered a binding official act ? The Kaiser undoubtedly thought it would . The Chancellor and the Reichstag evidently thought it would not . The difference of views was very wide indeed . The whole theory of personal government was suddenly challenged . To the Kaiser it was , unquestionably , a shock . But this was only the beginning of the issue . The year had still more serious differences in store . Personally , William II was mute during this controversy , and wisely so ; for a storm was brewing in the nation . The people were faithful to the Kaiser , but they felt that they could not intrust their foreign affairs to his personal direction , and this the Emperor comprehended . Silent , but not without resentment over the Tweed mouth episode , he turned his attention to other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the stage seemed desirable . On the Ltth of that month the meeting of Edward VII with Nicholas II , at Reval , was interpreted as marking the conclusion of an AngloRussian entente ; but William II could not tolerate friendly relations between his friends . Immediately the cry of " encirclement " was raised . That France and England had become friendly was of itself objectionable , but that Great Britain and Russia , the ally of France , should at the same time abolish their differences was too much to be borne . At the conclusion of an inspection of cavalry at Daberitz , while King Edward VII was still at Reval , the Kaiser said to his assembled officers : " It seems , in truth , that they wish to encircle and provoke us . We shall be able to support it . The German has never fought better than when he had to defend himself on all sides . Let them come on against us , then . We shall be ready ! " A visit to the Court of Sweden ? traditionally the enemy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the month was occupied with military reviews and a visit to Alsace-Lorraine , where the inhabitants were reminded of what their union with the German Empire had done for their prosperity . " Peace is assured , " the Kaiser concluded , " by our military forces on land and sea , by the German people in arms . " It was the Kaiser 's way of making himself seem essential to his own people . He knew he could count upon the army . He knew that , if Germany were in danger , the German people would follow him to the death . A military situation was needed by him , and he knew how to create it . But his rattling of the saber did not end with this challenge , which had sent a thrill through Europe and caused a profound sensation in Germany . To add to the effect , on September iith he proceeded in person to approach within one kilometer of the French frontier , where he passed the night and made a proposal to ascend the Hohneck from French territory . Had the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it would , perhaps , have furnished occasion for another Ems telegram ; for , had there been an excuse for it , Germany was ready for a short , swift war . But , with perfect politeness , the French officers offered to furnish the Kaiser with a body-guard to accompany him during his ascent ; whereupon the project was suddenly abandoned and he announced that he was expected at Colmar . During all these occurrences , a very marked interest was manifested in strengthening the ties of friendship with America ; but progress toward the realization of America 's great desire , the improvement in international organization , was merely marking time . While the law officers of the Foreign Office were unearthing impossible claims from the dust of previous centuries as questions that must first be settled if arbitration was to become the order of the day , the Kaiser did not conceal his personal opinion ? which was , of course , his official opinion ? that what had been done at The Hague was a futility that did not deserve further encouragement . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia having in a measure served its purpose , he evidently perceived that , as upon some former occasions , he had overplayed his part as the testy War Lord . It is difficult otherwise to account for the publication , on October zSth , of the since famous interview that appeared as coming direct from the Kaiser in the London Daily Telegraph. - The whole detailed history of this extraordinary performance has never yet transpired , but the main facts may be stated with entire confidence . A lover of peace and a friend of both Germany and England , as he represented himself to he , prepared a paper , composed of statements made to him by the Emperor in the interest of a good understanding between those countries , which with the Imperial sanction was published as being in substance an interview with William II by an " unimpeachable authority . " The veracity of the interviewer has never been called in question , but the commotion raised by the report of what the Kaiser had said to him was indescribable . " You English , " William @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ March hares . What has come over you that you are so completely given over to suspicions quite unworthy of a great nation ? " Personally , at least , he said , he had not deserved such misjudgment as he had received . " My task is not of the easiest , " he continued . " The prevailing sentiment among large sections of the middle and lower classes of my own people is not friendly to England . . . I strive without ceasing to improve relations , and you retort that I am your arch-enemy . " Then followed statements that those in Germany who had approved intervention in Morocco were " mischief-makers " ; that , although German sentiment was hostile to England during the South African War , he had refused to receive President Kruger when Holland and France wereleting him ; that France and Russia had invited his government " to join them in calling upon England to put an end to the war , " as the moment had come " to humiliate England to the dust " ; that he had prepared , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of campaign against the Boers which Lord Roberts had practically followed ; and that Germany 's navy would some day , owing to the rise of Japan , be necessary to England in the great debates of the future . Great Britain was amazed , but Germany was exasperated . The Kaiser , then , according to his own public statement , had been all the time a secret ally and helper of England , and an enemy of the Boers with whom the Germans had sympathized ! His attitude toward Morocco had been a sham and a pretense . He had held his own people up to reprobation as enemies of England , and called himself England 's devoted friend . And this was their Kaiser ! A stranger might easily have inferred from the tide of public feeling that swept over the Empire that William II was about to be deposed . The serious journals were loud in their protests . The comic papers were remorseless in their caricatures . One would have supposed that there was no law in Germany against Ilse majeste . What added most to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Kaiser , who , during the climax of the storm , from November 4th to 7th , was hunting with the Hereditary Prince of Austria , and from November 7th to 16th was with Prince Fiirstenberg , at Donaueschingen , being constantly amused with vaudeville entertainments reported to be of a character utterly inharmonious with the serious time he had brought upon his Empire . Most incredible to relate , the manuscript of the interview had been submitted before publication to the Chancellor ; but Prince von Billow confessed that he had never taken the trouble to read it , and the subalterns at the Foreign Office had turned it over to its author without criticism . This , to some extent , relieved the Kaiser from reproach , but only slightly ; for when the Chancellor , humbly taking upon himself blame for his own negligence , offered his resignation , the Kaiser , who needed him as a defender before the Reichstag , refused to accept it ; and Prince von Billow , thus virtually absolved , stood up in the tribune , not to excuse William @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as much as possible attenuating his master 's error by skilfully commenting on certain points , he in effect threw the whole burden on the Kaiser by pledging that , while he remained Chancellor , such personal interference in the conduct of foreign affairs should not be allowed to occur again ! This , in fact , was the real issue . The Germans did not wish to depose the Emperor , but they were weary of the indiscretions of William II .. They did not in their hearts believe in his personal government , but they had never dared to oppose it . Now all parties were among the protestants . The Kaiser was obliged to how before the storm . He had deeply humiliated his people before the world . They resented it . They were at the same time ashamed of his conduct and indignant with him . When he came back to Potsdam he was a chastened man . He felt that he had been scourged , and publicly . If he had humiliated his people , they in their turn had humbled him . No doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made no reply . Had he claimed all that he thought to be his right , had he insisted that what he had said in the interview had been sincerely said and was the truth ; above all had he attempted to end the public criticisms in the Reichstag and the press by dissolving the parliament and suppressing newspapers , there would have been a revolution . He did none of these things . He simply let the storm pass by . Just what occurred between the Emperor and his Chancellor at Potsdam we do not know . Some were certain that he had shown violent anger . But the result was submission on the point at Issue . He did not accept the Chancellor 's proffered resignation ; and he promised to recognize , as Prince von Billow 's interpretation of the Imperial Constitution required , the constitutional " reVOL . CXXXVII. ? No. 819. - 49sponsibility " of the Chancellor for offi- cial acts relating to foreign affairs . His Majesty stated the Official Ga while unaffected by public criticism which he regards as exaggerated , considers his most honorable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy of the Empire while adhering to the principle of constitutional responsibility . The Kaiser accordingly indorses the statements of the Imperial Chancellor in the Reichstag , and assures Prince von Billow of his continued confidence . The words of the Chancellor which the Kaiser indorsed were : " The perception that the publication of these conversations in England has not had the effect the Kaiser wished , and in our own country has caused profound agitation and painful regret , will ? this firm conviction I have acquired during these anxious days ? lead the Kaiser for the Future , in private conversation also , to maintain the reserve that is equally indispensable in the interest of a uniform policy and for the authority of the Crown . If it were not so , I could not , nor could my successor , bear the responsibility . " In the mean time , another Imperial indiscretion was discovered and suppressed before it had disturbed the public mind . The Kaiser had given a private interview to an American journalist during his voyage in the Baltic . This also had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and , already printed , it was to appear in an early number of an American magazine . The Foreign Office was in terror . Money was hastily cabled to New York , the whole edition of the article was withheld and paid for , and to obliterate the incident the printed pages were taken out to sea on a German war-ship and used to stoke the furnaces . For the moment it seemed in December that the German people had successfully asserted their claim to a responsible government , and that the disaster to which the Kaiser 's personal diplomacy had exposed them would never he repeated . Rut it was , in fact , the Kaiser 's triumph . The Chancellor was in future to administer foreign affairs , and the Kaiser 's task would " consist in securing the stability of the policy of the Empire while adhering to the principle of constitutional responsibility " ? to himself ! There could be no mistake about the meaning of this apparent concession . There was in the Imperial Constitution no " responsibility " to any one except the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the Emperor . The chance to place in the Constitution responsibility to the parliament of the people was allowed to slip by without decisive action . The Kaiser was left with the same supreme authority that he possessed before ; and , nine years afterward , in 1917 , when the Reichstag , by a large majority , declared , " We are driven by no lust of conquest , " and professed to repudiate " forced acquisitions of territory , and political , economic , and financial violations , " the Chancellor of the Empire , Doctor Michaelis , was able to announce from the tribune , " The constitutional rights of the headof the Empire must not he endangered , and I am not willing to permit any one to take the reins out of my hands . " Thus , without a serious effort on the part of the people to prevent it , the German Empire permitted itself to be effectively and definitely Prussianized . In the Empire , as in Prussia , the Emperor is without legal responsibility to the people . There were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportunities for securing a truly responsible government ; but there was none when the public mind was so completely aroused from its lethargy and so fully awake to the danger that the Emperor 's personal system had incurred . Thenceforth , Kaiser William had only to sound the tocsin of alarm in order to recall to the nation that , having chosen submission to a War Lord , it must abide by the consequences of its act .                     