@@487056

It is not necessary to take too seriously the reported stampede to Roosevelt among the Republican National Committeemen in Washington on Monday , for , after it is all over , it clearly appears that Mr. Taft still holds the trumps . He controls the reorganized committee of arrangements of the next Convention , with a chairman favored by him , and a substantial majority of the whole committee support him . What is visible is the split in the party , the existence of which everybody knows ; it is bound to be displayed at every party gathering from now on , and is , among other things , the best possible evidence that the process of freeing the Republican party from the domination of protected interests and politicians of the Mark Hanna type goes on apace . But , so far as Taft is concerned , not only does Mr. Taft control the Southern delegates , as Mr. Roosevelt controlled them four years ago , but those of tree foot , who would like to be Insurgents , find themselves face to face with this sentiment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 25 , 1909 ) - " No man of better training , no man of more dauntless courage , of sounder common sense , and of higher and finer character has ever come to the Presidency than William Howard Taft . " Shall it now be solemnly confessed that Mr. Roosevelt was wrong and that the party blun- , dered ? Surely , his party could never be so false to Oyster Bay  --  and , besides , Oyster Bay was never known to be anxious to run for office when everybody was prophesying its party 's defeat . Any man 's declaration that he is not a candidate for President of the United States is like the plea of not guilty in a court of - justice The right to with . draw the plea and to substitute one of guilty with mitigating circumstances , always recognized . Nothing , for instance , could apparently be more emphatic than Mr. Underwood 's statement , " I am not a candidate for the Presidential nomination , and I am not going tobe . " But , without questioning the- sincerity of Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history of Presidential denials and find at least six reasons that will justify a change of heart : ( 1 ) The emergence of conditions which did not exist at the time the denial was made , and which , of course , put an entirely different complexion on the matter ; ( 2 ) the unanimous demand of the people , before which every statesman must bow ; ( 3 ) the vital interests of the party , which must always be placed above one 's personal interests and inclinations , ( 4 ) ultimate , though not belated , recognition of the fact that no man is too big for the Presidency of the United States , ( 5 ) a stampeded Convention ; ( 6 ) the act of God The business of running for President of the United States is one of the few subjects on which a man may eat his words without ceasing to look his fellow-citizens in tie face There is one paragraph in the President 's message on foreign affairs which will stir the reader 's mind to reminiscence . The paragraph has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japan ? Where has one heard that name before ? Ah , yes , that was some time ago when a Japanese fleet was stealing its way with covered lights into San Francisco harbor ; when Japanese emissaries were taking soundings in the Gulf of Mexico , the Bering Sea , and off the Ninety-sixth Street pier in the North River ; when the Japanese Government had bought up by secret treaty every available naval harbor and coaling station on the Pacific Coast of Mexico , Pefu , and Chili , and had refrained from entering into a similar agreement with Bolivia only because Bolivia is very much like Switzerland . Where is Japan now ? We sit now in the cold , gray dawn of the morning after and can only wonder at the nightmare panics and alarms that followed one another at intervals of a few months , without cause , without reason , without any other source than Capt . Hobson 's and Mr. Hearst 's mental and moral indigestion . To think now of war with Japan is laughable ; yet there were times when men of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international panics and perils made . Besides the three conspicuous subjects of the-parcels post , the postal ' savings banks , and the proposed readjustment of postage rates by increasing that on magazines and newspapers and reducing letter pOstage to one cent , the Postmaster-General 's report touches on other matters of public interest . The recommendation is renewed that the franking privilege be discontinued , and that instead of this utterly vague and , unlimited power to use the mails without charge there be substituted " the use of special envelopes and stamps in the free transmission of official mail , such envelopes and stamps to be furnished on requisition through the agency of the Post Office Department . " This proposal of reform certainly does not err in the direction of being too radical ; the franking system as it is bears altogether too close a resemblance to the flagrant free-pass abuses which have been got rid of in recent years . To show that the wiping out of the deficit was accomplished without curtailment of postal facilities , the Postmaster-General mentions a number of facts that are interesting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ additional cities , the establishment of 2.516 new rural routes , and a considerable increase in the average salaries of carriers and clerks . In the direction of improved administration , the most notable point made is the reorganization of the railway mail- service , which has not yet been completed but of which , says Mr. Hitchcock , " the final result will mean a tremendous saving to the Government , accompanied by important benefits to the employees of the service " One of the features of the improvement is the recruiting of the railway mail service solely by promotion from among the trained employees of the post offices . It is to be hoped that the New York Chamber of Commerce will give its emphatic approval to the project placed before it last week , looking to the establishment of an international commission on the cost of living , upon the initiative of the United States . The difficulty and importance of the inquiry alike make the cooperation . of the leading nations of the world essential to its successful prosecution ; and it was a happy inspiration that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and to sound prominent economists , in this country and EurOpe , as to the desirability of such a plan . His inquiries . have met with the most cordial response on all sides . Some look forward to remedial governmental measures as a possible or probable outcome of the inquiry ; but , irrespectively of any such prospect , it is felt that a really thoroughgoing research into the facts will be sure to prove of the highest practical - importance , as well as of great scien. tific value . The indications - are that the meatpackers ' trial in Chicago will witness a further extension of the great American principle of trying a case twice , once after the jury has been selected and once before . Of this principle , the proceedings in the Los Angeles trial , now happily brought to a close , offered an extraordinary application . When talesmen were being examined by counsel , they were asked substantially , " If we should argue that the Times building was blown up by gas , what would - you do ? " or , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up by dynamite , what would you do ? " Such questions reduce criminal practice to ? admirable simplicity , since it is an obvious advantage to begin a case with the knowledge that the jury is going to find for your client . And so in Chicago : Have you any views on Government regulation of commerce ? Are you a farmer , and thus a natural ' enemy of pork-packers ? Are you a salesman or small merchant , and thus an enemy of Trusts ? Are you an ultimate consumer , and thus prejudiced against high prices ? Such attempts to try the case while selecting the jury are all the more inexcusable because they are obviously ineffective . When quizzing and cross-quizzing have stopped , when challenges for cause and peremptory are exhausted , you get twelve men into the box whom you might as well have picked the first day or two , so far as their final verdict is concerned . The statement by the officials of the Federation of Labor is cleverly written and takes certain positions that are to be commended . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vindication of justice in the case of the McNamaras , and declares that their " grave crime " teaches the salutary lesson of the " futility of resorting to violence . " On the main question , however , of the violent championing of the McNamaras by the labor leaders , and their violent denunciations of all and sundry who thought the men might be guilty , the statement is necessarily labored and weak . No explanations after the fact can alter the mischief that was done before it . We are now told that " the most cautious reasoners " among the organized workers had convinced themselves that the Times building in Los Angeles was destroyed by an explosion of gas . But if they had been really cautious they would have waited for the evidence , and not have filled the air with cries about a " frame-up " and perjured testimony . They may have been cautious reasoners , but they were most incautious speakers . It is too late for them to assume a judicial attitude , and ask for a suspension of judgment . They did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their reckless folly marked themselves out as unsafe leaders . They now speak as men chastened by the event , and with their authority and even their official positions imperilled ; and if the public does not now credit their solemn asseveration that they never dreamed that the McNamaras were guilty , whom have they to blame but themselves ? Mr. Burns continues to assert that some of them long ago knew the McNamaras to be guilty . Monday 's estimate of this season 's cotton crop , by the Agricultural Department , was for 14,885,000 bales . To appreciate exactly what that means , it must first be pointed out that 13,800,000 bales is the largest crop ever previously picked , and that even that crop ( in 1908 ) had been underestimated by 900,000 bales in the Government 's December forecast . This great " cotton year " has followed a series of years in which the cotton belt 's story was curiously different . Not very long ago , the spinners of the world used in one season 12,400,000 bales of American cotton . That was obtained from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estimated by the late Thomas Ellison , the Liverpool statistician , that , under normal conditions of yield and price , the , spinners would require 12,438,000 bales in the following year , and about 200,000 more in the next . But the American cotton crop of 1909 was only 10,500,000 bales ; in 1910 came a more successful harvest , but with a yield of only 12,100,000 . As a consequence , cotton went to 16 cents a pound in 1909 , and in 1910 it sold at 20 cents , a figure never before touched in American history , except in the paper-inflation period and the wild-cat bank days of 1835 and 1836 . The necessary outcome was hard times in the spinning trade , thousands of cotton-mill em-ployees out of work in Europe and America , and high cost of clothing to the masses . Such prices , in accordance with a rule of human nature , induced the South to plant in 1911 the largest acreage on record . The 15,000,000-bale crop , exceeding all others by a million bales , resulted . It is doubtless more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indeed , up to the present date the New England mills have used less cotton than a year ago  --  unquestionably because the buyer of clothing has not yet forgotten the lesson taught him by the experience of the past two years , that it is Possible to make the old suit of clothing last a good deal longer . But with cotton now at 9 to 91/2 cents , instead of 20 , a change in this regard is bound to come . In due course , the old way of doing things will be resumed by the consumer , mills will again run at full time , and prosperity will return to a great American industry . The other side of the matter concerns the cotton-producer , who complains that the fall in cotton prices has brought down the value of his crop almost to cost of production . Numerous expedients of relief have been suggested  --  most of them , we are sorry to say , so utterly repugnant , not only to political economy but to ordinary , common sense , that they have been discarded as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was practicably workable or economically defensible , and that is the tentative plan of the New York syndicate to arrange for such advances of funds to planters as should avert the necessity for a sudden and wholesale ' unloading " of their crop , the moment it had passed through the ginneries . There are possibilities of beneficent reform in the cotton market , if this plan is made effective ; but it would need the most judicious management . The finding of the joint navy and army board which examined the wreck of the Maine in Havana harbor , confirms the report of the Sampson Board and seems to establish beyond all cavil that the explosion was an external one . It will be remembered that several of the officers of the Sampson Board , including Rear-Admiral Chadwick , were convinced against their own prepossessions that it was an external explosion . He and his associates of that board must feel gratified that the laying bare of the wreck has clearly proved how careful on the whole was their work . By a process of elimination , they arrived at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to internal causes . They seem to have erred only in the exact location of the explosion , which appears to have been ten or twelve frames further aft than the Sampson Board had thought . Again , the Vreeland Board finds that the explosion was not caused by a torpedo , but by some " low form of explosive " which eliminates the possibility of a torpedo or some instrument charged with a high explosive , like nitro-glycerine , and points towards a submarine mine charged with gun-powder . Beyond this , it appears , the Navy Department will not give out further details of the Vreeland report , and what it has published is , of course , of no value whatever in revealing the authors of the explosion . Apparently , the Maine 's destruction bids fair to remain one of the world 's great mysteries . If the Vreeland report is correct , the deadly mine must have weighed hundreds , of pounds and required the efforts of many men to get it overboard and anchored in just the right place . Yet no one has ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suspicious . After thirteen years and the complete downfall of the Spanish power in America : , no one has confessed anything and the United States is as much in doubt as to whether Cubans or Spaniards , officials or men in private life , were responsible as when the news of the disaster was received . If it was a conspiracy , it has been one - marvellously well safeguarded by those involved , and with each year the chances grow less of - ever obtaining the actual facts . President Taft 's refusal to interfere in the case of five young men dismissed from West Point for drunkenness ought to discourage a time-honored manoeuvre . When a cadet or a midshipman is deemed by the authorities at West Point or Annapolis to have so far transgressed that nothing but dismissal is to be thought of , then , in. the minds of his relal Ives and friends , the fight is only began . The scene of conflict is shifted to Wasbington , and every appeal and form of pressure that can be conceived of is brought to bear upon members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than five United States Senators lent their influence against the upholding of discipline at West Point . The President 's reply was comprehensive . He not oaiy refused their request , but told them that he would veto any bill to restore the cadets . Doubtless the five Senators retired in good order , if not with all the honors of war . To Mr. Andrew D. White 's suggestion that the Russian Government be invited to debate the passport question before the Hague Tribunal , there is at least one weighty objection . Recourse to The Hague should be had when diplomatic measures have failed If it were a question of going to war with Russia over the passport question or going to The Hague , right-thinking men would prefer the latter course . But that is not at all the alternative we face . As has been stated before in these columns , the argument of those who fa  --  or the abrogation of the treaty of 1832 is just this : the treaty does not justify Russia 's " treatment of the American Jew , but if Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treaty . It would be a question for The Hague if this country , while insisting upon all the benefits accruing to it under the treaty of 1832 , nevertheless demanded that Russia should meet our views in the matter of passports . It is not a question for The Hague if this country decides to forego any advantages that may accrue to it under present conditions by bringing the treaty itself to an end . A denunciation of the treaty by Congress would supply the State Department with a powerful weapon for negotiation . During the year that must elapse before notice of termination becomes effective . Russia could undoubtedly be brought to , see reason , - It is difficult to follow all the ins and outs of the new suffrage agitation in England , but one capital fact stands out . It is that , for the first time , a responsible and influential Minister of the Crown has come out squarely in favor of giving the ballot to women bn the same terms as to men . Mr. Lloyd George did this in a speech at Bath @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ causes which he has at heart , saying , among other things , that " if women by their presence on the register saved us from the infamy of a single war they would have justified their vote before God and man . " What Lloyd George committed himself to was advocacy of an amendment to the Government bill for manhood suffrage , next year , including the vote for women . The Premier has definitely pledged himself , in case such an amendment is carried , to make it a Government measure along with the rest of the bill . The so-called Conciliation bill , which even the militants had agreed to accept as a payment on account , would have enfranchised about million women ; the amendment which Lloyd George now favors would give the vote to six or seven millions . It is already apparent that , whatever may be the effect on his personal fortunes , W. Morgan Shuster 's stand against Russia 's throttling tactics in Persia has been of service to that country . Lord Morley 's statement in the House of Lords last week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been roused against slavish adherence to a compact which Russia seemed determined to turn into an instrument for undermining Persian independence . It is also not improbable that the British sporting spirit has been impressed by Mr. Shuster 's single-handed fight against what professional diplomats have regarded as- the inevitable . At any rate , while Lord Morley was still under the necessity of deploring Mr. Shuster 's lack of tact , he joined with Lord Curzon in expressing admiration for the young official 's energy and motives . It is hard to imagine that Russia 's renewed assurances that she has no designs on Persian independence were not forced by recent events at Teheran . That is one distinct gain . Another is England 's declaration that she will not sanction the ex-Shah 's return to ower.                     