@@487048

The message which President Taft sent to Congress on Thursday of last week covers many routine governmental matters , but contains a few striking proposals of new legislation . Mr. Taft comes out strongly , for instance , in. favor of the establishment of a parcels post , and ' urges Congress to make immediately at Least a beginning of the system . The President also recommends the enacting of a bill defining anew and more humanely the liability of employers for accidents to their workmen , together with the passage of pending measures to do away with some of the mischiefs of delayed justice in the courts . His most advanced and significant position , however , is taken in connection with the civil service . Mr. Taft goes further than any of his predecessors in urging that all local Federal offices throughout the country  --  collectors of internal revenue and of customs , commissioners , and marshals , together with postmasters of all four classes  --  should be by law placed in the classified service , and that the whole mass of patronage involved should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Taft that its radical and far-reaching nature may easily be overlook-. ed . In reality , it lays the axe to the root of a hoary abuse . Mr. Taft frankly points out the exact nature of the existing method under which the President is supposed to appoint these Federal officials . They are , in fact , dictated to him by Senators and Representatives . The motives for their appointment are political ; they are simply rewarded for past party services ; and their main allegiance is not to the public service but to their patrons . All this . is set forth by the President explicitly , who also speaks with emphasis of the immense and needless " burden " placed upon the Executive by this distribution of patronage . His time , with the time of Congressmen , is eaten into by the incessant demand for appointments to office , with all the wearisome canvassing of " credentials " and weighing of " intiu.ence . " What the President calls for is the casting out of the whole system , bag and baggage , so that there may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ career in the public service for those who enter it by examination and are promoted for merit , and on the other more freedom and opportunity for the high officers of the Government to spend their strength on really important tasks . If the recommendations which President Taft now makes were to be carried out , we should have an extension of civil-service reform going beyond the fondest dreams of the earliest , advocates of that cause in this country . To the need of a fresh advance in improving conditions in the Federal service attention was sharply called at the recent meeting of the National Civil Service Reform League in Philadelphia . In the address by President Eliot statistics were given to show how large a number of Federal offices are still in the unprotected class . The rosters of employees swell year by year , and constant vigilance is necessary to prevent the spoilsmen from getting the upper hand . Then there is the evil-of having officeholders engaged in politics . Representative Norris o ; Nebraska has just dwelt upon this in a public speech . He showed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee of forty-six members , forty-four were Federal officials . On this point President Taft makes a remark in his message , to the effect that rules to prevent it are treated as " hardly worthy of respect " so long as the officeholders know that their tenure depends upon continued political service in behalf of the Congressmen or others who originally appointed them . This can not be called a vigorous utterance . The President could undoubtedly issue orders to Federal officials to abstain from partisan activities under penalty of removal , and could enforce them . Such was the course followed by Hayes and Cleveland , and Roosevelt made a show of following it . Mr. Taft has not , but it is clear that he is ready to go on to a more thorough remedy for the evil . He would have the entire service reformed in such a way as to take away from appointees the motive to do work for their political chiefs . We repeat that the President 's plan is the most sweeping ever urged by an American Executive . There has been in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But now he throws down the square challenge : Join me in doing away entirely with the great bulk of the patronage . For the response the country will watch with much interest . Meanwhile , we may see in the President 's proposals the sort of progress which appeals to him . He sets his heart on legislation . To get definite bills enacted is with him the main thing . Ways and means and machinery he cares less about . And it must be confessed that he drives at his practical results with a great deal of directness and ? force . If he were to succeed in getting his legislative programme carried out , it would do a good deal to break the charge - that he is not " progressive . " All the reforms which the progressives advocate  --  direct primaries , the initiative and referendum , even the recall  --  are designed to improve our political machinery so that we may have better laws and better administration . But the means must not be exalted above the ends . For some of those ends  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? President Taft has now shown that he will go as far and work as hard as the next man . That is his idea of " progress , " and nothing can be said against it  --  if only the progress be actually achieved . EDUCATION FOR THE MASSES . The daily press gives frequent evidence of the fact that there are still many who cast wistful glances at the good old days when the acquisition of the three R 's was the supreme object to which the schools for the children of the masses were supposed to be devoted . That those necessary rudiments of education are less successfully imparted to the average child nowadays than they were in the olden time we do not believe there is any good reason to think ; on the contrary , there is a great deal of evidence that the opposite is the case . However this may be , every one who stops to think must recognize that any limitation of the present activities of the schools to this narrow scope , or to anything like it , is out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operate irresistibly ; in the first place , the manifest needs of the present era , and secondly the obvious fact that education in the common schools extends , in the case of a preponderant portion of the population , over a far greater number of years than was the case half a century ago . And it is not only in the school curriculum itself that ened conception of the function . of the public school , and of the relation of the State or municipality to the diffusion of knowledge and education throughout the community , is manifested . In New York city there has been maintained now for twenty-two years , as part of the public school system , an institution which has quietly done an inestimablo amount of good in this direction by opening to adults an opportunity for in- struction , and for improving entertainment , in almost every field of human interest . We refer to the public lectures given under the auspices of the Department of Education , in every section of the city , and chiefly in the public-school buildings . A glance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Leipziger , can not fail to impress any thoughtful person with a sense of the enormous benefit which , at relatively very small expense , is thus obtained for the masses of the people . During the year 1910-11 , 5,411 audiences were addressed by 716 lecturers , the average size of the audience being 176 . Not the least of the merits of the system is the participation of total committees in determining the choice of the subjects to be treated at the several lecture centres ; and one of the incidental benefits attained is the quickening of the interest of parents in the schools , through being brought into contact with them by attendance on the lectures . It ought to be highly gratifying to New Yorkers to know that the initiative of their city has found imitation throughout the country . The movement reached the Pacific Coast last winter , when public lectures based exactly on the New York system were successfully instituted in San Francisco . But one does not need to go beyond the effect on the auditors themselves to feel that this extension of public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and women gather , after the day 's toil , to listen not only to lectures on travel , or " current topics , " or so intensely practical a subject as first aid to the injured , but to long courses of consecutive lectures on the development of fiction and on the nature of poetry , there needs no argument to show that the seed is falling on good soil . Of the two last-mentioned series , Dr. Leipziger says that they have proved among the most successful of all , and that he has received from unknown auditors letters giving ample proof that many lives have been enwith the football player who can only kick , with the statesman who has no hobbies , with the scholar who knows only his Gothic , and with the preacher who can merely preach . Not only must a pastor expound Holy Writ , he must tell his flock what to think of every flying straw , and sometimes how to vote . No one person has wrought this change of feeling . For instance , the rage for specialization was never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was talking French to Pastor Wagner , writing reviews of Celtic sagas , establishing endurance tests for army officers , helping out reporters , and holding high office . It is to be noted , however , that foreigners like to reckon a finger in every pie as typically American . At the present moment at least the danger which seemed to have fastened its roots in us appears to have been only a mushroom . For there has always been a great difference between foreign and American specialization . A family of watchmakers unto the fourth and fifth generation or a restaurant keeper who all his life has raised his own ducks , does not strike our people as particularly admirable . The American expert , to win applause , had to appeal to a larger imagination , had to be potentially a man of the hour . An electrical engineer because he might bring rescue to a sinking ship , an out-and-out business man because he might some day dine with an emperor or receive the freedom of a city , an agriculturist who could perform the miracle of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on apples of gold in pictures of silver  --  these were our heroes . It is hard to recall a single programme of preparation which did not hold out the chance of a broad notoriety . To say that this was inherent in the mere hugeness of our industries , is only to show the real difference between American and European specialties and motives . It comes out more clearly ? still when we reflect upon our manner of rewarding experts . A criminal lawyer who succeeded in a spectacular trial at once received offers to try cases of all sorts ; a man who had cornered the wheat market was asked for his opinions on the future welfare of the country ; the experimenter with guinea-pigs was expected to hold the secret of the census for the year 2000 . Narrow grubbing there has been , but only that one might later be set upon the pinnacle of the temple and be told to adjudge our possessions . American versatility was all along too much a part of our traditions to be seriously threatened by specialization . The picture of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dripping faucet or build his wife a cupboard , as well as the foreign assertion that the American millionaire could carry parcels as naturally as a messenger boy , has always tickled our fancy . Whither , then , are we tending to-day ? The signs of the times require as delicate scrutiny as a patient 's thermometer , and are not so trustworthy . Yet it begins to look as though our big prizes would be bought more dearly in the future . In many spheres of activity we have indeed reached a point where some breadth and depth of nature are necessary parts of the competition . In business it is markedly so . The thought that one could easily turn to a new enterprise if the first one failed is replaced by the belief that efficiency will bring to the front many abandoned enterprises ; and efficiency is taken to mean not only smoothness in mechanical processes and systems , but a wide range of human faculties playing upon a product of whatever sort . - For the man who would be successful there are whole sermons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It used to be that a dull stripling might be the recognized authority  --  for lack of any rivalry  --  on the phonology of low Latin . But to-day , for aught we know , there are congresses of low Latinists , and it is seen that if low Latin is to be raised to its proper level , it must be learned from eloquent lips . And in many other ways emphasis is settling upon the personality of the teacher and his method of imparting , rather than upon the mere substance of his knowledge . This latest tendency , in so far as it serves to keep cheapness from expertness and to require that the latter be the product of sound reflection quite as well as of digging , is , of course , wholly admirable . It was always a bit trying to worship any " greatest living authority " whose ideas on most matters-were negligible . And yet the present test of broadmindedness carries with it the usual dangers inherent in reactions . There is a time to laugh and a time to dance and there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everybody should have done them all . But there is no command that they shall all be done at once , or that one shall be expert in each of them . Likewise there is a great difference between vital learning and versatility . By all means , for example , let us have professors whose broad preparation and rich life give an inspiring reach and background to their specialties . But just as emphatically let us not expect them to be dandies and social favorites . Nor is it necessary that a preacher , to be accounted human and broad , shall dispute the decisions of the Supreme Court . If sticking to what one thoroughly understands is , according to the newer attitude , dull pedantry , we trust that our leaders will have the courage to be dullards . We believe , however , that we are moving in the right direction and that our experts of the future will attain to something of that mellowness which in the older countries of Europe has long rendered men in the public eye interesting to all . THE FALLIBLE INTERVIEWER @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has given up his contemplated visit to this country . Fear of the American reporter is still strong upon him . It seems odd that a man who has gazed steadfastly into the depths of Destiny , of Death , and of other unfathomable mysteries , should be afraid to meet the eye of so unpretending a person as the American newspaper man . But if M. Maeterlin.ck 's state of mind is such that it is a question of entering this country uninterviewed or not entering it at all , he has acted wisely in deciding not to come . The idea that he could evade our interviewers by coming in disguise , or by way of San Francisco , Montreal , or Juarez , is preposterous . The distinguished author might dress up as a Dalmatian peasant and come by way of Ellis Island ; he would only find that his bunk-mate all the way from Trieste was one of Mr. Hearst 's young men . At the present moment M. Maeterlinck is probably under constant surveillance ; and his fate may ultimately be like the unhappy victims of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disguised emissaries of the Associated Press , the Belgian poet will end by engaging the royal suite on the Lusitania and summoning the reporters to meet him at Quarantine . Therehe will cry , " I am here . Take me . Interview me . I can bear this no longer ! " But there is an alternative . Provided he can hold out for six months , M. Maeterlinck can attain his ambition and land among us unnoticed . In six months his challenge to the reporters will be forgotten . In six months the opera season will be over , the theatres will be closed , the " Blue Bird " will be stale news , and the minds of men will be taken up with the puzzling condition of " Matty 's " pitching arm . Let the distinguished Belgian then board a vessel for New York , without disguise and without ostentation , and enter his name upon the ship 's list as plain " M. Maeterlinck . " He will pass the interviewers without arousing suspicion ; or , if to some one among the reporters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few discreet and kindly words will satisfy the man . If the distinguished Belgian has any doubts on the subject , let him think of Dr. Wilhelm Bode . Two years ago , Dr. Bode and his $50,000 wax bust by Leonardo da Vinci held the front pages of the newspapers for weeks . Had he landed in New York in 1909 , he would have been interviewed to a shadow . But Dr. Bode came to the United States in 1911 , and the first intimation of this visit to most of us was a cable from Berlin giving Dr. Bode 's impressions of America . What happened to Dr. Bode is happening all the time to distinguished foreigners in this country . Men devoid of immediate news value are thereby rendered invisible to the all-seeing eye of the press . In planning a mid-summer trip such as we have described , M. Maeterlinck might take the additional precaution of engaging passage on the same boat with a theatrical ' manager returning from Europe with a long list of new attractions for the approaching season ; or with a party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ victors in a newspaper educational contest in which the first twelve prizes were a choice between a trip to Europe and a grand piano ; or with a prosperous business man from the same Middle West who has been enjoying the hospitality of Europe 's effete but exceedingly likable aristocrats and royalties Against such competitors it would need a very obtrusive man of fame , indeed , to win much attention in the public prints . First place , - of course , would go to the young women from the Middle West , with a group photograph , individual impressions of the Vatican , the Louvre , the Tower of London , and the Rhine , and a general chorus of satisfaction at getting back to what is , after all , the finest country on earth . For second place there would probably be a close race between the theatrical manager with two hundred theatres , thirty stars , and unnumbered plays at his finger-ends , and the business man from the West , with his highly interesting views on the present state of European politics and civilization . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the West whom a single trip across the Atlantic renders an autho'rity on the profoundest questions of contemporary interest . We read- Mr. W. B. Sands of Milwaukee , who arrived yesterday on the Ruritania , after a two months ' stay abroad , in the course of which he was introduced to the Grand Duke Michael at a luncheon at Monte Carlo , declares that never was the condition of the Russian Empire as satisfactory as it is at present . The Russian peasants all love the Czar and the Czar is constantly working for the welfare of the peasants . Mr. Sands declared that there is no basis for the rumors of a secret treaty of alliance between Russia and Japan . - We read : It is the firm opinion of Henderson W Sloggs of Omaha , who arrived yesterday on the Cetacean , that Italy 's measures in Tripoli are regarded with extreme dissatisfaction at Berlin and Vienna . At the same time , Mr Sloggs insists that Italy was justified in acting as she did . Tripoli is a land of infinite promise and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half the world Mr. Sloggs 's sojourn abroad was confined to Paris , London , and the Lakes of Killarney . We read : W. Dexter Jones , one of the lumber-kings of northern Michigan , when seen on board the Wilhelm , at Quarantine , said that during a two-days ' stay in Berlin he became convinced that Ibsen had lost his hold on the German people . While at Berlin Mr. Jones took in tare ? musical shows and the circus . With so much news in the air , M. Maeterlinck would stand a very good chance of escaping notice . 