@@487201

THE cultivation of a nationalistic spirit has never been the chief aim of American schools . We , in this country , have been proud of our cosmopolitan tolerance . We have known somewhat vaguely that the ways of Europe are very different from ours in these matters . The German school is a place where much time and effort are dedicated to the specific task of making German children into stanch Germans . The French schools cultivate an intense loyalty for France . The Poles have kept alive in their schools the traditions of a nation even after the dismemberment of the empire ; and so on through the list , including the Balkans . When these peoples come to America , they often unite in the demand that our schools , which seem to have no previous engagements , take up the European task of perpetuating the spirits of many nations . We have shown a jovial , good-natured attitude in the matter , have paid good public money for atrocious instruction in foreign languages in some of our urban elementary schools , and have rejoiced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to include everything and assimilate everybody . One reason for this American attitude is that our schools grew up as local institutions under local control . The various colonies had different attitudes in these matters . Virginia , with its great plantations , had no school of the type that was natural in the little homogeneous New England settlement . The New England settlements , while they were internally homogeneous , were not eager to submit their affairs to the adjudication of neighboring settlements . So it came about that education is with us a local affair . The Constitution and our Federal organization are non-committal on school matters . All this is very different from the practice of Europe . There the Minister of Education is a powerful factor in the life of the nation . The schools are social institutions of major importance and are recognized as such . Local control is subordinated to central supervision , or , to use a phrase more appropriate in most cases , to central dictation . It is not alone in governmental control that European schools show their devotion to nationalism . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the writer spent several months in the autumn of 1913 visiting the common schools of Germany  --  the Volksschulen . In the course of these visits he happened to go into nineteen geography lessons . Seventeen of them dealt with parts of Germany . Of the other two , one dealt with Holland and the other with Switzerland . During the same visits he heard twenty-four lessons in history , all devoted to German history . The latter example , taken by itself and referring , as it does , to strictly elementary schools , is not remarkable , but ii one has ever heard a lesson in German history taught in a German Volksschule , one will have no difficulty in understanding the slight esteem for other peoples so characteristic of many an ordinary German citizen . Finally , one may refer to the fact that religion is taught four periods a week in every German school . It is taught with all the discriminations of type that belong to the family connections of the pupils . The Protestant gets his type ; the Catholic , his ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get their type . But all types merge in the ideals of a stateacceptable to Heaven , and as dangerous to those who are disloyal as death and complete damnation . One may take whatever attitude one will towards the results of this kind of teaching in German schools , but the result is as sure as human nature  --  the German schools have moulded the German mind into a rigid , nationalistic type . The example of France is different and perhaps even more impressive . The geography of the French schools is , from the point of view of the American schoolmaster , narrow . The history of France is too varied to leave the pupil with a quiet confidence in any single overhead organization . In place of German religion , there is a secular course in morals . This course in morals deals with the social virtues , and with the wisdom of fair dealing in business . Much has been said and written in France , and among our American students of education , in praise of this course in civic morality . The highest praise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the story of French national loyalty in the crucial tests of the last three years . French nationalism is not stolid , but it is firm . It has in it much of the individualism of which we are proud in our own social scheme , but it exhibits a loyalty to the nation and a compact solidarity that we may well envy . Of England I have not spoken up to this point . England before the war was more like ourselves than any European nation . England had allowed much of the educational policy of the country to be determined locally . To be sure , there is a minister of education , and a board of education at London with power of inspection , as they call it . There are parliamentary grants and a corresponding dictation as to what shall be done where grants are made . But contrasted with Germany or France or even Russia and the Balkans , the organization was loose . Even before the war England saw that there must be reforms . As far back as 1902 she took a long step @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degree unheard of in earlier days . This central control was tightening perceptibly in the years following 1912 . Especially in physical training , a central policy was put through the schools with an iron hand . The central officer in charge of this training said that he had been called on to produce a nation fit to carry arms , and he was doing it . He was introducing the Swedish system in spite of local opposition , sending teachers and inspectors to Sweden to get first-hand training in the system . In the same spirit , the municipalities were organizing secondary schools and municipal universities of a type wholly different from the traditional institutions of like grade . These new institutions were designed in their organization and in their courses of study to furnish a more popular , a more useful , and hence a more democratic type of education . In the spring of this year the gradual evolution which had been going on in the English schools for a decade and a half was forwarded by the introduction of a comprehensive parliamentary programme , and by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the midst of her strenuous military struggles England will undoubtedly extend the period of elementary training , enlarge the equipment and course of instruction of her schools . Some time during the war or shortly thereafter America will discover its school system . There is evidence that already some of the foresighted propagandists of the nation have anticipated the rest of us in this matter . For example , about a generation ago , amid the execrations of the scientists and the scoffing of unbelievers , an organization of women decided to teach all the children of the United States that alcohol is injurious to the lining of the stomach , to the liver , to the bones and nervous system . It may be that they overdid it , but one thing is beginning to be certain  --  they did not underdo it . It is also evident that they selected a very strategic field for their operations . A few years ago a group of men , wise in their generation , saw a national need , the need of skilled labor to compete with European skilled labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organized effort to secure industrial workers . They made progress by criticising our present schools and offering a substitute . Interestingly enough , they have secured for industrial education what we have never had for general education , a huge Federal appropriation and a Federal board of control . There sits in Washington to-day a board in charge of industrial education , and it is putting a new stamp on American education , while the common branches are managed by local authorities , and while foreign languages continue to be badly taught in many of our urban elementary schools because somebody from Europe wants it done for reasons nationalistic but not American . Other examples of less comprehensive and less radical campaigns for the use of the schools could be cited . The teaching of health in schools has been prompted by anti-tuberculosis societies . All kinds of charities use the organization of the school to reach the homes of our people . Since the war began demand after demand has been made on the schools . The children have helped to sell Liberty Bonds and have obtained innumerable signatures on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are about to be universally recognized as institutions capable of rendering a real national service . The purpose of this article is to call attention to another and distinctly educational undertaking which aims in an ambitious way to bring into the schools of the United States a body of material which is not limited to any narrow interests , but seeks to promote the broadest possible thinking about national life . Under the authority of the President of the United States , the Bureau of Education and the Food Administration are cooperating in the publication of a series of lessons entitled " Lessons in Community and National Life . " These lessons might have carried the somewhat more technical title " The Structure of Society . " They consist in brief descriptions of typical social and industrial institutions . They are written in concrete terms which will give the pupils definite mental pictures of what is meant by such terms as community and nation . For example , in one of the first series of lessons pupils in the intermediate grades are introduced to the evolution of a city water system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grow be in any doubt about the meaning of the word " community " ? Could the word " society " ever mean to such a child merely a church social or a dance ? Another of the early lessons is on a city produce market . There is one on a cotton mill ; one which depicts the various manufacturing activities of a self-sufficing colonial home . The wonder about these lessons is that schoolbooks are not full of them . The fact is that American teachers have never realized that pupils need to be taught about the world in which they live . The school of earlier days did not teach about the life of the home or the life of the community , because these were supposed to be known to pupils from their contact with them . Year after year the situation has grown complex and pupils have lost contact with all industrial operations and with the complex social organization in which we have all come to be insignificant atoms . The social organization has outgrown the school . The course of study contents itself with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the meantime , life has moved to a higher level which requires a new mode of insight and a breadth of instruction wholly uncalled for in times past . The national crisis brings with it a shock of realization . We see that we are as a nation ignorant of the scope and depth of our national life . We would not have it here as it is in Germany . We are right in saying that we will not limit our pupils to the geography of the United States though riotous anarchy results . We are sure that it is necessary for the human spirit to be broad . But if the ways of Germany are utterly abhorrent , may we not take counsel with France ? There nationalism has been cultivated by a course in civic morality . Again , even in accepting this example we may contribute breadth . The study of all industry , the study of how men are housed and how public health is promoted , are no less teachings in morality than are the French maxims on honesty and loyalty . The " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mistake which has shipwrecked many an educational reform . They do not limit themselves to urgent exhortations to teachers and school boards to do " something " and then leave it to the new converts to carry out the hard labor of putting detail into the exhortations . The reformers of the past have often assumed that assent to a general principle is enough to produce a new course of study . Not so . The teachers of this country are as a class inexperienced in the broad national issues . They do not know industry and social organization even in theory . To ask them to make lessons in national life would be to demand bricks without supplying either straw or clay . This is no time for mere exhortation . The lessons must be supplied in form to be put into the hands of pupils . This has been done . The lessons are reading lessons ready to be taken up by the pupils the moment they arrive from Washington . The question has been raised : Why does the Food Administration concern itself with such a project @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a broad way the explanation is easy . Any sacrifice which the people of this country make to-day must be the ready contribution of a democratic people , not the blind offering of a people schooled in obedience to a dictator . We have to work out a new type of instruction in nationalism . This new instruction must go into the schools , but it must express itself at once in practical ways . The habits of life and thought of the nation must respond at once to an intellectual apprehension of what the nation is and will become . Our nationalism must be intelligent and practical at once . There is no agency more concerned in this double programme than that agency which is making appeal after appeal to our people for loyal national action in conserving food . The joint action of the Food Administration and the Bureau of Education is a hopeful sign of a new type of nationalism in the schools . The whole matter is clearly set forth in the letter written by the President and addressed with the announcement of the lessons to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has made clear by his description of the system in Germany , there is grave danger in a policy which aims at Government control of ideas in the public schools . Narrowly conducted it might result in evils similar to those manifest in Germany . If it is directed on broad , generous lines it may be expected to produce the benefits which Professor Judd has forcibly outlined. ? ED . THE NATION.                     