@@430810

THE GENERAL STRIKE , proposed for July 2I in France , England , and Italy was an effort on the part of labor leaders to reconstruct , over the dogmatic differences that have divided the revolutionary leaders since 1914 , the new International on the basis of joint action . It was distinctly an affair of the leaders ? a strike with a purpose . That it did not materialize with any great effectiveness was an issue to be expected . Since the date of the attempt had been twice postponed in the interests of greater coordination of the international leadership , the element of popular enthusiasm was largely absent , having spent itself already in a number of important local manifestations . Moreover the failure of the Italians to secure at Southampton the acceptance on the part of the French and English ' organizations of the principle of coordinate leadership , approved at the conference of Milan , with the resulting fact that each national group was left to act autonomously , deprived the whole movement of the grandeur on which reliance had been placed to move @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cultivate their own garden , the French were glad to find in slight ministerial alterations an excuse to avoid the issue . This left the Italian movement hanging in suspense . Since the Nitti ministry assumed power on the issue of the internal question , which the Orlando cabinet had been neglecting ? to no visible advantage ? in favor of the international problem , the nation has been in a mood of expectancy for adequate measures of relief . Reliance on Nitti 's economic shrewdness has created a feeling of optimism in many quarters formerly disaffected . With some show of seriousness , Mr. Nitti repeated promises of amnesty for political prisoners , more effective restraint by price regulation on profiteering , and hastening of demobilization , all of which were demands in the strike program . It was reported also , on the eve , of the general strike , that the Government would withdraw its cooperation with the Entente policy in Siberia and Hungary , and cease using Italian troops and Italian instruments of supply to further the campaigns against the proletarian governments in the East . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demands which the strike was to make . And they seem to have placated especially the newcomers in labor organizations from the petty bourgeois classes , such as the school teachers , and the higher clerks of the governmental departments . From the moment when the Railway Federation and the Seamen 's Union voted to abstain from striking , a general paralysis of the country became out of the question . And what was intended to be a general strike for two days actually turned out to be a series of local disturbances of less extent than the spontaneous food protests of two weeks before . Viewed from the inside of the Italian movement , this abortive attempt indicates that the Italian Socialist and Labor organizations have not as yet effected that complete return to contact with the masses which has been the unifying effort of official policy for the last eight months . To make this essential point clear one great misconception must be removed . Belief in the imminence of an Italian revolution has had only one solid fact to go on : the undoubted existence of the revolutionary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rest that belief has been allowed to persist largely because of its utility to all sides in the diplomatic game during the war and at the peace conference . During 1917 the Italian Government attributed ' to Socialist propaganda the low popular morale resulting from cold , hunger , and war-weariness ; and the food riots of Turin were made the pretext for imprisoning socialist leaders . To disguise the ministerial inefficiency and the military blunders resulting in Caporetto , the legend of a vast revolutionary intrigue behind the lines was invented and made the burden of orthodox Allied propaganda in all countries . The danger of revolution was capitalized by the Italian Government in 1918 to support its demand for Allied military assistance ; for a major offensive on the Italian front to create a fait accompli for use at the Peace Conference ; for a " united financial front " to export a portion of the Italian war debt to the United States ; and , during 1919 , for material economic concessions to Italy in Africa and the Near East , and for the recognition of the Italian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of service to France and England in keeping Italy in third place in the imperialistic and economic grand march . Had the Allied governments really believed in an Italian social upheaval , they would have postponed their programs in foreign export trade to give necessary relief to Italy . Instead it has been more profitable to keep Italy on the ragged edge of starvation and in economic inaction to control her the better by the threat of withholding financial and economic relief . Corollary to this policy has been the stress-laid by the foreign press on Italian internal weakness . People have believed in an Italian revolution because the same agencies which minimize revolutionary activi- ties elsewhere have been taking upheavals in Italy for granted . How artificial the resulting impression has been may be illustrated by the example that around May 1 an Italian revolution was being predicted abroad at a time when the Italian subversive organizations were breaking all precedents by coming to a written treaty of arbitration with the Italian Association of Manufacturers , and after the moderates had been winning by two to one in every resolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same artificial atmosphere influenced foreign press reactions , to the disturbances that became more frequent in Italy with the month of April ; and even the radical press abroad began to take each movement as the initial blow in the expected revolutionary effort . These disturbances may indeed have contained the revolutionary germ ; but the maturation of the germ depended on elements which were unknown to everybody and which the Italian official organizations were bending every effort to evaluate . The consistent attitude of the Italian Socialist Party and the General Federation of Labor in opposition to the war had been for three years a matter of grave concern to all the Allied cabinets . That attitude was all the more ominous from the fact that no one , not even the revolutionists , knew exactly how much force was behind it . The position of the " official " Socialist leadership ( a standing committee of not more than twenty men and women ) was exactly identical in its relation to the labor masses , with that of the different governments in relation to their various national publics . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their respective constituencies , so the Italian labor organizations have been cut off , by mobilization , from the workers they used to represent . Incident to the passing of the workers under arms and to the great translocations of labor to the large industrial centers , came a disintegration of the pre-war structure of Italian labor . In these conditions it was as easy for the " labor cabinet " to be consistent as it has been for the national governments to be inconsistent . The attitude of the " official " group in Italy was a magnificent gesture , a grandiloquent pose on the part of a few people , forced only to agree on virtual non-essentials among themselves . Mr. Turati , Mr. Lazzari , Mr. Lodovico d'Aragona , and their friends , viewed the war as something like a rainstorm . They retired to Party Headquarters till it should be over , and there they discussed the theoretical relationships of Marxism to war , gave out , proclamations of defiance to militarism , drew up peace programs in opposition to the various " notes " of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the purer because it was not called upon to meddle with any of the complexities of action . The Italian " official " leaders approved the " peace offensives " of Zimmerwald and Kienthal . They expelled from their councils those of their number who took up the war ; and these heretics went off and formed ? on paper ? a new organization of their own , to represent , in a pro-war sense , " the unexpressed majority will of Italian labor in arms . " In due course the official leaders refused to speak to Mr. Gompers , who had gone to Italy for the summer social season , and they had a warm argument with Mr. Spargo as to whether Karl Marx would have supported the war . They approved as a matter of routine the five hundred odd strikes which occurred in various establishments , for increased wages , for shorter hours and better conditions of living . They heckled the authorities of the prefectures in those centers where the elections of 1913 had instituted Socialist local governments . They continued to work on their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of industrial and agrarian questions . The Parliamentary group in the Chamber said " I told you so " to every Allied reverse and threw cold water on every patriotic rejoicing in victory . The intellectual character of the " official " organization agitation may be illustrated with reference to Russia . The leaders approved the Miliukoff revolution ; then the Kerensky revolution ; and finally the Bolshevik revolution , the moment the Allies declared against it . All this , to the patriots of war , looked like a gigantic conspiracy fomented by German money to sabotage the Italian war effort . The statements of the Party itself are more accurately descriptive of this policy , as an effort to keep the Socialist organization alive and coherent in it class struggle principles under the adverse conditions of war . Hence aloofness from a conflict originated by the middle classes and being fought for the realization of middle-class ideals ; but also , avoidance , obeying a recommendation of Marx , of any overt acts which might wreck proletarian organization on the fundamental nationalistic emotions most rife in wartime . Now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but action in what direction and with what immediate goal ? It must be remembered that in June 1914 the " red " provinces of Italy , Romagna and the Legations , with the industrial centers of the Lombardo-Veneto , were in virtual revolution ? a spontaneous uprising under syndicalist auspices ' on the soil impregnated with the old republicanism of 1848 revised according to Bakunin . That revolution , which proclaimed republics ? soviet before the fact ? and in truth gained control  | for a day or two of the administrative mechanisms of the state , was the sequel to a period of Socialist obstructionism in Parliament on the question of distributing taxation to pay the debts of the ItaloTurkish war . The uprising occurred , however , against the will of the labor organizations , which gave only tardy adherence to it . Nevertheless it revealed that organizations controlling at the outside four hundred thousand members , could , under favorable circumstances , develop support of nearly two millions of workers in a single region of the country . That revolution failed because of its spontaneous tumultuous character @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truly revolutionary orientation . When the Syndicalists gained the power they had not the slightest idea what to do with it . The tumult subsided as suddenly as it had grown , and mobilization beginning after the episode of Sarajevo postponed a fight to the finish on the Italian social question . Certain elements in the Socialist-Labor groups professed to believe that the proletarian spirit of 1914 had been preserved through four years of war . Last November they were pointing out in addition that the Russian example had furnished method and object to the submerged revolutionary spirit of the workers ? that the end of the war would furnish the opportunity for overthrowing the established order , and substituting for it the organizations of the workers themselves . This feeling was somewhat tempered as it passed into statements of policy by what proved to be a minority of the leadership . There it became simply an " outlook toward the left , " propaganda , that is , for an immediate revolution , for the creation of a proletarian . army to seize power . The majority program opposing this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsibility for war , the Italian proletariat will assume likewise no responsibility for peace . We can not afford to take the tasks of reconstruction which the middle-class governments have created for themselves . " In other words , no revolution ? for the economic isolation of Italy makes that impossible ? but reconsolidation of labor forces , to gain specific necessary improvements in wages , working hours , security of employment , pensions and sick relief , and political power ? the old program , in short , of a movement revolutionary in language but reformistic in principle and in fact . How has this policy worked out ? Last August , the " war cabinet " of Italian revolution nearly went to pieces over the question of participation in the government " Commissionissima , " or grand coalition commission to draw up a program for reconstruction . The moderates like Mr. Turati insisted on uniting with the Government in working out a labor program . The radicals insisted on rigid adherence to the program of non-participation in peace or reconstruction , and they carried their point . But this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Late in December the first break in nonintervention occurred when the General Federation approved the Government program for the fight on illiteracy . In January Mr. Orlando gave out his proclamation for the national elections , and the General Federation , independently of the Socialist Party , responded with its own political program , so that for a time the conservative press was heralding a split between Party and Federation . This however was a mistaken interpretation of that event . The Federation 's action was simply its own enunciation of issues later incorporated in the platform of the Party itself , which voted not to . boycott the elections , then regarded as impending , but to participate therein in force . Next came the acceptance by the Federation of a proposal , originating with Mr. Meda , the clerical minister of reconstruction , for direct representation , in the bureaucracy , of capital and labor independent of political machinery . And finally , when the Government had been deaf to the demands of the northern industrials that the bureaucracy remove war restrictions on business and restore individual initiative , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Milan had voted to dispense with bureaucratic assistance and to resist interference from the Government , the Federation signed with the manufacturers a pact for the realization of the eight-hour , day , with adjustable wage scales and guarantees of social improvements . This , viewed objectively and stripped of revolutionary enthusiasms and anti-Bolshevik interpretations , is the record of the " official " revolutionary organizations that form the nucleus of the predicted Italian upheaval . It is an official record , and a record of officials ; for the measure in which the proletariat itself has participated in agitation is to be found in the various-movements that have featured the Italian social war during the last four months . It is in the populace that the revolutionary spirit exists , but in doses unknown to everybody . To test out this spirit , we witnessed during April and May a number of propagandistic strikes and demonstrations the sole intent of which was to arouse enthusiasm , advertise leaders and organizations , bring the workers back into the Labor Chambers , and discover the temper of the masses and learn the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The spectacular features of these movements , such as the destruction of the Avanti establishment at Milan , were , as usual ,  | furnished by the reactions of the young class-conscious Nationalists , reinforced , for the moment , by the spoiled children of the victorious army ? the decorated Arditi ? always ready for excitement and eager for a fight . During June and July the effort was broadened , and the organizations began to bid for a centralized agitation . Here we come in contact with the internal structure of Italian labor organization . There is the superficial rift in the Socialist-Federation combination made by the exclusion from the official organizations of the pro-war revolutionists , who formed last year the Italian Socialist Union and the Italian Labor Union . There is then the fundamental division isolating on the left the Italian Syndicalist Union ? heirs of the anarchistic tradition ? and on the right the Italian Federation of Workingmen , which is the Catholic union . Inside the really representative General Federation we have the autonomous Labor Chambers , the various industrial and agrarian trade federations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rival organizations have been bidding for popular support by initiating strikes and demonstrations , or contesting for the leadership of disturbances in course . Nor has the General Federation been able to prevent its local units from starting enterprises of their own . The causes of discontent in Italy are expressed , for the individual worker as for the individual citizen , in very specific terms of comfort . It is a long distance between the theories of revolutionary action and eagerness of suffering people to give vent to their impatience . That is why the actual uprisings are always greater and smaller than the calculated policy which inspires them , greater in that they at once involve more people than the revolutionary organization embraces , but smaller in that often a revolt starts to change the world order but subsides with a change in the price of potatoes . When the Italian situation is stripped of exaggeration , we come to an organization committed to revolution , yes , but to revolution by reform ; striving to reassemble its scattered forces and failing in its first effort , since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this conclusion is unromatic , it has the advantage of being objective . The cry will be for revolution , but the Italian proletariat will be content with ? less than justice ? the promise of attempts to get justice . As a matter of fact , it is going to get more justice than ever before . When something like normal conditions are restored in Italy , we shall find , in her internal organization , a recognition of organized labor quite parallel to that in England , and a trend toward industrial liberalism , on a capitalistic basis , proportionate to labor strength . This is the whole significance of the conferences now going on in the " eight-hour day " commission composed of representatives of the Government , under Maggiorino Ferraris , representatives of capital , and delegates from the General Federation and the Socialist Party . When one studies the Italian revolutionary movement , not in what is said about it by its enemies , nor even in what it says about itself , but in what it actually does , one gets a vivid impression of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the working people of Italy , but for the preservation and development of what is called civilization .  |                     