@@493024

A Journal of Opinion pRESIDENT WILSON is likely to make the coming congressional session more interesting than has been anticipated . The newspapers have it that he proposes to push further the work , which he has so courageously and successfully begun , of enabling the executive to count more positively in the legislative policy of the government . The President , as the leader of his party and by means of his friendly relations with individual congressmen has , of course , always exercised a considerable influence on congressional action ; and these unofficial sources of influence have been used with excellent effect by Mr. Wilson . But he is not content to allow the influence to remain unofficial and personal . He is trying firmly but discreetly to develop regular official channels of executive initiative and power on legislative action . His practice of delivering his messages to Congress in person was an admirable innovation , which symbolized appropriately and conspicuously the increasing contact which he wished to establish between the Presidency and the legislative body . Apparently he is now considering whether the President should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate and discuss with the whole Senate matters of executive business . Finally he proposes to follow up ex-President Taft 's wise attempt to bring about an increasing participation of the Treasury department in the framing of the estimates . If it is true that he intends to make his fight on these two points , he has selected his ground with a deadly insight into the weak aspects of the congressional system . flON : == ) T HE President 's Mexican policy has failed . It has been at once stubborn , vacillating and unimpressive , and its only merit has been its good intentions . But there is no use in crying over the spilt milk ; let us rather right the jug and keep it right . What has occurred will occur again ; civil war , rapine , arson , injury to the persons and property of Americans and Europeans . There will be clamor for a war of conquest against Mexico . Let the President therefore decide now . Let him giveup his policy of watchful waiting , which is nothing but a policy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all , and decide which of two methods of action he will choose and maintain . Either he must recognize the de facto President , whoever and whatever he may be ; keep his hands off the electoral machinery , the constitutional processes , the land and labor policy and all other internal affairs of Mexico , maintaining only Mexico 's independence of Europe and the rights of Americans and Europeans in Mexico ; or he must intervene effectively and by force of arms , seizing and holding the ports and various strategic points , and himself conducting the elections which will put a P " resident in power . The one is a policy of determined non-intervention ; the other amounts practically to a temporary protectorate . Each has its drawbacks , dangers , and temptations , but each is at least consistent and offers some chance of a tolerable consummation . What offers no hope is the continuation of the President 's actual policy of alternately balking at each of two evils and ultimately embracing both . W HEN the late Benjamin Altman bequeathed his works of art to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course , the usefulness of that institution as one designed to further the education of the public . But he did more to further the education of the collector . The five rooms which were thrown open on November seventeenth expose the aesthetic furniture of a well-ordered mind , sensitive both to high critical standards and to the demands of ordinary human feeling . Mr. Altman gave a new meaning to the phrase which has so often spelled intellectual laziness , if not something worse ; he " knew what he liked , " and liked all manner of beautiful things . Italian and Flemish Primitives , Rembrandt and Velasquez , French enamels of the fifteenth century and French sculptures of the eighteenth , tapestries and porcelains ? all these he collected ; and by the simple process of having been bought for no other reason than that he wanted to make his home interesting , the mass of objects has unity and gives one reposeful delight . He spent prodigious sums only because they were necessary , and he did so without a thought of fashion , or of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adventitious elements in the collector 's world . The installation of his treasures is as happy as was the spirit that presided over their accumulation . A SITUATION which would be amusing if it were not so serious has suddenly presented itself to the contracting firms engaged in building the new subways for New York . These firms , of whose labor force fully ninety per cent are aliens , have suddenly been confronted with the labor law of the State explicitly forbidding the employment of alien labor upon public work . The lawyers for the contractors put on their spectacles and try to look surprised over this law , as plain as a pikestaff , which they have so long and meticulously ignored . Though it must be obeyed , pending appeal to the courts , there is little hope that its application in the present instance will work for good . By it aliens not employed will be thrown out of their jobs , while natives from country districts will be drawn into the city . The result will be more unemployment and not less . F course the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contractors will be accused of group selfishness in taking advantage of this legal strangle-hold , and naturally they will retort that if they do profit by their legal opportunities they are at least not alone in their selfishness . But the real trouble lies much deeper , in the law itself . We have every right to restrict immigration and shut out the alien if we wish , but there is neither wisdom nor justice in allowing him to enter the country and then denying him employment . If , as is possible , the whole purpose of the law was to raise wages in this industry ? and they are at present far below a real living wage ? then the result should have been sought in a manner less invidious and more direct . 111111 ? Cli T HE attitude of the French press towards the war seems calmly free from that restlessness and recrimination that characterize most English comment . To the Anglo-Saxon world the outstanding fact is the abnormality and horror of the conflict . It was avoidable , it is monstrous , it is incredible , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our feet , it is an insensate madness that threatens to wreck the world . The French , on the other hand , now that they have got over their fatalistic apathy towards the first disaster , seem to feelonly a holy calm of satisfaction . After the tedious years of recess , the nation has set about its proper business again . The long period of probation , this keeping one 's self alive against the great day of activity , is past and over . One has the impression that it was peace with Germany that was the monstrous , the abnormal , the incredible thing . War was the normal state , broken by an enforced but barely tolerated truce of forty-three years , and the nation sets about its work with the air of a man who has found the way of fullest self-expression , and is in his task to the uttermost . S TATISTICS of production and wealth do not give us as vivid a sense of the immense economic power of modern nations as does the comparative ease which which these nations bear the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Great the task of keeping a few tens of thousands of soldiers in the field taxed the resources of the feeble kingdoms of Europe ; to-day England , France , Germany and Russia maintain millions of armed men , and the burden seems hardly to have increased . In England the new war loans are immediately over-subscribed ; the rise of prices which followed the outbreak of war is stopped ; while unemployment , always a sign of industrial disarrangement , falls from 71 per thousand of trade-unionists in August to 59 in September and to 4o in August . So long as the sea remains open , the industrial resources and the stability of Great Britain are incalculable . N ORTHWESTERN University was recently summoned to court on the charge of violating the State ten-hour law for women . A telephone operator , it was alleged , had been kept on duty nineteen hours . Although the exact number of hours was disputed , the defence did not deny that there had been overwork . It merely denied legal responsibility , on the diverting ground that Northwestern University is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institution it occupies an interesting position ; not only are all its buildings forever exempt from taxation , but its investments in Chicago real estate are exempted too . This amounts to a subsidy of millions of dollars by the taxpayers of Illinois , a rather generous concession to a private enterprise . The University 's attempt to evade the law is , of course , worthless , a shameless bit of legal sophistry which an honorable person would scorn to employ . When we remember that the University maintains a law school , that it pretends to train people for American life , an incident of this kind makes us wonder whether the authorities who countenanced such a plea are not somewhat immoral companions for young people . I N Georgia most murderers escape . Among white men the percentage of convictions to the total killing is insignificant ; the technicalities of the law and the presumptions of public opinion work in favor of the accused . But when public opinion singles out a victim , technicality can be made to work against him . This is what thousands of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and this is why his fate is being watched in all parts of the Union . It is known that so much prejudice was worked up against him by some newspapers in Atlanta that the court did not dare to receive the jury 's verdict on a Saturday when crowds were in the streets . It is believed by thousands of people everywhere that the evidence of Frank 's guilt is so exceedingly doubtful that to hang the man would be a thoughtless crime . These people wonder why on feeble evidence gathered in an atmosphere of anger the authorities should be rushing this man towards his death , denying him the benefit of all those technicalities through which far more obviously guilty men have escaped . From one end of the country to the other men and women are asking what there is in the case of Leo Frank which prevents him from receiving a fair trial in a calm court . They are asking what is to be gained by taking the irrevocable step before every doubt is removed . 41 ; ; ? ==b TNDICATIONS are accumulating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deficiencies , has done away with one very dangerous consequence of the old national banking organization . It has apparently succeeded in diminishing the suspicion with which business men and bankers throughout the country regarded the financial power and responsibility of the New York banks , and it has consequently prepared the way for a much more effectual and wholesome measure of cooperation among the local financial centers for the purpose either of meeting an emergency or for that of accomplishing a desirable public financial policy . In order to appreciate the extent of the change , one has only to compare the situation at the present time with that which followed upon the panic of 1907 . Seven years ago a large part of the West believed that New York was more or less responsible for the panic , and the banks of that part of the country made it more rather than less difficult for the New York banks to avoid the calamity of a complete collapse of credit and prices . The air was charged with suspicions and mutual recrimination . This year an almost equally serious situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a praiseworthy spirit of national cooperation . The Federal Reserve Act has made most of the difference . An extraordinarily long step has been made in the direction of a really national credit system . ? D EMOCRACY being democracy , you can not convince it that war is justifiable except on moral grounds . The nearer a country approaches democracy , the greater the pressure upon its rulers to find moral reasons or moral pretexts for making war . " Hence hypocrisy , or the homage which diplomacy pays to democracy . ? ? ? A T about 3 p. m. we crossed the bridge and got into the town . All along the road from bridge to town equipments , guns and cartridges lay thick , and within the place dead men and horses thickened , too . We were taken ahead through the town to support the artillery beyond , where it was shelling the woods around and ridding the place for the night of any troublesome wanderers . The pickets posted out ahead that night said the shrieks of women and children further on in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unfortunates having taken refuge there from the threatened town . That night we lived like fighting-cockspork , butter , cheese and all sorts of different delicacies being foraged for , and houses entered regardless of the commonest dues of life , and others set on fire to show the town was our own . She belonged to our army and almost every man claimed a house . If I had only had your orders beforehand for trophies I could have satisfied you with anything named , from a gold watch to an old brickbat . " The reader will at once recognize the passage as an extract from a letter of a Prussian officer serving in the present terrible Belgian campaign . It is stories of callous vandalism like this that give point to the English denunciations of the Germans as barbarians , Huns and Vandals , who wage war with a ruthlessness never before known in civilized lands , and also to our American thankfulness that we have reached a scale of civilization far above that of the militaristic and tyrant-ridden Teutons . Only a German barbarian could write with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pillage and wanton burning of defenceless towns . For the truth of history , however , the fact must be let out that this passage occurs not in the correspondence of a Prussian officer , but in a letter from Sergeant G. W. James to his brother , Henry James , a gentleman of somewhat more than local literary fame , and describes the taking of the town of Kingston during the Civil War . Theorists on war are left to draw their own philosophy . 4CH IS play is sincere , straightforward , intel- ligent , unaffected . That is why it is interesting from first to last . Also , that is why it is cheerless . " Thus the dramatic critic in The New York Times . In the language of humanity , can you beat it ?                     