@@465581

0NE morning , in late February three years ago , I met a member of the visiting staff of Bellevue Hospital out on his private rounds . It was one of those soft , bright days that the Gulf Stream sometimes brings unseasonably out of the tropics . Children danced responsively in the parks , and one was aware of a festive spirit among the men and women abroad in the streets . The physician , however , did not share the general elation . " What 's wrong ? " I asked , remarking his preoccupation . " I do n't like it , " he answered , vaguely . " Do n't like what ? " said I. " This reminder that summer is on its way . " I laughed at his borrowing trouble so far ahead , but he was disinclined for laughter . He spoke of the holocaust of little children that annually recurs when the hot weather fills the hospital wards , and deplored the inability of the medical staff to cope single-handed with summer conditions . " What happens again and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We discharge a child from the ward apparently convalescent ; in a few days back it comes sicker than ever . Or a working-woman brings her baby to the dispensary ; we diagnose and prescribe , and yet , in spite of our treatment , the patient steadily fails , if indeed we ever see it a second time . The fact is that there are home conditions which baffle our science ? dirty rooms in dark tenements , insufficient and improperly cooked food , and the thousand other by-products of poverty to which the medical staff has deliberately closed its eyes . It 's bad enough , Heaven knows , to send children back to such homes in winter when the microbe is partially ice-bound ; but in summer , when everything they touch swarms with noxious parasites , I feel myself an accomplice in the undoing of every child I send out of the dispensary or discharge from the wards . I 'm afraid I 'm developing a conscience . Every warmday like this is a voice that dins in my ears the reminder that unless I am willing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do something to forestall them now . " Accustomed as I was to the routine handling of patients in charity hospitals and dispensaries , this statement impressed me as memorable . I knew from experience the truth of what Dr. Richard C. Cabot has put so effectively in his Social Service and the Art of Healing ? namely , that " the average practitioner is used to seeing his patients flash by him like shooting-stars ? out of darkness into darkness ; that , trained to focus upon a single suspected organ , he comes to think of his patients almost like disembodied diseases . " Only a few days ago a medical friend invited me to attend his clinic in the dispensary of one of our great charity hospitals . On arriving at the hospital , we found the usual gloomy entrance packed like a subway station at rush hours with sick and crippled humanity . We elbowed our way to the examining-room , which , in sharp contrast with the entrance hall , was perfectly lit , spotlessly white , its very air scoured with disinfectants . While he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ white hospital jacket , the doctor began calling numbers in chain-lightning groups-138-206-140-and the patients who held the correspondingly numbered tickets jostled in . Dozens came and went with surprising speed . In little more than an hour two men had disposed of fully forty-five cases . " What work we do , " observed the physician , smiling , " is of the most excellent quality , but of course we have n't time to do much . Our first duty , for the performance of which we are held most strictly accountable , is to find material for the professors , who come on regular days , not only to lecture , but to give practical demonstrations before their students . Of necessity we are all more or less like Dr. Cabot 's assistant . You recall the story ? What is there in the waiting-room ? ' Dr. Cabot says he asked his assistant on arriving at the hospital one morning . ' A pretty good lot of material , ' was the brisk reply . There 's a couple of good hearts , a big liver with jaundice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a flatfoot . ' " This is the characteristic attitude of the medical mind , an attitude which is the natural outgrowth of what in itself is a highly important and extremely valuable development of medical teaching . Medical instruction used to be purely didactic , relied upon text-books and lectures exclusively , and sent the young doctor forth to acquire skill in his art at the cost of his patients in the course of his professional practice . After years of struggle and protest against this slipshod procedure , the best men in the profession forced open the doors of the public and charitable hospitals for their students and taught the art of healing by demonstration on the actual case . This achievement was admirable in that it laid the foundations of scientific and inductive as against didactic medical learning . But the enthusiasm for this method of clinical teaching has tended to exalt the living disease above the living patient . Last November , at the convention of the American Association for the Prevention of Infant Mortality held at Johns Hopkins University , the absence of the medical students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social bearing of your profession ? " I asked a member of the graduating class . " I shall be satisfied if I know something about medicine at the end of ten years , " was the reply . As a result of this narrowly scientific discipline , the men who conduct the routine handling of patients in charity wards and dispensaries are apt to pass lightly over all cases except those that offer interesting pathological material . To discover an awakening social conscience in a young physician , as I did that February morning , was therefore a rare and refreshing experience . With a man so minded it was a joy to co-operate . A few days after our chance-met conversation the physician and I were in negotiation with Miss Mary E. Wadley , who since 1905 had been building up a social servicedepartment at Bellevue . Miss Wadley knew what was needed to surmount the difficulties the physician had described , but her department lacked the requisite money . I was able to find the money to match her plan , and on the 1st of May a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the children 's division of the great municipal hospital that stands at the heart of New York 's social repair shops . Those capitalized terms are significant of a very deep change that is to-day taking place in every important hospital and dispensary in the country ; precisely what they mean will appear from an analysis of a typical case history . On the 15th of July a working-class woman brought her sick baby to the Bellevue dispensary . The doctor discovered that the child was under-nourished and ordered its feedings increased . In the old days that order would probably have been the end of the story ; the likelihood is that Bellevue would never have seen that mother and child again . Not that the doctor 's advice was not excellent from a strictly medical point of view ; what , however , it failed to take into account was the woman 's social inability to apply it . The nurse 's record reveals certain facts which were essential to the radical diagnosis and effective treatment of the case , but which the doctor , untrained to look @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transcribe a few words from the nurse 's original notes . " July 15 , ' 08.  - -  Called . Found family in two small rooms on ground floor . Front room is a shoemaker 's shop . Back living-room very dirty . There are eight children ; six live at home . Husband earns four dollars a week . Mother sickly and nervous ; her milk not enough for her child . I bought milk and showed her how to modify it after the doctor 's formula . Had milk sent in for the mother , too . " It is obvious from this short excerpt that if there had been no one at the doctor 's side in the dispensary to give intelligent ear to his instructions , with ability to follow them up and resources to make them effective , that woman would have gone hopelessly back into her " very dirty living-room " ? which , you may be sure , she would not have betrayed ? and would have sat helplessly by while her child succumbed to heat-poisoned hunger . Such inept tragedies are of common occurrence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctor 's orders ; she also knew what few physicians could have taught her , the charitable and social resources of the city , and brought these to bear in aid of the family , of whose economic disability the sick child was only a symptom . She secured the co-operation of one society in supplying certified milk , of another in sending a charwoman to scour and wash and clean . On July 31st the record says that the baby was found sleeping in a carriage out in the open air , and a week later the nurse acids : " The house is cleaner than I have ever seen it ; both mother and child are doing well . " Thus by acting as a " link of connection between the hospital and the outside world , " and between the home and the various appropriate charities , the nurse not only prevented the nullifying of the physician 's work , but was actually the means of bringing it to its due fruition . Such in essence is hospital social service , which , by adding a social vision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promises to increase an hundredfold the efficiency of public hospitals and dispensaries as instruments of human conservation . The authorship of this effective union between the best medical and philanthropic practice is in dispute ; the glimmering origins of hospital social service may be traced through the dusk of many decades back at least to the first half of the nineteenth century . There is no question , however , that the movement owes its recent supereminent impulse to its most ardent evangelist , Dr. Richard C. Cabot , of the Massachusetts General Hospital and the Harvard Medical School . It was through his influence that the social service bureau at Bellevue was started in 1905 , the same year in which he published the epoch-making little document significantly entitled " First Annual Report of Social Work Permitted at the Massachusetts General Hospital . " " Our blindness to social backgrounds , " Dr. Cabot afterward wrote , as if in elucidation of the italics , " is well illustrated by the recent remark of a hospital superintendent : want you to understand , ' he said to some one who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ habitual blindness to backgrounds ? ' I want you to understand that we want sense and not sentiment in this work . ' As if one should say , ' We want ears , but no eyes , in this work . ' " It was in 1905 that , under Dr. Cabot 's inspiration , the authorities of Bellevue appointed Miss Wadley head and sole worker of its social service department , which she has since developed until it is unexcelled in the country . On her staff to-day are three nurses who do service in the children 's division , instead of the one with whom we began in 1908 . An additional nurse is assigned to the psychopathic ward , where , through measured sympathy and contagious optimism , she persuades fate-vexed minds to return from the border-land of unreason into the sunlight of normal life . Three others devote their energies to general relief among the convalescents discharged or about to be discharged from the hospital ; and seven more follow the tuberculous patients into their homes , organize them into classes for instruction in curative regimens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their families , with the innumerable scattered charities of the city and State , and especially with those that specialize in the provision of milk and eggs and the maintenance of sanatoria . During 1909 this staff , supplemented by the occasional work of volunteers , had 6,792 patients in charge , they made 17,905 visits to tenements , secured admittance to tuberculosis sanatoria for 317 men , women , and children , and sent more than a thousand to fresh-air and convalescent homes . As agents of health , these social service nurses constitute the most important addition to the strength of the modern hospital that has been made since the introduction of microscopy and aseptic surgery . For a number of years I have had the opportunity of observing at close range the evolution of this important adjunct to our industrial Red Cross organization , and-out of this observation two questions have come that must , as I believe , have a determining influence upon its future . The first of these questions is this : How far-reaching is the need which hospital social service is attempting to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ qwq message that has come within the hour from an East Side physician who is seeking relief for a man in an advanced stage of tuberculosis . His patient , the physician tells me , has been a hard and steady worker all his days ; he is happily married and is blessed with three children . Years ago his doctor advised him to change his occupation for one that would keep him more in the open , and urged upon him the importance of checking his disease at the start by spending a few months at a sanatorium . But the man could n't afford time to get well . His income had not yielded a large surplus above his necessary expenses , and he feared that if he quit his job his family would starve . So he persevered at his work . In a few years he had completely sacrificed the choice between work and rest ; tuberculosis had made such inroads upon his vitality that he had to drop his tools . Then began the inevitable downward progress of the industrially unfit . He shortened rations for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; he pawned his watch and personal effects . Ten days ago he sold his last bed ; the entire family now take what comfort they can from the dark bedroom and kitchen floor . He is " so far gone " that our perennially overcrowded hospitals and sanatoria will not admit him ; their beds and open-air shacks must be reserved for those in whom disease has not cancelled the hope of recovery . Last week he applied for treatment at Bellevue . There he was told , in the kindest possible way , that Bellevue , like all except one or two hospitals within the city , is not equipped to care for advanced or chronic cases , and that the only place open to men in his desperate condition is the tuberculosis pavilion on Blackwell 's Island , where , under the shadow of the penitentiary and workhouse , the Department of Public Charities shelters consumptive paupers in the final stages of their decline . His sense of manhood rebelled against this offensive suggestion . Consequently the charitable society , upon whose good-will he has had to fall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followed the usual practice in explaining to him that , except in certain cases of widows with children , the funds of private philanthropy exist to tide over the temporarily VoL . CXXIII. ? No. 733. -5 disabled , not the chronically dependent . If he is recalcitrant and persists in exposing his children to infection by refusing to congregate with paupers on Blackwell 's Island , the charitable society , in conformity to precedent , will be compelled to discipline him by withholding food and rent from his family . His sole alternative is to surrender his children to be " put away " by the Department of Public Charities in some institution for dependent minors , in order that his wife may give her undivided energies to nursing and supporting him until he mercifully dies . In the mean time his mind is embittered , his family goes hungry , under-nourishment exposes his children to infection , and the misery of all five is extreme . The total human loss in this case it is too early to determine ; but if the records of similar cases which I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the actual and potential industrial energy of the entire family will be either wasted altogether or seriously impaired before the charity visitor stamps the case history Closed . How would this working - man have fared under the social insurance of Germany ? To begin with , he would have been able to take his doctor 's advice while his disease was incipient , because the German law ? for convenience in reference I quote or follow the Sage Foundation 's recent report on Working-men 's Insurance in Europe ? which is obligatory and " applies to all working - men and managing employees in mines , quarries , factories , and other industrial concerns , and to all persons employed in stores and offices , provided their yearly earnings are not over two thousand marks , . . . secures insured working - men a certain minimum benefit in case of disability , whether from accident or sickness , for a period of at least twenty-six weeks , which includes : ( 1 ) Free medical attendance , medicines , and medical appliances from the commencement of the illness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day , of one-half the daily wages , and in special cases free admittance to a hospital , with half the sick-benefit paid to the family for their support . " While not so munificent as to tempt him to dissemble , these provisions would have enabled this man to follow good medical counsel with an easy deleted material service , following the tradition of the charity , of which it is , after all , only a specialized offshoot , is entirely ignorant of what it spends or what it gains . The defence of hospital social service , as of charity , is not an incontrovertible bookkeeper 's balance , but the beautiful results attained in individual and exceptional cases . The reports of our social service departments , like those of our scattered and unco-ordinated charities , tell us what they individually spend ; but they neither tell us what they all spend together , nor do they relate their activities in any business-like way to the general well-being , or to increased or diminished industrial efficiency in city , State , or nation . It is said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fifty millions a year ; but nobody knows . Social service as it exists is kind , but partial and amateurish ; social insurance in Germany is impersonal , nationwide , and efficient . Where hospital social service has had its highest development , as in Bellevue , it reaches directly or refers to other charities a little more than one-tenth of the sick who come as public dependents to the hospital ; of the remaining nine-tenths , as of the sick and industrially disabled who escape or avoid public institutions , it never bears . In Germany , according to the statistics of 1907 , out of 15,400,000 wage-earners 12,480,502 were protected by the sickness insurance , and 14,958,118 were insured against old age and invalidity . When we are asked what our hospital social service has accomplished , we have no answer except our opinions and a bundle of more or less pathetic stories . The established results of social insurance enable the Sage Foundation to say that " the most striking fact in the remarkable industrial advance made by Germany is the improved condition of the great body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater effectiveness . . . . Whatever the limitations of the system of working-men 's insurance at the present time , even its severest critics are agreed that it is effectual . " Years of cordial co-operation with men and women who are striving to socialize our hospitals , and through them the public mind , by extending the work of the hospital beyond the narrow institutional walls into the homes of the people , have given me a deep reverence for their nobility of spirit and the excellence of their achievement in individual instances of sickness , poverty , and social maladjustment . They are undoubtedly right in believing that the establishment of hospital social service departments marks an epoch of momentous significance in the evolution of hospitals as instruments of human conservation . And yet the inevitable contrast between social service and social insurance compels the conclusion that until hospital social service becomes universal in its application , until it evolves some means of reaching the sick poor before their condition is desperate , and especially of protecting them from pauperization , and until it devises a method of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it must stand as an expression of our good intention rather than of our Lusiness foresight or scientific acumen .                     