@@430817

 | GREAT and certain of a glorious history appeared the Empire of the Hohenzollerns in 1914 , despite its conservative Junkers in Prussia , its arrogant officer caste , its rapacious great capitalists , and its muttering , disruptive , and impractical socialists . Of course its statesmen were facing the usual number of problems in finance and social reform common to every civilized state . They were also holding at arm's-length a very disagreeable demand for greater political liberties . Yet the material success of the empire was so great , and so marked was the ability of the Hohenzollern dynasts to justify its power by the efficient government , physical wellbeing , economic expansion , and national prestige which it had brought their subjects , that one could fairly say that the system which Bismarck had initiated in 1871 seemed in little danger of serious modification forty-three years later . In 1914 it was confidently lauded by its champions as a brilliant success , while the people committed to its fostering care were advancing economically from strength to strength . Even outside the empire , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it was regarded with a kind of bewildered admiration ? this system that appeared such a contradiction to all the theories of democracies , and which , nevertheless , seemed more efficient than they . How much better were the Germans ' commercial methods than the English , their army mobilization schemes than the French , or their city governments than the American ! For the solution of almost every material public problem Germany presented herself as the schoolhouse of the world . A foreign community almost automatically sent a commission to Germany to learn its approved methods , whether the question was that of establishing a municipal piggery or a college of music . Nevertheless , there was certainly one matter in which the fatherland gave no lessons to the rest of humanity . Along its northern , eastern , and western frontiers there were large and populous districts whereof the inhabitants were bitterly resentful of Berlin rule , and if a great war should break out , they could by no means be relied upon to pray for German victory . It is a nice question for political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has reached such a stage in its upward development that the tutelage of a civilized power should cease , and the subordinate people be left more or less to walk upon its own feet . All great nations , excluding Austria , but including America , had colonies in the tropics calling for considerable administration of the natives . But it is only a dealer in quiddities who claims that there is ordinarily the same resentfulness of outside political control in a Malay as in an Anglo-Saxon . In 1914 it was at least not supposed to be the proper thing for white men to deny large rights of self-government to other white men . It is true that this theory was often imperfectly developed . In Austria there was a regular complex of minor races jangling with the predominant Germans and Magyars and crying out lustily against real or alleged deeds of oppression . But Austria was not a nation , but a conglomerate . There could be no real hope , despite German and Magyar ambitions , of reducing all her peoples to one fixed type and mold . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heat engendered by the painful process of finding some system of federation which would be reasonably just and satisfactory to all parties . There was also the great fraction of Poland and the whole of Finland grasped in the clutch of Russian czardom and often brutally threatened with violent Russification . But this again was merely one phase of that whole outrageous system of " despotism tempered by inefficiency " that was paving the way for the Russian Revolution of 1917 . The Poles and Finns suffered differently , but hardly more grievously than did all the liberal elements of native Russians who felt the heavy weight of Nicholas II 's blundering machine . Once more , there was the case of Ireland , which certainly had been sorely tormented by its British rulers in the past , and now was clamoring for deliverance . But British public opinion had already resolved on extending to Ireland every kind of good gift and favor even to the point of almost complete self-government . The only real difficulty had been that twentyfive per cent . of Ireland ( Ulster ) had angrily refused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and threatened civil war if home rule were thrust upon it . None of these cases constituted a serious refutation to the general proposition that no European nation had the right to oppress the people of another European nation . As for France and Italy , there were no dwellers in those countries who did not wish to be counted Frenchmen or Italians , although just over their respective borders there were less happy districts that would probably have been very glad to transfer their allegiance to Paris or Rome . But incorporated within the German Empire were no fewer than three populous areas , inhabited by civilized Europeans , who detested the German rule and wished heartily for some different political connection . The Berlin Government had tried cajoling these people into becoming " good Germans , " and it had failed . It had tried coercing them ; it had still more completely failed . At least two of these national groups were seemingly less loyal and happy in their relations to Germany in 1914 than they had been , let us say , in 1884 . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physical integrity of the Hohenzollerns ' empire . The inability of the kaiser 's ministers to solve it was a proof that all the Prussian science , discipline , system , and efficiency could not meet vital human questions . The three regions that looked angrily away from the rest of Germany were Schleswig-Holstein , the Polish provinces on the east , and Alsace-Lorraine . It is best to begin with the first , because it was the least important . In 1864 Prussia , in alliance with Austria , had taken from the King of Denmark the duchies of Schleswig-Holstein , which had formerly been united by a kind of personal union with the Danish crown . In 1866 Bismarck , having defeated his late ally Austria in war , caused these countries to be annexed entirely to Prussia . Holstein had been an almost purely German land . Danish rule had not been popular . The region soon settled down under its new government , but the case of Schleswig was very different . The population contained no fewer than 200,000 Danes , occupying nearly all the northern portions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to become Germans and were proud of their Northern language and robust type of civilization . In 1866 , when , after Sadowa , Austria agreed to retire from all activity in German affairs , her statesmen had the grace to require that a clause be put in the treaty with Prussia specifically providing that " the population of the northern district of Schleswig , when by a popular vote it shall have expressed its wish to be incorporated with Denmark , shall be surrendered to that country . " This clause never remained more than a pious wish . There was strong feeling in Germany at the time that the forcible incorporation of the Danes was by no means advisable . " It would be a wise and statesmanlike act to renounce North Schleswig voluntarily , " declared the " Kolnische Zeitung , " one of the most influential papers in Prussia , in 1866 . But Bismarck seldom relaxed his grip on anything . In his speeches he said  | that the treaty must be fulfilled , but that the vote must come only after time enough had elapsed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that their action was " independent and voluntary . " But this happy time , when the region could be trusted to settle its own destinies , never arrived . If government mandates from Berlin could have solved the Schleswig problem , it would have vanished speedily . A ministerial order commanded all school children in the region to learn by heart twenty songs from the official song-book . Of these twelve were German national or war songs , and one of them was the famous " Preussenlied , " with its refrain , " Ich bin ein Preusse . " As for local history , schoolmasters were forbidden to teach their charges anything of the annals of Denmark or even anything of those of Schleswig prior to 1864 , the date of the conquest . Only strictly German history prior to that time could be taught , and that , too , in text-books wherein the rulers of Prussia were extolled as patriotic demigods whose sole end was the good of their people , and who had rescued poor Schleswig from the tyrannous clutches of Denmark . Where the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process . Children who spoke Danish in the school or on its playground were subject to punishment . By such means no doubt outward obedience was often maintained , but the stolid , unbending Northern farmers continued proof against this type of petty persecution . They were without hope of rescue by weak Denmark , and the Prussian Juggernaut might grind over them , suppress their papers , silence or banish their native pastors , flog their children , but it could not make them Prussians or make them wish to be Prussians . The Danish problem was bad , but , after all , the Schleswig malcontents reckoned , possibly , barely .25 per cent . of the whole population of Germany . It was wholly different with the Polish problem . On the eve of the Great War over 3,800,000 subjects of William II @# called themselves Poles instead of Prussians , and the question of their Germanization and loyalty was one of the weighty questions for the fatherland . The third and last partition of Poland had taken place in 1795 . In 1815 there had been a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prussia , Russia , and Austria , but no restoration of the Polish kingdom . The joint crime of Frederick the Great , Catharine of Russia , and Maria Theresa ' and her descendants had never been punished . It is true that during its independent days Poland had been afflicted by one of the craziest and most unworkable systems of government ever possessed by a so-called civilized country ? an elective kingship , with only nominal powers for the ruler and with an unlimited opportunity for lawless nobles to do that which was right in their own eyes . True again , the oppressions of the peasantry by their noble lords had been so great that when the foreign conquerors entered the land , the patriotic upper classes could not get enough support from the lower classes to make Kosciusko 's last resistance more than brave , but hopeless , heroism . True likewise that economic and agricultural conditions in independent Poland had been utterly primitive , as bad as in medieval Russia , with few towns , fewer roads , squalor , poverty , and superstition everywhere . Nevertheless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century had been one of those great crimes against the justice of history that surely will return and plague the offending empires . It . certainly returned to plague Prussia . Shortly before 1914 there were about 21,000,000 persons speaking Polish , and all of them willing candidates for citizenship in a revived Polish kingdom . Of these about 3,800,000 were in Germany , 5,000,000 in Austria , and 12,000 , - 000 in Russia . The czar thus grasped the largest fraction of the unhappy race as well as Warsaw , its old capital . The Poles did not love their Russian masters . They were Catholics ; the Russians were " Orthodox , " and were not at all tender in the means whereby they prop-  | agated their type of Christianity . The czars , especially since the abortive revolution of 1863 , had stamped out almost the last vestige of local liberty for the Poles , had exiled and imprisoned their leaders right and left , had induced Russian adventurers to settle in the land and given them office and preferment , had discouraged the Polish language @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The condition of the Russian Poles was therefore bad . But it was not hopeless . They lay on the edge of Russia , and were only on paper an integral part thereof . Russian officialdom was often brutal , stupid , and corrupt ; but it was usually also inefficient . It was sometimes a long way from publishing a czar 's ukase to enforcing its harsh details in a Polish village . ' The better type of Russian officials were more urbane , tactful , and more complaisant than their companions just across the Prussian border . Above all , every intelligent Pole knew that the old regime in Russia could not last forever . When it went down , the Russian liberals could not belie themselves by refusing decent justice to Poland . The Russian fraction of the Poles therefore often lived most uncomfortably , but they lived in hope . Likewise the Austrian Poles had their consolations . They were subject indeed to the Government at Vienna ; but in the distracted Dual Monarchy , where every possible helper was needed to aid the Germans and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Poles were able to get a good price for a steady support of Francis Joseph 's ministers . In return for the pro-German votes of their deputies at Vienna , they were able to extract local liberties and the free use of their language in education , etc. , to an extent never enjoyed by the other two fractions of their race . For the time they submitted fairly cheerfully to Austria . They knew that the Hapsburg monarchy was an utterly artificial consolidation ; at any moment it might transform itself and leave them their freedom . Till then they were respected in their language , religion , and institutions . No thoroughgoing attempts were made to render them Germans . They also could bide their time . But the hopes of the Prussian Poles were much less certain , and their present lot much better . After all , Russian and Pole had one great common tie : both were Slays . Austrian and Pole at least shared the common lot of being Catholics . Prussian and Pole found themselves opposed alike as Protestant against Catholic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any case serious . Before the partition the Poles had not always been extremely zealous Catholics . In the sixteenth century a large fraction of the nation had seemed about to become Presbyterian , although the old religion had presently regained the upper hand . But now the mere fact that their Prussian masters represented an extremely conservative and aggressive type of Protestantism made the Poles cling to their religion both as a matter of patriotism and of faith . Deprived of their own governors and kings , they rallied around their priests and archbishops as the visible heads of the nation . This of course aroused the religious ire of the Protestants . In 1914 the eastern provinces of Kaiser Wilhelm were some of the few places in the civilized world where the old religious feuds , which had once everywhere arrayed Christian against Christian , still burned hot , and intruded into politics . There was no hope of stilling the issue , because it had become one of race loyalty . The Iron Chancellor set himself like flint against any proposition to restore Polish independence . " Any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Poland is impossible without the breaking up and decomposing of Prussia . " The proposed remedy was therefore gradually to grind down and Germanize the Poles by a wholesale introduction of Teutonic colonists for whom lands were to be provided by the public exchequer . A land commission was set up . Small farms were to be purchased and parceled out to German colonists on extremely convenient terms . It was relatively easy for Bismarck to get his  | scheme for an eastern land commission and a liberal appropriation through the Prussian parliament . It was entirely another matter actually to get the land itself . The Poles , who had hitherto been somewhat dormant in their patriotism , now rallied generally to meet the common danger . Against the government subsidies and grants they pitted their private loan and self-help societies and banks , in which great Slavic noblemen invested liberally , to enable their peasantry to hold their own . The Pole who sold land to the Prussian land commission had to face the anathema of the parish priest and the boycott of all his neighbors . What land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the region who , getting anxious and disgusted at the situation , were glad to sell out and move away . The Polish private land societies took advantage of this condition to buy German land themselves in districts next to their own , thus extending the holdings of the Polish peasants . Only about thirty per cent . of the land the government commission was able to purchase came from Poles ; the rest came from Germans . It had been robbing Peter to pay Paul . In 1911 it was estimated that the whole result of this competition had been the net gain by the Poles of some 240,000 acres which had enjoyed German ownership prior to 1896 or earlier . The struggle was intensified in 1902 when Chancellor von Billow introduced a bill in Prussia to give teeth to the powers of the land commission by the compulsory expropriation of the lands of the Polish peasants . The results , however , were still unsatisfactory . Even Prussian officialdom could not coerce German farmers to quit comfortable estates elsewhere in the empire and settle in a land where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were without congenial associates , and sometimes needed police protection . The Polish villagers clung in desperation to their traits and their language , and their unwelcome guests had perforce to assimilate themselves to have the least companionship . @# Against this tenacious use of their native vernacular the Prussian regime fought with the same soldiery it had mobilized in Schleswig ? the schoolmasters . Up to 1872 Polish studies had not been entirely taboo in the annexed provinces , but in that year German was made the sole language in the elementary schools , save only that instruction in religion ' was at first permitted , at least in the lower grades , in the native vernacular . But speedily even this privilege began to be curtailed . As fast as children learned enough German in the lower grade secular studies they were transferred to the German " religion classes . " Inasmuch as religion and national patriotism , to a Polish mind , were closely intertwined , this measure was likely to produce the maximum of resentment . The clergy sided with the people against requiring the children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ language . " It was branded as merely a clumsy attempt to inculcate Protestantism . The lot of the Germanspeaking priest commissioned to teach the most precise kind of Catholicism , but in the hated tongue , was no happy one . His authority was constantly defied in every possible manner . At last in 1906 came the famous school-strike . In over 1000 schools in Posen and West Prussia some 60,000 scholars , under instructions from their parents , refused to answer questions in German on the catechism or to learn German hymns . The Polish press and clergy egged them on and applauded . The enforced use of German was styled " a sinful desecration of the Catholic religion " and " a tyranny over the conscience in which only the devil in the gorge of hell and the Prussian Government could find satisfaction . " The children , under such pious urgings , greeted their unlucky " religious teacher " with Polish songs and execrations , or strewed the roadside with fragments of their German catechisms . The Prussian Government of course retaliated by every means in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parents who encouraged them openly were fined ; if they took them  | away from school outright , the parents were sent to prison . But as a most effective measure of all the Government appointed additional teachers to the staffs in malcontent villages . The salaries of these extra instructors of course fell directly on the little communities . These increased taxes broke the back of the mutiny . By Easter , 1907 , it was ended , but leaving a heritage of hatred in all the Poles of the rising generation . It was a decidedly Pyrrhic victory for Prussia . The Polish problem , therefore , was much like the Schleswig problem , only larger , more bitter , and much more dangerous . But still more dangerous was that of Alsace-Lorraine . Schleswig had only a very weak country to sympathize with its troubles and to dream of its rescue . Prussian Poland had no friend among the independent nations at all , for all its brethren were in other houses of bondage ; but Alsace-Lorraine had a mighty friend close at hand , who never let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his French countrymen , concerning the loss of the two provinces , " Think of it often , speak of it never ! " But an injunction to such heroic silence was not always obeyed by a great , but sometimes voluble , nation . Every fourteenth of July , the Bastile national holiday , a solemn procession moved through Paris to place a wreath of mourning on the statue personifying the genius of Strasburg . The remembrance of the disaster of 1870-71 was kept alive by every veteran of Sedan and of the great siege . It was sometimes hard for responsible statesmen to keep expressions of national resentment within bounds and to prevent a serious affront to Germany ; for French military men knew perfectly well the excellence of the kaiser 's warmachine and that in any new duel in which France fought without allies her cause might seem good , but her case would be desperate . As time went on , as material prosperity returned to France , as a new generation with new interests arose , the memory of the original loss became a little less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who argued that sensible French-@# men realized that the lost provinces were lost forever , and had only an academic interest in their problems . However , the instant war was declared that year , it was as plain as day that the Alsace-Lorraine question was one of the very first issues in the great debate . Possibly if the lost provinces had seemed reasonably contented and happy under their new rulers , Frenchmen would not have been reminded of their disaster so often . But to provide tactful masters did not lie in the German genius . In 1914 Alsace-Lorraine was barely , if any , more reconciled to its fate than in 1871 , when the tearful deputies of the two regions quitted the despairing National Assembly at Bordeaux which had voted them away . The poet Schiller , whose precepts have been called oracles by his countrymen , once asserted , " The noblest sign of culture ( Bildung ) is respect for other peoples ' liberty . " Such a sign of culture was never given by Prussian Kultur . Of course the annexation was a direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as has been explained , had hesitated about taking all the land which Moltke and the military camarilla demanded . " As you see , we are keeping Metz , " he told an English journalist , " but I confess I do not like that part of the arrangement . Strasburg is German in speech , and will be so in heart ten years hence : Metz , however , is French , and will be a hot-bed of disaffection for a long time to come . " ' Bismarck was right about Metz . He was grievously wrong about Strasburg . In 1914 the Germans had to take almost as many precautions against sedition in one city as in the other . Unfortunately the conquerors had never learned the sage proverb , " The more haste , the less speed . " If loyal subjects of the kaiser could have been made by ministerial edicts from Berlin , the Alsatians would have been instantly contented and happy ; but they were not Brandenburgers . Their lands had been trampled over by invading armies , their homes had often been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and down the whole land they were still mourning their dead . On Sep-@#  | tember 30 , 1872 , the new Government , however , enforced its edict , compelling all the people to decide whether they wished to be Germans or Frenchmen . If Germans , they must submit to the new regime . If Frenchmen , they must prepare speedily to quit the land of their fathers , wherein they were now counted as alien interlopers . As a result , at the very least 45,000 persons , in the main among the most intelligent and promising young men in the land , deliberately took the sorrowful road to exile . Almost simultaneously the teaching of the French language in elementary schools was forbidden . Under French  | occupation a certain mongrel type of German had always been spoken in the Alsatian villages . ' The French had never troubled about this . It had not prevented the Alsatians from , being zealous patriots . Now , by a natural reaction , many a Teuton-speaking Alsatian prided himself on chattering also a little bad French . But what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instant enforcement of the German military conscription . Their slain brethren in the French uniform were hardly cold and buried before the youth of the two provinces were commanded to don the spiked helmet and follow the Prussian drill-sergeant . Vain were protests . Twelve thousand Alsatian young men at that time fled from their homeland merely to escape the kaiser 's livery , and entered the French army . The rest submitted outwardly , but with a sullen spirit that made them of most dubious value as soldiers . The conquerors had , in fact , adopted a relentless policy of " thorough " and held to it with native tenacity . Under the French regime , whatever the government at Paris , the Alsatians had enjoyed pretty complete local autonomy . The French prefect had usually been a lax , good-natured functionary , only meddling in serious cases . The Government had no doubt been haphazard , unscientific , somewhat inefficient ? and popular . Now everything was changed . A swarm of officials with all the Prussian characteristics , plus even greater rigidity , thanks to feeling themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Kultur , was turned loose on the land with autocratic powers . Down to 1879 the two provinces were ruled virtually by a military dictator sent from Berlin . In that year an attempt was made to set up a simulacrum of constitutional rule . The provinces were henceforth to be a Reichsland , a dominion held by all the empire in common , not by Prussia merely , but with the kaiser appointing the governor-general and otherwise exercising pretty complete sway . There was to be a local elective diet and other forms of political freedom , but the powers of the governor-general and his council , appointed by the crown , were such that voters could do little more than register public protests by their ballots at one governmental act after another . The Berlin rulers did indeed make a serious attempt to conciliate local opinion by sending down for once a really humane and enlightened governor , Baron von Manteuffel . Manteuffel won the personal good will of the people he was sent to govern , but his very condescension raised against him enemies at home . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the enemy " because he adopted mild measures ; and the horde of lesser officials who had swarmed into the new province , greedy adventurers , ? " carpet-baggers , Americans would call them , ? anxious only to seize on every public post , tyrannize , and grow fat , denounced him as little better than a traitor . In 1887 he died . The Alsatians mourned him , but he had not convinced them their new masters were anything but despots . The small-fry officials felt that their time was now come . Kindness had failed ; " proper severity " should now teach these returned , but ungrateful , sons of the fatherland to appreciate their blessings . What happened soon after is thus summed up by Paul Hymans , a native Alsatian : Within a few months Alsace was subjected to every kind of German brutality . Deputies were expelled , and Alsatian societies were dissolved . Political prosecutions took place on every side , for offenses such as seditious cries or emblems , membership in the " League of Patriots , " high treason , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by their French relatives , intercourse with persons beyond the frontier was made impossible by a regulation prescribing the use of passports . There was even a report that Bismarck wished there would be an insurrection , in the hope of crushing disaffection once for all in blood . The natives were too wise for such  | folly . They offered the passive resistance which is always exasperating to a government that demands inward submission as well as external obedience . Of course all important government offices were retained by Germans from across the Rhine . Immigrants were sent in from Prussia to take the farms of the exiles who had gone to France , just as other colonists had been sent into the Polish lands . The newcomers naturally were treated as pariahs by the natives . In all about 300,000 Germans thus settled in the Reichsland ; but they remained a mere army of occupation among the 1,550 , - 000 odd natives , who longed to see them go . They were only so many untactful provocatives to friction and a new disloyalty . After William II had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worst of the regime of petty officials that had followed Manteuffel . William , however , by his speeches gave small encouragement to the hopes of the Alsatians for a revocation of the deed of 1871 . " We would rather , " said he in an oration , " sacrifice our eighteen army corps and our 42,000,000 inhabitants on the field of battle than surrender a single stone my father and his generals . . . have gained . " From the beginning of the third emperor 's reign down to the eve of the great conflict matters did not better themselves . Sometimes it was a case of petty persecution , sometimes of grievous invasion of ordinary human rights . The police played a kind of game with the French press of the two provinces , suppressing it on every pretext possible . By passport regulations they did their uttermost to prevent Frenchmen from visiting Alsace and Alsatians from visiting France . When a historical drama was offered in Strasburg which required a display of the tricolor in one scene , the Government forbade the use of the offending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the use of the Dutch flag , wherein the red , white , and blue strips run horizontally instead of vertically . Finally in 1911 the German authorities conferred on their Reichsland a moderately complete autonomy , with a real local constitution , putting it somewhat on a par with the other German states , although the governor-general was still sent down from Berlin , and there were other unpleasant evidences of servitude . This long-delayed benevolence produced no happy results . When the European conflict began , it was clear enough that the German attempt to assimilate Alsace had failed utterly . " In Alsace-Lorraine we are in an enemy 's country , " a Prussian statesman is quoted as saying , and the kaiser 's forces were sent through the country with a healthy anxiety lest the first defeat make the whole region blaze up in revolt behind them . Many of the " needful severities " the Germans inflicted on Belgium were explained as being absolutely unavoidable , because the experience of Alsace-Lorraine had demonstrated that a policy of " leniency " was useless for a conquered population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an American writer has well put it , that " begotten as the Prussian system had been under conditions where iron discipline was a requisite for success , thoroughly convinced of its own efficiency , it knew no law but that of force , and failed in those peaceful contests where victory must be won by conciliation . " X ll . THE BALKAN KINGDOMS AND THEIR REVOLUTIONS AFTER the ink had dried on the signatures to the Treaty of Berlin , the several diplomats of the great powers went home , England and Russia disarmed , the world breathed easier , and the chart-makers prepared a new map for the Balkans . Rumania and Serbia speedily signalized their new independence by causing their rulers to be proclaimed kings , but Nicholas of Montenegro contented himself with the more modest status of prince for some decades longer . For a while none of these countries had more than occasional mention in the Western newspapers , although Montenegro had much friction with Turkey before she secured the boundaries assigned her by the Berlin settlement . Rumania 's problems were  | mainly those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bulgaria over the unsatisfactory frontier given Rumania in the Dobrudja . Serbia watched the appearance of a Christian neighbor on her eastern flank with ill-disguised concern . She had expected to be the reversionary heir to a large part of the Balkans as the Ottomans perished , and , lo ! here was Bulgaria , a certain rival , crowding up against her . Nevertheless , for many years it was not on Belgrade or Bukharest that European eyes were turning . They gave a fleeting glance upon Bosnia , which was not occupied and " pacified " by Austria until after bitter resistance by the Moslem element among the natives and some really desperate fighting , but they were soon steadily fixed upon Bulgaria . Here was a new state in Balkan politics , and an unknown quantity is always perplexing and interesting . In 1870 hardly any western European knew where the district of Bulgaria was . In 1880 its affairs were discussed even in obscure journals in distant America . Bulgaria had been kept small and subdivided because Disraeli had expected that the new country would be almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Turkestan , but Great Britain and Austria had not been able to deny to Russia the task of organizing the country preparatory to setting up its new government . The Bulgar peasants were at first grateful to their liberators from Muscovy , but soon began to complain how the czar 's commissioner filled up all the public positions with Russians and otherwise showed that he felt he was over a kind of subject province . His intention was to tie Bulgaria to her great protector in the closest possible manner . A parliament , elected by the people , was set up , and this Sobranje was endowed with very great power , although the prince was permitted decided latitude in interfering with its workings . The commissioner firmly believed that the prince and the Sobranje would be perpetually quarreling , and that the prince would have to lean steadily upon the advice of the czar in order to keep down his subjects . What the Russian never reckoned upon was that the new prince and the new popular parliament , refusing to quarrel , might unite against their " protector @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to happen . Under these auspices , and with decided Russian concurrence , the Bulgarians found themselves selecting Prince Alexander of Battenberg , a son of the Prince of Hesse and a nephew of the czar , as their first ruler ( 1879 ) . He was only twenty-two years old when proclaimed , but he had already served as a cadet at Plevna and still later as a Prussian lieutenant . Alexander began by governing with the aid of the extreme pro-Russian element among his subjects . He soon found himself at odds with the Sobranje , wherein the so-called Nationalists ( anti-Russians ) were in the majority . But the prince was soon disgusted at the way the czar 's generals thrust themselves into Sofia , monopolized the ministries , and treated the prince not as their master , but as their tool . Alexander was a German and he did not mix well with the Russians . In 1883 he suddenly restored the suspended constitution and sent the two chief Russian ministers out of the country . From that moment it was evident that Bulgaria was not about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great revolution in European opinion . Czar Alexander II was now dead . Czar Alexander III branded Prince Alexander as an ingrate and quasi-traitor to Russia , to whom he owed his crown , and began at once to undermine his authority . But in England the feeling soon developed that Bulgaria was not likely to be such a peril to British interests as had been feared . She was henceforth a principality to be encouraged , not crushed . Meantime , that purely artificial segment of Bulgaria , Eastern Rumelia , which had been set off as an " autonomous province of the Turkish Empire , " had naturally used its partial freedom to develop hopes for a complete union under its true government at Sofia . On September 18 , 1885 , at Philippopolis , the capital , a band of Christian officers forced their way into the pasha 's palace and informed him that his rule was at an end . The sultan , taken by sur-  | prise , for an instant did nothing . All eyes were turned toward Prince Alexander at Sofia . The prince @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his ministers gave him the choice of advancing to Philippopolis or retiring to Darmstadt . The prince went straight to Philippopolis , and the Sobranje at once approved the union . Europe was thus confronted by that most disagreeable thing to explain away ? an accomplished deed . English diplomacy realized that a strong barrier state between Russia and the remnant of Turkey in Europe would be a great hindrance to the czar , and the latter had played straight into the hands of London by alienating the Bulgars . Acting mainly under British pressure , Sultan Abdul-Hamid did not resist the union of Eastern Rumelia with Bulgaria . A notable change seemed to have taken place on the map of the Balkans without a shot being fired . Alexander of Russia had hesitated to coerce Bulgaria directly through fear of a world war ; but there was a much weaker ruler than he who was jealous , angry , and irresponsible , King Milan of Serbia . Very probably Austria now egged him on . Doubtless personal ambition impelled him also . In any case it was easy to tell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Balkans " had been destroyed , and that they must expand their boundaries at the expense of Bulgaria , which was waxing too fast . On November 14 , 1885 , Serbia suddenly declared war on Bulgaria . All the cards seemed in Milan 's favor . The Bulgar army was a wholly new creation , untested in battle . The czar suddenly recalled all the numerous Russian officers who had acted as its instructors , and military Europe imagined Prince Alexander as left utterly in the lurch , for the Serbians were experienced veterans of the wars with Turkey . The war lasted only fourteen days . " Bulgaria had gained from Serbia neither territory nor money ; neither Pirot a disputed town nor pigs , " but she did gain recognition of her right to Eastern Rumelia , and better still a consciousness of her own strength and powers of achievement . One might have imagined that this victory would have assured Alexander of his throne , but in a very few months he was actually to lose it . After the Battle of Slivnitza the prince failed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered their due . These discontented men speedily became conspirators under Russian influence . After some preliminary intrigues , on the night of August 21 , 1886 , a regiment of disloyal troops suddenly mutinied at Sofia , surrounded the princely palace , and the arch-conspirators forced their way into Alexander 's bedroom . The prince escaped into the garden , but was chased back with bayonets . The leading rebels tore a sheet out of a visitor 's book on the table , scrawled a few words announcing an abdication and forced Alexander to sign . He was then hustled into a carriage , and driven at full speed to the Danube , on reaching which he was thrust upon his own yacht , and her bows were pointed toward Russia . There was a celebration by the mutineers in Sofia , and even a Te Deum in the cathedral over " the liberation of Bulgaria from Prince Battenberg " ; but from the outset many officers in the garrison had held aloof . Above all , Stambuloff , the most powerful of the ministers , set his face against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of popular feeling swept the mutineers out of power , and enabled Stambuloff to telegraph to Alexander to return to his people . The prince had been landed in Russia , but the czar 's government had not dared actually to detain him . He now returned in triumph , amid the plaudits of all Bulgaria . Had luck favored him he could have resumed his government amid great popularity and the sympathy of nearly all non-Muscovite Europe , but he ruined his position by a grievous blunder . While returning to Bulgaria he telegraphed to the czar in a vain attempt to propitiate his mighty protector , " Russia having given me my crown ; I am ready to give it back to its sovereign . " Magnanimity , however , was no quality of the cold and ungenerous Alexander III . He took his unlucky namesake at his word . Instantly  | the czar published in the official paper at St. Petersburg , " I can not approve your return to Bulgaria , as I foresee the sinister consequences that it may bring on that country , already so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you must do . " The prince was received with frantic joy in Bulgaria ; but to the great grief of his subjects he at once called his faithful officers around him and announced that he must again abdicate . His word was pledged to the czar ; besides , he felt the whole safety of the new Bulgarian state would be compromised if he endeavored to hold his position in the face of the enmity of his mighty neighbor . The decisive factor may well have been the attitude of Germany . Bismarck was throwing all his influence against the prince not because of personal dislike , but because he feared an . attempt by Russia to eject him by force would precipitate a general European war , and since 1870 Bismarck , after his lights , had become a zealous friend of peace . It was best for the prince to go quietly , and he went . Alexander left Bulgaria on September 7 , 1886 , amid the open lamentations of his people ; but it was a Pyrrhic victory for the czar . Austria and England alike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to compromise the freedom of Bulgaria or to dictate its internal affairs , and Stambuloff , as head of the Bulgarian regents , flatly refused to be bullied . For the next eight years Stambuloff , the son . of a poor innkeeper , was the uncrowned ruler of the principality . The Russophile intrigued incessantly against him , but he had taken their measure : the czar would threaten , but he dared not fight , and so Stambuloff went on his way . For six months after the exit of Prince Alexander the Bulgarian crown was hawked around Europe for some eligible prince to accept . So long as the czar refused to recognize the candidate elected by Stambuloff 's government , the princely crown had only a very uncertain value . But in December , 1886 , a man of hardihood was found ? Prince Ferdinand of Saxe-Coburg , a German prince who , however , had also the advantage of descent from Louis Philippe , one-time king of the French . He was , in addition , a relative of Queen Victoria . The new prince had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Russia at his accession , but no great harm was done by this save that the czar had , as a consequence , no diplomatic representative at Sofia . For a long time the government was conducted by Stambuloff , while Ferdinand slowly learned the situation and felt his way . The great minister did a notable work for Bulgaria , but in the end he overplayed his part . The prince , who had been cannily gathering the reins into his own hands , and who was now sure of his position , was able to dispense with his too formidable vice-regent . In 1894 he forced Stambuloff to resign , and all the fallen minister 's enemies rejoiced over him . They were not content merely to drive him from power ; in 1895 he was set upon by three assassins and murdered with great brutality , while the Government hardly lifted a finger to avenge him . For the next ten years the Western world heard comparatively little of Bulgaria . It was impossible , despite the outward reconciliation , for Ferdinand of Bulgaria ever to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dominance of the Balkans implied death to the hopes , ever developing more clearly , that Bulgaria should become the preponderant Balkan State . Besides , the relations of Germany and Russia grew steadily less cordial , and Ferdinand was , after all , a German prince , sent on his adventure with the good wishes of Berlin . Not until 1908 , however , was he to begin to show his hand ; then the " prince " proclaimed himself to all the world the independent and sovereign Czar of Bulgaria . While Bulgaria thus seemed to be developing a solid and advancing prosperity , and was receding from the unwelcome lime-light , her western neighbor was far less fortunate . The annals of Serbia are almost as gory and troublous as those of medieval Scotland . The country was small , poor , and often unmanageable ; yet it was evident that a  | naturally gifted , intelligent people was struggling upward to the light , although handicapped earlier by the direct tyranny of the Turks , and hindered in great measure later by the absence of any seaport @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of commercial outlet . King Milan was no man to free his country from this bondage . A throne to him was not a trust , but an opportunity . His queen , Natalie , however , was a Russian lady of strong anti-Austrian tendencies . This split the court asunder , and upon these national antipathies came personal scandals and finally a divorce , which horrified all the prudes in Europe . The defeat by Bulgaria in 1885 of course undermined Milan 's popularity . He granted a liberal constitution in 1888 , but could not make the people love him . In 1889 , disgusted with the burdens of his inglorious royalty , he abdicated . In his stead ruled his son Alexander , only thirteen years old when he began his reign , and consequently at first represented by three regents . In 1893 Alexander suddenly threw off the restraints of boyhood and invited his three regents to a dinner party , where he smilingly arrested them ; then he issued a proclamation declaring himself of age , and assumed the actual government . In 1894 , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberal constitution of 1889 and restoring the autocratic one of 1869 , and for the next six years he ruled with a high hand . In 1900 Alexander proceeded to marry a waiting lady of his mother , a certain Mme. Draga Mashin , " the widow of a Bohemian engineer " and herself of " Bohemian tendencies , " which Belgrade gossip at once exaggerated . No heir was born to this union , and quickly rumors spread that the new queen was busy arranging that one of her own brothers should be declared successor to the throne . The king and queen became intensely unpopular . All the cafes and officers ' messes in the Serbian capital developed into hotbeds of intrigue . Alexander felt that his position was becoming undermined and made vain efforts to save himself . He restored the suspended liberal institutions ; then , seeing this brought no love from radicals , suspended them , then restored them again , with drastic revisions , however , in favor of autocracy . On the night of June 10 , 1903 , the king and queen were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peter Karageorgevich , an elderly gentleman who had spent most of his life in Geneva in exile . Whether the new ruler had been cognizant of all the conspiracy is not certain ; assuredly he was innocent of the murder . However , he had to face his bitter troubles . He was at first the mere puppet of the regicides and dared not punish them . The great powers all eyed him with utter suspicion , but little by little King Peter won back the good graces of Europe . He took oath to rule as a liberal constitutional monarch , and he held to his promise , while , he gradually developed firmness enough to remove the regicides from power ( 1906 ) . From that time till the outbreak of the Balkan wars unlucky Serbia entered upon a period of comparatively peaceful economic development , and the little country receded from the public eye . Meanwhile Greece was showing the world the melancholy example of a small nation carried away by the memories of a great past and by a keen ambition for the instant realization of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had not been awarded a greater part of Thessaly and Epirus , following the Berlin Congress . She had kept quiet during the Russo-Turkish War on the strength of repeated assurances from the powers that she could get more by keeping still and trusting to their generosity than by drawing the sword . These promises had been very poorly kept . Crete , a large island close to Greece , and with the majority of its inhabitants strongly Christian and Hellenic in their sympathies , had been left to the misrule of the sultan . Between the Christian majority and the Moslem minority of the Cretan population there had been almost chronic civil war . In 1896 the insurgents were more than ordinarily active , and their kinsmen in Greece seethed with anxiety to rescue them and to annex the island .  | Most of the great powers , especially England , sympathized platonically with the Greek demand for the ending of Turkdom in Crete , but Germany , already drawing nigh to her Ottoman friend on the Bosporus , set her face like flint against any scheme to dismember the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other powers . Therefore with united voice the foreign ministries warned King George of Greece to restrain his people from drawing the sword on Turkey . Unfortunately , it was not in the power of King George to wait . In Athens ardent patriots utterly despised the fighting power of the Turks , and courageously ignored the feebleness and lack of organization of the Greek Army . The king 's hand was forced . He had to choose between yielding to popular clamor or losing his throne , and he preferred to keep the latter . In February , 1897 , a Greek torpedo flotilla and a small body of troops were sent to Crete . The war-ships of the great powers prevented them from expelling the Turkish garrisons , but this only made national feeling burn the hotter . King George understood the situation perfectly , but his people had not drawn the sword since 1829 and were arrogant in their confidence of victory . Checked in Crete , these overzealous patriots began raids in Macedonia . Abdul-Hamid could restrain himself no more . He knew that his army was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any mishap , and accordingly the " Thirty Days ' War " followed . Turkey declared war April 17 , 1897 . Instantly the Greek bubble burst . Edhem Pasha promptly broke the Greek lines in northern Thessaly , and sent the army of Crown Prince Constantine back in headlong rout to Larissa , which they were fain to evacuate . The defeated Hellenes rallied and fought again , more stoutly , but equally vainly , at Pharsalos . A third defeat at Domokos forced the defenders to retire still farther south , and take their last stand at the classic Pass of Thermopylm . When the news of Domokos reached Athens there was panic in the capital . Popular clamor accused the innocent king of betraying the national cause . Yet there was nothing for it but to confess that the case was desperate and ask for an armistice . On May 20 , 1897 , the Turks were compelled to give one . Even Germany could not risk the complications if Abdul-Hamid seemed too triumphant . The powers , however , compelled the Greeks to pay for this gallant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Crete by tasting all the dregs of defeat . Certain strategically located villages in Thessaly were ceded back to Turkey by the final treaty of peace , and Greece had to submit to a war indemnity of about $20,000,000 , a heavy burden for so small a nation . Nevertheless , the efforts of the Greek patriots were not wholly vain . The conditions in Crete were intolerable . Germany and her satellite Austria openly washed their hands of the business and declared they could do nothing that might displease the sultan , but the other four great powers were less squeamish . Actually eject the Turks from Crete they would not , but in 1898 they set up what amounted to an autonomous government in the island , with all the preponderance granted to the Christian majority , confined the Turkish garrison to an islet in Suda Bay , where alone the sultan 's crescent flag was to be kept flying , and , last , but not least , appointed Prince George of Greece to the post of " High Commissioner of the Powers , under the suzerainty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a governor-general was of course tacit admission that the claims of Greece to the island were wellfounded . The results of the change were soon evident . An efficient gendarmerie under Italian officers restored peace to the afflicted island . Many of the Mohammedans , now that they had ceased to be the governing class , emigrated quietly to Asia Minor , thus simplifying the religious situation . Crete became a reasonably prosperous and well-ordered petty republic , although the desires for final annexation to Greece never died away , and on the eve of the Balkan wars were to blow up again to white heat .                     