@@486720

Political landslides are in several respects true to their analogy . In politics , as in nature , when a great dislocation occurs , the loosened masses sweep along with them a vast amount of offensive rubbish . A landslip can not discriminate , but takes in its rush barren rocks , as well as fruitful soil ; and if heaps of refuse are in its course , they , too , are borne onward and may appear to be the most prominent thing on the surface . And in the history of our political upheavals we know well that , along with good men , many of the unfit or even scoundrelly are carried into office . This haS been true of both parties . The Cleveland landslide of 1892 gave a temporary grip on political power , in the States and in Congress , to many an incompetent , many a corruptionist , many ' a party traitor . And the successive Republican electoral sweeps from 1896 to 1908 brought to the front a more precious set of rascals than those whose presence in the Continental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be an exception to the rule ? Probably not in its entirety . A great deal of the wood , hay , and stubble that the landslide of last month fetched away with it , will doubtless remain as a vexatious incident of a political movement which was , in the main , needed and wholesome . But there is noticeable to-day one difference from former periods of the kind , and that is the encouraging anxiety of the Democratic party to take measures betimeb to prevent the landslide frona being obscured by the dirt . What we particularly mean is the effort put forth in the States which unexpectedly chose Democratic Legislatures , and which now have it in their power to elect Democratic United States Senators , to secure the choice of men from whom neither the party nor the nation will be compelled to walk backward with averted gaze . About this matter , there appears to be a new and gratifying sensitiveness , and a surer party sagacity . It is felt that action must be taken before the mischief is done . Loyal and sensible Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope to elect in 1912 , hampered and betrayed as Cleveland was by the Gormans and Brices and Smiths and Murphys who were in the Senate of his day . That is the chief reason why the Senatorial contests in New Jersey and Ohio and New York are followed with such interest throughout the country To avoid being handicapped and mortified and discredited by unworthy Senators after their election , the brains and morals of the Democratic party desire to take a bond of fate by preventing such a choice at all . That is the explanation of the opposition to McLean in Ohio , to Smith in New J ersey , and in New York to a man like Sheehan . This is no time for a Senator with " claims " upon the party . The fact that a candidate has freely given money in past elections , that he has helped to keep up the party organization in times of discouragement , or that he is expert in laying pipes or pulling wires , can not be allowed to weigh for a moment against a proved disqualification , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election by the Legislature ought to be treated exactly as if it were a question of a nomination to go before the people to be voted upon . In both New Jersey and New York , the Democratic party is now committed to the popular election of United States Senators . In either it ought to be flatly impossible for a man to be chosen who confessedly would not have a ghost of a chance if the voters could get at him directly . Fancy James Smith an avowed candidate and on a ticket that could be scratched ! Fancy W. F. Sheehan nominated for Senator at the same time that John A. Dix was named for Governor ' It was unthinkable before the election , and it ought to be unthinkable after . Anyhow , such a thing can not be done in a corner . We know what discussion of records and sifting of political and personal associations would have filled the press , if either of the men referred to had been a direct candidate for the Senatorship . But they will have to encounter the same sort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Legislature , instead of from the people . Mr. Sheehan , for example , must be perfectly aware of the deadly ammunition which the Republican newspapers are prepared to expend upon his candidacy , if he announces it . Their guns are already shotted , waiting only the signal to fire . And their aim will be not only at Mr. Sheehan , but at the party which is asked to accept him . This , they will say , is the promised Democratic reform ! This is the new leadership , this the cutting free from a discredited past ! There is no disguising the fact that the situation is critical . The very labor which high-minded and disinterested Democrats are putting forth shows how acute is their ' sense of the peril . A great party victory has been won , but the danger is that some unworthy intriguer , some " fellow in the cellarage , " may render it empty by making one of its leading results contemptible . If the New York Democracy can not elect a Senator whose views on public questions are known , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work of his time , who can speak and give counsel , whose election would be universally hailed as a sign of a new time and a proof that the Empire State is to be represented in the Senate by neither a money-bags nor a dummy nor a corruptionist , nor by a politician every drop of whose blood has eyes that look downward , then it may as well confess that the Democratic landslide of 1910 did little for it , except to cover it with dirt and disgrace . THE " SEPARATION OF POWERS . " Prof. H. J Ford of Princeton has an interesting article in the January Scrib ? ner 's reviewing the origin of the American theory of sharply divided powers in government , and making some remarks upon its practical working . He has little difficulty in showing that Montesquieu  --  whose influence upon the framers of our Constitution is notorious  --  misunderstood the actual nature of the British Constitution , as , indeed , did those English commentators whoria Montesquieu followed . The paper account of ? the relations of the English executive and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This has been shown by Bagehot and a host of others . In reality , there was hot the complete separation of functions , " power being checked by power , " which Montesquieu supposed . Even in the eighteenth century the executive was in England a great force in legislation ; and the development of Cabinet government has brought it about that to-day the executive is the chief force in legislation . In going over this ground , Professor Ford 's main purpose is to suggest that the American doctrine of " separation of powers " is not only thus mistaken in its supposed derivation from English practice , but is also a bad thing in itself . Entrenched as it is in long tradition , it ought rather to be regarded , in Professor Ford 's opinion , as a harmful superstition It paralyzes , vigorous initiative , diffuses instead of concentrating responsibility , and has proved not merely a drag upon our legislative progress , but an active source of political corruption . Moreover , the theory is breaking down . We see it here quietly abandoned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of which the vogue seems to be steadily on the increase , is a direct denial of the sacredness of the separation of powers . And in State and nation we more and more often find that resolute executives find ways to take part in the work of legislation . Professor Ford foresees an entire reconstruction of our forms of government , marked by an ever franker desertion of the ancient theory of divided powers , though he expresses the hope that this constitutional reorganization may be " gradual and safe . " Without denying the general historical soundness of Professor Ford 's position , we may yet observe that there is such a thing as being misled in the political history of the United States , too , by a paper theory of separated powers . Because they are written in our Consti.tution , upheld by our jurists , and lauded by our orators , it does not follow that they have always been regarded like a law of . the Medes and Persians which altereth not . Some executives have a store of energy that insensibly passes from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other hand , resolute and daring leaders in the legislative branch may trench upon executive powers . In the impeachment of Andrew Johnson they sought virtually to destroy the Presidency altogether , or to reduce it to no more than the importance of the Presidency of the Swiss Confederation . Even a member of the judiciary , like Marshall , may far overpass the limits which had been thought to mark his functions , and render himself a force to change or vivify the whole conception of the government . Indeed , the " powers " have never been kept in separate and water-tight compartments They rather adjoin each other like fluids divided only by a thin membrane , through which the process of osmosis is continually set up . No one with his eye close on the fact could assert that the " powers " were rigidly separated under Jefferson or Jackson , under Lincoln or Roosevelt . Our paper theory collapses under the weight of facts as surely as did the English . It is , however , when ProfeS3sor Ford leaves the historical path for the speculative or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we feel most like questioning his views . He gives to his article the badly chosen title , " The Cause of Political Corruption " ; and commits himself to the statement that a democracy can not make the principle of separated powers work without corruption . He adds : " This is the secret of the disharmony between American society and American politics . The rule of the people can not be made effective for lack of appropriate institutions . " Now , if our author had confined himself to asserting that the governmental maladjustments which he signalizes are one cause of political corruption , there would be little to say ; but in declaring that the evil upon which he dwells is " the " cause  --  alone sufficient to account for vote-buying and bribe-giving and stealing from the cities and robbery of the Treasury at Washington in the shape of bounties and pensions and needless offices  --  he seems to us to be as open to attack as any- of the rash generalizers whom he corrects . Corruption is not wholly dependent upon political forms or governmental machinery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another , but the ultimate causes lie deep in the habits , the circumstances , the ethos of a given people . It was not the separation of powers which made the corrupt England before which Benjamin Franklin stood aghast . Completely fused powers did not prevent the government of Napoleon from being one in which plunder was rife . Boss Tweed had completely disposed of the " balances " of constitutional government . He had usurped all the powers ; he was executive , legislative , and judicial , all in one ; he was the whole thing in such a way that he could defiantly ask : " What are you go big to do about it ? " It is impossible to assert that the sink of corruption into which he dragged New York was due to " the " cause that Professor Ford points out . The analysis has to be pushed further . Certain types of politician , certain tempting opportunities , certain demoralizing measures of legislation  --  like protective tariffs and pensions  --  will work corruption under any system and can be prevented from doing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' he elsewhere . There is nothing but praise for the spirit of cautious experiment in which Professor Ford would have the changes which he advocates undertaken . The new form of city government must be tried out , instead of being hastily made universal . The endeavor to give the executive more power over legislation had best at first be tentative rather than thorough . We are not yet ready for a " plebiscitary " Governor or President , one who appears as the alleged mandatory of the people and demands that all others yield to him . Not even on the score of efficiency in government are we prepared to put all power in the hands of one man . The separation of the powers makes for stability and even , sometimes , for orderly progress when the method of convulsion and instant " doing things " leads no whither . There is on this subject a passage in Montesquieu which Professor Ford does not quote , and which is , in substance , as follows : " The people with a hundred thousand arms sometimes destroy everything , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it impossible to move . " LET US STANDARDIZE . Our colleges and universities have been long under fire , and in many ways , yet , strangely enough , the fundamental trouble with them has still been hidden . But now that  --  thanks to the report made by a mechanical engineer to the Carnegie Foundation  --  the light of modern industrial methods has been thrown upon them , there will no longer be any excuse for their persistence in evil . It may take a little time to put the new standards into operation , but that is merely a detail . The new day has dawned , and the only question is what institutions will be foremost in gaining the favor of far-sighted and broadminded men of wealth by conforming their ways to the principles of industrial efficiency . Student-time-units per professor , number of pages of standardized lecture notes , coordination of janitor-work with teaching-time , and a score of other measurements of efficiency which will occur to every competent college president , will take the place of those vague and intangible It is needless to multiply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Who , for example , will not see that the inadequate hold of the Christian religion upon mankind through all these centurieschas been due to the absence of scientific methods in the business of preaching ? Had accurate statistics been kept of the number of souls saved by each minister or priest per annum , of the amount of time he spent in parochial visits on the one hand and in preparing his sermons on the other , of the percentage of attendance at his services , etc. , a business organization would long ago have been built up that would put to shame the Pennsylvania Railroad and the Standard Oil Company . And , indeed , we can see in some professions that even a distant approach to mechanical systematization is capable of producing beneficial effects of a striking character . In the matter of acting , for example , the modern practice of playing the same part a thousand nights in succession has effected a revolution in this ancient art . We no longer have the erratic manifestations of mere personal genius which , in a more primitive day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Booth or a Salvini or a Garrick ; when the manager finds out what is wanted , he just sets the actor to work doing that thing night after night , knowing that in this , as in all other employments , precise mechanical repetition means the greatest economy of effort and the largest output And again , in the author - business , has not everybody observed the rise that has taken place in the standard of literary excellence since the practice of a monthly announcement of the six best sellers has provided us with a truly scientific method of finding out what 's what ? While , therefore , the merits of a proposal to standardize our universities , to abolish life tenure of professorships , and regulate research speak for themselves , it is somewhat interesting , perhaps , to speculate on the probable origin of the idea . And here we venture , a conjecture which we think must commend itself to the judicious . It is not so much to the defects of our own universities , we imagine , that the scheme owes its inception but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in which these defects have been far more pronounced . There they have never even had such a RAILWAY REGULATION AND RAIL-WAY IMPROYEMENT . We do not fancy . that anybody is go-mg to take seriously the suggestion made last Thursday before the Railroad Securities Commission by Mr. Robert Mather , a man formerly prominent in railway management , as to the logical next step in connection with Government regulation . Indeed , it may be set down as highly probable that Mr. Mather , and other serious and competent railway men who talk in a somewhat similar way , do not mean any such proposal as he made to be taken practically , but rather as a sort of reductio ad absurdum of the policy of rate-regulation . " Federal regulation , " he said , " has put the railroads of this country in the position of not having got sufficient means or credit to go ahead with their work of developmept , and in view of such impairment of credit , it is urgently essential that something should be done . . . . When such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of second-class securities are made undesirable by Federal regulations , I say it is time that the Government should extend its credit to the railroads in order to assist them in their difficulties . " To prove that any such condition actually exists would not be easy . Of course , there can be found particular railway properties whose " second-class securities " ? securities other than first-mortgage bonds and the like  --  are at the present time " undesirable , " but there has never been a time when that was not the case ; and we venture to say that , if a general comparison were made , railway stocks would be found to-day in quite as good standing in comparison with gilt-edge bonds as they have been at most periods before government regulation was thought of . It is a tendency that few persons whose interests are affected can resist , to ascribe adverse phenomena that have occurred since the passage of some obnoxious law to the operation of that law , and even to see such phenomena where they do not exist . A remarkable example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furnished some months ago by no less a man than Mr. James J. Hill , who found that extraordinary losses had fallen upon our trade across the Pacific in consequence of the workings of the Hepburn act ; the fact being that his comparisons were made with the enormous figures of the years of the Russo-Japanese war , which happened to occur shortly before the Hepburn act was passed . It is easy to have a blind eye to the things one is not anxious to see . It is fair to suppose , indeed , in justice to such a position as that represented by Mr. Mather 's talk , that , in the minds of those who hold it , it rests rather upon the abstract logic of the case than upon the facts adduced in its support . " The Government having gone so far , " says Mr. Mather , " it should go still farther . " Having in a sense put a limit on profits , it ought to guarantee that the resources necessary for successful operation and maintenance shall be provided . The answer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is adequate . In the first place , the existing procedure itself can not be reduced to any strictly . logical scheme ; for , like the mongrel system it displaces  --  a system that was itself half-competitive , halfmonopolistic  --  it deals with conditions of an exceedingly heterogeneous charac. ter in an exceedingly complicated manner . There is no exact limitation of profits . The rate fixed in any one case is the resultant of a thousand comparisons and a thousand considerations of equity . And , secondly , it must be pointed out that if logic is your cry , you can not stop at the action contemplated by Mr. Mather . If mere logic declares the next step after regulation of rates to be government guarantee of securities , much more emphatically does it declare that the next step after that  --  a step which must follow much more swiftly  --  is government ownership . ? Of one - thing we may be sure , the business is not going to be settled by abstract logic , but by considerations of practical wisdom and expediency . However , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consideration at the bottom of this and similar pleas is of most serious importance . It will not do for either the Interstate Commerce Commission or the Railroad Securities Commission or the public to lose sight of the cardinal importance of maintaining such an attitude toward the whole question of regulation as will continue to attract the investment of capital in railway betterments . There is not , we believe , on the part of either of the official bodies , any reason to fear that this consideration will be neglected ; in the case of the public , there is , of course , always more or less danger of a thoughtless or short-sighted insistence on immediate gains at the cost of permanent well-being . There is a vast amount of improvement that our railway system needs , and any policy that brings a little immediate advantage at the cost of discouraging the investment of capital for the procuring of these improvements would be a costly error . But it is in the power of the great railway men themselves to do more than any one else toward forming a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can do by taking a sound position themselves ; accepting regulation as established , and stating their case not as special pleaders , but as men who , knowing the facts better than anybody else , can and will present them to the public with entire fairness and impartiality . LOGIC AND LIFE . The rare conjuncture by which , according to Japanese zodiacal symbolism ? the festival of a certain shrine fell recently upon the Dog 's day of the Dog 's month of the Dog 's year , was responsible for several serious injuries . Upon the occasion of this festival charms made of paper are sold , having the power , if tradition does not err , of protecting the possessor against disasters by water . The coincidence of the three " Dogs " induced the belief that water-charms purchased on that day would be especially effective , and the result was a rush through the temple gates as soon as they were opened , in which several of the eager charm-buyers were hurt . The fate which superstition thus met  --  the incurring of a present misfortune @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trouble  --  seems altogether fitting to our irreverent Western way of thinking . We have so long been emancipated from such gross credulity that it is difficult to appear tolerant of it . Who among us fears a comet ? What have we ever found terrifying in the notion of the evil eye ? When could any one accuse us of beating drums to drive away a pestilence ? Our actions are governed by reason . A little consideration , nevertheless , suffices to explain the irrational mental processes which we stigmatize as Oriental . It is only because we are , happily , accustomed to the idea of effect following hard upon cause , that we take it as a matter of course that the swallowing of a certain amount of any well-advertised nostrum is succeeded by improvement in the bodily condition . Let due allowance be made for unfamiliarity with the reasoning behind the facts , and is it so strange that , to an unenlightened being , there should not be that connection between remedy and recovery concerning which the demonstration of experience confirms the forecast of reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ savage mind there seemed something in the mysterious performance not- far removed from his own trusted use of charms ? Both are rewarded , often , by the desired effect . And does one lose faith in reason because it makes an apparent mistake now and then ? If we are to leave off our pills and powders whenever we fail to discern their beneficial results , too many of ' us will drift into forgetting them altogether . We must , therefore , be charitable to the foolish Oriental . We shall be the more inclined to such charity if we think of the difficulty of showing an unreasoning being the sagacity which determines our public policy . The great rule of self-government , as we have carefully developed it , is the election to office of men whom we value for their avowed unlikeness to those whom we elected on the last occasion preceding , coupled with a violent effort to get them to be really different . It would be hard , perhaps impossible , to demonstrate to a less astute type of mind than our own the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ choosing men who would do what we want without coercion . It would be fully as difficult to justify the rivalry of the Occidental nations in the race to see which of them can soonest exhaust its credit by the ingenious device of employing large numbers of men to operate great fleets during the time necessary to build new ones to replace those which are not quite so new . Even the thoroughly logical presentation of ' the questions recently confronting the English voters would probably , to a low type of intellect , appear confused . We can not be too thankful , when we contemplate these results of our devotion to the mandates of reason , that we have been able to throw off those fetters of superstition and prejudice by which the unfortunate Orient is still bound . In taking a broad view of the sovereignty of reason In the Western world , however , we are compelled by candor to risk the disapproval of our readers by expressing satisfaction over certain limitations in the application of logic to life . We do not feel at all sure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Not to speak of that large field of love and friendship in which , even with us , the affections often dispute the supremacy with reason , there is something to be said for the than who makes up his mind regarding public affairs mainly from his unreasoned impressions . It may not be desirable to adopt the practice of judging a stranger by his photograph , but char- 