@@430758

 | IN the food situation with which we have to deal the master fact is that while there is a sufficient total of food to meet all the requirements of the United States and its Allies , there is a world-wide impending shortage of the wheat supply necessary to feed the Allied peoples and their armies . This shortage may be somewhat closely measured . The import requirements of the Western Allies are placed at approximately five hundred million bushels . Apparently only about one hundred million bushels can be made up from the Southern Hemisphere , and Russia is excluded from our calculations from the Northern . It follows that , the two remaining wheat-producing nations of the Northern Hemisphere , Canada and the United States , must furnish the balance . This they can not do . The net result is , therefore , a deficit . Just how large this deficit is it is impossible to say . The 1916 reserves have already been discounted , but the 1917 crop is still in the making . We know that conditions have been unfavorable to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spring wheat area was from ten days to two weeks late on July 20 . We know , further , that optimistic reports of the spring conditions are not borne out by careful observation . Neither the acreage nor the prospect of yield per acre is sufficient to warrant any expectation of a full normal crop . The American yield at its best may run up to seven hundred million bushels , but 625,000,000 would be a more conservative estimate of the present crop , and this on the basis of six bushels per capita for consumption and seed , would leave us virtually without an exportable surplus . Canada follows closely after the United States as to crop acreage and conditions . The unseasonable weather has retarded the crop , and on both sides of the International line a retarded crop means , as a rule , a crop inferior both in yield and in quality . The exportable Canadian surplus will , of course , be very considerable . A total export crop of from 200,000,000 to 250,000,000 bushels for the two nations is not outside the range @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain percentage of this total yield will meet the natural result of lateness and will be either shrivelled or frost-bitten , consequently correspondingly low in bread-making quality . After making all due allowance for these varied factors , it looks as though an estimate of 200,000,000 bushels exportable from North America is not far out of line . This , added to the 100,000,000 from Southern sources , leaves western Europe with a deficit of 200,000,000 bushels , giving England and France approximately three-quarters of their normal bread requirements . And since these estimates sum up the total known resources of the Western world so far as wheat-bread supply is concerned , the rest of the problem becomes one of distribution and use . Various methods of conserving the wheat supply of the United States have been suggested , many of which would no doubt work , The " if " that stands in the road is the failure of the individual to realize that this problem of bread is his own personal problem , and until he does realize this fact it is going to be hard to bring about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned . In centers of over-supply there is at all times both waste and a too free use of bread , while in places of undersupply there is danger of under-nourishment and malnutrition owing to the shortage . Curtailment of our bread ration would not be necessary if the wastes could be prevented . Suggestions that we mill a larger percentage of the wheat carry with them dangers of loss that may out-balance the good . The keeping quality of the flour would be lowered and the absorption of the by-products now used largely by dairymen would cause an ultimate increase in the price of dairy products ? milk and butter . However , the larger use of cottonseed meal and the legumes ? clover and alfalfa ? would largely rectify this situation . So it is not clear that much can be gained in this direction . Better results would ac- crue if the public generally were to use more largely graham and other coarse products in the food ration without disturbing the standard of quality of the flour now in use . The American public is not a large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both of these could be somewhat added to the ration , and if the total addition of corn and rye and the coarse by-products and wheat milling were sufficient to offset the bread consumption of the American family one day in the week , it would mean the addition of nearly 100,000,000 bushels of wheat added to the available export volume , and this would narrow down the margin of absolute requirement on the part of our Allies to approximately 100,000,000 bushels ? a gap that could be filled in large measure by the use of wheat substitutes . That it is not impossible to bridge this gap is made clear by the fact that according to the best information at hand the current year 's per capita consumption is more nearly five bushels than six , and if America can maintain itself for the period of the war on the same per capita basis the deficiency in Allied supply nearly if not entirely disappears . Consequently , as I view it , the situation is serious but not alarming . The thing we must first do is to grasp clearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the armies and the munition workers of our Western Allies is our first patriotic duty , and that second only to this is the duty of assuring an equitable distribution of bread throughout the entire Allied group . So the problem passes from one of production to one pf distribution ? from an agricultural to a railroading problem . Fortunately for America and with equal good fortune to her Allies the system of storage , transit , milling and distribution beyond the mills to the consumer has reached a state of efficiency in the wheat and flour business not excelled by any other line of trade . The losses enroute from the wheat field to the consumer are nominal . The weak links in the whole efficient chain are those of securing for the farmers adequate harvest and threshing help , and , for the shipper , cars in which to move his grain to market . The country storage and terminal elevator capacity is entirely adequate to take care of the existing situation . The mills are able to grind the grain , and the channels of distribution are well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but only somewhat more so than in preceding years . After a fashion , with local individual and neighborhood losses , with some delays , with a good deal of bickering between farmer and transient as to wages , hours and food , the harvest will be gathered and threshed . Somehow , too , the cars necessary for the shipment of grain to market and for the further shipment of the finished product to the distributing centers and to our seaports will be secured . This matter is in the hands of an able national council of railway managers and will receive first consideration at their hands . This is not saying that cars will be easily found or even be found adequate for a time to the situation ; but a relatively slow movement of grain from the fields to the terminal elevators will be no handicap , but rather an advantage , since such slow movement will have a tendency to maintain a normality of price level throughout the entire year , avoiding the usual SeptemberNovember glutting of the great wheat terminals . So my conclusion is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the essential problem of bread . But the margin at best is very narrow . A little miscalculation can do an inestimable amount of damage ; a little selfishness can work hardship . A little delay in speeding up the machinery of the distributing system may result in lack of efficiency great enough to extend the battle period for months ? serious enough to call into the trenches hundreds of thousands more of our young men than would actually be needed were these detail matters of food supply properly adjusted and in time . There must remain before us a cold , clear vision of the years to come . Eagerly as we hope for peace , our calculations for the future must be based upon the fact of war , and further upon the fact that farming is and must remain during the war and for some time thereafter an exceptional industry , not second to that of munition supplying . We should take the precaution to guarantee our wheat acreage for 1918 and possibly for 1919 by assuring the farmer at this time that wheat-growing for these corning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole situation points in that direction , but so far the farmer has borne all the risk of the possibilities involved in an unexpected peace in addition to those incident to his business through the vagaries of the weather and the fluctuation of the crop yield .                     