@@466265

CERTAIN British essayists of the perverse school have discovered a new way of dislodging from the minds of their readers a prejudice against new ideas . They blast it out with a paradox . The method is surprisingly simple . You begin by asserting , for example , that dogs are more moral than men . The statement catches the attention of the sleepiest reader , arouses his antagonism , and forces him to mobilize his powers of resistance . That is , it wakes him up ? which was all the wily writer desired . To withdraw from an untenable paradox ? as , for instance , to show that dogs are moral according to their lights , and men immoral by theirs ? is as easy as to make one . The paradox is the bell on the engine of logic ; it is the horn on the automobile of thought . Some horn , some bell , is necessary in order to get a hearing amidst the clamor of criticism , argument , and diatribe that hangs like the roar of a city over our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noisy assemblage in the agonies of dissolution ; Latin has been banged into decrepitude ; mathematics is tottering ; grammar and spelling are prostrate , with new and uncouth shapes ? blacksmithing , millinery , sex hygiene ? stepping over them into the curriculum . To one who wishes to say a quiet word in this confusion a paradox may be pardoned . Is it paradoxical to assert that the American " attitude toward education is in greater need of a general overhauling than the curriculum ? There are two kinds of education : one certain , the other uncertain ; one direct in its application and obvious in its results , the other indirect in its methods , with effects that must be deduced from the life of the recipient . One education CXXX. ? No. 750. ? /06teaches how to work in order to live ; the other how to live in order , among other things , to work . The first we have renamed " vocational training , " given its ancient precepts a fresh coat of paint , and set it up as an enviable novelty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ title , we still call a " liberal education . " These two kinds of education are complementary and equally important . Both have been always necessary to civilization . Both always will be necessary ; and their respective services are defined not by theory , but by the needs of men and the times . Yet prejudice , obstinacy , and blindness have set their advocates by the ears and led to scholastic wars that differ from the fierce conflicts of the medieval universities only in being more wordy and less picturesque . I have heard the rights and wrongs of a liberal education bitterly discussed in Parisian cafes and upon New England mountain-tops . At the extremity of a California cafion , beneath rock walls as high and more remote than Yosemite 's , on a trail which hung between waterfall and precipice , I have been held up by a high-school principal until I should tell him what I thought of vocationalism in the schools . No modern teacher or student or parent can much longer escape the necessity of taking a stand in this controversy and ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is nothing new in vocational education , nor can it always be distin-guished i from the other variety . A false emphasis leads us to think of it in terms of those applied sciences ? electrical engineering , chemistry , hygiene ? which are new in principle , or those crafts ? dressmaking , bookkeeping , stenography ? which are new in the curriculum . But Latin , as has often been said , was vocational in the Middle Ages and the Renaissance , when a knowledge of that tongue was a prerequisite for all the professions except arms . Mathematics is both vocational and liberal . Even such abstract subjects as astronomy may become vocational , as fiction reminds us , when the hero , shipwrecked upon an island , saves his life from canni-bals by predicting an eclipse . All training directly applicable to the problem of subsistence is vocational , although its nature may vary with the race , the age , and the environment involved . If man could live by bread alone we might rest with vocational education . But by that very intellectual unrest that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he must learn to use the life he has preserved . But while sustenance is theoretically a very simple problem ? being only a question of how much you can earn and what you can buy with it ? the use one makes of the vital energy into which life transforms is the most complex and difficult of all questions . Religion , ethics , education all bear upon it , intersect and blend so that it is almost as difficult to say what teaches one to live as to answer the question of how to live itself . It is enough to observe that education has a part here which is not vocational , and which is enormously important . This is the province of liberal education . Its services are indirect , because its effects must be transmuted into the art of living ; they are uncertain in the same proportion as all life is illusory and never to be confined in measures made by man . Nevertheless , although these services are indefinite in their breadth , at least we can specify some of them . We know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to grasp abstractions ; and so we apply mathematics . We know that it must have perspective and background if it is to understand the passing show of brief reality allowed it ; and so we instil history . We know that it must he able to interpret character , to feel the loftiest emotion , to perceive beauty and enjoy it ; and so we give it literature and the arts . Man is to be liberalized . He is to be taught to comprehend life . It is much more difficult to teach comprehension of man than control overnature . Consider , for instance , the necessary imperfections of such an instrument as history , which , itself but a crude and inaccurate representation of an earlier period , must pass through another brain before it can be applied to a new age where many factors are different and some unknown . And compare it with the applied science of civil engineering , where a fixed body of principles turned upon a mountain or a swamp will yield invariable results . Indeed , it will never be easy to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burden of the task by an obstinate conservatism which clings to the old because it has been successful , and distrusts the new because it may fail . The curriculum of liberal education is always and persistently behind the times . Nevertheless , we must make it effective . We must teach control over thought as well as control over matter ; we must make America liberal as well as efficient or drop back from civilization . If we have failed to do so it is chiefly because the American college and the American student and the American parent have persistently misunderstood the nature , the value , and the purpose of liberal education . The schools and colleges , for example , fought science as a liberal subject for a quarter of a century after Huxley had demonstrated its cultural value . The students , supposed to be studying the " liberal arts , " have wandered through the curriculum like men in a dream , not knowing what they wanted or why they wanted it . The parents who did not want their sons to become specialists have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the entrance candidate who wrote , " The Greeks put athletics into their colleges and so invented modem education . " Prejudice and ignorance have stood in the way of liberal education . It is in danger of a costly defeat , which would mean , for " vocationalism , " a dangerous victory . A working country , full of unskilled immigrants , governed by the masses or their representatives , whose highly educated classes are all-powerful neither in politics nor in finance , such a country will and should desire vocational education . The thing is so inevitable that one wonders far more at the sleepy endurance of purely theoretical education for generations than at the demand only a few decades old for technical education in the colleges and the still more recent clamor for a secondary-school training in the business of life . To oppose such a desire by empty talk about the unique value of the humanities as a means of educating everybody is as dangerous as It is foolish . To hold back from our obligation to improve the working efficiency of the race is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progress of vocational education , i whether in institutes for the negroes , public schools , or Harvard , Columbia , and Yale . No one need fear that we may be too successful in teaching the vocations . The danger lies in the possibility that when the vocationalists have forced their programme upon the somewhat reluc-tant schools they may be as blind in their triumph as their opponents have been obstinate in their conservatism . For it must be remembered that culture will persist against most odds . The desire to think truly , to live finely , is inherent in every high civilization . You can not eliminate it by restricting the liberal studies which by common consent contribute to its development . Men are born into the world every day who in almost any conceivable environment will strive after culture and in some i measure attain it . Leadership in any direction brings with it the possession of culture in its rudiments and the desire for more . Whether or not a nation is educated liberally , it will have its cultured classes . And while in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are bound to lead thought and sooner or later to inspire important action . Therefore , if the impetuous cohorts who are demanding an education completely vocational in our schools , and to a less extent in our colleges , should conquer without restraint ; if in their hour of victory they should make their system as inflexible in its exclusion of all that is not " practical " as the " culturists " would gladly make theirs exclusive of all that bears directly i upon work in the world , the result would be a separation of classes more dangerous than that with which capital and labor have already provided us . In the late Roman empire the governing class , which was recruited from men with a legal plus a liberal education , became more and more distinct from the military class , made up in general of professional fighters whose training had been exclusively vocational with that end in view . " But as these hardy veterans , " says Gibbon , speaking of the barbarians and their control of the legions in the early fourth century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contempt of the laws , were incapable of exercising any civil offices , the powers of the human mind were contracted by the irreconcilable separation of talents as well as professions . The accomplished citizens of the Greek and Roman republics , whose characters could adapt themselves to the bar , the senate , the camp , or the schools , had learned to write , to speak , and to act with the same spirit and with equal abilities . " As a result , a population competent to govern but not to defend itself was exposed by an army scornful of civilization to the fury of the savage North . I know too well the dangers of analogy between modern civilization and the Roman to use this example as more than a useful illustration of my point . If we exclude or unduly delimit a liberal training in our colleges , and especially in our schools , as sure as night follows day there will be a decrease , and a sharp one , in the intellectual sympathy which makes intellectual leadership possible . Cut out history , cut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in a stroke you cut three of the bonds that unite society . If this statement of the case is too figurative , give it a more practical turn . Journalism is the most powerful agent of government in America ; and the potentialities of journalism for good government are largely conditioned by its power to present facts , arguments , ideas to the multitude . Already it has been necessary to reduce the political nourish-ment thus offered to the last degree of digestibility . But so far the writer of an editorial or a news article has been able to count upon a body of knowledge and a training in thought common to all . In the eighteenth century it took several decades for the French peasant to comprehend the ideas of liberty and equality which the philosophers labored so hard to present to him . The illiterate immigrant now hears without comprehension what the New York school-boy understands . Cut out history from the schools , and a section of the student 's brain will cease to react to the thought of the editorial writer ; cut out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; reduce mathematics , and he will relax his grasp upon abstract thought . Abolish liberal education for the masses , confine their training to the narrow limits of manual exercise and the mental discipline directly involved in the production of wealth , and they will be insulated from such broader movements of the intellect as good journalism represents , almost as effectively as if cotton were stuffed in their ears and their eyes blinded . A separation of classes will follow , more dangerous than the industrial separation , because it will be intellectual and spiritual in its divergences . All this , of course , is no argument against vocational education . It is a plea for intelligence , on the part of the advocates of greater working efficiency in America . It is a plea for an irreducible minimum of liberal education beyond which the upholders of vocational training will proceed at their peril and to the nation 's prejudice . Far more important than the vain quarrels of conservative and radical is the difficult endeavor to discover the limits of this irreducible minimum . I speak only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ educate the leaders in the higher vocations , the leaders in culture and in thought . But if a common bond of knowledge and point of view is essential for the nation at large , it is none the less essential for its so-called educated class . The mechanical engineer must have some comprehension of forces beyond those material ones with which it is his business to contend . If he is to labor in a struggle for social betterment with the lawyer , the doctor , the professor , and the bank president , he must know their language and they his . All must have some common introduction into thought . Life itself , of course , supplies , as it requires , a bond of union . But how foolish not to prepare for this bond in the preparation for life which we call education ! The irreducible minimum of a liberal education in college is a generous proportion of energy spent upon the liberal arts . And this energy must be expended in defiance of the pressure that a complex technical training exerts upon the student whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a race of specialists ? engineer animals , business animals , law animals ? burrowing , scratching , building in their world , each incredibly efficient in his own metier , like the swallow , the ground-hog , or the ant , each unable to communicate or cooperate with his neighbor specialist , is worthy of the pen of Anatole France . As a reality , however , it is impossible ? but not because such inhuman specialists are impossible of development . Their prototypes exist already in every American university , and still more abundantly in every American city where engrossing business has shut out the view of fields and sky , the value and purpose of life itself . Such a race is impossible because a civilization of absolute specialists would fly apart like a bursting bomb and leave nothing behind but fragments and a stench . The irreducible minimum of cultural training is not the only issue for which the believer in both kinds of education must contend . He must also protest against a wide-spread misconception of what is " practical " in education . What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accept the answer of the youth who is taking a " culture course " because it is the thing to do . He muddles through his work , absorbing only what is injected by forcible feeding , explaining in moments of fancied sincerity that , since culture is not " practical , " it is not worth real work . What nonsense ! In a state of savagery nothing is practical that does not support life or save it . In civilization everything is practical that enables one to live happily in a complex environment . The ability to survey a field is practical , but so in equal measure is the power to reason correctly from historical analogy ; so is the power to enjoy intelligently a good book . A liberal education , for the right man , is more practical than any other . And the right man for a liberal training is any and every student who will profit more certainly by a general education in thefundamentals of living than by a special training in technical knowledge . Nevertheless , one sees dozens of boys unfitted by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ educatable along more general lines , who have been sent to engineering schools or laboratories in order to get a practical education . I know farmers and bankers who , as a result of suchan error , have been trained as mechanical engineers , lawyers and business men who have been trained as chemists , only to put their practical specialty in their pockets and forget it . Could anything be more impractical ? Could anything be more wasteful than a special education which excludes by its rigorous demands all higher instruction in general knowledge and then is discarded ? Could any one be less valuable to society than a business man , let us say , who fails after ten years and then proposes to fall back upon his never-digested and now forgotten training as a civil engineer ? And yet this is where our distrust of a liberal education has too often led us . It is a melancholy but illuminating spectacle to watch the progress of those unfortunate undergraduates who are urged by pressure from behind to become practical in a way which for them is the reverse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sophomore year ; some yield up the helm and drive on toward the limbo of the second-rate , from which native talent alone can save them ; others , after tacking from shoal to shoal , take on board a new pilot , come back to the starting-line , and begin their education again with better prospectsat the expense of wasted energy and time . In the preceding paragraph I have written of a group of Americans in no way distinguished by hidden longings For culture , by esthetic qualities that set them apart from the every-day , or by any rarity of spirit . I have in mind merely a thoroughly normal youth who happens to be non-technical instead of technicalin his interests , who , if left to himself , will drift toward business or law rather than the professions that require a closer specialization and more definite taste . Such a man will profit by the liberal arts , even if he never becomes " cultured , " for even a modest knowledge honestly gained of history , literature , the languages , scientific , social , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will waste his energies in vocational studies . But the perverse blindness of America to what is really practical in education carries with it a menace against a far smaller but an even more important class . It is impossible to study the individuals that surround us without observing that , to borrow the expressive terms of heredity , certain traits are recessive , others dominant . In the majority of our friends and neighbors a strong and delicate imagination that can operate above and beyond the material necessities of life , a moral sensitiveness to the subtle niceties of right and wrong , a keen sensibility to the beauty of nature or the exquisite refinements of art , spirituality , and the religious instinct are all of them recessive . In a smaller number one or more of these rarer qualities appear . In a minute minority all , or most of them , are dominant . This minute minority , and the larger number of those who are united to them by one bond or another of sympathy , are not the leaders of society , though in some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Much of the rough work of the world , and some of the noblest , must be accomplished by men of a coarser and perhaps a firmer mold . But such men and women are indispensable to civilization . They preserve the vision without which the nation perishes . They make the art that interprets life and adorns it . In times of moral crisis it is their surer instinct which saves us , if we are saved . Their finer spirits only are proof against the allurements of easy wealth or the specious necessities and rude intoxication of war . The province which the psychologists of earlier periods assigned with more necessity than truth to women belongs in the future to these men and women who are qualified to feel and think truly where others think and act in error . But it is precisely for all who belong in one respect or another to this order of humanity that a strong and confident education in the liberal arts is most essential . ' Without such a course , and the public opinion it implies , there is constant danger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In a country where such gifts as theirs may be called impractical , and in colleges where their talents must be developed in an atmosphere of doubt and distrust , in the company of those who daily with the liberal arts while despising them , they are exposed to the temptations of dilettanteism and the danger of diversion from their proper careers . If a fondness for hooks , or a love of nature , or responsiveness to music , or any other of the symptoms that in early youth are likely to indicate such minds as I have described , are in America regarded as signs of effeminacy or presumptive failure ; if , when it comes to education , we try to make them practical in the current and fallacious sense of the word , why , then again we are impractical . The liberal arts conserve such spirits as these and turn their dreams into acts and power . America has as yet scarcely learned the lesson that the rarer gifts of the earth , if wasted , can be replaced , if at all , only at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the conservation of man ? I began with a paradox which I hope is no longer paradoxical . The education we offer in America , with all its defects , is more reasonable than the attitude of American parents and American students toward a choice between its varieties . Through an obstinate refusal to consider the different capabilities that inhabit different men they have tried again and again to put the wrong key in the wrong lock and have grumbled because the door has not opened . As for the schools and the colleges , they have made cultural and vocational education the subject of clamorous controversies , whereas all depends upon the boy ? upon the training that will educate him , and which therefore , in the only true sense of the word , will be practical .                     