@@487094

The failure of justice at Coatesville is now virtually complete . Five men have been put on trial , only to be acquitted without the slightest attention being given to the evidence . In one case the State 's Attorney had to stand by and watch the crowd cheer the acquittal of a man who had confessed his participation in the burning of the negro Walker . The jurors who are false to their oaths are lionized by the community . There is hardly a citizen in this Northern community who has not been more or less particeps crzininis , chiefly through a refusal to uphold the law by word and deed . The lynchers are on top . They have not only defied the machinery of justice in their county ; they have mocked that of the great State of Pennsylvania . They have flouted their own Governor who declared on September 12 : " I am determined that , no matter at what cost , the offenders who have brought such a blot on the State of which I am the presiding Executive , shall and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " In reply Coatesville answers the Governor by placing laurel wreaths on the jurors who connive to acquit the lynchers . The lynchers are triumphant . Yes , not only in Coatesville . Before us lies the Topeka Plazndealer with the horrible story of the lynching at Durant , Oklahoma  --  on the saute day as the Coatesville burning  --  of an unknown negro . Here the white fiends who shot down the man without giving him a chance to defend himself , were so proud of their work that they bound the body to some planks , and , as the picture before us shows , posed around their victim while the photographer recorded the scene . Even with such proof , we are sure , a Coatesville jury would acquit . In Oklahoma apparently nobody has stirred , despite this convincing evidence . The lynchers are on top . Their victim was a stranger in a strange land ; the woman in the case identified him after the mob had killed him  --  what else could she do , in the presence of a half-drunk-en and violent mob ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body and danced around the fire as it consumed their victim . Is it any wonder that the Plain-dealer begs every negro newspaper in the country to reprint this cut , that " the world may see and know what semi-barbarous America is doing " , and may know how they scorn the " white ministers and Christian workers who are bent on Christianizing the heathen Chinese " ? The lynchers are on top  --  near Charleston , South Carolina . There a despicable wretch was lynched two weeks ago . It was done , says the Charleston Evening Post , in the " most approved and up-to-date fashion . " Automobiles filled with " prominent citizens " took part in the chase . " Among those present " was a Representative in the General Assembly , the Honorable Joshua Ashley , who with his son took the prisoner from the sheriff . But , of course , now that the event is over , nobody knows anything about the crime . As the Charleston Evening Post puts it : It is obviously impossible , in all the circumstances , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who had a hand in the lynching Indeed , it would seem as if none but the sheriff who lost his prisoner and the coroner who took down the body  --  and , of course , the good folk who cut the negro 's fingers off for souvenirs  --  knew that there was ? a lynching , and even they can not be sure that the man did n't hang himself by his foot and riddle his own body with bullets . Brave as these exponents of white civilization are , our Charleston contemporary asks why they should also be so modest about concealing their services to humanity , and refuse to come forward and accept the plaudits of their State . It points out that their Governor and their senior Senator have themselves lauded lynching to the skies . A Sumter , S. C. , jury has just freed under the " unwritten law " a white man who killed a negro in the dark by mistake , believing that this victim , who was admittedly innocent of any wrong , was a white man who had invaded the sanctity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Honorable Mr. Ashley and his son openly avow their having taken the place of the law and the courts , and so put lynching on a sound and recognized footing ? The lynchers are almost on top in New York . Two police officers have recently shot innocent negroes without the slightest excuse , seeking revenge apparently for the wanton killing of a policeman by a negro last spring . In one case the victim is probably crippled for life ; the detective who . shot him has been suspended foil ' three months  --  and the majesty of the , law is upheld ! The other day , a negro who got into a dispute in a drug store was so frightfully beaten by the police that the magistrate before whom the victim was brought protested hotly . With such official sanction for abusing men because of their color , is it any wonder that a mob - the other night tried to lynch a colored man who , for all they knew , was but using his revolver in self-defence ? An actual killing in the streets may take place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1863 . Who shall say when , in a gust of passion , a street crowd in New York will not slay guilty and innocent alike ? Is it any wonder that the colored people are looking to Washington for aid ? The Topeka Plaindealer declares that it must seem to foreigners the height of hypocrisy for President Taft to be talking about peace among nations when such diabolical acts of private war at home go on unchecked . As for the Crisis , which speaks for the educated colored man , it asks the President how he can keep silent " in the face of a record of murder , lynching , and burning in this country which has appalled the civilized world . " Certainly , there are no topics the President has discussed on his present trip that are of equal moment with the question of the rule of the mob . The lynchers are on top , North , South , East , and West . Who shall say what deadly blows they will not yet deal to our civilization , our self-respect , and our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? A WaRICEPS REVISED PLAN . Ex-Senator Aldrich has submitted to the Monetary Commission a completed draft of his suggestions for a plan of banking and currency reform . This plan has not been officially adopted by the Monetary Commission ; indeed , there has been , so far as we are aware , no of-ficial determination as yet even of the lines on which the report that the Commission is to submit to Congress next January will run . In some respects it is unfortunate that the only perfected plan in the field should be that of a sin-gle member of the Commission , and should have been made public in ad-vance of the public hearings and delib-erations which must precede the final report . But Mr. Aldrich 's plan has serv-ed the valuable purpose of giving a nucleus for discussion , and its reception in both legislative and financial circles has already made it virtually certain that the Monetary Commission 's report will follow his in the main . This by no means signifies , however , that Mr. Aldrich 's plan is likely to be proposed in Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preliminary draft , on such a subject as banking reform , could in the nature of things be perfect  --  much less , satisfactory in every particular to Congress , the bankers , or the people ; and even when Mr. Aldrich 's plan is accepted as the basis of discussion , it is reasonable to expect wide difference of opinion regarding its financial and political merits . In advance of last Friday morning 's revised proposal , amendments and alterations in his plan as previously proposed have already been discussed . Gov . Folk of Missouri , in a public interview this past week , while approving the main details of banking machinery as proposed by Mr. Aldrich , and while , in fact , repeating verbatim many of the clauses in Mr. Aldrich 's plan , would have the directors of the National Reserve Association chosen by the President of the United States , and not elected , directly or indirectly , by the banks . On the other hand , ex-Controller of the Currency Charles G. Dawes , in an interview last Friday morning , declares himself " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed ' institution , because of the opportunity it would give a national administration to inject politics into the affairs of the banks . " This may give some notion in advance of the wide range of opinion . So far as concerns the additions or changes made to his previous plan by ex-Senator Aldrich , his proposals as published last Friday have to do mainly with the question of note issues , and with a scheme for admitting other institutions than national banks to the scope of the new banking plan . Instead of imposing a progressive tax of 3 to 6 per cent . on all note issues in excess of the amount already outstanding when the new association shall be formed , Mr. Aldrich now proposes that issues in excess of $900,000,000 and not in excess of $1,200,000,000 , which are not covered by an equal amount of lawful money in hand , shall pay a special tax of one and a half per cent . per annum , with a five per cent . tax on notes in excess of $1,200,000,000 . In regard to the trust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aldrich plan , creating a new class of national banks , to exercise trust company powers as well as the powers now allowed under the law , is withdrawn from the scheme . Instead , it is now proposed that State banks and trust companies be admitted to membership in the national association upon conforming to the general stipulations , regarding capital and reserves , that are applied to national banks . This is a highly interesting and important part of the proposition . It will undoubtedly impose on the trust companies , as a whole , considerably increased requirements in the way of cash reserves . The interesting question follows , exactly to what extent the State institutions would see fit to conform to the terms laid down in such a plan , for the sake of the privileges which they would manifestly gain through membership . One other change made by Mr. Aldrich from his plan of last January deserves careful notice . In the earlier plan , it was proposed that there should be no change in the percentage of reserve against deposits required from national banks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reserve association should be counted as part of its legal reserve . In the revised plan as given out last Friday , it is proposed that the banks may not only count as part of their reserve their several deposit balances with the central institution , but that they also may be allowed to count any notes of the national association which they may hold in their vaults . This change has been made under rather strong pressure from numerous well-known bankers , chiefly from the West . The idea of counting notes of the central institution as reserve for individual banks was based by these bankers on the theory that when banks were allowed to count their credit balance in that institution , it was illogical that they should not be allowed similarly to count the notes received in discharge of such a balance . We have never been able to agree with this view of the matter . On the contrary , we believe that use of the notes as lawful reserve money , under any circumstances , would serve to defeat the real purposes of the note @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at all inconceivable , create an engine of inflation . The reason why a bank is allowed to count as part of its reserve its credit balance with a central'institution is that such institution is supposed to hold itself always ready to provide the lawful reserve money on recall of such balances . A national bank drawing on the proposed reserve association might ask for gold , silver , and United States legal tender paper , or it might ask for notes of the central institution . If it wanted to build up its reserve , it would naturally make the first request . But if it asked for notes , its purpose manifestly would have been to provide for the hand-to-hand circulation of its business district . In other words , its legitimate object would be to get the notes into the people 's hands with the smallest possible delay when business needed a larger circulating medium , and to get them back again to the central association 's redemption office the moment they were no longer required for purposes of trade . But once give these notes the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and what becomes of the automatic expansion and contraction of that part of the currency , in response to the needs of trade ? THE TORY HAPPY FAMILY . Cable dispatches from England have been referring to the serious divisions in the Conservative party , but they have not fully conveyed the excessive bitterness with which the faction opposed to Mr. Balfour is attacking him . The question is not only of leadership , but of party policy , yet everything is for the present made to turn upon getting another Conservative leader . The " diehards " and " last-ditchers " of the recent struggle in the Lords have invented a new sort of password ? B. M. G. , which , being interpreted , means " Balfour Must Go . " Those letters are signed to an article in the ultra-Tory National Review , in which Mr. Balfour is held up to scorn as " The Champion Scuttler , " and is described as a politician who can , indeed , " command an unlimited amount of simulated indignation , " but who has shown himself absolutely unfit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these ferocious assaults upon Mr. Balfour and Lord Lansdowne , with the formation of a " Halsbury Club " within the Conservative party , whose avowed object is to depose the leader , fall at the very time when the urgent cry is going up for Conservative harmony . From many sides and from many men of weight has ' the appeal ' come for united action . Professor Dicey has been writing about the constitutional effects of the Veto bill , and showing how important it is that Conservatives should stand together not only in resisting forced or wrong interpretations of that measure , but in preparing for its amendment or repeal . For other reasons , Lord Roberts recently made a strong plea for Conservative unity . He things of this as only a form of " Imperial Unity , " and dwells upon the issues which , in his mind , touch " the very fountain-head of the Empire 's life " ; asking , " Is it too late to hope that the Unionist party will come forward to lead the millions that wait for a lead-er @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the very time when Mr. Balfour was making his first important speech after the adjournment of Parliament . It was delivered at a great Unionist meeting in East Lothian , and has to be regarded not only as Mr Balfour 's sketch of the party programme , but as his bid for continuance in its leadership So far as specific reference goes , he quietly ignored the existence of dissidence , or , rather , something like a mutiny , in the Conservative ranks . Mr. Balfour calmly alluded to himself as " the Leader of the Unionist Party , " and spoke as though no rebels against his authority had ever been heard of True , he alluded to differences of opinion at the time the Veto bill was before the Lords , but he declared that those controversies had " no longer any living or practical interest , " and that to revive them now would merely make more difficult " the union which is the first secret of political success . " Thus easily does he think to dispose of the Chamberlains , father and son , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all the irreconcilables who vow that there can be no peace with or without nonor until Mr. Balfour is compelled to give up the party leadership ! Those troubled and troubling spirits , he has found by now , are not so soothly to be laid As for the rest of his speech , Mr. Balfour had nothing either very new or very inspiring to say . He used , indeed , some stout language about Irish Home Rule and the duty and determination of the Conservatives to resist it to the death , but even in this part of his address one catches the Balfourian note which givescolor to the sneers of the National Rs view : Unionists will once more be led into battle with all bands playing , colors flying , and their splendid chief riding gallantly in front . But the moment the battle waxes hot the bands will stop playing , the banners will be furled , and the great chief will be found calmly riding off to Gastein or some Other place , having concluded the usual compact and ordered a general sauve pent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen that the Tories are not a happy family . They had been predicting that it was the Liberals and their allies who would fall to quarrelling and become a prey to dissensions , but here the nation sees the great party of the intellectuals and landed gentry , the party which for years boasted , like our own Republican party , that it alone was " fit to rule , " now torn asunder and filling the air with taunts and angry accusations It would be going too far to say that the whole trouble lies in the party leadership Any leader would find it almost impossible at present to unite the Conservative party and kinale it with enthusiasm . It may be doubted if Disraeli could do it , were he alive to-day . If Joseph Chamberlain were ten years younger and in full health ; his political genius might be equal to coping with the task ; but when one looks about for any other Tory to put in Mr Balfour 's place , with a better promise of success , the man does not appear . Yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the feeling that Mr. Balfour is not the man for the hour . With all his distinction of intellect and of manner , his nature is cold , and he too often appears like a mere logic-chopper . He thinks strongly and on great subjects , but he does not think with passion The faculty of communicating impulse and of thrilling with zeal does not appear to be his . THE CHINESE REVOLT . possibility of a Government overturn in a country occupying the peculiar position of China or Turkey gives rise to a double problem . A revolution in Portugal means simply a change of regime for the Portuguese people . A revolution in China inevitably brings up the question of foreign interference and its effects upon national integrity and independence It is quite true that the outsider may lay undue stress on the international phase of the question . To the people of China , the immediate necessity of putting an end to a bad governmental system may be so pressing as to throw every other consideration into the shade . The outsider , for instance , is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chinese people , after more than two hundred and fifty years , still look upon their Manchu rulers as foreigners and oppressors . That , however , does not do away with the fact that to the world at large the problem whether China shall be ruled by a Manchu dynasty or a Chinese dynasty is of infinitely less importance than the question whether China shall be ruled in accordance with modern constitutional principles , and , more than that , whether China shall continue existing at all . The outcome of the fighting at Hankow does not render it less certain that a long and bitter warfare must be passed through before the Manchus can be expelled from Peking . And such a protracted state of civil war is bound to let loose all the pent-up forces of destruction in klascern Asia and pave the way for radical changes of the map compared with which the results of the Russo-Japanese war may easily prove insignificant . If the uprising in the Yang-tse proVin , ces were nothing more than an anti-dynastic movement , there would be little hesitation in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satisfaction of setting up a native dynasty in place of a " foreign " one is incommensurate - with the risk involved . But it is the contention of the revolutionary leaders that their aims are progressive as well as anti-dynastic , that Manchu and reaction are synonymous , and that an overturn at Peking would be followed by the establishment of a constitutional regime ; some even speak of a republic . These assertions may be well-founded , so far as the ' intentions of the revolu2 tionary leaders are concerned . It is not so sure that they correctly describe the attitude of the Peking Government itself toward the great problems of political and social reform . The situation resolves itself into the question whether constitutionalism and reform have more to gain under the present system or under the system that the revolutionist leaders propose to set up , taking into account the ever-present possibility of foreign intervention . In other words , would the Chinese people do better I-o choose reform under the Manchus without the danger of intervention , or to get reform a little more swiftly by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Powers will do ? It is well to notice that the record of the present regime in the matter or reform is far from bad . In the snort space of half a dozen years , China has passed through all the preliminary stages of constitutionalism , until it stands to-day on the threshold of parliamentary government . What the compelling motives have been is of little consequence It may have been ambition on the part of China 's rulers to follow Japan 's example and obtain for the Empire a footing among the Powers . Nor does it matter overmuch that the progress of reform has been marked by conflict between the forces of reaction and progress at the Imperial court Other countries than China know what court intrigue and party struggle mean . 1 he fact is that progress has been made A mere summary 01 events since 1905 , when the Imperial commissions for the study of parliamentary institutions were sent abroad , should suffice on that point . In September , 1906 , an Imperial edict set forth the solemn promise that a Parliament would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a year later , the new Government Council was created for the purpose of formulating the necessary preliminaries of parliamentary government . Within a few days , the organization of Provincial Councils was decreed . In August , 1908 , the opening of Parliament was fixed for the year 1917 ; this delay of eight years aroused dissatisfaction . In 1909 , elections to the Provincial Councils took place . An Imperial edict fixed October 3 , 1910 , as the date for the assembling of the Senate , or the upper house of the proposed Par-liament The proceedings of the Senate , as soon as it had assembled , and the attitude of the Government toward that body , seem to constitute a sufficient reply to the charge that the Manchu element in China is opposed to progress The Senate is constituted on a non-popular basis . Of its ninety-one members , no less than twenty are drawn from the Imperial clan , and thirty-tWo are Ministers and office-holders , thus establishing a Manchu preponderance in numbers and influence , Yet the first thing for an immediate convocation of Parliament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advancing the date for the meeting of Parliament from 1917 to 1913 But the Senate held out and the Government yielded . Toward the end of December , an Imperial edict ordered that steps should be taken toward the organization of a constitutional cabinet The census intended to serve as a basis for the parliamentary elections was to be hastened . On May 8 of the present year , an Imperial edict abolished the Grand Council and erected a constitutional Ministry in its stead , though the question of responsibility to the Parliament was left open . The cycle of Cathay has thus been revolving rapidly enough . And that is to look merely at the political side . If we add to this record such notable reforms as the virtual solution of the opium question , the abolition of footbinding as an incident in the campaign for the emancipation and higher education of women , the progress of railway building , and , more than all , the decisive steps taken toward a solution of the currency problem , which many observers have declared to be at the bottom of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refuted . It may very well be that intrigue is still combating the progress of reform at the Imperial court , and it is in protest against vacillation and delays that the present revolutionary movement is in part directed . But judging by the past , the petty politics of the court can not stay the wheels of progress . Given a popular trend toward reform , the Chinese Government is in no position to oppose it , for the simple reason that the Chinese Government is not an absolutist monarchy backed by a powerful army , but a Government that rules with a loose hand over a group of semi-independent satrapies . Thus revolution and civil war , while they might hasten by a little the political reconstruction of China , can not hasten it by so much as to justify the enormous risks to which they expose the country . Already the prophets of white imperialism are predicting the dismemberment of China Russia is eyeing Japan , and Japan is watching the situation the Yang-tse valley . If the revolutionists in China think that the innate merits of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they might be mechanically performed or delivered . " There is , however , one change in British copyright legislation to which little attention has been directed , but which may prove to be of serious consequence , especially in this country . Hitherto , the copyright laws enacted by Parliament have been valid and binding for the whole Empire . But now the new policy is to be followed of permitting the self-governing colonies to pass their own laws on the subject of literary or artistic property . This privilege will undoubtedly be seized by Australia , the South African Union , and Canada . In Canada , in fact , a copyright bill is pending which will undoubtedly receive the force of law soon after the English act is approved by the House of Lords and the free hand of the Dominion definitely established . Now , this proposed Canadian law has several bad features . We can say this with confidence , because they are manifestly copied from our own Statutes . There is the " manufacture clause , " for instance ; Canada is to embody that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not in so extreme and offensive a form as in the American measure . It will be possible , we understand , to import plates into Canada , on payment of duty ( which is more than this country permits ) , but the printing and binding must be done in Canada . There can be no question that this is a bad leaf torn by Canada from our own book . It stands in the act of 1891 , which the Register of Copyrights printed in the volume , " Copyright Enactments , " under the almost ironically descriptive heading , " so-called international copyright act . " But we trust that no good American will be deterred by the fact that his own country 's statutes limit copyright to books " printed from type set within the limits of the " United : States , " from denouncing the similar Canadian proposal . Let us characterize it as it deserves  --  a short-sighted de-Nice of purblind protectionism . Canadians ought to be told in good set terms by AmeriCans that any such step is a - step backward ; that- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , While the effect on Canadian standing in the eyes of the world will be of the worst . If there is need of extreme arguments , we can ask the Canadians if they really intend-to fall into as low a repute in matters of international copyright as that now enjoyed by Americans ! Professor Rothlisberger of Berne , writing in the Frankforter Zeitung of the history of the movement for an international literary union which dates from 1886 , declares that the ardent hope of the members of the Berne Convention from the first was that the Governments of all civilized countries would sooner or later join them . That hope has been largely realized . A great common understanding has been wrought out and put into effect respecting rights in the fields of literature and art . But the United States remains conspicuously aloof . Everybody knows why . We have been kept from adhering to this liberal and civilizing agreement , based on equal privileges for authors and artists in all lands , solely by the baleful influence of the protectionist spirit . As there are now , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power in the United States , we may hope that the day will soon come when this country will leave off its unworthy fumbling with the question of international copyright , and go over unreservedly to the enlightened position of the Berne Convention. ?                     