@@493070

17o THE NEW emphatic superiority in social , political and mili ? tary ability . If she wishes to renew the contest , she will require a drastic political and economic reorganization and the continued friendship of the western Powers . The Quadruple Alliance would , consequently , endure and it would increase in strength as a consequence of improved organization and of increases in population throughout the Rus ? sian and British Empires . If it became necessary to oppose a renewal of German aggression the four Powers could do so with a good fighting chance of success ; but in order to insure themselves against such a danger , it would be the business of the Allies to organize themselves into a peace league and so , if possible , to obtain the assistance of the existing neutrals in furnishing a sufficient sanction for a new formulation of international law . How formidable the obstacles to the organi ? zation of a peace league would be under the sup ? posed conditions , it is useless to guess . They would depend on the disposition shown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its rivals ? the disposition of Germany , for instance , to allow Russia an outlet to warm water , the dis ? position of France and Great Britain to open wide the door of colonial trade . But at any rate there would be nothing necessarily disastrous even about a white peace which has been turned gray by the increase of German prestige . It might place fewer impediments in the way of the ultimate creation of a system of super-national law than would the results of a decisive victory for either Russia or Germany . The Failure of the States SINCE the foundation of the Republic no part of the established political system has been defended with more assiduity and energy of con ? viction than states ' rights , and none with less suc ? cess . One of our two major political parties was organized partly for the express purpose of pre ? venting the encroachment by the central govern ? ment on the inherited domain of local self-govern ? ment , and until the Civil War the Democrats suc ? ceeded in maintaining an effective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? hibited by the organized nation . Our great civil conflict itself turned upon the comparative claims upon the allegiance of the American citizen made by nation and state . The states lost and as a consequence of their defeat the moral and in fact the legal preponderance of the nation was established , but the legal preponderance was ambiguous , and as a matter of law the national government con ? tinued to be a collection of specific political func ? tions which had been graciously surrendered by the sovereign states . The Supreme Court has tried to keep substantially intact the reserved powers of the states , and in one famous decision emasculated the fourteenth amendment in order to preserve the traditional balance between state and nation . Finally , the majority of American lawyers and publicists still like to celebrate states ' rights as the chief legal bulwark of the American democracy . Yet in spite of the tendency of these traditions , and in spite of their continued reverberation in contemporary political discussion , the aggrandize ? ment of the central at the expense of the local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able . It has never been occurring more rapidly or meeting with less resistance than during the past four years , when the nation has been governed by the traditional states ' rights party and by a Presi ? dent whose preference for local self-government has been described by himself as passionate . No wonder an English observer of American political processes inquires , as Mr. Harold J. Laski does in another column , whether the American democracy is not consenting to the erection in Washington of an omnivorous and autocratic mechanism of cen ? tralized control . Symptoms of the tendency toward centraliza ? tion are showing themselves in every region of political activity . Not only do Democratic con ? gresses pass child-labor laws , and undermine the independence of the states by grants in aid of post roads and industrial education , but practically all agitation for social and economic reforms turn to the national government as the only sufficiently powerful political instrument of their designs . Woman suffragists are practically united in seek ? ing to prevent any state from denying the vote to women . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its inhabitants to drink intoxicants . Other reformers propose to nationalize the machinery of presidential elections and the organization of the militia . The railroads are impatient of state control and insist upon being placed under the exclusive jurisdiction of federal law and administration . The same agencies are being invoked to deal with the failure to organize a more economical method of distributing the food supply . The New York World can not be accused of any prejudice in favor of centralized control , yet it comes out squarely in favor of the protection of consumers against extortionate prices by con ? gressional action . " In this as in many other respects , " it declared recently , " the states have failed adequately to assert their authority and the prospect is that the matter will be taken out of their hands . " The states have undoubtedly in many instances cheapened their authority by failing to assert it ; but the difficulty runs deeper than mere negligence . During Mr. Roosevelt 's second administration Mr. Elihu Root in a famous speech solemnly warned the state governments as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " I desire to press upon you with all the earnestness I possess that there is but one way in which the states of the Union can maintain their power and authority , and that way is by an awakening on the part of the states to a realization of their own duties to the country . " Since the warning was issued the states have steadily been losing both in prestige and in actual power ; but their losses can ? not be traced exclusively to their failure " ade ? quately to assert their authority . " In many of the states the people interested in the local govern ? ments were alarmed and aroused to action by Mr. Root 's warning . During the next few years they did away with certain of the more flagrant abuses in state politics and passed many measures of political reform and economic amelioration . But this im ? provement in the standards of state government has failed to make the states more popular and more respected . First they were damned because they did n't do their duty . Then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least tried to do it . The railroads , for instance , are appealing for fed ? eral incorporation and exclusive federal super ? vision precisely because of the pernicious activities of too many state legislatures and state railroad commissions . Time was when the railroads con ? sidered regulation by the states as an illustration of the admirable provincialism of the American system of government , but those were the days of houses of mirth at the state capitals and of the domination of railroad agents over state legisla ? tures . Now the railroad lawyers beseech as the very wine of salvation an amount of federal regulation which they formerly would have denounced as necessarily destructive of railroad prosperity and of the priceless fabric of American political institu ? tions . The change has been brought about as the result of an honest attempt by the states to regulate the railroads . Thus the states are becoming the professional scapegoat for the many failures of the American political system . Neither is this condemnation as unreasonable as it may seem . When a nation 's political institu ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and for what they fail to do , their pre ? dicament is usually the consequence of being in ? volved in a false situation . The American state governments have assuredly been pushed into afalse situation by the profound change in the scope and the needs of American lawmaking which has taken place since the Constitution was written . They are incapable either of abandoning or of properly performing some of their functions . The framers of the Constitution intended to confide all political and economic interests of national rather than local importance to the Constitution or to the central government , but in discriminating between what was of national and what was of local importance they were warped by their con ? ception of the more important governmental functions as negative rather than as positive . The business of social legislation , of guiding the exer ? cise of individual and property rights in the public interest was considered local , while the business of safeguarding those rights and of preventing any citizen from being deprived of his legitimate ex ? ercise was , or came to be considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as long as the Republic continued to be an expanded village community , a democracy of small property-owners , but it ceased to work so well when the industrial revolution created a class of wage-earners and when the automatic exercise of individual rights no longer produced a socially desirable distribution of wealth . It then became just as essential to the national welfare to socialize as it was to safeguard the exercise of individual rights . Yet the business of positive social leg ? islation was for the most part reserved to the states , which are expressly licensed to deal with it as chiefly of local rather than of national im ? portance . As long as they continue to transact this business the nation will be devoid of a compre ? hensive and coordinated social policy . Reformers who seek to accomplish social reforms will be driven to aggrandize the central government at the expense of the states . It is vain to expect uniformity of social legis ? lation or even a satisfactory amount of coopera ? tion from a group of independent local govern ? ments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the interests and opinions of any but its own constituents . It exists to legislate in their interests just as Congress exists to legislate for the nation . That some of the states pass child-labor laws and others refuse , that some allow to rail ? road corporations special privileges which others deny , that some are willing to spend much in rais ? ing standards of public health and public education and that others are willing to spend little , that these and similar variations in policy occur , is not only an inevitable but a justifiable result of con ? fiding vital national business to governments which are responsible only to local opinions and interests . Yet the inequalities and excesses in state legislative policy no less inevitably and properly drive re-. formers to the national government for assistance . The states which connive at child labor , which allow the exploitation of men and women in indus ? try , which are indifferent to the needs in an indus ? trial democracy for social education ( and some of them there will always be ) ? those states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the morals not only of their own citizens but of the whole nation . In this region of social legislation the need for some uniformity of policy is indisputable . The agi ? tation for the establishment of national standards will increase just in proportion as public opinion is aroused to the danger of allowing human wreck ? age and popular unrest to gather at its existing rate of accumulation . It is , we believe , a mistake to attach to the American states the halo of a salutary provincial ? ism . They constitute for the most part the citadels of American political abuses and social obscur ? antism . Because they are licensed to exercise a valuable share of discretionary sovereign power , they have been seized by the bipartisan political machine as the most lucrative source of revenue and favors , and lie helpless in its grasp . The politicians have every reason to encourage a state government in its natural tendency to do what it can not do well and to leave undone much of what it is entirely competent to do . They are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good white paper ; they are equally willing to pro ? vide administrative officials for the enforcement of the new laws ; but they ruthlessly strangle any at ? tempt to give responsibility and efficiency to the exercise of state administrative power . The ma ? chine has much less difficulty in exploiting the states than it has in exploiting the cities and the nation , because the states , in spite of certain exceptions such as California , are arbitrary and antiquated political sub-divisions , rather than centers around which economic interest and local public opinion can fruitfully gather . Their refusal to cooperate with one another in doing what they are able to do , their insistence upon competing with the central government in doing what they are incompetent to do , prophesies a continued shrinkage of prestige and power , until their status is changed in some future constitutional convention . Yet American provincialism will not die with them . It is being kept alive by providing new local representative institutions as a part of national organization . The Federal Reserve system , for instance , com ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local self-government with central political control . Similar examples of regional in ? dependence subject to national determination of general policy will almost certainly be adopted when the work of reorganizing essential national industries , such as the railroads and the food and fuel supplies are seriously undertaken . Thus gradually the really desirable American provincial ? ism may obtain organs of its own , independent of the states which will be designed to cooperate with the national organization rather than compete with it . Republican Resurrection EVERY few days now we hear some new pro ? ject for giving life to the Republican party ? the formation of a revised committee , the drop ? ping of certain older leaders , or the adjustment of local difficulties . If Mr. Hughes had shaken hands with Mr. So-and-so , or if the Progressive committeemen in such-and-such a state had been placated , the nation would be Republican . People talk as if the party were a secondary football team after a defeat , to be patched up by substituting a fresh end and tackle , inventing a new trick play , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first-class council of coaches would be guilty of such a paltry analysis . What is needed is a consistent policy , which will carry these details along behind it . There is no reason to suppose that the drift which swept a million and a half votes away from the " normal " Republican ma ? jority stopped dead on election day . It may be that there is in the party no Percy Haughton or Tad Jones , or that if there are such men the organization will not recognize them . Yet if the party is the national savior , the marvel of effi ? ciency that it tried to make us believe it was last fall , it will find or develop real leaders and listen to them . It will go into the campaign of 192o with a policy fitted to the needs of the nation . The mistakes of the past campaign do not indi ? cate that there is not already latent the material for such a policy . During Mr. Wilson 's first four years many Republicans felt a lack of coherence and purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often specific but usually narrow in scope ; the general situation they felt intensely , but saw vaguely . The Republican leaders were content not to formulate this feeling except as three issues : anti-Wilsonism , prepared ? ness and the tariff . We were supposed to unify our nation by the simple process of turning out a Democrat and putting in a Republican , and this Republican 's assurance of his own purposefulness was the promise of military and economic " pro ? tection . " These proposals met neither the actual situation , nor the full aspirations of the people . The campaign brought to the surface a pacifism and a progressivism which was far from negative , and which the orthodox Republican container was too shallow to hold . It spilled over into protest                     