@@486160

Switzerland is the first of the neutral nations officially to come to the support of President Wilson in his effort to bring about peace negotiations . The Swiss Federal Council adheres only in general terms , but makes its action positive and hearty . Other neutral countries are confidently expected to add their approval . There is evidently a stirring in Holland and Scandinavia ; Spain is considering her attitude ; the Vatican is friendly if not yet openly endorsing the President 's move ; it is reported that several of the South American republics will soon add their approval . A model for them all is set by the Swiss Government , which disclaims mediation , much more anything like an attempt to dictate peace terms , and points to the single great aim , namely , a conferring together of " the peoples now engaged in the struggle , " in the hope of arriving at an agreement to end the war and to " reach a lasting peace . " All this must be gratifying to Mr. Wilson , as must also be the responses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Less pleasing is the mixed reception which his note has had in Germany and in England and France . The first and prevailing impulse of the Allies was to resent the President 's note . This was partly because of its phraseology and partly because of its following up the German offer so quickly . Englishmen and Frenchmen felt that Mr. Wilson was strengthening the hands of Germany . Germans felt so , too , at first . But time has brought a change of opinion . Early impressions in both England and France have been somewhat modified ; while in Germany the Pan-German.ist press and the military party have quite changed front and are now warning against Wilson as a secret friend of the Allies , who is really playing their game . How the balance of this foreign judgment will swing in the next few days it is Impossible to foresee . It will be instructive to watch it . The whole uncertainty as to just what the President 's position is does not , it must be confessed , constitute a striking tribute to the care with which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressed as it should have been . Proof of this is furnishneutrals jarred on many a reader . Moreover , so great was the doubt concerning the President 's direct object , and so marked the divergence of view as to precisely where he stood as between the belligerents , that the Secretary of State felt compelled to seek to explain the matter to a puzzled public . The net result was to leave it rather more puzzled than before . This is not a very happy fate for a document so important as the one given out by the President last Thursday . For the purposes of an appeal so momentous words were not given to conceal thought . The great misunderstanding , the chief resentment not only among the Allies but in this country , has arisen from the President 's unguarded language which seemed to Imply that he perceives no difference in the moral quality of the various belligerents . That Mr. Wilson did not intend this is certain . The author of the Lusitania notes could not have forgotten them completely . ' Already there have come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been misapprehended . He was confining himself to the statements of aims and hopes as now made by the responsible rulers of the several belligerent Powers . This had no reference to the past . Nor was it meant as a judgment upon the spirit and methods with which the war has been waged . On that subject the President , it is hinted , remains of the mind he has had all along ; and it is even reported that supplementary instructions will be sent to our Ambassadors and Ministers , giving them one more explanation , in this sense , of a note which should have carried its own clear meaning on its face . In the entire long negotiation for peace , which we seem to be facing , nothing need be done by the Allies , certainly nothing should be done by the Government of the United States , to allow the German Government to deceive itself about the long road which it has to travel in order painfully to regain its moral standing in the eyes of the world . Germany may have to undergo punishment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ penalty which her rulers have brought upon her , will be the abiding abhorrence of the civilized world at the way in which the German Government began the war , and the atrocities committed in the course of it . The Paris Matin recently had an imaginary conversation between Bethmann-Hollweg and the Emperor . " See , " said complished nothing . " " Perhaps you would . have done better , " replied the Kaiser , " if you had , at the beginning of the war , left out a half-dozen phrases . " For our part , we hope that no American will forget or too lightly pardon the act of perfidy with which Germany began the war , or the lawlessness and brutality with which she has stained her course In it . SECRETARY LANSING 'S BLUNDER . It is not necessary to produce proof of the huge mistake which Secretary Lansing made last week . He himself admits it . It lies confessed on the face of his two statements . Probably no Secretary of State ever had to undergo so mortifying and humiliating an experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and then in two or three hours to be compelled to acknowledge his indiscretion  --  who could have imagined Robert Lansing capable of it ? It was the general belief in his exceptional competence which caused something like-consternation at his utterances . For it was no haphazard and improvised diplomat who-was talking . It was a trained man who had for nearly two years , in a series of singularly trying situations , shown himself not only able but remarkably discreet . Thin is what deepens the mystery . We can think of no explanation unless it be that Mr. Lansing 's persistent poor health had temporarily impaired his judgment . With his second statement eating up his . first , it is not worth while now to pursue the extraordinary implications of the first .. Of these the most astonishing was that neither the Secretary nor the President regarded the note to the belligerents as " a , peace note " ; along with the inference , which Mr. Lansing 's words almost forced the reader to draw , that our Government was considering the question with which set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war . The effect of this could not fail to be most unhappy , both at home and abroad . It made it look as if the Administration did , not know its own mind . And the immediate result is certain to throw an air of uncertainty and confusion over the entire approach of the President to the belligerents. in the interest of peace . For the time being , Mr. Wilson 's note is necessarily obscured , and the attitude of our Government made to appear muddled . This need not last . The-President himself may say something to set , the matter straight . Or the thing may clear itself up with time , as it becomes plain that the Secretary 's blunder was off his own bat , and merely a sign that he was losing his grip . This aspect of the affair is painful , and it is needless to dwell upon it . The net impression caused in Europe can not be favorable to American diplomacy . Never has our State Department had so many dealings with foreign Governments , in the same space @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past two years . In most of the diplomatic negotiations and statements , during that period , Secretary Lansing has borne a leading part ; so that there is a peculiar appositeness in the review of " American Diplomacy in the European War " which Prof. Munroe Smith has just published in the Political science Quarterly . It is an article at once considerate of the difficulties confronting our Government and critical in its estimate of the steps actually taken . Written with broad knowledge and in an admirable spirit , it attempts to lift the whole question out of party politics , and to study it in the light of accepted principles of international law , and also in the hope of indicating precedents set for the future development of that law . Professor Smith indicates certain policies which he thinks our Government should have announced and adopted early in the war . These do not include a protest against the invasion of Belgium . Professor Smith is not the man to ignore the unwisdom of such a course . But he suggests that the President ought promptly to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country on guard , in a military sense , and also to provide himself with legislative weapons , such as authority to lay an embargo , with which to maintain his diplomatic positions . Professor Smith frankly admits that these are after-thoughts , and does not blame the Administration too severely for not having foreseen everything . As regards the things actually done by our Government , he gives approval , on the whole , to its contentions in the matter of restraints of our trade by Great Britain . His conclusion is : The conduct of our diplomacy as regards Great Britain and its allies is , I think , fairly defensible . It has not seemed to our Government either necessary or expedient to meet the restrictions placed by these states on our trade with retaliatory restrictions which , in harming them , would also harm ourselves . It has seemed sufficient to file our protests as a basis for subsequent claims . After the war the British Government may concede that its measures were irregular ; and the rules of international law will then be vindicated Great Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it may need these rules for the protection of its own trade . It may the more easily do this because its action is claimed to be retaliatory . The more complex and perilous dealings of our State Department with Germany , Professor Smith finds vulnerable . He points out the vacillations and lack of a definite and consistent policy in the matter of the limits of submarine warfare . His own opinion is that our Government should have firmly held to the view , which it seemed to take in the first Lusitania note , that a submarine could not comply with the rules of cruiser warfare . And he has no difficulty in pointing out the glaring inconsistency of Secretary Lansing 's notes about the rights of armed merchantmen . Particularly instructive is Professor Smith 's article in the matter of reprisals ; and the assertion of our Government that they are " Illegal " , he shows to be far too sweeping and , in its extreme form , " quite Indefensible . " Throughout , Professor Smith 's tone is judicial and his learning ample . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , his article is well worth reading both . for its contents and its timeliness . CONSCRIPTION . In 1898 the United States was peaceful and content with an authorized regular army of 25,000 men . To-day , our professional soldiers , not satisfied with the regular army of 223,580 men authorized by Congress at their request only six months ago , and not waiting to see if they can raise it , are now going the entire length possible  --  they demand universal service to provide three millions of men ready to take the field . More than that , they out-Prussian the Prussians , whose military scheme has never included any standing army of professional soldiers ; they demand a standing force of 250,000 regulars in addition . When Germany wished to take part in the Boxer troubles'in China she was compelled to raise regiments for that over-sea duty . We are to have 250,000 men atall times available for that kind of service . Into this revolutionary change in our national life we are to be driven hot-haste without stopping to count the cost  --  the political , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is obvious that if we are to embrace universal service , after the manner of France and Germany , the chief emphasis of American life will hereafter be laid not upon the things of peace , but upon the preparations for war . Now , to justify so radical a revolution in our national life , it would seem as if there should be at least as grave a national danger confronting us as led Prussia to devise her universal service  --  which is what the Allies are now trying to destroy . There is no danger whatever confronting us either to the east or to the west that is not as capable of diplomatic solution as have been all the others of our national life  --  which we have solved so successfully as never to have had a foreign war save of our own seeking . But our military men are for ever conjuring up some of these dangers ; since 1898 Japan and Germany have been the ostensible possible enemies . Gen. Scott has spoken of the menace.of Japan and Great Britain combined . If this does not have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon to add at least Russia , or China , to the combination . It seems obvious that before the United States makes a plunge into militarism by adding universal service to a great regular army and to the second largest navy in the world , the following steps should be taken as reasonable and business-like : First , there should be no action until the outcome of the war is settled , for there are already plain indications that some of the nations engaged will be ready to consider disarmament and the abandonment of universal service. , Sec-only , it should be clearly known what we are to arm for ; that is , whether we are to rely upon the second largest fleet and the costliest coast defences in the world for safety , with a reasonable army , or whether we are to count our vast fleet as incompetent to defend us , and the coast defences as so much money thrown away . Thirdly , we should have a settled foreign policy into - which , if disarmament fails and the American people wish to have a large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall fit . Fourthly , we should not discard the regular-army plan voted last summer until it has been definitely ascertained that it can not be carried out . There has not been time to test the provisions for vocational training in the Defence law , or even to put them into effect ; so able a student of affairs as ex-Secretary Fisher believes that the army can be recruited if higher wages are paid , and the Adjutant-General reports for November a marked increase in recruiting which leads him to believe that the army will be up to the required strength by June next , when the next increase in strength is due . Fifthly , taking note of the many defects and inefficiencies of the army , Congress should build no new and vast militaristic structure until the existing methods are subject to rigid scrutiny and reform and the existing personnel is held to the same standards of personal efficiency that obtain in any large industrial corporation . NO universal army , . officered and managed as is the present regular army , will yield any sound reason for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany or to that of France save in mere numbers . Sixthly , the National Guard should not be simply scrapped . The several States are entitled to their troops as State forces , and their former status as State troops , and not as Federal militia , should be restored . Under the Dick law these organizations were steadily advancing in efficiency ; the mobilization , for all its shortcomings  --  a considerable portion of which are attributable to the army  --  was a thousand per cent . better than that of 1898 . Seventhly , there should be a careful study of the arguments against compulsion ; if we blundered in the hasty legislation for preparedness of last winter we should take seven years at least to thresh out the issue of universal service . If it took us twenty-five years to reform our banking and currency laws , it should not be unwise to devote a good deal of thought to this hasty panacea  --  all the more so as no one to our knowledge has as yet worked out any detailed plan which in remotest degree counts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  especially in the matter of the colored men of the South . We are firmly of the belief that any such detailed study of the proposal for universal service will show ( 1 ) that it is utterly un-American in its every tendency ; ( 2 ) that it would be a menace to our democratic Institutions ; ( 3 ) that it is practically unworkable ; ( 4 ) that it is totally unnecessary . REPUBLICAN REFORM FROM WITHIN . Senator Weeks must have been listened to last week with mingled feelings by the " partisan organization meeting " at the Republican Club of New York city . His urging of efficiency In campaign methods would strike a popular chord  --  everybody has a soft place in his heart for efficiency  --  but it is not difficult to believe that he " caused some surprise " by what he said about campaign . contributions . Any Republicans who are in the habit of giving large sums , and who felt like welcoming his denunciation of the practice of asking or accepting such aid , must have felt a chill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burden . The practice is wrong , the Senator told them , " because it gives certain men the belief that they are entitled to unusual consideration after election . " What , they must have asked one another in astonishment , does Mr. Weeks think the Republican party is for ? If " going downtown " in New York , Philadelphia , Chicago , and Boston with increasing frequency as a campaign nears its end is to be abolished , what radicalism is the party not prepared to take up ? It is , of course , too much . to expect that Wall Street should have more than the haziest notion of the taint which its touch puts upon anything  --  in the eyes of the West . Senator Weeks might have gone so far as to inform his audience that the idea that Wall Street was behind their late candidate was not the least of the causes of his defeat . Fewer tens of thousands of dollars would have meant more tens of thousands of votes . They may well reflect , too , that the unpalatable advice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but from sober , rock-ribbed , or almost rock-ribbed , Massachusetts . This is significant . An Eastern voice answers the Western voices which are half-clamoring for reform , half-threatening what they will do if they do not get it . A Senator from the State of Henry Cabot Lodge and W. Murray Crane actually speaks in a language which Iowa and California can understand . Reform of the Republican party from within , and reform without a bitter fight which would leave the party too weak to engage the enemy successfully , looks more like a possibility when a New Englander speaks coldly of Wall Street 's value as a Republican asset . This is the kind of thing which Western Republicans mean when they talk of " progressive policies . " And it is men who preach such doctrines with fervor that they more and more incline to support , even though the names may not happen to be found under the emblem which the Western Republican has been accustomed to regard as sacred . But not all that Senator Weeks said will fire the Western Republican heart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and I do not now , favor primary legislation , " he did not speak the conviction of multitudes of Republicans everywhere , without whose votes there will be no more Republican Presidents . He showed more candor than wisdom in avowing that he had always believed that " the best way to select men to lead a political party was through an assemblage of leaders who know the characteristics and the adaptability of the candidates  --  qualities about which the general run of voters are ignorant and can not know . " This will not go down west of the Mississippi , nor in all Republican centres east of it . There , too , the belief which Mr. Weeks professes was once held , but the very rock upon which his party split is the abandoning of this and other similar beliefs . To such Republicans , this utterance will be not a declaration , but a confession . Even those most ready to admit the serious defects of the primary system in both theory and practice will still insist that as between the convention system with its faults @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether Republican or Democrat , can hesitate . The task in this matter is not to end the primary , but to mend it . Senator Weeks does not speak with the national Republican voice when he condemns it utterly , but only for a section , and a minority section at that . This fact lends unwitting emphasis to his statement that the restoration of the Republican party to power is a " man 's job . " That is a phrase which the most insurging Westerner would repeat after him with peculiar force . By it he would mean a job for a man big enough to see all the way from Eastport to San Diego . The first thing such a man would see is that Republican victory is conditioned upon Republican unity . Now , that unity is not to be obtained by any such mechanical process as the general overhauling and reorganization of methods upon which Senator Weeks laid stress . Not methods , but principles , is the motto of the irreconcilable Westerners . To them , the primary is precious because It is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the party . They are not troubled over the trifling question of a little more or a little less efficiency . Their concern is with the prime matters of party faith and party leadership . And their impatience and despair arise from the apparent failure of men like Senator Weeks to grasp that outstanding fact . Unity must come before victory , but principles come before unity . Reform from within or further defeats from within are the alternatives facing conservative and progressive Republican alike . VARIOUS WAYS WITH FIGURES . " The population of the United States , " says a press dispatch , " continues to shift to the cities , according to estimates announced to-day by the Census Bureau . The estimates , based on the rate of population increases , from 1900 to 1910 , disclosed that 40.9 per cent . of the country 's inhabitants now live in cities of more than 8,000 , as against 38.9 per cent . in 1910 . " The first sentence of this is a specimen of that curious crop of statements which makes its appearance every year at this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this country in the year about to close , or in the period since the last census was taken . Of course nobody knows , and the Census Bureau neither knows nor pretends to know . All that it does is to make an arithmetical calculation which any schoolboy could make , and tell us what the figures of any particular matter are to-day if the trend shown in the decade from 1900 to 1910 has continued at the same rate since 1910 . The second sentence in the above dispatch Plainly implies this , and yet it did not suffice to prevent the assertion in the first that " the population of the United States continues to shift to the cities " ? an assertion which , as it happens , is in all probability true , but about which the Census Bureau knows no more than the first man you meet in the street . But usually statements of this nature appear in the newspapers without any indication of how they were arrived at , and they frequently give rise to solemn conclusions which have absolutely no basis whatever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or that process , or has not accelerated such and such a tendency . Everybody ought to have sense enough to know that the Census Bureau has no means of getting at the facts of population between censuses , and that no hocus-pocus of mathematics can possibly give any information as to any new factors that may have come into the situation . But most people , when they see anything statistical , either refuse to have anything to do with it or else swallow it whole without stopping to think . Accordingly , the Census Bureau ought to print , in bold type , at the head of every bulletin or leaflet giving figures of this kind , the warning that they are compiled merely to save the labor of calculation for anybody needing estimates of this nature , and that they give no new information as to actual facts . In this matter , it is clearly nothing but thoughtlessness that is responsible ; and the newspaper man has the very strong excuse that statistics are not in his line , and he can hardly be expected to avoid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and more uncomfortable to encounter , serious statistical breaks in the utterances of men speaking as experts or high authorities . Such a break occurs in the following extract from the address delivered by Mr. E. E. Rittenhouse at the recent meeting of the Asso ciation of Life Insurance Presidents in this city : He the average American has ignored the fact that the injurious effects of such common stimulants as alcohol , nicotine , caffeine , and similar " bracers " differ only in degree from those of opium , morphine , cocaine , heroin , and other powerful and deadly narcotics . He has , therefore , increased his annual consumption of alcoholic drinks from 6.4 to 19.8 gallons ( per capita ) since 1860 . ' He tells you of the good times he has on these 19.8 gallons . But his over-strained kidneys , heart , and other organs do not rejoice with him . Now , Mr. Rittenhouse must know that in 1860 beer-drinking was almost unknown in this country , outside of a small fraction of the population , while now it constitutes an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he gives no warning whatever to his audience that the tripled consumption of alcoholic drinks does not mean a tripled consumption of alcohol . Whether much beer is worse ' for the kidneys than a little whiskey , we can not undertake to say ; but that a little whiskey is capable of doing far more general harm than a considerable amount of beer is quite certain . What sort of intelligence does a person assume in his audience if he expects it to be impressed with a statement so com , 1 tat al , 1 cry-111,111w , 1+,1 IV. , canoe .. ? One trouble about pointing out such things as these is that the impression is likely to be produced that statistics are of no use . Good statistics , carefully and honestly used , are of very great practical value . The country , and the world , is constantly being instructed as to the efficacy , of various forms of public effort , and as to the growth or decline of tendencies which it is important to watch , by the evidence of proper statistics properly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be found in the careful compilation and analysis of homicide figures for this country , by Dr. Frederick L. Hoffman , which appears in the New York weekly insurance journal , the Spectator , every year . The review for 1915 , in last week 's issue of the Spectator , shows the same scrupulous accuracy of statement that has been manifested heretofore , and : the accompanying comment is of great interest and importance . We regret to say that its purport is by no means pleasing . " While in other directions , " says Dr. Hoffman , " measurable progress has been made in the United States , in the direction of the security of the person there has been decided retrogression . " This conclusion ' is based upon more than one comparison , and perhaps no one of them is entirely convincing taken by it self , but there seems ' to be no escape from it when the whole of the statistical facts presented is taken Into account . . Among these facts the most striking is that:the number of murderers under confinement was 156 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; though here perhaps a considerable element in the matter is to be found in the substitution of imprisonment for capital punishment . But , worst of all , no matter whether we are a little worse or a little better in the matter of homicide than we were ten or twenty years ago , we are enormously worse than other civilized countries  --  a fact which Dr. Hoffman never fails to bring out with a force that ought to stimulate all-round effort to rid the nation of this stigma.                     