@@430702

 | WOULD you like to see how the Methodists transact their business in their Quadrennial Conference ? " asked my friend . " Very much , " I replied . About a couple of hours after breakfast he called for me , and we went together to Convention Hall at Saratoga Springs , a hall erected , I believe , for political conventions , with a seating capacity of five thousand . The floor was fairly well filled with delegates to this Conference , numbering , including bishops and other officials , about a thousand . A fair sprinkling of visiting spectators occupied the galleries and the reserved seats under the galleries . I was favored with a seat on the platform with the bishops , where I had an admirable opportunity to witness the proceedings . They had a certain resemblance to those which one witnesses from the gallery in the House of Representatives at Washington , with four important exceptions . A tribune had been erected in front of the platform , and to this tribune speakers who desired to address the house at any length @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ published in a " Daily Christian Advocate , " there was no " buncombe " in the speeches ; though all resolutions were referred without debate to the appropriate committee , there was no indication of any desire on the part of any one to stifle freedom of speech ; and , although intensity of conviction was apparent and at times decided differences of conviction , the atmosphere of the Conference was wholly goodnatured ? the earnestness was without bitterness . To a large extent the business of the Conference was thrashed out in committees . The mornings were given to what I may call parliamentary business , the afternoons to committee work , the evenings to mass-meetings . At the one evening meeting which I attended , which was given to Sunday-school work of the Church , the house was packed to its utmost limit . When I arrived there , fifteen minutes before the opening of proceedings , belated visitors were being turned away , and I was told that not a few of the seats had been occupied for nearly or quite an hour before the time for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ includes representatives of the Methodist Church from all over the world . Germany was the only country not represented . The spirit of the Conference was unmistakably practical rather than theological , and therefore liberal rather than reactionary . Thus its answer to the absurd charges by a heresy-hunter against Dr. George P. Mains for his excellent book entitled Modern Thought and Traditional Faith " was a resolution , passed without question and , I believe , unanimously , entering his name in the records of the Book Ccmmittee as publishing agent emeritus of the Book Concern and directing that in view of his long years of faithful and valuable services the Book Committee be instructed to make such use of his services and on such terms as might be deemed advisable . The report of a commission on the ritual of the Church indicated the same spirit . It struck out from the baptismal service for children the words " Forasmuch as all men are conceived and born in sin , " a phrase which , transferred from poetry in the Old Testament to theological doctrine in a modern ritual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Regeneration . The commission also recommended that candidates for membership should not be required to subscribe to the Apostles ' Creed and the Twenty-five Articles of Religion , but simply to affirm that they receive and profess the Christian faith as contained in the New Testament ; a return , it may be remarked , to the position originally held by John Wesley , and by the Methodist Church up to 1864 . This report was accepted by the Conference , and then referred to the Board of Bishops with power for final action . The practical questions apparently interested the Conference much more than ecclesiastical or . theological problems . They passed a resolution strongly recommending that in those States in which the Bible is now banished by law from the . schools the laws be changed so that it may be read ; a resolution condemning Government appropriation for sectarian schools , especially aimed at the appropriation for Roman Catholic schools working among the Indians ; approved a  | petition to Congress to provide an adequate censorship for the moving-picture shows : and passed with enthusiasm resolutions commending total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , condemning also the issuance of internal revenue tax receipts by the Federal Government to criminals engaged in violating State laws . " favoring the Uniform Marriage Bill prepared and urged by the American Bar Association , and urging the adoption of National prohibition and . pending the submission of an amendment to the Constitution to make universal prohibition possible , prohibition by Congress to the full extent of its present Constitutional powers . Probably no subject brought before this Conference will be more interesting to Methodists than the important steps taken toward uniting the Methodist Church , South . and the Methodist Church , North , in one American Methodist Church . Such a proposed union has been pending for some time . The wiser heads , both North and South . have realized that such a union , to be effective . must be the product of a growth in fellowship . Their conviction was well expressed by one speaker in the statement : I was in doubt , because I did not want a union that was not a real union , and I was afraid that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one great organization for the upbuilding of God 's kingdom . " How far this good understanding has really been brought about I have no means of knowing . Theologically the Methodist Church , South , has been more stationary , the Methodist Church , North , more progressive . No real union is possible unless both in the North and in the South there is granted that intellectual and spiritual liberty which , judging from the action of this Conference , pervades the Northern Church . The action of the Conference indicates a prevailing opinion that this necessary good understanding has been already largely , if not entirely , attained . The entire body adopted by a rising vote a resolution providing for a Commission of twenty-five members ? five bishops , ten ministers , and ten laymen ? to confer with commissioners from the Methodist Episcopal Church , South , and from other Methodist bodies in the United States in carrying forward negotiations for a union of all the Methodist bodies of the United States in one American Methodist Church . I have left too little space for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the auspices of the Methodist Church in foreign lands : The interesting figures presented will be a surprise to those cynics who asperse or belittle foreign missionary work ? at least those of them who are sufficiently open-minded to read and consider the significance of these figures . It will , I suspect , surprise even those who have been loyal supporters of the modern successors to the ancient Apostle to the Gentiles . Statistics are to me generally uninteresting and not very convincing . Nevertheless , the net gain in China in four years of fifteen thousand members , including those on probation , is significant ; the growth in contributions in the same length of time from these Chinese members for churches and benevolences of one hundred and eighteen per cent is more significant ; the fact that more inquirers were enrolled in India in a single night than were enrolled iu the first fifty years of Christian missions in that country is still more significant . More interesting and not less significant are some of the incidents connected with this world missionary movement . For example : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the city of Bareilly , in a room in the missionary 's bungalow , an Indian preacher , borrowed from the Presbyterians , rose to preach to a congregation of six , all the Methodists we had in the Indian Empire , and they were from the English community . We had not at that time baptized any from the nonChristian world . Dr. and Mrs. Butler , our great founders , seeing the mutiny gathering , had escaped to the mountains and barely saved their lives . . . . Is it not prophetic that the Indian preacher selected for his text on that memorable morning : ? Fear not , little flock ; for it is your Father 's good pleasure to give you the kingdom . ' Shortly after he rose to explain and unfold his subject the door opened , the mutineers entered , the heads of half of his congregation were cut off inside of the building and the others outside . The preacher himself , slipping out of the back door , and hiding in the jungle in the daytime and traveling at night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundred miles away . The missionary 's library was burned , everything that could be was destroyed , and the mission blotted out , except that which even an Indian mutiny could not blot out , the word of  | God , ' Fear not little flock ; for it is your Father 's good pleasure to give you the kingdom . ' " Yet this seemingly wild optimism of the Indian preacher has its fulfillment in the fact that in this district there is now a population of three hundred and fifty thousand professing Christians , with a hundred and sixty thousand more on the " waiting list " ? waiting to be baptized , because the Church will not receive them until they have received some measure of Christian education . Or take the story of what " Hallelujah Kim , " a Japanese " Billy Sunday , " is accomplishing in Japan . He spent ten months in America studying the methods of the baseball evangelist , lived for a time with the Sundays , during one month attended every service which Billy Sunday conducted , and now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but not the methods , of his instructor . " He uses the simplest language possible , but even the strictest missionaries confess that they have never heard him speak vulgarly . " " When I eat stewed cherries , " he said , " I do n't have to eat the stones . I put them at the side of my plate and say nothing about them . " The results of his work in Japan appear to rival those of Billy Sunday in America . The missionaries seem to be rather more alive to the duties which those results lay upon them than are the ministers and churches in America , for they have made a call for four hundred and seventy-four missionaries to take care of new business . One more incident , and I must bring this article to a close ; it illustrates the difficulties which some of our missionaries have to meet and their courage in meeting them . Enraged at the success of American missionaries near Lake Titicaca in Peru , a Roman Catholic bishop " took the police out to the mission , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a long rope , and marched through the streets to the common jail . No such outbreak of inquisitional fires had been seen for at least a generation , and it lit a conflagration . Public sentiment burned hot against a law which authorized such an outrage . Public meetings were held , petitions to Lima , the capital , set the prisoners free , and the Senator from that district was ordered to present a bill to repeal the old law of intolerance , or lose his seat . His bill passed , to his great surprise , within ten days of its first reading , going through both Senate and House of Deputies by an overwhelming majority . Being an amendment to the Constitution , it needed to be confirmed by a twothirds.vote ' in a subsequent year . ' In 1914 it was smothered in committee by a Peruvian brother of the Roman Catholic Bishop of Trujillo . But last November it was triumphantly passed by both houses of the Peruvian Congress . But another difficulty arose . The President refused to sign it . After the lapse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and became effective from December 1 , 1915 . The scenes of those last days defy description . Driven to bay in the last and most fanatical capital of the Western Hemisphere , Romanist leaders fought desperately . They flooded the city and nation with misleading pamphlets . They organized the women of Lima and had them stay for days in the Cathedral and near-by churches , ready to storm the Senate and House of Deputies when the bill came up for its final passage . At the signal the women rushed to the legislative chamber . They sent for their husbands and brothers who were members . They shouted , ' Viva la Idlesia Romano ! ' in the corridors and offices of the building . A priest , more agile and daring than the others , leaped over chairs and seized the bill from the hand of the member who was presenting it for final passage , tore it to scraps , shouting , ' Death to the Masons ' Down with the Protestants 1 ' ' Viva la Iglesia Rom rna at the top of his voice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when the vote was recorded , only two votes had been changed by all the frantic efforts of the Romanist leaders . The bill was passed by a vote of 56 to 12 , and religious liberty granted to the last nation west of the Atlantic Ocean . " I heartily agree with the conclusion of Bishop Homer C. Stuntz , from whom I have quoted this incident : This one victory alone is justification of all the expendiure of money and life in South America by the Protestant churches from 1836 to 1861. "                     