@@493153

crime since the destruction of Poland , yet the ori ? gins of this world-wide conflict were deeper than German militarism , and that the guilt must be dis ? tributed , however unevenly . Now it would be a mistake to suppose that America became more neutral because it had weighed the evidence . The truth is that America secured the evidence when it had determined to be neutral . More and more the war has ceased to look like a clean-cut fight between right and wrong , between democracy and absolutism , between public faith and international lawlessness . Italy , Rumania , Russia with their aggressive programs confuse the situation too much , and the lack of any definition of the Allied objective has filled a growing mass of Americans with the sense that the remedy for this horror is not to be had by a " knockout , " but is to be sought in radical reorganization . These obscure and half-formulated reactions have found their expression in the idea of a League to Enforce Peace , an idea which is much closer to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or an out-and-out alliance with the British Empire . It is a true , though no doubt a pale and unappreciated crystallization , and perhaps even a compensation for the diminishing partisanship of America . This spiritual change has reverberated in Can ? ada and Great Britain . That America should talk big and not act was bad enough , but that America should soften its tone was worse . If you ask an Englishman to-day what it is that we have done to irritate him so , he will insist that he does not quarrel with us for staying out of the war , he will confess that our neutrality has been ultra-benevo ? lent to the Allies , and sharply discriminating against Germany . Then he will point sadly or angrily to things which have been said , things which are unsympathetic to the reasons which are put out as explaining the Allied cause . He will complain about the alteration in the American tem ? per toward the war . His irritation piques us , of course , and the result is a discouraging cleft in the feeling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that no such division has appeared between France and America . No doubt many Frenchmen are annoyed at us , and feel many contemptuous things . But they have been too discreet to let us hear them , and what is more , they do not talk English . For our part the feeling toward France has reached a pitch of al ? most ecstatic admiration . It is due to facts that are obvious enough , to the intrinsic lovableness of the French people , to their heroism and clarity and their steadfastness . But these qualities will not in themselves explain the spiritual differences in American feeling for France and Britain . Themere fact that a nation has great qualities will un ? fortunately not always produce an international friendship , and the situation in America is such that we tend to an unlimited idealization of France and a hyper-criticism of Great Britain . The real explanation surely lies deeper than the spiritual quality of the two peoples . It lies in those portentous historic forces which determine feelings and ideas . Americans have been able to love France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because the relationship of the two nations is fun ? damentally disinterested . But the attitude of Britons and Americans is determined in the last analysis by a dim sense that each means to the other so much of good and evil . Our destinies cross . We are inextricably entangled one with an ? other , we know and the British know that the most terrible consequences are involved in our relation ? ship . The feeling for France is the free friendship men give to those whom they meet only in their leisure . With the British we have to-day the dis ? cordant intimacy of business partners and family ties . We know that we can not live apart , we have not yet learned to live together . We are close up to each other , bound in a common destiny , painfully aware of each other 's faults , and a little shrill about announcing them . The task of sanity is to recognize this and hold it in the front of all discussion . So involved are British-American relations that it is impossible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to alliance or to enmity . Now and in the years im ? mediately ahead this fearful decision will be made , and on it , more than on any other decision will de ? pend the happiness of the western world . We are living out now the process of that decision , and all the existing irritation is a symptom of it . To find the bases of understanding is the supreme British-American task . We turn for help to the two peo ? ples who will find their security in such understand ? ing , the two peoples most able to mediate , the peo ? ple of Canada and the people of France . IN a recent issue of THE NEW REPUBLIC state ? ments were made about the relation between Federal amendments and party politics , which to a number of correspondents seemed inconsistent . In one paragraph the National Woman 's Suffrage Association was advised to revise its traditional policy of scrupulous non-partisanship . In another , amendments to the federal constitution were de ? scribed as an indigestible diet for party politics . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course , be denied , but the discrepancy is the result of the incomplete expres ? sion of an idea rather than of the inconsistency of the idea itself . Federal amendments do require the support of two parties ; and it would be mani ? festly fatal for the suffrage agitation to attach itself in any exclusive sense to either one party or the other . But not even the Congressional Unionists , who are the extreme advocates of ag ? gressive methods against the old party machines , accept the suicidal policy of allowing suffragism to be confused with or distinguished from De ? mocracy or Republicanism . They merely aim to prevent the party in power from shirking respon ? sibility for favoring or opposing equal suffrage , and they seek , consequently , to make the ruling party assume a definite attitude or accept the con ? sequences . Their tactics are dictated by the ex ? pectation , not that any one party can carry a suf ? frage amendment , but that if one party comes to favor a suffrage amendment the other party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gives birth to these tactics is , we believe , substantially correct . The politicians will shirk the suffrage issue as long as they can ; and when they cease to shirk it they will do so either in order to win votes or to avoid losing them . The treatment received by the woman suffra ? gists from the party conventions last June is ex ? pressive of the hypocrisy and treachery of the politicians ' attitude towards the agitation for equal suffrage . Both parties feared to lose votes by wholly ignoring the question , so they hit upon the device of pretending to believe in woman suffrage , but of pretending also to advocate its adoption exclusively through state action . By so doing they intended to confer the dignity of a principle upon what is mere irresponsibility with respect to the suffrage agitation . If they are allowed to succeed , the enfranchisement of women , except in a few special localities , will be indefinitely delayed and will have to be purchased by the sacrifice for many years of the lives of some of the best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the two parties from imposing on the country this convenient principle of party irresponsibility can the cost of adopting woman 's suffrage be re ? duced to tolerable dimensions . The suffragists have every justification for com ? pelling the party politicians to acknowledge re ? sponsibility and to act on it . The two parties are national political organizations , organized ex ? pressly for the purpose of making government re ? sponsible . They have both declared that women are entitled to vote no less than men , and , con ? sidering the importance of votes in a democracy , such a declaration as to the distribution of polit ? ical power should bring with it rather more than the usual obligation to follow through . Yet in the same breath they declare themselves unable or unwilling to do anything to realize their solemn convictions . National parties , they say , should not interfere in this matter because the establish ? ment of qualifications for voting should be left to the states . But in that case why did they de ? clare themselves in favor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should they not be compelled to do what they can to make the declaration good ? As national parties they con ? trol the action of Congress , and Congress has the full legal power of doing something to advance the cause of equal suffrage without prejudicing the subsequent right of at least three-quarters of the states to decide the matter for themselves . If the two parties really believe in equal suffrage , they are committed by every obligation of de ? cency and good faith to submit a federal amend ? ment and thus to pass up to the states the busi ? ness of accepting or rejecting it . As a matter of fact , the politicians did not com ? mit the two parties to equal suffrage because they believed in it , but because they feared to lose votes by failing to accept it . They will not take the next step of submitting a federal amendment un ? less by so doing they can save or gain other votes . What it comes to consequently is this : It is chiefly by the assurance and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political power that the process of enfranchisement can be accelerated . And acceleration is a matter of the first impor ? tance . One by one the reputable obstacles to wom ? an 's suffrage have been subdued . When several million women are already voting quite as intel ? ligently as men , it has become absurd to argue the question on its merits . Only anti-democrats can remain convinced anti-suffragists . In the recent campaign both presidential candidates declared equal suffrage to be inevitable , although each drew different inferences from the fact . The inference of Mr. Hughes was correct . If the attainment of suffrage is inevitable , the problem of the suf ? frage advocates is to devise methods of accelerat ? ing the process . The last and the most formid ? able obstacle is the sheer inertia and prejudice of the existing electorate ? its indisposition to share its power , the vulgar but tenacious snobbishness of sex . Such people can be converted only by be ? ing to a certain extent bullied . The question is : How far can the bullying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the work of bullying should not go so far as the Congressional Unionists propose . There is no disposition among the women voters to organize a woman 's party , the object of which shall he to December 9 , 1916 THE NEW use the women 's votes exclusively , or even chiefly , to promote suffrage extension . They rejected al ? most with contempt any effort to make a difference of personal conviction between the two major can ? didates concerning the federal amendment an issue of preponderant importance . The women voters are , so far as our observation goes , opposed to the intrusion of sex into politics . They consider the chief gain from equal suffrage to be the expul ? sion of sex discrimination from a region in which it has no justification . To organize a woman 's party with special issues and tactics would be to throw away the chief benefit of equal suffrage . But even though the idea of a woman 's party is rejected , and properly rejected , by women voters , both men and women voters who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least pos ? sible cost and delay are not obliged to submit su ? pinely to the attempt of the party politicians to shirk all responsibility for the promotion of their party convictions . Without erecting suffrage ex ? tension into a paramount issue they may still teach the politicians a lesson by allowing it under cer ? tain special circumstances to control their votes . Within what limits and by what methods he votes of women and of men can both be used to accelerate the coming of equal suffrage are mat ? ters which must be determined by prevailing and consequently changing political conditions . Noth ? ing effective can in all probability be accomplished during the present short session of Congress . The successors of the existing congressmen have al ? ready been elected , and the incumbents will not care whether their action wins or loses votes for them or their party . Until next fall all the money and time of those who believe in woman suffrage should be concentrated on the attempt to secure its adoption in New York State , where so much thor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But whether New York is carried or not , the first session of the new Congress will offer ex ? ceptional opportunities for bringing pressure to bear on the bi-partisan machine in favor of the federal amendment . Those congressmen , both Democrats and Republicans , who vote against it , in spite of the declaration of their parties in favor of its object , should be warned that , if convenient , a campaign will be carried on in their district to prevent their reelection . The threat should be made good wherever the fight can be waged with any chance of success , and in many close districts even of non-suffrage states it could be made to look dangerous . In the fall of 1918 competing issues will not assume the importance which they necessarily acquire during the year of a presiden ? tial election . The next Congress will , consequent ? ly , provide more promising material for the exer cise of pressure than the suffragists are likely to have , so far as Congress is concerned , until the fall of 1921 . Many congressmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their minds would be opened to the value of a federal amendment . They would begin to understand the impossibility of excluding the suffrage issue from national pol ? itics by refusing to assume any responsibility for their declared party convictions . They would be ? gin to see the wisdom of the only honest alterna ? tive policy ? that of putting a distracting and dan ? gerous issue out of the way by doing what they can as national legislators to promote its success . WE are in the midst of a movement to make our government more efficient in the con ? duct of the immense business forced upon it by the exigencies of an industrial democracy . The grow ? ing expenditures and the consequent increase in the burden of taxes have aroused a wider interest than ever before . The social services rendered by gov ? ernment ? municipal , state and national ? have brought its processes so intimately into touch with daily life that its methods and effectiveness are matters of concern to all citizens , rich or poor . The demand for system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than ever the waste so long tolerated in the conduct of our common affairs . Finally , the call for " pre ? paredness " has led thousands who have been in ? different to the problems of civil administration to take thought about the ability of the govern ? ment to fulfill its responsibilities . In this enterprise teachers of political and social science have as serious responsibilities as men in the field of natural science . Why master all the mysteries of technology , if the government is to prove in the end too weak and too bungling to take advantage of the immense resources developed by private enterprise ? Up to the present time , however , the work of students of public economy , like most of the other activities of American life , has been fortuitous and unrelated . Well equipped teachers and investigators have been anarchic in their modes of research and inquiry . They dis ? like standardization and cooperation subordinated to community purposes . Each prefers to follow his own bent whether it leads him into a study of the Roman Fiscus or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from this genial anarchy , but whole fields of the art of government remain unexplored . A vast amount of time and money are wasted in ill devised or badly executed and half-executed inquiries .                     