@@487160

On Saturday the Senate , by its Banking Committee , submitted two reports on the banking and currency bill , thus marking a new and highly important stage in the public consideration of that measure . Both the reports are statesmanlike documents , eminently timely and proper in the case of a statute where avoidance of unwise provisions is so vitally important . The spirit of both conforms to the best traditions of the Senate . The changes proposed are numerous ; they open up , in several cases , a legitimate field of debate . Yet neither the amendments of the six Administration Democrats on the committee , nor the amendments suggested by the five Republicans and Senator Hitchcock , are such as to affect the underlying purpose and principles of the bill , or to throw needless confusion into the discussion of it . On the contrary , we imagine that they will go far towards clearing up obscurities and allaying outside doubts or prejudices . The Democratic and Republican reports concur in certain points . Both approve the main structure of the House bill . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicans concede theoretical merits to that plan , but in the same breath declare it to be politically impossible , and affirm their faith in the workability of a regional bank plan , properly prescribed . Each report declares it adhesion to the plan for broad governmental supervision , and neither suggests appointees of banks as members of the national board . While the two reports concur in endorsing the greater part of the pending House bill 's provisions , they also agree that in numerous important sections , much to the front of late in public controversy , the House bill needs reconsideration and alteration . Each report falls in line with enlightened outside opinion in declaring that twelve regional banks , as stipulated by the House bill , would be too many ; that there is no room on the Federal reserve board for three Government officers , with their hands already full of other work ; that the compulsory subscription , by national banks , of 20 per cent . of their capital to a regional bank 's stock , would be a needlessly heavy burden on those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 2 per cent . Government bonds now pledged against circulation . Both agree in adding careful provisions for the printing of the notes ; in dealing more equitably with interior banks in the matter of domestic exchange , and in striking out the House bill 's eleventh-hour provision , very objectionably drawn , for a savings department . Thus the two reports stand together on the need of extensive amendment to the bill , and in so doing they dispose of the notion , altogether too prevalent , that the public duty of the Sehate consisted merely in ratifying all the House provisions , solely in order to get the law on the statute books in the extra session . Yet their plans for amendment differ in some material particulars , and it is on these differences that thorough Congressional debate will properly converge . The Democratic report would reduce the House bill 's twelve regional banks to eight of such institutions , with branches ; the Republicans would cut the number down to four . This is fair matter for debate ; our own present judgment inclines to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remove from the House bill the provision whereby the Secretary of Agriculture and the Controller of the Currency would be members of the Federal supervisory board of seven , but would leave on it the Secretary of the Treasury , all the rest to be named by the President The Republicans propose eliminating all Government officers , - and raising the number of its membership to nine , including the Secretary of the Treasury ex-officio . The Democrats make the official term six years ; the Republicans eight . This Republican plan is preferable . In. the matter of subscription to stock of the regional banks , two opposing theories are embodied in the proposed amendments . The Democratic report , on the basis of calculation of actual requirements , reduces the subscription to 6 per cent . of the capital of subscribing banks , any unsubscribed balance to be offered to the public . The Republicans , on the contrary , would require the individual banks to underwrite the stock up to 6 per cent of their capital , but meantime would offer it to the general publid . The Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rata , in the new circulating notes , the present outstanding notes of national banks up to $36,00u,000 per annum , to cancel them , and to assume on its own account the 2 per cent . Government bonds pledged against them , which the Treasury shall then exchange for one-year renewable 3 per cent Government obligations . The Republican plan proposes a similar operation , up to 50 per cent of a reserve bank 's capital . This is a practicable opening of discussion on one of the oldest and most troublesome stumbling-blocks of the whole question of American currency reform . On the controversy as to stipulation of gold alone for the reserve maintained against the notes and for redemption of the notes , both reports propose a change , but the Republicans go further than the Democrats. , The Democratic report advises that the notes be made redeemable in gold alone at the Treasury , but in " gold or lawful money " at a Federal reserve bank , whose reserve against the notes may therefore be " gold or lawful money . " The Republican report provides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the reserve  --  this on the explicit ground that " it is obviously unsafe to provide that one Government obligation may be redeemed with another Government obligation . " So long as the notes , though issued under the auspices of regional banks , are declared to be Government obligations , this conclusion seems to us entirely sound . So also , we think , is the raising of the ratio of reserve , by the Republican report , to 45 per cent . of outstanding notes , instead of 33 1-3 per cent . in the House bill and 35 in. the Democratic committee report . We should regard it as in all respects wiser if the clause declaring the notes to be obligations of the United States  --  which we hold as superfluous as it would have been in the case of the present national bank notes  --  were to be dropped entirely . As it is , both reports approve it . That both reports should also leave unchanged the absurdly objectionable language , whereby the House bill declares the notes to be issued " for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for no other purpose , " is the greatest disappointment of-the committee 's work . For ourselves , we shall continue to urge the Senate and the House to strike Out thal claus'e , which states an economic falsehood , and which can have no other result than to mislead the public . PROPHETS OF EVIL . It was the rueful remark of a college professor , famous in his day for habitual pessimism : " Well , after all , the optimists have the best of it in this world . " This may have been , in his mind , only an ingenious way of confirming himself in his view that this earth is a vale of gloom : how bad a planet it must be if even such sound and studied opinions of it as his own confessedly were proved so often to be wrong ! Plainly , it was no place for a reasonable man ; and pessimism was thus made triumphant even when optimism appeared to be so . This kind of dubious Q. E. D. is , however , rather a cold form of consolation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a prophet of evil There is Mr. Balfour , for instance . He has been called a pessimist , though he denies the charge . He did once ask , however : " What would you think of me it I were pleaSed with everything that is going on in the world ? " He is distinctly not pleased with what is going on in England and Ireland just now . His recent speech do the Irish question was bteeped in melancholy . Of course , Mr. Balfour is opposed root and branch to all that the Liberals are attempting for Ireland , but he is opposed also to the plans of Sir Edward Carson . To the suggestions of a conference and a compromise he is likewise hostile , although Bonar Law , the Conservative leader , has expressed a willingness to listen to Mr. Asquith 's proposals . Whichever way you turn , there is , according to Mr. Balfour , no hope . All the possible courses are " bad . " Here is his summing up of the situation : I look forward ? I do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apprehensions to the future whatever course be taken . I think we have been brought by this Radical statesmanship into a position from which no issue which the wit of man can contrive is without the gravest perils and will not carry with it serious disaster It would be an exigent pessimist who could demand anything darker than that . When an English statesman abandons even the standard hope that " we shall somehow flounder through , " things making play by reproducing former predictions of his of an almost equally unrelieved blackness . The Irish outlook is , indeed , dark and troubled , and the most optimistic can not at present do much more than ? hope against hope that in time will come a ray of light But it is recalled that Mr. Balfour was fully as emphatic and fully as gloomy in his warnings , six or seven years ago , against what the Liberals were proposing to do in granting self-government to the Boers in South Africa . Nothing but disaster and woe could follow that blunder , he solemnly assured Parliament and the country . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not , it is true , prove that he is entirely wrong about Ireland now ; but it is a taking form of retort . It is obviously a dangerous thing for a public man or a political party to indulge too freely in forecasts of trouble We have had many instances of it in our recent political history , The most striking , of course , have come from " calamity-howlers " on the subject of the tariff . It would be almost cruel to dig up now such a speech as Senator Smoot made only last May upon the certain disastrous consequences of the Underwood tariff bill . The Utah Senator did not " see red " ; he saw black . Everywhere men out of work and starving , both industry and agriculture prostrate , and a wronged and angry people burning with impatience to turn the Democratic party out of power  --  such was his mournful vision . Any one listening credulously to his grieving prophecies could not but be overcome with special wonder at the absolute calm and general acquiescence with which the country made the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These are some of the perils that lie in the way of dabbling too often and too unguardedly in prophecies of evil . " THE SATIRIST OF THE VICTOR-IANS . " To cultured Americans of the 70 's and 80 's London Proton meant George Du Maurier . Most of us lacked the special knowledge to relish the admirable political cartoons of Tenniel and Lindley Sambourne . The racy draughtsmanship of Charles Keene was already only a Phil May , and Raven Du Maurier dominated the interval , and , nowhere more completely than . in the America . which later ? acclaimed " The Martian , " " Peter Ibbetson , " and " Trilby . " A new biography , by Mr. T. IVIartin Wood , brings those days vividly before us . Mr. Wood explains the British vogue of the gentle satirist by his completely representative quality . He seized upon a new topic , the middle-class drawing-room , and drew its epic . The amiable pretences of the new strugglers , their somewhat desperate patronage of the esthetic movement , their innocent way of blurting out the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he caught with inimitable kindliness and humor . Detached artist as he was by his origins and ever professed to be , at bottom his standards were theirs . Admiration for the awkward grace of British girlhood and young womanhood , a smiling respect for the sturdy crotchets of dowagerdom , fellowship for the lithe and rather languid young men who wore evening dress so convincingly and knickerbockers most adorably , sympathy even for futile tongue-tied dons , egregiously complacent concerning themselves and one another  --  this was the note of Du Maurier . Nor in Du Maurier 's gallery should the bathetic and scant-witted clergyman be forgotten . It is a world of the perpetual afternoon of the tennis tea or the more stately indoor ceremony , with occasional graver glimpses of the compulsory communion of the dinner hour and its obligatory social sequels . It was probably the Frenchman in Du Maurier that gave him this perfectly lucid vision of the inevitable social di , lemmas of an eminently unsocial race . It is the unstudied and very casual mood of his people that makes them wholly amiable , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estate . The tactics of these lion-hunters are so open that only the fiercest lion would decline to let himself be caught . In- much this fashion Mr. Wood sympathetically explains the popularity of Du Maurier among those he so gently ridiculed . Very appropriately the book takes the form of a long essay , containing what little biographical matter could be gleaned from Du 1Viaurier 's tranquil career . The decline of his work in the later time is sufficiently indiCated . Indeed , brie or two of the early illustrations for Cornhill suggest that Du Maurier had capacities not Wholly realized in the long and willing ? servitude to Punch . Returning to the American vogue of the artist , we need a somewhat different explanation . It was the gracious exoticism of the work that beguiled us all , and yet an eroticism in which we had some remote part . Doubtless , our own eager girls envied just a little those slender Tennysonian maidens of - whoin nothing was expected save to be maidenly . As for our young men prematurely battling with the cares of business and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ DuMaurier 's well-groomed youngsters spoke of kinder conditions , where the show of wit was not exacted and the fear of ridicule was absent . Even the parvenus among us must have longed at times for a social order so nicely stereotyped that the real right thing might be unmistakably known of all men , and industriously imitated with good hope of ultimate success . It is indeed of the essence of the Du Maurier parvenu  --  and the characteristic which separates him from more tragic American or Continental affinities ? that he or she is surely going to arrive . One feels the legitimate force of push plus money , and knOws that whateVer probationary embarrassments the newcomer may undergo he will in turn requite to some n.ewercomer . A sort of progressive poetic justice underlies all of Du Maurier 's ? satire ; his graphic dramas , unlike his novels , always end well . Du Maurier 's people are merely engaged , somewhat ridiculously , in What he deemed essentially a worthy emprise . The intrinsic desiirbility of a glorified drawing-room , the ' sensibleness of Seeking to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , one might alMost Say his religidia . His triumphs can not be repeated , for the axiom has been rudely challenged , azd the cult of a gently bred society is ' du the defensive the new people of Du Manrier brought vith their ascent a new crop of destructive ideas to which he was ' wholly oblivious While he drew , hfs Way of - thinking was already an anachronism . Very significantly he carved his initials on the famous round-table of Punch along-aide those of Thackeray , the disciple be side the master . But in being anachron. - ittic , Du Manner was finely perceptive of his proper task . The business of an illuStretor is less with coming ideas than With present face Values . These Du Maurier presented With the Most - Winning Aec-Turn-cy . . His biographer writes truly : Already Du Maurfer 's art is very pre-clots , the eirviro-nment of the people he depicted is everywhere being smashed up . Our curiosity is sharpened for everything that rgmalns to reflect those people to us . Our debt to the mirror of Du Maurier 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fragmentary accounts have reached this country of ' the Bede lecture on " Modern Oratory " which Lord Curzon recently delivered at Cambridge Timversity . He gave running estimates of many of the leading orators of the present and the previous generation . Some of his judgments were piquant , and some , as his references to Mr. Redmond and to Lloyd George , a little malicious . The cable told us of the neat way in which the speaker - avoided the task of awarding th-e palm for Oratory among all the English contenders whom he passed in review . He said : The finest speech in English of the last half-century Was delivered at Gettysburg ? a Speech made by a man who had been a country farmer and a district lawyer , Which ranks among the glories and the treasures of mankind I escape the task of deciding which is the Masterpiece of British eloquence by awarding the prize to Abraham Lincoln Lord Curzon , however , was upon more debatable ground when he entered into a comparison of the oratory of our day with that of a century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decline . It is too nice a question to be decided off-hand ; and weighty opinion could be cited against Lord Curzon 's view . Either way , the reasons which he assigns for the alleged falling off in public eloquence do not seem at all conclusive His explanation is that high oratory is essentially an aristocratic art . Chat-liana and Fok and Burke and Pitt " spoke as they lived and dressed and drank  --  in a grand style . " They were " a select few ' among the goVernin'g classes who formed a close caste . " And as social and ' political conditions today are vastly different " from what they were ' in " the classic epoch of English oratory " ( Lord Curz-on means the second - half of the eighteenth Century ) , it is natural to expect a great change in the standards and displays of public speaking . This has become vulgarize-d- , in Lord Curzon 's opinion . And for it the modern newspaper is largely responsible . " As reporting improves , oratory declines . " This is a hard saying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reports of a great oration must tend to discourage orators , one could have understood him and even sympathized with him . But how the spreading abroad of the words of a public speaker , provided they are accurately printed , can by itself do anything to lower oratory , it is difficult to see . This part of the comparison between our day and Dr. Johnson 's is largely a question of degree . In his time there was reporting of Parliamentary speeches . He did it himself . Transcripts of the speeches of Fox and Sheridan were in circulation . How did we get , for example , Burke 's address to the electors of Bristol , if it was not taken down or carefully written out ? But the moment you grant that a legitimate motive and inspiration of the orator lie in his sense of an appeal to an audience wider than the one immediately before him , you destroy the inference that the broadcasting of his words through the press can injure either his art or his influence . There is , of course , something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of second-hand report can convey the real magic of eloquence . But this was not what Lord Curzon was talking about He seems to think that the mere process of making oratory widely public degrades it . Others might argue that it furnished a new-stimulus to the ' orator , since it offered him so many more hearers to be persuaded or captivated . In fact , one of Lord Curzon 's own examples could be adduced against his contention . He ranks Lord Rosebery high among present-day speakers , saying that there is some jUstice in calling him " our only orator . " He has almost every gift of nature ; and is nearly unique to day in being ' able to ' produce orations that are at the same time literature . Rosebery 's recent intimation that he ' should probably - speak no more , Lard Curzon called " an unpardonable threat . " Well , how has it been with Lord Rosebery in this matter of reporting his speeches in the press ? No man has been more fully Nov. 27 , 1913 reported ; and no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The most careful preparations are made , whenever Rosebery speaks in Scotland or:a demote part of England , to have a verbatim reproduction of his speech in the London morning newspapers next day . Ihdeed , a constant manifestation of Rosebery 's oratorical temperament is his ' sensitiveness to external conditions of this sort His friends have long known this and sometimes have acted upon it to aid him . He was once addressing a great audience , and , for the first five minutes , appeared ill at ease . Then a note was handed up to him . reading : " Your Lordship is being heard perfectly in - all pants of the hall . " After that , he went on with excellent spirit and effect . Such an orator as that could not be hurt by knowing that he should be heatd perfectly in all parts of Eng-land Oratory may or may not have " declined . " It certainly has greatly changed . If it had not , - the inference would be that speakers were lacking not only in native eloquence but in common-sense . The old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the highest oratory is not so frequently met with in our time as it once was , the reason must be sought in general causes such as seem to have dried up the greatest poetry and mace barren the upper ranges of imaginative literature . The press has sins enough to answer for without being loaded down with those for which it has no direct responsibility . " RARE " BOOKS . An ambitious young bibliophile is nearly $85,000 richer as the result of a jury 's verdict in the Supreme Court of New York . The case was of a kind now almost classic , involving as it did tenthousand-dollar Balzacs , promissory notes , the fine art of Wallingford salesmanship , and a customer more rich in goods than in guile . The law of negotiable instruments usually works hard on the victim , since fraud must be very clearly shown to invalidate a note of hand . In the present instance a jury held that fraud was proved , and the youthful disciple of Grolier not only had his outstanding notes cancelled , but was awarded a large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his " contract . " The jury 's decision did not hinge upon the point that the defendant had been charged ludicrously exorbitant prices for his collection of machine-made art books , but upon the specific fact that the booksellers , after guaranteeing their " rare " and " unique " editions , could not resist the temptation to make a couple of hundred additional sets bloom where only half a dozen were supposed to grow . Justice was thus rendered upon a technicality , though a technicality that is broad and sound enough . The presumptio , n is that if the publishers had been content with a modest profit of 2,000 per cent. , instead of reaching Out for a possible profit of 10,000 per cent , they would have been upheld by the courts . In marketing Balzacs at prices that are occasionally larger ' Wan one would have to pay for a first folio Shakespeare , and in marketing mining stock that occasionally sends its promoters to Jail , the methods are strangely similar . In both cases the appeal is usually directed to the widow and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ways of the world , and the rich orphan who has not yet learned them . In both instances the highest art of specious salesmanship is brought into play . Selling an extra-illustrated edition of Balzac is not a stroke of business ; it is a campaign . The evidence brought forward in the case we have referred to shows how assiduously the youthful would-be rival of J. Pierpont Morgan was courted by agents who traded upon the unsuspecting friendship of a boy . One of his intimate friends was the go-between . On the day when this innocent patron of the arts attained his majority he was feted at a banquet by his publishers , the cost of which yeas probably charged up to a little extra hand-tooling on the precious volumes . Balsas was merely the pivot about which this extraordinary campaign was waged . It need not have been Balsas . If the customer at the last moment had expressed a preference for copper stock , the devoted agent would presumably have had no difficulty in supplying him with a de lure edition of certificates of Red ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ annually within two years . Another parallel between Balsas Extra Illustrated and Copper Deferred may be found in the fact that both are frequently commercial transactions , so far                     