@@485067

OST insistent of all questions before the American people , as the New Year approaches , is that of averting famine from Europe . It is difficult to overstate the seriousness of the issue , or to over-emphasize the duty of America to do what it can to meet it . Those who a year ago imagined that the signing of the armistice meant the prompt return of normal conditions in the world now know better , but few realize that in respect to food , at least , the situation has not only been growing increasingly worse , but that it is bound to become more critical in 1920 , and , unless some far-reaching program is supported by the United States , may reach an even more desperate pass in 1921 . Mr. Hoover has recently declared that , owing to diminished food production in Europe , approximately 100 , - 000,000 Europeahs are now dependent upon imported food . Sir George Paish , the British economist , put the fact more startlingly when he said the other day that 100,000,000 persons in Europe were facing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the world today than when the armistice was signed more than a year ago ? In the first place , the question is not simply one of a devastated area in Belgium and northern France . All over Europe fields have been rendered unproductive through lack of cultivation or fertilization ; orchards and vineyards have deteriorated from lack of care ; cows have been butchered for beef or used as work animals , with consequent lack of milk ; horses have been slaughtered for food , or killed in war , to the detriment of farm operations ; and railways are so far run down or depleted of rolling-stock as to be unequal to transport demands . Moreover , war continues in many places , armies are not yet demobilized , and industrial and financial conditions are so unstable as to deter many from an effort to employ adequately either their labor or their capital . All this constitutes an economic bankruptcy which can not be remedied in a year . To cope with it requires extraordinary man-power , intelligence , and hope . Yet actually Europe has to meet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the very elements needed . It is estimated , for example , that the war has cost France fifty per cent . of its men between twenty and thirty years of age ; and other countries are similarly bereft . Many of the work- . ers who remain are weakened by malnutrition , while the withdrawal of government war guarantees for food production , the relaxation of government control of food distribution , and the failure of imports , have combined to lessen the food supply everywhere . Added to all this is the rapid decline in the value of European money in America and in other food markets of the world . The currency situation is bad enough in France and Italy , where money , in American values , is not only worth less than half what it was before the war , but , taking into account enhanced prices , will buy today hardly a fourth of what it would buy in 1914 . In Austria , where the value of the crown , valued at about twenty cents in American money before the war , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is impossible . Starvation is now an actuality in Vienna ; little children are dying for want of milk ; the sick , aged , and weak are succumbing ; the whole population is wasting away through lack of nourishment . In Hungary , Poland , and Finland conditions are little better . One of the greatest dangers is the decreased supply of fats , a decreasewhich means not only less nourishment , but less soap , less cleanliness , hence more disease . It is with no desire merely to deal in alarmist phrases that we set down these facts ; it is rather to urge upon the American people , upon the President , and upon Congress the necessity of meeting perhaps the most serious problem that has confronted the world  --  bigger , by far , than the war itself  --  with vision , non-partisanship , and humanity . If it was worth while to spend thirty billion dollars ( not to speak of human lives ) in what most Americans no doubt sincerely regarded as an effort to preserve democracy in the world , then it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in keeping alive the peoples who are expected to carry on that idea . The first need is to feed Austria . The Supreme Council at Paris , it is reported , has agreed to grant shipping facilities for food already purchased by Austria which thus far , from lack of railway transport , has not been moved . This should supply the bare necessities of existence until January 21 . The Council has further voted to release 30,000 tons of foOd held at Trieste , which it is estimated will last until the end of April . To carry Austria from then until after next year 's harvest , the Council is said to have devised a plan , the details of which have not been made public , which America is to be asked to support to the extent of $100,000,000 . The President of Argentina has just recommended an appropriation of two million dollars for Austrian relief , the Austrian Government to repay the loan at its convenience . Considering our own far greater population and wealth , $100,000,000 is not too much to shoulder . Immediate food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end but rather the beginning of a vaster , longer-sustained effort in behalf of industrial reconstruction among both the Allies and the Central Powers . Europe needs not only food but fuel , building materials , farm implements , seed , and a variety of products for which it must depend mainly upon America . It has few goods as yet to offer in return . To buy outright at present exchange rates is ruinous , if not impossible , for Europe , while in America the effect of a fluctuating exchange in creating artificial values and thus forcing up prices for the entire community is pretty certain to benefit only the profiteers . The task is beyond the scope of private effort ; the Government must attack it . Why should not the President and Congress agree upon a considerable appropriation , to be added to later if necessary , as a European reconstruction loan ? Secretary Glass has recently urged such action upon Congress . The fund could be applied as a buying credit in this country to such countries and in such amounts as the President or some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and for a considerable number of years . Such use of American wealth would be not only humanitarian , but also in the widest sense practical and business-like , if for no other reason than that , without it , events promise an industrial cataclysm in Europe into which we , too , shall inevitably be swept . Beyond this , there is imperative need of continuing Federal control of food and of stimulating production to the utmost , in order to reduce waste , control prices , regulate distribution , and insure the maximum supply of food for export as well as for home consumption , until the world food crisis has passed . A Year of Revolution ITH Germany crushed and autocracy enthroned , with the strong hand of power at the throat of liberty , the battle opens which is to make men free . " In these words The Nation , on May 17 last , greeted the Treaty of Versailles , whose promulgation marked the culminating effort of the financial and political imperialism that has ruled the world for half a century . Today , far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is all but repudiated and the peoples of the world are taking uncertain steps toward freedom . There is no need to rehearse the events of the past twelve months . We have known the failure of the attempt made at Paris to prop the old order ; the breakdown of the old economic and financial organization ; the progressive collapse of political authority ; the astonishing spread among all classes of ideas only yesterday deemed utterly subversive ; the many unprecedented outbreaks of economic and social unrest that have shaken every country in the world , from the United States and Great Britain to far-away China , India , and Australia ; and , perhaps most striking of all , a steady progress of the armies of Soviet Russia and the strengthening and solidification of the communist organization of that country . Men cry Lo , here ! and Lo , there ! but the discerning perceive the truth ; we live today in the midst of a revolution  --  a revolution of ideas and institutions and modes of life . Violence and bloodshed attend it from time to time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past , but they are not of its essence nor of its making . If they come they may rather be the creation , as indeed we have already seen , of those who resist the revolution than of those who urge it on . God is not mocked ; whatsoever a man soweth , that shall he also reap . A year ago , Italian peasants were burning candles before the picture of President Wilson ; today , some millions of men and women the world over , starving , freezing , dying , are grimly denouncing the statesmen who sacrificed honesty and kindness and simple humanity on the altar of outworn political ideas . A year ago , the peoples of Europe still hoped for salvation through the old institutions of government and the projected super-government of a League of Nations ; today , a profound distrust of all government seems to pervade more and more the minds of men . A year ago , all save a small fraction of the people , in this country at least , appeared to believe that the shattered economic structure was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numbers of the working classes , whether they work principally with the head or mainly with the hands , are questioning the whole foundation of privilege and property on which the present order of society rests , while many openly declare their purpose to change that foundation even though they topple down the entire structure in the process . A year ago , lulled by the honeyed promises of the war period , most men still believed that the new order might be builded in peace ; today , disappointed by twelve months ' experience of government promises unfulfilled , many of the same men declare , mistakenly we hope , that this revolution , like its predecessors , can not escape the baptism of blood . On the one side the past- year has brought hunger and misery and violent repression of all complaint ; on the other , a mad profiteering , ostentatious luxury , and riotous excess of power . That in such soil revolutions grow , history shows . The revolution which we are now witnessing is not merely negative and destructive , however . Certain positive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frequency . Losing faith in leaders , men gain faith in themselves ; and we witness , the world over , spontaneous mass action creating its own leaders . Losing faith in the political side of government , men recognize their own power as parts of an economic government ; by direct action through their trade unions and other voluntary organizations they are here and there taking over the power which the nerveless hands of politicians have dropped . Losing faith in the essential justice and honesty of the present economic system as they see that system applied , they are already in process of creating a new one . Witness the growth of cooperation , with all its revolutionary implications ; the relentless pressure of labor for actual , not nominal , control of natural resources and the tools of production ; and the growing demand for the nationalization of fundamental resources and the democratization of basic industries . All of these are phenomena never before so marked as in the year just dosing . It is needless to do more than recall the land legislation of a half dozen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial situation in Great Britain , or the plans and programs of the Plumb Plan League , the Nonpartisan League , the Labor party , and the Committee of Forty-Eight in the United States . Such is the structure which the revolution is already building . The aim is service rather than profits ; production rather than exploitation ; administration rather than dominion ; liberty rather than mastership . With an assurance of power at once alarming and inspiring the hosts are beginning to march forward , meeting misrepresentation , persecution , and violence with unwonted quiet and patience and with a significant absence of bluster , yet with a profound seriousness and determination that bode ill for those who do not try to understand what all this movement means . It would be idle to deny that the greatest of all incentives to this new revolutionary movement has been the example of Russia . For good or for ill there have appeared in Russia the outlines of a huge social experiment whose shadows stretch in long uncertain lines over the whole of Europe and across the Atlantic to the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that the Allies and Americans in Paris have been unable to control the destinies of the world or settle such comparatively minor problems as Fiume and the future of Hungary , that in nearly every country there is unrest and unhappiness ? has impelled men to look to Moscow to see whether there is anything in the strange new devices of government put into effect by the Communists which may with advantage be adopted elsewhere . It is anathema even to suggest this in America today , for the mists of falsehood that have surrounded the Russian situation are only gradually beginning to disappear . Yet the fact remains . The Russian experiment is still frankly an experiment . Its crudities and excesses and the violences which have accompanied it still bulk most largely in the prints . It is not yet clear what will be the residuum of good . But if out of it there comes something that is worth while in the way of new ideas in self-government and self-determination , the whole world will profit . So deep is the world 's distress that men turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope , and they will continue to do so in the coming year as eagerly as they have done in the year of world-wide revolution which is just ending . General Pershing 's Report THE Duke of Wellington was once assured that he would live in peoples ' memories more for the beautiful style of his dispatches than for the merits of his victories . The Duke replied : " Yes ; I did n't think Gurwood had it in him . " Americans will always remember General Pershing not only as a most successful commander , but also as the author of a report upon the exploits of the American army in France worthy of the best American traditions . The report , just published , might have come from the pen of a Grant or a Sherman or a Lee . Extremely modest and free from any trace of self-praise -- pretty clear proof that however many persons may have assisted in compiling the document , General Pershing himself shaped its language and dictated its spirit  --  it can be read by every American with unalloyed satisfaction . It is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggestion of fine writing , of what will go down into history as probably the most extraordinary achievement in military annals  --  the raising and transporting across the Atlantic of huge American armies and their successful handling under the most difficult and dangerous conditions , especially at the beginning . In General Pershing 's report we have for the first time a clear picture , accompanied by official documents , of the extreme gravity of the situation which confronted the Allied armies in March , April , and May , 1918 , when the Germans were in the full tide of their triumphant march upon Paris and when the Allies , with their backs to the wall , faced a prospect which seemed hopeless . It was in this their hour of distress that the Allied commanders turned to General Pershing , and no one can read the report without feeling that it was due to the adaptability and clear sight of that officer that the day was saved . Two sound principles General Pershing , with the Wilson Administration behind him , insisted upon from the very beginning : that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who were standing in the last ditch , but that the American troops must nevertheless be assembled in France and trained in old-fashioned open warfare . General Pershing 's report tells us little of the tremendous fight he had to wage against the judgments of both the English and the French , who , up to the last , did not believe that such slightly trained American troops could successfully fight by themselves , and therefore wished our army to be distributed among their own commands . The American commander carried his point , while deviating from his principle sufficiently to lend troops where they were specially needed , and then proved beyond all question the extraordinary mettle and self-reliance of his men and their ability to win in separate operations . The war has now shown , as General Pershing has put it , that the " most striking qualities of both officers and men were the resourceful energy and common sense employed under all circumstances in handling their problems . " It was , of course , impossible for him to select many individuals for special recognition in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say , in words which honor him as well as the army , that " the memory of the unflinching fortitude and heroism of the soldiers of the line fills me with greatest admiration . To them I again pay the supreme tribute . Their devotion , their valor , and their sacrifices will live in the hearts of their grateful countrymen . " An official report rarely touches any save the high points of a campaign . It necessarily conceals or glosses over the seamy side , the hideous list of blunders , shortcomings , cruelties , and the frightful human waste that are the inevitable accompaniments of every campaign and that were not lacking in our own in France . We still read of minor instances of misconduct and of incredible waste of millions in the materials forwarded from this country with such tremendous labor and sacrifice . Yet the fact remains that as a whole it was a superlative achievement , and that in the forefront stand the individual soldiers . At St. Mihiel , in the almost impassable Argonne Forest , at Montfaucon , and along the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officers who won the day . While it was unfortunately true that organizations disintegrated under fire and that brigadier generals and major generals were more than once literally lost in the shuffle , the American soldiers had learned the prime requisite in their military training  --  to go straight to their objective and to take it regardless of consequences . Even when their officers failed , the men went on so far as sometimes to be compelled to give up the terrain they had taken at a costly price . General Pershing is right ; the chief honor is theirs , and it is characteristic of him that he gives his men their due . We may have had commanding generals who , in the conditions they were called upon to meet , showed equal ability and character , but we have had none more modest and self-effacing , less inclined to play the hero , more generous in giving credit where credit was due . Eor the supreme work to be done he was an admirable choice , and his report will be a sufficient monument even if a grateful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE recent decision of the Supreme Court of the United States in the Kentucky and New York liquor cases , while widely heralded as a victory for national prohibition and hence as presumptive evidence that the Eighteenth Amendment would also be sustained , is at least as important because of the questions which it raises as it is because of . those which it settles . Each of the two cases before the court had to do with the right of the plaintiffs to sell certain whiskey , held by them as producers or jobbers , notwithstanding the War-time Prohibition act of November 21 , 1918 . By that act the sale of distilled spirits , except for export , was forbidden after June 30 , 1919 , " until the conclusion of the present war , and thereafter until the termination of demobilization , the date of which shall be determined and proclaimed by the President . " The Court had little difficulty in disposing of the contention that the act in question , however proper when it was passed , had ceased to be operative because the emergency of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the decision points out , did not end with the conclusion of an armistice , nor has the President by proclamation declared that demobilization has terminated . If the act is constitutional upon other grounds , it is operative by reason of the continuance of the emergency which it recognized and whose chronological limits it defined . In its consideration of the weightier constitutional aspects of the matter , on the other hand , the Supreme Court again showed itself more anxious , apparently , to uphold an act -- of-Congress on an issue over which public opinion is obviously divided , than to plough deeply into the fundamental principles involved . The War-time Prohibition act is not repugnant to the Fifth Amendment , the Court declares , because " there was no appropriation of the liquor for public purposes , " and because a period of seven months and nine days was allowed in which to dispose of stocks on hand . The first of these contentions will seem to laymen hardly more than a quibble . For what purpose , if not the public one of increasing war efficiency , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prohibition of a business by the public an appropriation of the property value of the business in everything except the name ? So far as the period of seven Months and more within which accumulated stocks might be disposed of is concerned , it may well be doubted if any competent body of business men would have adjudged so short a period to be sufficient to prevent substantial loss , especially as the only available avenue of sale was foreign trade . In any case , the loss from such forced sale amounts in practice to an appropriation of the amount involved . In so far as the Supreme Court , in its decision , finds the War-time Prohibition act to be not repugnant to the Fifth or the Fourteenth Amendment , the ultimate decision as to the constitutionality of the Eighteenth Amendment will , Perhaps , be popularly regarded as foreshadowed . The Eighteenth Amendment , however , involves a far more fundamental question than that of property . The Federal Constitution , framed by the people , reserves to the people and to the States all rights which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ implication granted to the United States . There is nothing in the Constitution or in the circumstances of its adoption to show that the States were ever expected to be of the same sort or to do things in the same way . One of the most important powers reserved to the States is the so-called police power  --  the power , in general , to regulate social intercourse and habits , to prescribe what one may or may not do , use , eat , or wear . The regulations of the States in such particulars may be wise or foolish , detailed or general ; but such as they are they belong exclusively to the States , and they may be as varied and inconsistent as the several States choose to make them . Is it competent for the States , by the adoption of an amendment to the Constitution , to change one of the fundamental principles of American government which the Constitution itself recognizes and protects ? May the Constitution be so amended as to prescribe uniformity where its spirit assumes diversity ? This is the fundamental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State has just filed in the Supreme Court to test the constitutionality of the Eighteenth Amendment . If , the Rhode Island brief argues , the powers of self-government which are guaranteed to the people of that State may be taken away at all , it can only be by act of the whole people of the State ; if they can not be taken away , then the action of Congress in framing and submitting the Amendment is " unconstitutional and revolutionary , " and the action of the State Legislatures in ratifying it is void . No question quite so important has come before the Supreme Court for many years . If the contention of Rhode Island is sustained , the right of self-government which the Constitution guarantees to the people- of all the States will continue unimpaired ; if the contention is overthrown , that right will perhaps disappear so far as the police power is concerned , and the way be opened for a Federal centralization practically complete . The Row Among the Physicists T first sight or sound the Einstein controversy looks like an Irish quarrel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Nor have most newspaper explanations thrown anything but shadows across the matter . What they agree in is that the new theory is too difficult to explain , if not too difficult to understand . There are , it is said , but twelve men competent , and no one of them has spoken out . Professor Einstein himself , in a statement prepared for the London Times , contrives to keep his discovery adroitly to himself , almost as if it were a trade secret . So far , in short , as the mystery may be said to have escaped from the depths of mathematics at all , it still belongs , for the public , in the same category with the annual sea serpent , the seven-year mutation of our bodies , the jargon of Freud , the messages from Mars , the latest gossip concerning the health of the President , and the prophesied end of the world ( which has again just failed to occur according to the prophecy ) . Certain troubled spirits , hearing the law of gravitation called in question , do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moment slip its Newtonian moorings and go ranging off out of gravitation into the ether  --  which we now hear does not exist . Actually , what has happened is that a certain margin of error in physics  --  a margin long known by physicists , mathematicians , psychologists , and metaphysicians to be in existence  --  has been apparently narrowed by Professor Einstein 's discovery of a new and highly complex formula . Two sets of facts help to establish the formula . One is that the planet Mercury has recently been found to follow a course which the Newtonian doctrine of attraction does not account for but the Einstein doctrine does . The other is that the light from certain stars has been shown to undergo deflection , in passing through the gravitational field of the sun , to an extent almost exactly in accordance with what Professor Einstein had predicted but not in accordance with calculations based on Newton . Of the truth of these facts there seems to be little question ; many astronomical calculations will presumably have to be remade and there will have to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notion , however , having vaguely been that the Newtonian conception of space and time as absolute and changeless entities is an absolute and changeless law of nature , the Einstein corrections of Newton have been taken by a section of the public to be something enormously revolutionary , something that discredits Newton and Euclid , that almost discredits nature . If there is relativity in space and time , dare we trust our clocks or build fences around our gardens ? Such a tremor over the theory reveals widespread and comprehensive ignorance of psychology , which for two hundred years has repeatedly insisted that space and time , whether entities or not , must always be relative to our sense perceptions . Mathematics , too , has not claimed to measure the universe - exactly ; has not claimed , that is , that the universe which that science postulates and studies is completely identical with the natural universe . In physics the entire period since Newton laid down his laws has been full of constantly shifting conceptions and new hypotheses seeking to bring more and more of the observed facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of law . Religion and poetry , of course , have always known that space and time are relative .                     