@@430764

 | THE exigencies of the war have thrust upon the country problems , not only of the most gigantic character , but of the most baffling description . Among them , perhaps none has become more acute than that of price fixing ? that is , regulating the prices of all commodities which are deemed essential to the proper prosecution of the war . In essence , however , price fixing is only a part of the much larger problem of production for war purposes . The chief requisite for the successful prosecution of a war is to have a continuous , a rapid and a relatively cheap , or at least no excessively dear , production of the commodities that are needed . There are thus three essential elements in the problem of war supplies : first , they must come forward in abundance ; second , they must be produced with the desired rapidity ; and third , the charges must not be extortionate . These objects are , or ought to be , secured in last instance by the three methods , respectively , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and government regulation of prices . To many the price-fixing plan seems the obvious and simple solution . The prodigious demands for war supplies , it is said , will lead to an immense rise of prices and if individuals are left free to do as they like , prices will be run up to such an extent as to imperil the very prosecution of the war . If you give people complete freedom of action they will take such advantage of the consumer ? who in this case is the government ? as to render conditions unbearable . The clear way out of the difficulty is to fix prices by government fiat . INTERFERENCE WITH PRODUCTION When we come to inquire into the problem a little more carefully , however , certain doubts present themselves . By the fixing of prices is generally meant the fixing of maximum prices , that is , the fixing of an upper limit to prices . Yet , as we have seen in the food bill recently enacted , another kind of price fixing often becomes necessary ? namely , the fixing of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ price of wheat guaranteed by the government to the farmers for the coming year shall be at least two dollars , the object is , of course , to protect the producer and to induce him to plant more wheat , with a prospect of a reasonable profit . If minimum prices are necessary to the greatest possible production of wheat , it is at least a fair question whether maximum prices in general may not interfere with the greatest possible production of the commodities that are desired . The reason why minimum prices are advocated in the one case and maximum prices in the other certainly deserves a closer analysis . Even assuming , however , that the logic of a maximum price has been established , the question further arises as to what prospect  | of success such a policy would have in practice . A maximum price , if endurable at all , would have to be a fair price , that is , it would have to pay careful attention to actual costs as well as to reasonable profits . To accomplish this satisfactorily is not a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business , for instance , an Interstate Commerce Commission of seven experts has been wrestling with the problem for years . To do scrupulous justice to all concerned , it would be necessary to have , not a single trade commission , but a separate commission of experts for every particular line of business ; and such commissions would have to be in continuous session in order to adjust the scale of maximum prices to the ever-varying conditions of the market ? the labor market , the raw-material market , and the demand of the final consumer . SERIOUS DIFFICULTIES Another difficulty to which attention has been called by the Trade Commission itself is the fact that the whole scheme would be unworkable unless we had an international agreement in each case with all of our allies . If we were to let the allied countries secure the commodities at the reduced maximum prices and then utilize these materials in working up articles to be sold in competition with our finished products in neutral markets , the consequences to our trade can be easily foreseen . Again , it may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dealing with the problem than by fixing maximum prices ? If the object is to secure the greatest possible production for war purposes , why not afford every inducement to fresh enterprise and increased output and why not achieve the desired benefits for the government by regulating results rather than processes ? In other words , why not let private individuals charge what they will , and have the Government recoup itself by a very high tax on war profits , leaving to the producer just enough to induce him to multiply his output . If we limit prices so as to yield slight profits , the Government will get so much less in taxes . What it gains in lower prices it loses in smaller tax revenues ; and it incurs the further risk of diminishing the incentive to production . Finally , it may be asked whether the whole policy of price regulation is not entirely opposed to modern ideas . In the middle ages the prices of well-nigh all services and commodities were fixed by law and the theory of the fair price ? justum pretium ? was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The modern age of competition did away with the entire medieval machinery , and has retained the price-fixing scheme only in the case of certain definite monopolies like the public-service utilities . In the American Revolution and again in the French Revolution the rapid increase in the prices of the necessaries of life led to attempts to reintroduce the medieval regulations . But in almost every case these price regulations only aggravated the evils which they had endeavored to obviate . The producers , who found that they could not get the market prices , stayed away from the market and this made the situation worse than it would otherwise have been . The recent experiences of some of the belligerents with price-regulation of foods otherwise left in private hands has not been essentially different . Does it not follow , then , that the system of price regulation is a mistake ? II It is obvious that before an answer can be given to this question a more careful analysis must be made . In this analysis there are four considerations to be observed : ( 1 ) Is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the people or by the Government ? ( 2 ) Is the article produced under conditions of competition or of monopoly ? ( 3 ) Is there a possibility of extending the production ? ( 4- ) What is the rapidity with which the new output will respond to the increased price ? Let us consider each of these points in turn . NECESSITIES Most of the medieval prohibitions dealt with articles of prime necessity . In a great war like the present , however , there are some commodities , like coal and wheat , for instance , which are not only a necessary of life to the individual , but also of fundamental importance to the Government . Such commodities should be put in a category by themselves . If it were simply a question of Government needs , and if an adequate production were assured , the Government could attain its ends as well by taxing profits as by limiting prices . Furthermore , if it were only a question of necessaries of life to the private consumer , a policy of minimum rather than of maximum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Where an ar- ticle , however , partakes of the double characteristics of something necessary to both the private consumer and the Government , a more vigorous policy may be required . THE ELEMENT OF MONOPOLY The second consideration is the existence of competition or of monopoly . The reason why we have minimum prices of wheat is because there is competition among wheat growers . The reason why it may be desirable to set a maximum price on wheat is because the market may be so rigged as to bring about a corner or a state of virtual monopoly . Wherever there is real monopoly there is need of price regulation , whatever may be its difficulties . The question then arises as to whether the immense increase in the war demands.as over against the existing and probable stocks of many materials and commodities does not constitute what might be called a quasi-monopoly . Even without proof of concerted action on the part of producers or dealers , does not the very nature of the present situation engender conditions which are analogous to monopoly and thus justify interference by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at large . For , although the Government can , by very high taxes , make good the loss due to excessive prices , the individual consumer who purchases the commodities at the same prices has no such redress . His only chance is to secure from wages or salaries or profits an augmented income which will enable him to pay these high prices . INCREASED OUTPUT As to whether this quasi-monopoly exists , however , depends mainly on the third consideration , namely , the possibility of extending production . Is there an available new source of supply , and are there enough independent producers who will be lured into the business by the rise of price . Here again it is important to make distinctions . In England , for instance , where the coal fields are definitely known , there is comparatively little chance for new supplies of coal except at greatly increased cost . In this country this is perhaps not quite so true of coal as it is of copper or of petroleum . The mere increase in the price of petroleum will not lead to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ copper the number of additional low-grade mines is not unlimited . In most manufactures , however , every increase of price means the bringing in of a new and lower-grade marginal producer , and under conditions of reasonable freedom augmented output will follow higher prices . In a great many commodities , therefore , increase of price will be the best guarantee of the enhanced production which is so sorely needed in war times and which of itself will tend to eliminate the quasi-monopoly features of the situation . It is only where the entire output of a particular commodity is pooled or subject to a collective or trust agreement that the monopoly feature might reestablish itself . The fourth consideration is the rapidity with which the new production will respond to the increased price . If the price of cotton or of wheat doubles before the planting it will not take long for the farmer to grow more cotton or wheat . If the machinery required for the production of some manufactured commodity is readily procurable , the capital required for the new business can be easily borrowed . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many months and to build a steel ship will take still longer . Even , therefore , under conditions of competition and of an available new supply of labor and capital , the rapidity with which the production can be augmented is of the utmost consequence in relieving the pressure of high prices . INEFFICIENT PRODUCTION Finally , it must be pointed out that in some cases inordinately high prices may bring into existence the inefficient producer who will in reality be retarding rather than aiding production . Thus the Federal Trade Commission in its report of a few weeks ago stated as follows : " The undue price at which coal can be speculatively sold has resulted in the opening up of temporary and inefficient bituminous mines , called in the industry snowbirds ' or wagon mines . ' These temporary and uneconomical mines now secure part of the inadequate number of cars allotted by the railroads to the coal industry . They have none of the usual loading facilities , and the cars are often held at such mines days in the process of loading when a properly equipped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operation of such mines curtails production and is an economic waste at this time . " While this is , of course , an exceptional situation , the possibility of its existence in other lines of business must be continually borne in mind .  | III The chief inference from the above analysis is the impossibility of framing a general rule applicable to all commodities . It seems reasonable to assert that a careful study would put the chief commodities needed for war purposes in the United States at present into three categories . COMPLETE CONTROL OF CERTAIN COMMODITIES In the first category , of which coal and wheat may be taken as types , neither price regulation nor profits taxation will probably suffice . In Great Britain , as is well known , the government , after the failure of various other experiments , has been compelled to assume complete control of the coal mines . In Germany the government has participated in the coal pool ( syndicate ) and has directly regulated the conditions of production and sale . In France the government has divided the country into three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In Russia the government has taken over the coal mines . In Italy the government imports and sells all the coal . Our Trade Commission has recommended that the production and distribution of coal and coke be conducted through a pool in the hands of a Government agency ; and the arguments adduced by the Commission seem to he of a compelling nature . In the case , of food , several of the belligerents have been driven to resort to governmental purchase and control of the supply . We are likely to be forced to the same expedient . ARTICLES NEEDED BY BOTH PRIVATE CONSUMER AND GOVERNMENT In the second category of commodities , like copper and petroleum , the arguments in favor of price regulation are much more cogent . These articles are needed by the private consumer as well as by the Government , and the lure of high prices is not necessary to augment production . Nor , on the other hand , is there such assurance of an active competition as to warrant the expectation of prices being kept down to a fair level . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are needed by Govvernment for war purposes the policy of price-fixing is attended with far greater difficulties and seems on the whole inferior to the policy of extra taxation of war profits . In this category of commodities the chief essential is continuous , rapid , and increasing output . What the Government loses in high prices it will make up in larger taxes . The consumer of the same commodities will indeed suffer from the high prices that he is compelled to pay . But if he uses these articles in further production he will recoup himself in the corresponding prices of his productions . And if he is the final consumer , he will have to seek for some compensation in reduced consumption . What a country needs above all in time of war is increased production and lessened consumption . To the extent that high prices conduce to that result they are not altogether to be deprecated . PUBLICITY AND ACCOUNT-KEEPING There is , however , one corollary from the above conclusion . If ordinary business is to be subject to high profits taxation rather than to price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of publicity and accountability that it now applies to quasi-public enterprises like railroads and banks . If the chief resource of the Government is to consist in the taxation of profits the utmost care must be taken to see that accounts are accurately kept and profits precisely stated . With this condition observed the community would be able to endure the strain of a long and obstinate war without incurring the many difficulties and hazards which are inevitably bound up with the problem of universal price regulation . Our conclusion then is : ( 1 ) for a few commodities of fundamental importance , like coal , wheat , ships , etc. , complete governmental control of the supply ; ( 2 ) for important raw materials and a few manufactures where rapidly increased output is unlikely , price regulation ; ( 3 ) for the great mass of commodities where actual combination or monopoly can not be predicated , extra taxation of war profits in lieu of price regulation .                     