@@487139

The latest study of the well-known Dante ; scholar , Edmund Gardner , is in the press of Messrs Dent Its title is " Dante and , the Mystics " Mr Huebsch will very soon issue " Human Quintessence , " by Dr Sigurd Ibsen , son of the dramatist The book is said to ; touch many subjects and to show sturdy reflection throughout . October 26 is the date set by Houghton . Mifflin for the publication of the following books " Linda , " a novel by Margaret Prescott Montague , " Americans and Others , " ' essays by Agnes Repplier ; " Our House : And . London Out of Our Windows , " by Elizabeth Robins Pennell , holiday edition , " Gutter-Babies , " by Dorothea Slade , " Citizens Made . and Remade , " a short account of the George Junior Republic , by William Si George and Lyman Beecher Stowe ; " Romance , Vision and Satire , " modern renderings by Jessie L Weston ; " Poems and Ballads , " by Herman . Hagedorn , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lowell , and " How England Grew Up , " a book of English History from King Alfred to the present time , by Jessie Pope The following are ' among the announcements for early publication by Longmans , Green &; Co . Mrs William O'Brien 's " Unseen Things , " being studies of women who have played a noble part in the world's. history , the long-expected " Life of Father Tyrrell " , a two-volume work on " Railroads , " by Professor Ripley , " Miriam Lucas , " a novel by Canon Sheehan , and Andrew Lang 's 1912 annual , " A Book of Saints and Heroes " Henry Holt &; Co will bring out the authorized English translation of Edouard Le Roy 's " Une PhiJosophie Nouvelle : Henri Bergson , " and Laurence Housman 's " John of Jingalo , " which is taken to be a satire on modern English political life Norman Duncan has completed a new sea story which Revell will shortly publish It bears the title , " The Best of a Bad Job i ' " Landmarks in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Murray , of London , will shortly publish for the Bishop of St. Asaph , is a timely book , considering the discussion now on in Parliament over Dis-establishment We are to have this autumn from , the Pilgrim Press the following religious or sociological books " At the Crossing with Denis McShane , " by William Allen Knight , " On the Way to Bethlehem , " the same ; " Man or Machine ? Winch ? " by Al Priddy , " Through the School , " the same , " The Green Devil , a Romance of Thornton Abbey , " by Arthur Metcalf , " The Even Hand , " by Quincy Germaine , " The Problem of Religion , " by Prof. Emil Carl Wilson , " The Culture of Religion , " the same , " Mrs Mahoney of the Tenement , " by Louise Montgomery , " The Ladder of Christ , " by Reginald J Campbell ; " The Temper of the American People , " by George T Smart , " Shall a Man Live Again " by Wilfred T Grenfell ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Warren H Wilson ; " The Person of Christ in Modern Thought , " by E. Digges La Touche , " Eucken and Bergson , Their Significance for Modern Thought , " by E Herman , and " The Life of the Soul , " by J Brierly . S A. and C A Williams have written three books for juveniles which Stokes will issue next month " The Magic Book , " " The Treasure Trunk of Dollies , " and " Animal ' Stories " The Rev John H Harris and Mrs. Harris were sent out last year by the Anti-Slavery and Aborigines Protection Society of England , with the special object of studying conditions in West Central Africa Their report is embodied in a book which Smith &; Elder have in press ? " Dawn in Darkest Africa " Lord Cromer contributes an introduction The awakening of the Turkish mind is shown by the diversity and extent of its literature at the present time . Numerous translations of scientific works , on medicine , chemistry , physics , military science , and even aeronautics , are coming out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these and like subjects by Turkish authors In order to foster a patriotic feeling new and well illustrated editions of some of the Turkish classics are being published , as well as several magazines with articles on current events and literary topics . Few translations have beeia made of purely American literature , but our detective stories are exceedingly popular with the young Turk . Education is making steady progress in China , An educational conference recently held in Peking urged the establishment of three new universities in addition to the four now existing , and of primary schools in every city , town , and village It is said that eight students will be sent to Great Britain to study naval matters , six to Germany for military science , twenty to Belgium for mineralogy , eight each to Italy for mathematics , France for law , Japan for politics , and ten to this country to study industry . At examinations held at Tsinanfu in August for students for a college education in the United States there were 130 applicants , four of whom were success-ful The most provocative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ College " ( The Century Company ) are those in which he attempts to analyze and interpret to us that highly puzzling entity , the soul of the American undergraduate It can not be said that he has succeeded . Mr. Cooper confines himself largely to assertions that are eitherobvious or unsupported His general thesis is that the college student is not what he seems , which may be said at most of us In college or out The American undergraduate may seem lightminded , but at bottom he is not He may appear to be averse to study , but he really is not He may be unbalanced on the subject of athletics , but at heart he is not He may seem deficient in spirituality , but in his innermost being he cherishes great dreams . He may cut chapel with extraordinary persistence , but if you examine him closely he has a strongly developed religious sense To uphold his assertions Mr Cooper gives us anecdotes instead of facts The anecdotal method runs riot in his pages We can not help thinking that Mr. Cooper could have made out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instead of arguing that the raw , loud-mouthed , overdressed , idle college youth is not the barbarian he seems to be , he had rather maintained that this " representative " undergraduate is not representative at all He concedes much more than is necessary when he allows us to carry away the impression that the undergraduate who cheers his football team to victory is the undergraduate who celebrates victory by dancing the serpentine on the field and finishes by beating up policemen and tearing down front gates The fact is that out of 5,000 men who cheer at football games , only 500 dance the serpentine and only 50 beat up policemen . It is the minority in college , as in life , that gives a social group its undeserved reputation . The great majority of college under " raduates do their work honestly , dress quietly , and know why they are ut college " The Truth About Oregon " would hardly be too pretentious a title for Allen H. Eaton 's little book , " The Oregon System ? The Story of Direct Legislation in Oregon " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says in a delightful and illuminating preface , " who have come to Oregon because the people rule ; I have friends who have moved out of Oregon for the same reason " The promise of " an unprejudiced examination of the work which the people of Oregon have done since the adoption of the initiative and the referendum in 1902 " is to all appearances redeemed He discusses in some detail the thirty-three measures that the voters have rejected in the ten years , and the thirty-one measures that they have adopted There is much that will amuse , disgust , or alarm , as well as much that will be approved , in the record . But it is the possibilities more than the actualities of the " Oregon system " that constitute the ground on which it will be judged by the thoughtful Here , too , Mr Eaton 's chapters are valuable We quote them briefly on two significant developments that have already appeared in Oregon " We pass constitutional amendments now as readily as we pass statutory laws " ; " As to the initiative and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to supply a ' few individuals with the power to set up a rival Legislature . They were adopted as reserve measures to be used only when needed and to supplement and improve the work of a Legislature already established . " As to possibilities , he goes so far as to say : " Unless the ' people and their representatives resolve to work together the time is not far off when therewill be a new issue in Oregon , and that issue will be the abolition of the Legislature " Yet his conclusion is hopeful " The People of Oregon are to be trusted The principle of the initiative and referendum is safe . But the machinery of direct legislation is crude and weak in many places . " Towards the locating of these places and their improvement , his calm and well-reasoned presentation should contribute . Miss Maud Thornhill Porter 's " Billy " ( Mosher Press ) is a little book of 53 pages , to which it is difficult to do justice in words that will not seem extravagant in relation to so small a work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marked by a rare simplicity and perfection of expression , but this is not its greatest excellence , the vividness of the pictures presented , the penetrating sympathy , the depth of feeling just sufficiently set off by a charming vein of humor , give the little story a unique quality It is only " the true story of a canary bird , " but it is a literary gem of a very high order . Full of delicate observation and graphic presentation , the story at first interests the reader simply as a pleased onlooker at pretty scenes ; but gradually  --  and without a trace of mawkishness or sentimentality  --  it grips his heart , and at the climax it is poignantly moving Nor is the descent from the climax to the tranquil and philosophic closing stage of " Billy 's " life less admirably done . To state more explicitly wherein the little drama consists would be to lessen somewhat the effect of it in those who will go to the book itself . Further indication of the popularity of the philosophy of Rudolf Eucken , now exchange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Main Currents of Modern Thought " ( Scribner ) is the fifth title , and the fourth large volume , to appear in English translation , or new edition of translation , during the present year . The book is Meyrick Booth 's translation of the fourth German edition ( 1909 ) of " Geistige Strdmungen der Gegenwart , " one of Eucken 's earlier works , which may be said to mark the transition from the philosopher of history to the teacher of religion . Like his later works it is an elaboration of the one idea of " the independence of the spiritual life " Here , however , the idea wears the bloom of freshness , and is invested in a wealth of historical reference , derived from the author 's really extensive learning , which is a gain both in substance and in interest . For the Macmillans : military text-book series , Col Charles Ross has undertaken a history of the Russo-Japanese War , of which the first volume , carrying the narrative through the battle of Liao-yang , is now published To-day there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Manchuria to draw upon The Japanese General Staff has published its official history of the war . There is an official German account There are Gen Kuropatkin 's Memoirs On a smaller scale we have such first-hand contributions as Politovsky 's " From Libau to Tsushima , " Semenoff 's " Rasplata , " and Nojine 's " The Truth About Port Arthur " Col Ross has made use of all these sources . The book has the method and clearness that a well-ordered text-book should possess. , Its array of dry statistical matter is supplemented by comment on the strategic and tactical principles involved , with due attention to the psychological factors that enter into the winning of victories If the author pauses now and then to point a moral for the patriotic British reader , the practice is not out of place in a book of this nature . Writing as a cautious student and half a dozen years after the event . Col. Ross shows few signs of being affected by - the legend of miraculous achievement that encompassed the Japanese while the world was still under the spell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gone to the other extreme . On the contrary , he pays full tribute to the fine fighting qualities of the Japanese soldiers and to their excellent leadership . But he shows that the Japanese , too , were capable of error , and that only the severe handicaps under which their opponents labored prevented the Russians from taking advantage of such mistakes Among the factors responsible for the defeat of the Russian forces were the natural difficulties of the task , their over-confidence at the beginning of the war , and the weakness of the Russian intelligence service throughout the war The Japanese nearly always knew what confronted them , whereas Kuropatkin was frequently groping in the dark Finally , there was the evil of divided counsels in the Russian camp Kuropatkin did not have a free hand at the beginning When he assumed supreme control of operations it was too late , the unbroken succession of Japanese victories had undermined the morale of the Russian . army . The Russians fought bravely to the last , but without confidence , in themselves In spite of the detailed presentation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such broad form and presented with such admirable clearness as to make them easily intelligible to the non-professional reader . In " An Outline of the - History of Christian Thought Since Kant " ( Scribner ) , Prof Edward Caldwell Moore of Harvard continues the sketch of the reformed theology begun by Dr ' McGiffert in his " Protestant Thought Before Kant , " Both volumes are in the series entitled Studies in Theology The chapters fall principally into three sections : the destruction of the scholastic theology and the development of idealism from Kant to Ritschl , the critical and historical movement from Strauss to Harnack , and the results for theology of modern science as represented by Darwin , Spencer , and Huxley A final chapter , The English-speaking Peoples : Action . and Reaction , sketches briefly the men who have started movements , either progressive or reactionary , in England and America , from Coleridge to William James Professor Moore is a sympathetic critic , generous in appreciation of the merits of the most diverse systems and thinkers , keen in his sense for the salient and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always clear and forceful in style . He handles skilfully his wealth of material , and few of his pages are overburdened by superabundance of fact He is most at home in the discussion of the historical criticism of the fast fifty years One misses a summary of the entire movement of Protestant thought from the rise of idealism to the present , with estimate of the results achieved , and analysis of the loss and gain . The volume is readable , an excellent hand-book for the student , and valuable in supplying perspective for a view of the religious movements from which we , are now emerging . Not many Blue Book reports have been reprinted in handsome editions This honor is now conferred upon Lord Durham 's " Report on the Affairs of British North America " ( 3 vols , Clarendon Press , Frowde ) , which is edited with an introduction by Sir C. P. Lucas , K C B The work is interesting and important from many points of view . It is a valuable source of information for the student of Canadian history . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which , though referring to conditions in Canada at the close of the rebellion of 1839 , are still well worth reading by any one interested in those subjects More particularly , it had in its day a marked influence upon British policy and upon political thinking in England . Not only was it a prime factor in effecting the establishment of responsible government in Canada , but it gave a decided impetus to those liberal tendencies which , in the middle of the nineteenth century , were so radically changing the character of English political institutions . The value of the new edition of the report is enhanced by the excellent introduction of Sir C. P. Lucas , which fills the first volume . The editor brings to his task , not only thorough familiarity with the report , but wide and discriminating knowledge of the history of colonization , and particularly of English colonization Opening with a brief chapter on the conditions in England at the accession of Queen Victoria , he passes on to a careful discussion of the conditions in Canada , the powers and instructions given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and substance " of the report . The introduction is no mere summary , it undertakes to determine to what extent the conditions were as Lord Durham represented them , and to what extent his recommendations for Canada and his forecast of the future of the British colonies have been justified by the course of events since his time The conclusion is that Lord Durham misjudged the French Canadian , that he , was unfair to the English Government because he judged its past methods too much in terms of the liberal principles of his own day , that he did not foresee or desire for Canada the measure of independence which it now possesses , and that he was not concerned with Colonies in the abstract , but only with a particular kind of British colony . The significance of the report is that it outlined a wise policy for dealing with the situation in Canada at that time , and in doing so pointed the way which has led to the relatively complete emancipation of British colonies of the self-governing type While conceding the great importance of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illusion that Lord Durham was the bearer of a Heaven-sent gospel embodying principles of universal applicability . It is particularly worth while to reprint this report now , when the question of colonial policy is again becoming of vital import in English government In the fifth decade of the nineteenth century the current of opinion was strongly set towards liberalism , the report of Lord Durham , restrained and guarded as it was in its recommendations , was nevertheless in harmony with the prevailing sentiment . The result was that it was more liberal in effects than in its character ; many thoughtful men , towards the middle of the lhst century , were persuaded that the inevitable conclusion of Lord Durham 's recommendations was the gradual disintegration of the Empire This was not the belief of Lord Durham himself , and it would be curious if , at the opening of the twentieth century , his report should be found to contain suggestions pointing the way to more effective imperial union . In commemoration of the one hundredth anniversary of the founding of Princeton Theological Seminary , the members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Theological Studies " ( Scribner ) The first essay is by Dr Francis L Paton on " Theological Encyclopwdia . " The author 's keen analysis and love of order find ample scope in the systematization and definition of the various subjects of the traditional theological curriculan , in which he assigns to dogmatic theology the highest place . Prof. Benjamin Breckinridge War-field contributes a paper on " The Emotional Life of Our Lord " ? not a happy choice of theme for an unemotional Westminsterian Calvinist . In speaking of Christ as " a Being whose subjective life is depicted as focusing in two centres of consciousness " he is not entirely in accord with Athana.sms and makes himself liable to a charge of heresy . Prof. John D. Davis , however , deduces the essential articles of the Athanasian creed from a verse ar two of the prophet Isaiah , in an essay on " The Child whose Name is Wonderful " More modern is a sympathetic study of Jonathan Edwards , appropriate in a Princeton vol .. ume , by Prof John DeWitt . A discerning analysis of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the popular Christianity of England and America is found in the chapter on " Modern Spiritual MOvements " by Dr. Charles R. Erdman . Other essays are " The Supernatural , " by Prof. William Brenton Greene , jr ; " The Eschatological Aspect of the Pauline Conception of the Spirit , " by Prof Gerhardus Ares , and " The Aramaic of Daniel , " by Dr Robert Dick Wilson There are fifteen essays in all , and the volume extends to above 600 pages . In our obituary of the late Bradford Torrey ( October 10 ) we stated that he was at one time editor of the Youth 's Companeon . Our attention is called to the fact that Mr. Torrey was never editor , ' but only one of the associate editors of that paper . Adrian Hoffman Johns , who died last week at his home in New York , aged sixty-two , was a graduate of Princeton , a practicing lawyer until the time of his death , and always an enthusiastic bibliophile . He was the author of " Meditations of an Autograph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " " At the Library Table , " and " Edge-hill Essays " Mr. Joline was an occasional contributor to the Nation ; he was also a member of several historical societies Miss Geraldine W Anthony , a writer , died in New York Sunday After graduating from Barnard College , she wrote short stories and verses and two novels , " Four in Hand " and " The Victim of Circumstance " The death is announced from Boston of Henry Austin , the author of " The Law Concerning Farms , " " American Farm and Game Laws , " and " The Liquor Law in England " Science ' The Evolution of the Vertebrates and their Kin By William Patten . Philadelphia : P. Blakiston 's Son &; Co. $4.50 net . " For almost a quarter of a century the problem of the evolution of the vertebrates has been to me a. stimulus and a guide , " says Professor Patten in his introduction to a masterly treatise on a problem more burning twenty years ago than now . Many another at that period ' busied himself with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , without satisfactofy conclusions , for the successive and more alluring waves of experimental embryology and zoology , of cytology , and of heredity and genetics . Professor Patten , alone in this country and with a few colleagues abroad , has remained true to his first - ideas , adding evidence now on one side , now on another , until in this book he gives a completely elaborated theory of the origin of vertebrates based solely on morphology . Students who spend their days over the microscope , or who limit their philosophic speculations to interpreting changes in chains of generations of calor patterns , will gain in breadth of view by carefully reading this book and absorbing some of the broad scientific spirit which animates its author . Professor Patten traces the origin of vertebrated animals back to ancestors like the Eurypterids with arachnid of finities , thence upwards through the little-known Ostracoderms to the primitive vertebrates of dipncan and amphibian types . A. central argument in his theory is the phenomenon of coalescence of body segments to form the head , successive stages being found today in existing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great difficulty arises in the attempt to explain the reversal of dorsal and ventral surfaces - of the arthropods into ventral and dorsal surfaces of vertebrates . He strives to show that the greater part of the arachnid body , with its primitive head , goes to form the vertebrate head , whereas the major portion of the vertebrate body consists of entirely new segments not represented in arachnids . Such a theory involves an enormous number of homologies , each of which is open to discussion , and most of which are so ' entirely opposed to traditional beliefs that Professor Patten 's future would seem to be mortgaged to controversy The closing of the arthropod mouth , the formation of the new vertebrate mout ' the origin and phylogenetic significance of the vertebrate brain , will be particularly difficult for him to harmonize with the current views of comparative anatomists . He is aware of these difficulties and imperfections , and states his position with regard to them in the last sentences of his introduction : I would gladly make them less . But to be overconscious of the one , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open waters , and too long a delay over the inevitable defects means to be surprised by the night , and still unprepared . Forthcoming are " Farm Management . " by Prof C. W. Pugsley ; " The Farm Mechanic , " by Prof L W Chase , and " The Satisfaction of Country Life , " by Dr. James W. Robertson , they form a part of Sturgis &; Walton 's Farmer 's Practical Library . The leading feature of the Geographical Journal for October is Ellsworth Hunting-ton 's article on the fluctuating climate of North America The ancient ruins in 174-NV Mexico and the curves of growth of the giant seqUoias seem to him to prove that the climatic changes of this continent were pulsatory and synchronize with those of the Old World Other subjects treated are modern oceanography by H R Mill , a journey in southwestern Abyssinia by Dr G Montandon , and a review of the nine years ' work of the research department of the Royal Geographical Society by Prof J. L Myres The presidential address of Col. Sir C M Watson to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sudan and the international map is also given . A compactly written volume of 500 pages , including an extended bibliography and a good index , touching themes which could be grasped hitherto only by specialists , is " Distribution and Origin of Life in America " ( Macmillan ) , by Robert Francis Scharff As a summary of scattered publications upon fossil no less than upon recent forms , its publication will be welcomed , and its review of distributional lore , with digestions and assimilations , will appeal to a wide circle of naturalists . It is curious , by the way , that such a work dealing with American fauna should not have borne the name of an American author , perhaps the reason is that our particular specialist who is wise enough to write upon so difficult a theme was wise enough not to write at all For , clearly , as one thumbs the present book , distributional puzzles in bewildering profusion arise in nearly every chapter . We are not sure whether Dr Scharff has given the most satisfactory answer to even most of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to know in detail every individual puzzle . To instance a single example , " Archhelenis , " the ill-discovered country from whose limits came South American and African forms : here Dr. Scharff , like von Ihering , Ortmann , Eigenmann , and others , accepts the view that such a land connection must have existed , although the trend of opinion seems now to be taking a turn For Pfeffer and others , most recently Haseman , bring forward strong evidence for the belief that the forms common in these widely separated localities might have come there either as relics of early migrations in most cases from a northern stock , or as hold-overs from groups of general distribution . The fact is that the zoographer of to-day is less apt to base his results upon the extension of continents over abysmal oceans  --  he has found simpler dynamic means at hand for solving his riddles , and the worker of the future will probably juggle less and less with serious subsidences and elevations of land masses than with the findings of experimental zoology The pertinence of this general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Dr. Scharff . If he had followed this intricate line of inquiry , he might not have collected his widely scattered data , and we should not to-day be reviewing an attractive book . And even should many of the " old-line " theories pass into shadows , we shall now have before us the documents carefully labelled and classified upon which the views of the future will take wholesome root 