@@466848

THE organization known as the Industrial Work ers of the World has been given a factitious prominence in public attention by the charge of criminal conspiracy to interfere with the prosecution of the wzr brought by the Federal authorities against some two hundred of its leaders . In so far as its propaganda may be prejudicial to the objects of the nation at war , it must be immediately and swiftly dealt with by the appropriate , constituted authorities , for the success of our military enterprise must now take precedence over all other considerations . As an expression of one phase of the industrial unrest which is seething throughout the country , however , it has a. nother , and possibly a more lasting , importance . It represents one of the forces with which the nation will have to reckon in the period i of industrial re- construction that will inevitably follow the coming of peace . For thA reason , especially , it is important that the American public should know what manner of men the I. W. W. are , and should under- stand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial revolution . The Industrial Workers of the World are most numerous among the migratory workers of the West ; among the homeless , wayfaring men who follow the harvests from Texas across the Canadian border ; among the lumberjacks who pack their quilts from camp to distant camp in the fir and pine and spruce forests of the Northwest ; and among the metalliferous miners of Michigan , Minnesota , Montana , Idaho , Colorado , Arizona , and Old Mexico . In other words , they are strongest among the men upon whom the nation depends forthree of its basic raw materials ? materials of fundamental importance at all times ; of crucial importance in time of war . According to our best information , approximately four-fifths of these migratory workers are men whose family ties have been broken ? " womanless , voteless , and jobless men . " Competent authorities estimate that about one-half of them are native Americans , and the other half men who have been uprooted by labor-brokers and padrones from their native ethnic and social environments ; voluntary or forced immigrants from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mines , from the hungry hills of Italy , Serbia , Greece , and Turkish Asia Minor . We like to call America the Melting-pot of the World , the flaming furnace in which the heterogeneous bloods of Europe are fused into a new and integrated nation . For tens of thousands , undoubtedly for millions , of immigrants America has been the controlling factor of a healing rebirth , a liberator and generous benefactor . They have found new opportunities here for social and economic wellbeing . But for other tens of thousands she has been a kidnapper , a gospeler of false promises , an indifferent and cruel stepmother . This fact has recently been brought home to us with poignant force by the Bolshevik orators who have in eluded America in their indictment of the capitalistic system , and by the returned immigrants who have taken so conspicuous a part in the turbulent drama of the Russian revolution . The division superintendent of a great Western railroad recently explained to me his reluctant part in the creation of the socially disintegrating conditions out of which the migratory workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sprung . " The men down East , " he said , " the men who have invested their money in our road , measure our administrative efficiency by money return ? by net earnings and dividends . Many of our shareholders have never seen the country our road was built to serve ; they get their impression of it and of its people , not from living contact with men , but from the impersonal ticker . They judge us by quotations and the balance-sheet . " The upshot is that we have to keep expenses cut close as a jailbird 's hair . Take such a detail as the maintenance of ways , for example ? the upkeep of tracks and road-beds . This work should be going on during the greater part of the year . But to keep costs down , we have crowded it into four months . " It is impossible to get the number and quality of men we need by the offer of a four months ' job . So we publish advertisements broadcast that read something like this : . MEN WANTED @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when we put our money into these advertisements that they are ? well , part of a pernicious system of sabotage . We know that we are not going to give permanent employment . But we lure men with false promises , and they come . " At the end of four months we lay them off , strangers in a strange country , many of them thousands of miles from their old homes . We wash our hands of them . They come with golden dreams , expecting in many cases to build homes , rear families , become substantial American citizens . After a few weeks , their savings gone , the single men grow restless and start moving ; a few weeks more and the married men bid their families good-by . They take to the road hunting for jobs , planning to send for their families when they find steady work . Some L of them swing onto the freight-trains and beat their way to the nearest town , are broke when they get there , find the labor market oversupplied , and , as likely as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them hit the trail for the woods , the ranches , and the mines . Many of racy , are ourselves responsible . We must not allow ourselves to be diverted from the actual conditions which have produced this movement by the highly colored and frequently extravagant language in which the members of the I. W. W. have expressed their protest . I dwell upon these facts because the background of the great migratory labor group out of which the I. W. W. is principally recruited is filled in by our antiquated immigration policy and our anarchistic habits of labor distribution . As a community we can no more protect ourselves by denunciations and indictments of the I. W. W. based on their tracts and speeches , than we can keep ourselves from communicable diseases by punishing sick men for their fevered utterances . One outstanding result of our national trafficking in human beings has been the growth of a state of abnormal psychological tension between the masters and the strangers in the house . The state of mind I refer to is one which all travelers in foreign lands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a heightened form since the beginning of our war with Germany . In this time of apprehension and national peril we feel an instinctive suspicion of all persons whose names stamp them as of enemy origin , and we have an instinctive disposition to attribute all manifestations of violence tending to interfere with our defensive activities to the malice of alien enemies . Social and economic conditions in the isolated mining- and lumber-camps and those surrounding the remote farms and ranches of the plains are peculiarly productive of this abnormal psychological tension even in times of international peace . The typical Arizona mining-camp is in the midst of a land seemingly created as an imposing decorative setting for an insignificant company of human beings . It stretches in magnificent , dry , red-brown sweeps to the dry mountains and the masses of dry , scarlet rock ; thin , silver-gray grass and sage-brush cover it with a magic haze through which an occasional mesquit-tree or cactus stands up , and ever so infrequently , with a sense of Whistlerian restraint , is set a little bouquet of daisies or wild @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the midst of this desolate beauty , with irrigated garden patches of corn and alfalfa about them , a few peach-trees perhaps , and strings of red peppers hanging from the roofs . The mining town itself is dropped carelessly at the bottom of some canon between copper-bearing hills , with a main street of stores and hotels and banks , and the wretched little one- , two- , and three-room shacks clinging like lichens to the steep flanks of the barren mountains . In the early spring the Arizona desert loses its horror andputs on an evanescent veil of green , but the midsummer sun turns on it a fiercer heat than it uses to ripen the beans and peas and corn of a gentler land , and bakes it to a colossal brick . Over against this desolation are set the enormously precious mines under the control of small groups of engineers and their executive staffs whose immediate official responsibility is not to the workers in the mines , but to the owners somewhere in the remote East . This small group of technical experts stands face to face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they have been recruited back East instead of from across the sea ? the muckers who go down into the hot stapes and drifts to blast and shovel out the ore , Between these two extreme groups there is in the Arizona mining towns no middle class to complicate or temper their relations . The few professional men are not , as a rule , free agents : the doctors are associated with the hospitals established by the companies ; the bankers and the hank employees are paid by the men who own the mines ; the newspaper editors are usually quite frankly subservient to the representatives of the copper companies ; the storekeepers run company-owned or subsidized stores ; the hotel-keepers entertain the companies ' guests ; even the clergymen , with rare exceptions , hold somewhat the status of imported feudal retainers . For instance , in one of these mining towns a certain religious body decided to build a church . The dominant mine manager refused to sell them ground on which to build it . Instead he offered them a lease at a normal rental on condition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and it was on this explicit understanding that the church was built . In times of industrial peace the camps are as cheerfully tranquil as an old Southern plantation . In times of industrial turmoil men 's hands are quick to their guns . The atmosphere is charged with the fear of insurrection . Under such conditions the initiative in doing violence will usually be taken by the side that is best prepared , and the records of deportations and other lawless acts during the past year show that it has usually been the guardians of the precious and vulnerable properties ? the best citizens , the educated men , the men who in their ordinary personal relationships are the most considerate and delightful of gentlemen ? who were best prepared . These emotional outbursts , these sudden releases of abnormal psychological tension , are likely to he most violent where the estrangement between masters and men is sharpened by differences in color , or language , or both , as in Bisbee and neighboring camps along the Mexican border . And of course at this moment the customary tension itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war . The case of Bisbee , where twelve hundred strikers and their alleged sympathizers who had committed no violence were snatched from their homes and deported at the muzzles of guns into the desert of New Mexico , is notorious . But it is no more noteworthy than scores of less widely heralded instances . In one of the Northwestern states there is a comparatively small mining-camp whose economic and social setting runs true to type . Its population has been recruited in the traditional fashion ; it has the usual sharp division between property-owners and propertyless men , between the masters and the strangers in the house . A strike broke out there last summer , brought on by the igniting friction of the rising cost of living upon an accumulation of old estrangements and grievances . Among the strikers were a number of Finns . When the selective draft law went into effect , certain of these Finnish strikers failed to register . This gave the best citizens , the men of property , a dignified vent for their repressed resentments and animosities . Organized as a liberty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vigilantes , armed and raising the cry of treason , they descended upon the Finnish community , herded some seventy-five of the strikers together , placed them on a special train , and deported them to the nearest town with a jail large enough to hold them . The alleged offense was a violation of a Federal statute . A government official of the district went to the jail to see what kind of game the vigilantes had bagged for him . He found that most of the prisoners neither spoke nor understood English and that the liberty committee had not taken the trouble to interpret the Draft Act to them . They had a dazed idea that they were to have been summarily torn from their families and friends and sent to the trenches to fight for Russia . When the law was interpreted they expressed their unanimous readiness to serve the United States in any capacity the official might indicate , although they did hope they might serve somewhere in America . The official 's investigation , corroborated by a previous investigation made on the ground by a Secret @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Federal statute . He decided that , as a preliminary to the straightening out of the misunderstanding , the men should be restored to their homes . When he announced this decision , one of the leaders of the liberty committee protested that if the strikers were brought back to the camp he would tear up his Liberty Bonds and forswear further service to the government of the United States . Nevertheless , the strikers were returned to their homes and after a brief interval the liberty committee descended upon the Finnish community again , 1 seized certain alleged " agitators , " charged them with being members of the I. W. W. , and threw them into jail . The committee then proceeded with an inquisition which was reported in the New York Times under date of November 23d in the following despatch : The secretary of the Finnish I. W. W. propaganda league at a mining-camp was horsewhipped last night by a " Liberty Committee " of citizens for alleged offensive anti-war activity , according to information received here to-day . It is also reported that two Finnish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lost consciousness . The details of the episode vary . As it was related to me by an agent of the United States government who was in a most favorable position to know all the facts , it contained certain incidents not divulged by the despatch . At least one of these Finnish workers after his arrest had a noose placed about his neck and was then ordered to give the names of the active members of the I. W. W. in the camp . When he professed ignorance , he was strung up until he lost consciousness , not only once but repeatedly . This treatment was not conducive to clear thinking . When , after repeated near-hangings , he still said he was unable to give the required information , he was beaten with a rope to the end of which a piece of sharp metal had been attached . After a few days he was released and told to get out of the camp . He was married , had a wife and two children ? a stranger in a strange country . He owned a house for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the state of mind or body to have a keen zest for pioneer adventure . He kept to his house and entered into a compact with his wife by which they agreed that if the liberty committee raided their home again he would shoot her , their children , and himself . And after a few days the liberty committee returned . Fortunately for himself he was in an upper room , apart from his wife and children , when the committee came . There was a quick interchange of shots between himself and the vigilantes during which a woman , who was a lodger in the house , was killed . All the circumstantial evidence indicated that the fatal shot had come from outside . But the Finn was again arrested , thrown into jail , and again released after twenty-nine days for lack of evidence against him . Such examples are not symptomatic of the moral turpitude of individuals , but are the inevitable consequences of the abnormal psychological tension which the abnormal economic and social relationships of these isolated communities develop . I was told , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee all the Finns in this community were preparing to " clean up the town , " and might have returned violence for violence if it had not been for the intervention of Federal troops . It is another case in which we must distinguish between the conditions for which we are all responsible and the fevered and delirious activities of terror-stricken men . This is an example which might be duplicated many times from the recent history of the mining- and lumber-camps and the isolated agricultural communities . Except for the coloring of patriotic terminology , the situation which it symptomizes is not peculiar to this wartime interval . The war has simply focused attention upon what is really an old story , a story of intermittent explosions of violence of which both sides have from time to time been guilty . It just happens that in these later chapters of the serial the men who have property to protect and the sheriffs and deputy-sheriffs , who are frequently , as in this case , their political and economic retainers , were best prepared and therefore quickest to act . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me that since the outbreak of the war 90 per cent . of all acts of lawless violence had been committed by citizens organized into liberty committees , and by the constituted authorities , such as sheriffs and deputy-sheriffs . It is in these communities which are simplified to one industry centering about some precious raw material , and not in the complex manufacturing centers , that the two classes are brought face to face , and the class struggle which is latent in a more complex social organization lies perpetually on the surface . These facts , emphasized by the violence and peculiar bitterness growing out of such incidents as that of the Finnish community , are undoubtedly the direct inspiration of the opening dogma of the 1 . W. W. preamble : The working class and the employing class have nothing in common . There can be no peace so long as hunger and want are found among millions of working people and the few , who make up the employing class , have all the good things of life . Between these two classes a struggle must go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class , take possession of the earth and the machinery of production , and abolish the wage system . ? It is significant that this sweeping generalization totally ignores the existence of that great third party , the general public , which is commonly regarded as the court of final appeal in our democracy . It is explained by the fact that where this dogma had its origin ? the metal-mining camps of the West ? that third party neither existed nor had any representative . The administrative practices which grow out of such situations of abnormal psychological tension are probably the immediate incentive to the peculiar strategy and tactics associated with the I. W. W. ? " the strike on the job " and " the conscientious withdrawal of efficiency , " phrases used by the I. W. W. as lay substitutes for what is technically known as " sabotage , " the habit of going about one 's work with a heavy foot , as do men who wear wooden shoes ; running the human machine at low speed after the manner of manufacturers in the off season . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open woods , it is customary to keep them guarded by Secret Service men who readily degenerate into spies . I know mining-camps where the local managers keep secret agents on watch over the foremen ; where the foremen bribe men to spy upon their fellow-workmen down in the mine 's ; and where the absentee owners in the East employ detectives to report on the managers . It is not an uncommon thing to find officers of the wage-workers ' organization in the pay of the company , while the wage-workers in turn have Clandestine channels of information running into the inner executive offices of their employers . All this weird machinery of espionage is greatly extended in times of threatened or actual industrial disturbance . It is supplemented by a " rustling card " or blacklisting system by means of which " agitators " can be followed From one end of the country to the other . There is no doubt that the so-called agent provocateur had a hand in fomenting the strikes that recently spread like an epidemic from Butte in Montana to Bisbee on the Mexican border @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suspicion and dissension among the men when they show a disposition to cohesiveness and mass action . All these things give rise to what , for lack of a more precise term , one may call a " stool-pigeon psychology " a mental state characterized by haunting fears and suppressed terror , such as prevailed in Russia under the old regime . This atmosphere is not conducive to open democratic organization of the type conventionally advocated by the recognized unions of the American Federation of Labor . These unions , with their highly centralized craft organizations , have been notably unsuccessful in reaching the migratory workers . In times of large labor surplus when a disaffected worker , spotted by the furtive eye of the " stool-pigeon , " could be conveniently replaced with an imported immigrant , even the I. W. W. has been outwitted and balked in its attempts to establish a bond of solidarity among the hobo miners and the wayfaring lumberjacks . But its comparatively decentralized form of organization has proved better adapted to this purpose than the centralized organization of the older union . And the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greatly increased the effectiveness of the so-called " intermittent strike " and " strike on the job . " This is how the thing works . Demands for improved conditions , higher wages , shorter hours , participation in the discipline and government of the working force , are made by the men and turned down by the employers . A strike is called ? and broken . The men return to work , but the strike is not " called off . " It is only carried into the stronghold of the " enemy , " like the guerrilla warfare waged by a conquered people . Last summer the I. W. W. called a strike in the Northwestern woods after their demands for an eight-hour day , better food , and more sanitary bunkhouses had been ignored by the officials of the lumber companies . These demands were formulated a month before our declaration of war against Germany . The strike went into effect . Rather than concede the eight-hour day on the demand of an " outlaw organization , " and in spite of appeals from the Governor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the eight-hour day on patriotic grounds , the operators fell back on their reserve capital and permitted their plants to run down . When the strike was on the point of failure through the starvation of the I. workers , the W. W. decided to return to work , but with muscles and wits geared to an eight-hour speed in the ten-hour camps or mills . They resorted to all manner of cunning devices to accomplish their purpose . " Playing the Hoosier " was one of them . " When you go up into the camp today , " a lumberjack said to rne , " you 'll find a spar tree in the middle of the workings with steel cables running out into the woods to bring the togs down to the skidway . Running along the skid-way you 'll see other cables running from the donkey-engine up to the choker-chain ; well , every now and then one of those cables snaps . When everything is running right , when the men are satisfied with their working conditions , you 'd see a half-dozen men ? every man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But when you are striking on the job and a cable snaps , you just stand there and play the Hoosier ; you do n't know anything more about splicing than a yokel , and you wait until the boss finds the man who is paid to do that particular job . Before repairs are made a half-hour is gone ? three-quarters of an hour ? an hour ! ? Say , it 's easy to do eight hours ' work on a ten hours ' job ; all you 've got to do is play the Hoosier ! Practise conscientious withdrawal of efficiency ! Fold your arms and look innocent ! " " But what of criminal sabotage , " I asked , " what of spikes in the logs to smash the saw ? What of emery in the lubricating oil ? What of phosphorus balls in the woods ? " " Say , friend , " said he , " what would we be putting spikes in the logs for ? Would we be aiming to kill our fellow-workers at the saw ? or any one else , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the woods , wo n't we be taking them overone of these days , and what sense would there be in destroying what is going to belong to us ? All we aim to destroy is the parasite 's profits , and the wage system ; the plant ? say , we want that to be all there , and as fine as you can make it against the time when the revolution will give birth to the new society out of the old ! " That is their great dream , the pot of gold at the end of their rainbow ? the new society in which those who are now " wage slaves " will own and operate the great nationalized and internationalized industry ? in which all of the industries will be bound together under the government of the 0 . B. U. ? the One Big Union ? the International Industrial Commonwealth . The main structural outlines of this new industrial society the I. W. W. have sketched in the book of their con-stitution : The Departments ( into which the new society will be organized ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Land , Fisheries , and Water Products . Department of Mining . Department of Transportation and Communication . Department of Manufacturing and General Production . Department of Construction . Department of Public Service . Upon the skeleton structure they propose to rear a new state under the democratic control of the Industrial Workers to replace the existing political states which they regard as the cunningly devised instruments of imperialism and capitalistic exploitation . This new state is foreshadowed in Section 5 of their constitution . The financial and industrial affairs of each Industrial Department shall be conducted by an Executive Board of not less than seven ( 7 ) nor more than twenty-one ( a 1 ) , selected and elected by the general membership of said Industrial Department , provided that the Executive Board and general membership of the said Industrial Department shall at all times be subordinate to the General Executive Board of the Industrial Workers of the World , subjt ? ct to appeal , and provided the expense of such referendum shall be borne by the Industrial Departments , or Industrial Union or Unions , involved . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the government , which our political democracy has established , has failed the workers . They feel that the modern " capitalistic state " is powerless to safeguard their interests , and that their only hope is to conquer and operate the basic industries and so create an industrial state based upon the democratic representation of a nationalized and internationalized industry owned and operated by the workers themselves . Most of us look for the ultimate democratization of industry through the slow process of social and political evolution , and this I. W. W. demand for a new state on the ground that the present state is not a democracy shocks our sensibility and moves us to shout " treason . " But the other side of the industrial controversy is doing in effect exactly the same thing . The representatives of the copper companies , for example , asserted after the Bisbee deportation that they ignored the State and Federal authorities and acted upon a law of their own making , because they could not trust the government to take action which , in their private judgment , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their interests . Both sides feel that the state has failed them and that they are , therefore , at liberty to defy it and to subvert its laws . The blame belongs primarily on the indifferent and ignorant public which has allowed this situation to grow up between classes of its citizens ; which has not apprehended democracy as something wider than the right to vote . It is the failure of public opinion , of your opinion and mine . It is against us that the L W. W. strives to establish a new state . It is our laws that the employers disregard . What I have written is not by way of palliation of the acts either of the I. W. W. or of the men who operate big business . It is , rather , an explanation of the growth and power of the Industrial Workers of the World , an institution springing up because of the unhealthy soil we have permitted to accumulate in the fields of our great basic industries , and grown straight from the seeds of business lawlessness and the exploitation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any one but ourselves for having failed to adopt a public policy based on even-handed justice to all men , and under which private interests will be subordinated to public advantage . The rebellious spirit of the I. W. W. propaganda is essentially an expression of antisocial conditions for which we , as citizens of a democratic nation , are ourselves responsible . It points to one of the factors which must be taken into account in the period of political , social , and industrial reconstruction which the cumulative pressure of the war has brought to our doors .                     