@@487208

T ACQUES LOEB 'S book on " Forced Movements , Tropisms and Animal Conduct " ( Lippincott ; $2.50 ) ? is offered as the first of a series of Monographs on Experimental Biology , to be followed by works by a dozen other authors . The books might perhaps better be advertised as studies of the physics and chemistry of living matter undertaken with the a priori belief in the mechanistic as opposed to the vitalistic explanation of life . The school is an important one , but , as in the case of the recent protective-coloration movement inaugurated by Abbott Thayer , the pendulum swings too far , and it is sought to explain too much . Professor Loeb is one of the most tolerant exponents of this school ; yet his first paragraph reads as follows : " Animal conduct is known to many through the romantic tales of popularizers , through the descriptive work of biological observers , or through the attempts of vitalists to show the inadequacy of physical laws for the explanation of life . Since none of these contributions are based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which are generally of an anthropomorphic or of a purely verbalistic character . " This gives an insight into the bias of the entire school . In the course of nineteen chapters Dr. Loeb attempts to show that animal conduct can be studied satisactorily by the quantitative methods of the physicist and that these methods lead to the forced movement or tropism theory . From forced movements caused by such obviously abnormal conditions as injuries to parts of the brain and nervous system , he reviews experiments in the effects of electricity , light , movement , and finally geo- , stereo , chemo- , and thermo-tropisms . His thesis is satisfactory as long as he deals with the lower invertebrates where associative memory is absent , - but when he attempts , by the single factor of stereo-tropism , to account for the mating of even such generalized vertebrates as fish , he fails . And in the two final chapters , on instincts and memory images , by his claim that all the higher emotions and ... feelings of human beings are only complex forced movements , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he concludes that persistent will action is essentially a tropistic reaction , we are forced to align him with those on whom he looks down , as advocating speculation of a " purely verbalistic character . " The volume marks an advance in a valuable method of research . It is by no means what the prospectus claims , an " epochal event in American scientific progress , " nor is it " the most important step ever taken in America . " It deals in a satisfactory manner with one of a multitude of factors , known and unknown , which have brought about the origin and evolution of life on the earth . n NE inclined to choose or advise medicine for a life task will  - -  f find ample data and sound counsel to guide him to a decision in " Medicine as a Profession , " by D. W. and E. W. Weaver ( Barnes ; $1.50 ) . No attempt is made to hide the fact that the preparation for medicine is long and costly and the reward slow in coming and rarely adequate . The figures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's caustic contention about the " disgraceful poverty " of the medical profession . ' Marked inclination and native ability are therefore prime requisites , perhaps more in this than in any other profession . The educational requirements and available facilities in the whole country are discussed in. detail , and are not limited to one so-called " system , " but include an outline of the theory and general differences of the principal " schools . " This may appear unnecessary to those who hold , with these authors , that all medical endeavor must be guided by a singleness of purpose and that this aim finds its fulfilment in the " regular " school . Conditions as they actually exist should certainly , be made known , howeVer ; for , after all , sects originate in response to a definite popular need and to a dissatisfaction with dominant doctrines . Their survival does not depend on theoretical justification but                     