@@487214

THE following decrees and other official documents of the Soviet Government are taken in part from a published official collection , and in part from papers in the Library of Congress . The signatures of Lenine , Trotzky , and other Government officials which are appended to some of the documents , and all merely formal indorsements , are omitted . Where no date is given , the original printed text is undated . The language of the originals is often informal and even incorrect , but no attempt has been made , beyond the necessities of an accurate translation , to give to the documents a literary excellence which they do not possess . Declaration of the Rights of the Peoples of Russia ' SHE October revolution of the workmen and peasants began under the common banner of emancipation . The peasants are being emancipated from the power of the landowners , for there is no longer the landowner 's property right in the land  --  it has been abolished . The soldiers and sailors are being emancipated from the power of autocratic generals , for generals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workingmen are being emancipated from the whims and arbitrary will of the capitalists , for henceforth there will be established the control of the workers over mills and factories . Everything living and capable of life is being emancipated from the hateful shackles . There remain only the peoples of Russia , who have suffered and are suffering oppression and arbitrariness , and whose emancipation must immediately be begun , whose liberation must be effected resolutely and definitely . During the period of czarism the peoples of Russia were systematically incited against one another . The result of such a policy are known : massacres and pogroms on the one hand , slavery of peoples on the other . There can be and there must be no return to this disgraceful policy of instigation . Henceforth the policy of a voluntary and honest union of the peoples of Russia must be substituted . In the period of imperialism , after the February revolution , when the power was transferred to the hands of the Cadet bourgeoisie , the naked policy of instigation gave way to one of cowardly distrust of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provocation , of " freedom " and " equality " of peoples . The results of such a policy are known : the growth of national enmity , the impairment of mutual trust . An end must be put to this unworthy policy of falsehood and distrust , of fault-finding and provocation . Henceforth it must be replaced by an open and honest policy which leads to complete mutual trust of the people of Russia . Only as the result of such a trust can there be formed an honest and lasting union of the peoples of Russia . Only as the result of such a union can the workmen and peasants of the peoples of Russia be cemented into one revolutionary force able to resist all attempts on the part of the **25;1391;TOOLONG bourgeoisie . Starting with these assumptions , the first Congress of Soviets , in June of this year , proclaimed the right of the peoples of Russia to free self-determination . The second Congress of Soviets , in October of this year , reaffirmed this inalienable right of the peoples of Russia more decisively and definitely . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the People 's Commissaries , resolved to base their activity upon the question of the nationalities of Russia , as expressed in the following principles : 1 . The equality and sovereignty of the peoples of Russia . 2 . The right of the peoples of Russia to free self-determination , even to the point of separation and the formation of an independent state . 3 . The abolition of any and all national and national-religious privileges and disabilities . 4 . The free development of national minorities and ethnographic groups inhabiting the territory of Russia . The concrete decrees which follow will be framed immediately upon the formation of a commission for the affairs of nationalities . Declaration of the Rights of the Laboring and Exploited People T HE form of the following declaration is explained by the fact that it was prepared for submission to the Constituent Assembly , which , however , broke up without acting upon it . MHE Central Executive Committee proclaims the following I basic principles : I. The Constituent Assembly resolves : 1 . Russia is declared to be a Republic of Soviets of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All the power in the centre and in the provinces belongs to these Soviets . 2 . The Russian Soviet Republic is formed on the basis of a free union of free nations , as a federation of national Soviet republics . Taking as its fundamental task the abolition of any exploitation of man by men , the complete elimination of the division of society into classes , the ruthless suppression of exploiters , the establishment of a socialistic organization of society and the victory of Socialism in all countries , the Constituent Assembly resolves , further : - 1 . To effect the socialization of the land , private ownership of land is abolished , and the whole land fund is declared common national property and transferred to the laborers without compensation , on the basis of equalized use of the soil . All forests , minerals , and waters of state-wide importance , as well as the whole inventory of animate and inanimate objects , all estates and agricultural enterprises , are declared national property . 2 . The Soviet law of labor control and the Supreme Board of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the authority of the toilers over the exploiters , as the first step to the complete transfer of all factories , mills , mines , railways , and other means of production and transportation to the ownership of the Workmen 's and Peasants ' Soviet Republic . 3 . The transfer of all banks into the ownership of the Workers ' and Peasants ' state is confirmed , it being one of the conditions of the emancipation of the laboring masses from the yoke of capital . 4 . With a view to the destruction of the parasitic classes of society and the organization of the national economy , universal labor service is established . 5 . In the interest of securing all the power for the laboring masses and the elimination of any possibility of the reestablishment of the power of the exploiters , the arming of the toilers , the formation of a socialistic red army of workmen and peasants , and the complete disarmament of the wealthy classes are decreed . 1 . Expressing its inflexible III . determination to wrest humanity from the talons of financial capital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this most criminal of wars , the Constituent Assembly subscribes unanimously to the policy of abrogating secret treaties which has been adopted by the Soviet Government , the organization of the widest fraternization with the workmen and peasants of the armies now warring against each other , and the securing , at any cost and by revolutionary measures , of a democratic peace without annexations and indemnities , on the basis of free self-determination of peoples . 2 . For these same purposes the Constituent Assembly insists upon a complete break with the barbarous policy of bourgeois civilization which built the prosperity of the exploiters among the few chosen nations upon the enslavement of hundreds of millions of the laboring population in Asia , in the colonies in general , and in the small countries . - The Constituent Assembly welcomes the policy of the Council of the People 's Commissaries which has proclaimed the complete independence of Finland , which has begun the removal of the troops from Persia , and which has declared the freedom of self-determination of Armenia . The Constituent Assembly views the Soviet law of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Czar , the landowners and bourgeoisie , as the first blow to international banking , finance and capital , and expresses its confidence that the Soviet authority will continue to pursue that course until the complete victory of the rising of international labor against the yoke of capital is attained . IV . Having been elected on the basis of party lists made up before the October revolution , when the people could not yet rise en masse against the exploiters and did not know the strength of the opposition when the latter defends its class privileges , and when the people had not yet practically undertaken the creation of a socialistic society , the Constituent Assembly would deem it radically wrong , even from a formal point of view , to set itself in opposition to the Soviets . In substance , the Constituent Assembly considers that now , at the moment of the decisive battle of the people with their exploiters , there can be no place for the latter in any of the organs of government . The power must belong wholly and exclusively to the toiling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Soldiers ' , and Peasants ' Delegates . Supporting the Soviet Government and the decrees of the Council of the People 's Commissaries , the Constituent Assembly recognizes that its tasks are completed when it has framed a general statement of the fundamental bases of a socialistic reconstruction of society . At the same time , aiming at the creation of a really free and voluntary and , consequently , a more complete and lasting union of the laboring classes of all the nations of Russia , the Constituent Assembly confines itself to the establishment of the fundamental principles of federation of the Soviet Republic of Russia , leaving it to the workmen and peasants of each nation to decide independently , at their own representative Soviet Congress , whether they wish to participate in the Federal Government and in the other Soviet institutions , and on what basis . . Church and State 1 . The church is separated from the state . 2 . Within the limits of the Republic , it is prohibited to pass any local laws or regulations which would restrict or limit the freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the ground of the religious affiliations of citizens . 3 . Every citizen may profess any religion or none at all . Any legal disabilities connected with the profession of any religion or none are abolished . Nate : From all official acts any indication of the religious affiliation or non-affiliation of citizens is to be omitted . 4 . The proceedings of state and other public legal institutions are not to be accompanied by any religious customs or ceremonies . 5 . The free observance of religious customs is guaranteed in so far as the same do not disturb the public order and are not accompanied by attempts upon the rights of the citizens of the Soviet Republic . The local authorities have the right to take all necessary measures for the preservation , in such cases , of public order and security . 6 . No one may decline to perform his civil duties , giving as a reason his religious views . Exemptions from this law , conditioned upon the substitution of one civil duty for another , are permitted by decision of the people 's court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oaths are abolished . In necessary cases a solemn promise only is given . 8 . Acts of a civil nature are performed exclusively by civil authorities , such as the departments of registration of marriages and births . 9 . The school is separated from the church . The teaching of religious doctrines in all state and public , as well as in private , educational institutions in which general subjects are taught , is forbidden . Citizens may teach and study religion privately . 10 . All church and religious societies are subject to the general regulations governing private associations and unions , and do not enjoy any privileges or subsidies either from the state or from its local autonomous and self-governing institutions . 11 . Compulsory collection of payments and assessments for the benefit of church or religious societies , or as a means of compulsion or punishment of their co-members on the part of these societies , is not allowed . 12 . No church or religious society has the right to own property . They have no rights of a juridical person . 13 . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia are declared national property . Buildings and articles specially designated for religious services are , by special decisions of the local or central state authorities , given for free use by corresponding religious societies . Supreme Board of National Economy 1 . The Supreme Board of National Economy is established under the Council of the People 's Commissaries. 2 . The task of the Supreme Board of National Economy is the organization of the national economy and state finances . For that purpose the Supreme Board of National Economy elaborates general standards and a plan for the regulation of - the economic life of the country , coordinates and unifies the activity of the central and local regulating institutions ( fuel board , metal board , transport board , central supplies committee , etc. , and the respective People 's Commissaries of commerce and industry , supplies , agriculture , finances , war and navy , etc. ) of the All-Russian Board of Workmen 's Control , and also of the corresponding activities of factory and trade organizations of the working class . 3 . The Supreme Board of National Economy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and compulsory syndication of various branches of industry and commerce , and other measures in the domain of production , distribution , and state finances . 4 . All existing institutions for the regulation of the national economy are subordinated to the Supreme Board of National Economy , which is given the right to reform them . 5 . The Supreme Board of National Economy is formed : ( a ) of the All-Russian Board of Workmen 's Control , whose personnel is determined by the decree of November 14 , 1917 ; ( b ) of representatives of all the People 's Commissaries ; ( c ) of learned persons , who are invited and have a consulting vote . 6 . The Supreme Board of National Economy is divided into sections and departments ( as fuel , metal , demobilization , finance , etc. ) , and the number and the sphere of activity of these sections and departments are determined by the entire Board . 7 . The departments of the Supreme Board of National Economy conduct the work of regulating the separate branches of national economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ People 's Commissaries. 8 . The Supreme Board of National Economy forms out of its membership a bureau of 15 persons , for the coordination of the current work of the sections and departments and the performance of tasks which demand immediate attention . 9 . All projects of law and large measures which have reference to the regulation of the national economy in its entirety are submitted to the Council of the People 's Commissaries through the Supreme Board of National Economy . 10 . The Supreme Board of National Economy unifies and directs the Soviets of Workmen 's , Soldiers ' , and Peasants ' Deputies , which include the local organs of workmen 's control , and also the local commissaries of labor , commerce and industry , supplies , etc . In the absence of corresponding economic branches , the Supreme Board of National Economy forms local organs . All decisions of the Supreme Board of National Economy are binding upon the economic departments of the local Soviets , which constitute the local organs of the Supreme Board of National Economy .      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      