@@430521

 |p702  MORE and more , as we are working out a consistent theory of education in general for boys and girls and for youth of both sexes , a sure instinct is enriching the curriculum of colleges and universities in which women are students by the insertion of courses which are intended to fit them both for the position of woman-head of a family of social leadership , and for those professional careers which lie nearest the home life . Books are being compiled to show how educated women may fit themselves for other employments than teaching , and the courses in household science and economy are now made to cover a wide range of vocational training for many important professions . Perhaps the most important sign of the times in this direction is the recent action of the Association of Collegiate Alumna ; commending this enlargement of the college curriculum . In regard both to the vocational training of girls which must follow immediately upon graduation from the elementary school , and that which can be obtained through the high school and college , certain main points @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sex are generally to be confronted with a vocational divide at marriage , then it stands to reason and common sense that they will choose , and their parents for them ( where no special talent is indicated ) , such training as will serve best for both personal self-support and family usefulness : that is to say , the trades needing shortest preparation for wage-earning , and the professions most nearly allied to general culture , will be the most popular in the educational choices for girls . This is understood in the case of the girl who must begin wage-earning early in so far as it relates to preparation for factory and shop work in the occupations nearest in locality to her home and demanding least time for acquiring technique . We have not yet reached the point where any well-considered @#  |p703  plan is being wrought out in school experimentation for the training of girls for specialties of wage-earning in activities required by the home-life itself . If the domestic help problem is to be solved we must solve it along the lines so well and thoroughly outlined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say , we must put the help within the family on as democratic a plane as service outside the family , and adopt , as far as the exigencies of family life demand , the " hour-system " and the " out-living " instead of the " in-living " of domestic helpers . If we are to get for domestic service the same type of girl who now enters the shop or factory , the counting-room or office , we must make the conditions equally attractive to the self-respecting girl who has had some education in the public school . The belief that any system on such a basis can regulate the family life as the factory and shop may be regulated has been already disclaimed . The woman-head of the family must be able and willing , in the overwhelming majority of cases , not only to organize , but personally to do whatever work is necessary for the wellbeing of her family . No woman-head of a family of average means and condition can utilize an hour system or any form of domestic service which can be adjusted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ herself both competent and ready to serve in similar ways . The tendency of the world of organized industry is to lessen the amount and variety of household work by the outside preparation of foods , the mechanical inventions for cleaning , etc. , and the easy access to supplies of all sorts . The burden of the house-mother who does not and will not shirk her main responsibility is thus much eased . The need for some assistance and in many cases for much assistance to the house-mother during the years when her children are young still remains and grows to a condition of acute suffering and mal-adjustment in country districts and in manufacturing towns in which " hired help " is beyond the reach of most women in the years of married life when they need it most . We have accepted too supinely the alternative of no help or help all the time . ' We have neglected to consider the middle course of partial help from younger girls which might be made both efficient and suitable for the worker , if we but added to our trade-teach/ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as a healthy girl of sixteen to eighteen years could well do if only she knew how . For the average house-mother of small means but good intelligence and willingness to serve her family at first hand , two to four hours a day of competent help from those whose breeding made them fit companions for her children would be a greater assistance than a longer period from those whom she had to watch and direct at every moment . When the managers of modern trade schools for girls have been asked why they did not fit for family service , they have usually had in mind in their answers the ordinary " going out to service " which is the inherited form of domestic helping . What we need now is an extension of the general tendency toward home-usefulness which may be given in the elementary school along lines that are sufficiently differentiated for technical training , and which would fit the girl of fourteen to sixteen to do some one thing needed by the household well , and for pay , on terms as carefully outlined as those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extension of trade teaching , when tried in even the smallest experiment by Young Women 's Christian Associations and like volunteer efforts in the educational field , has shown that it is not the work in the home that drives the " best girls " from it , but the lack of democratic organization of household labor and the lack of business management of the ordinary household . When we get along a little further , we shall see better how to add to the training for specialties of self-support in the shop and factory and countingroom such specialties of household aid as are most susceptible of this organization and business management . Then it will be quickly perceived how many girls , and their parents as well , choose these instead of specialties more remote from the home life . Mrs. Richards , whose inestimable service to the women of the United States makes her recent death a public calamity , once said that " the old family life took the dining and sitting room into the kitchen ; the new family life would take the kitchen into the dining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fine way of stating a fact , more and more apparent , that mechanical inven/ tion and modern industry are so refining and easing the processes of household labor that the woman-head of the household can more and more dispense with kitchen paraphernalia of the inherited sort and do her work in the daintiest surroundings . When she can and does so manage her own supreme share of the household demand , she can begin to utilize to its utmost efficiency the hour help of the well-bred and educated woman and girl who will then be ready and more than willing to aid her . This , of course , does not apply and will not for a long time , if ever , to the rich family of many servants , or to the needs of those women who should be emancipated from even the usual burdens of the home life by reason of special talent and social usefulness which make it well worth while that society should release them from the general for the sake of the special usefulness . This series of papers is dealing with the average @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either of circumstance or of individual genius . The fundamental need in the reorganization of this average household , which is so inevitable and will lead to such better things in family life , is to democratize the home in all its relationships . The extension of the trade-teaching of girls along the lines indicated will prove a great help in hastening that reorganization . The extension of the college curriculum along the lines of domestic economy and the preparation for professional work in lines near the home life will be the great leading influence toward that extension of the trade-teaching of girls and the better organization of domestic labor . Already a pronounced and healthy guidance along this line is shown by college graduates and other cultured women of democratic tendencies and of high social ideals . To this end , as well as to the ends of social progress in every direction , one study has contributed more than any other ; and that a new study , and one especially capable of forming the more philosophic element in the preparation for life work given by the new courses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reference is here made , of course , to the new science of sociology . Sociology is so new that it is still in its callow youth and denied the honors of the older and more definitely outlined disciplines of the mind . Its very title of " science " is contested by  |p706  many educational leaders . Yet at least sociology is a daring and masterful combination of accepted sciences ; of biology , ethnology , psychology , history , economics and politics . As such it is offering its new explanation of many ancient riddles of life and its still newer gospel of social control in the interest of a purposive human progress . It not only boldly shows " why we are so , " but why and how we should become something different , in social relationship . In its forms of theory it has proved most congenial to the feminine truth-seeker , and in its forms of practical suggestion still more the very bread of intellectual life to women desirous of doing their duty . Abstract philosophy has never been close to the feminine genius ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the hopeless inferiority of women ! For a human being to sit down and evolve a theory which he called " universal " and " ultimate " has always affected the sense of humor in women . It has seemed to brilliant and clever women a bit absurd for the finite to be so sure about infinite truth . Also the incurable practicality of women , which has often enough made them poor helpmeets for the idealism of men , has made them query " what 's the use " when the philosopher painfully evolved some " camel " of theory from his inner consciousness , and never thought to test at first hand the real things of daily living . This has been at once an advantage and a disadvantage to woman : an advantage in keeping her mental tendency close to facts and useful work ; and a disadvantage in depriving her of some of the delights of mental aviation . The new ways which sociology has inaugurated of making explanatory notes of the universe , the new ways of dealing with the agelong riddles of the existence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which sociology offers , the new ways of going directly to the facts of environment for the reasons for social ills , and the still newer ways of demanding radical changes in environment for the benefit of the social whole , exactly suit the feminine mind , and are in direct line with the special sex-development of women . Naturally the new sociology is furnishing , along with other fresh explanations of life , the most complete solution of the old puzzle , What are women and what are they for ? which any science or philosophy or guess of the human mind has yet offered .  |p707  Naturally , also , although the fact is not yet clearly perceived in full significance , we find that those colleges and universities which develop " courses suited to the special needs of women " also offer the most advanced and varied courses in social economics . In many of these the attempt to suit educational opportunity to the new feminine ideal has definitely linked itself to the attempt to incorporate the new social philosophy and the new tendency to social service into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the colleges and universities , but also in the secondary schools , where it is already a pressing question , ? What elements of sociology may properly and usefully be taught in the high school , and where shall we insert them ? In this connection let us note that training in household economics and home-making is now given in at least four kinds of educational institutions of grade above the elementary school , namely : I. As a department of high school instruction ; often the extension of a course in manual training in the grades below , and in any case conceived and treated for the most part as general preparation for life , but having an increasingly distinct bearing upon vocational choice and business training . II . As a department of normal schools ; chiefly as a means of preparing manual training teachers for the grade schools , the courses being technical and practical and attempting to deal only with such processes as children can understand and practise . III . As a department in colleges and universities attended by women and with the double purposes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : one to fit undergraduates for the home , and the other to aid toward vocational usefulness and success . As has been shown , increase in these courses is called for by three classes , those that demand enlargement of the inherited curriculum of men 's higher education for purposes of general feminine culture ; those that desire a more varied training of women for self-support in professional fields ; and those who see the need for better training of women for philanthropic service . IV . As a specialty in a separate technical school , like Pratt Institute , for example ; or as a distinctly defined technical department in a university , like the School of Industrial Arts of Teach/ ers College , Columbia University ; or like similar departments in many of the State universities ; or as a special department in a post-graduate training school like that of Stout Institute in Wisconsin . The purpose of such schools and departments is distinctly to give high-grade preparation for professional work in teaching , in philanthropy , in social leadership , along all lines of child-care , sanitary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or teaching how it should be prepared , more healthful and artistic dress , and the instruction of the poor and ignorant . If these technical schools help to standardize the private home , and they surely do , it is mainly by and through the professional leadership they train and help to secure in paid positions , rather than by the individual teaching of the housemother . In the technical schools of household science , however , we have a sharp division of pedagogic need and direction ; for in some of these schools we find large classes of very young girls , many of them not having received any high school instruction , who are seeking trade-teaching in dressmaking , millinery or similar kinds of work ; or else those just learning how to help at home in a small family of restricted means . The teaching body of such schools need to be masters of that triangle of knowledge f required for vocational guidance of young girls going into manual labor ; namely , general information concerning work-opportunities for girls in the locality , special knowledge of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social condition of the families from which they come . All this requires some measure of applied sociology in the teachers as that is sharpened to economic conditions and possibilities ; but does not constitute , of course , any part of the study of the girls themselves . On the other hand , those technical schools and college departments of household science that minister to the needs of more mature students , of women who are in training for higherpaid and more responsible positions , ? professional , commercial , mechanical , philanthropic , ? should offer to their students thorough courses in sociology . Theory of social development , history of institutions , social psychology , social ethics , and social uplift lead toward intelligent mastery of social problems and are a  |p709  guide to practical service . If such a high-grade technical school is attached to a university it can now easily secure the needed instruction along these lines ; if it is an independent school it must provide its own instructors in the science of human development and the art of conscious and purposive human progress . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well-defined biologic foundation ; the history and meaning of social institutions ; the social aspects of education as a " process in the spiritual evolution of the race " ; ? these are essential studies for all men and women . The evolution of the family and its vital place in the socialization of the individual ; the racial , political and economic factors in civilization ; the control and abolition of social ills , such as crime , vice , disease , poverty ; the community ideal in general , and in particular as related to one 's own locality ; the essential next steps in social progress and how to attain them ; these are vital necessities of study , especially for women of light and leading , whether in vocational positions or at the head of private homes of social influence . It seems clear that educational institutions and departments of colleges dealing with the mechanism and the economics of the home life might well lead in emphasizing these social values of the home life and of the society of which the home is the centre . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of men at the head of institutions in which sociology is made a strong study and in which many women take its courses whether or not in connection with household science and art , that the ethical content of applied sociology must be clearly and inspiringly presented , if these courses are to make to the women students the strongest and most effective appeal . Not only is it true that the genius of women is practical , and the organic function of women is teaching , but the drill in motherhood 's devotion to family life has given women an unconquerable tendency toward personalization . This may be overborne temporarily , or seemingly submerged under the sweep of influences that are pushing us toward impersonal environmental changes ; but after women are accustomed to equal opportunities in education and in work they will right the balance again ; and now they need always the appeal to the individual conscience and the claim of the individual need  |p710  upon the social organism to make sociology vital to them . The law of human development must be translated for ardent and sensitive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social uplift if it is to move the inner sources of mental and moral power . In the case of the average young woman it must also be translated in terms of personal care and help for the exposed and abused child , for the neglected aged , for the oppressed weak , for the defective and incompetent needing protection , for the heroic struggler on the labor field defeated for want of social justice . This translation of applied sociology in terms of enlightened philanthropy and moral reform is what the average young woman needs , and many young men would profit by , as well . The normal schools are the weak point in our educational system , and here we come upon a waste place which the right kind of sociological study might make to blossom as the rose . The social aspects of education , the relation of the modern school to the family , the State , the industrial and the social order , ? this is a study which would vitalize the present preparation of teachers for the elementary school . The fact that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ melting pot of nations , " and that the school is in closest touch of any of our social institutions , with the bewildering variety of ethical ideals emphasized by the home and church influence , makes the school the one place in which a possible minimum of ethical agreement to guide the common social life might be developed . The greatest of social needs in our country is some common denominator in personal and social morality which can bring the community together in one common aim in matters most imperative as to individual conduct and as to social well-being . Herbart declares our chief need in education to be " character training , based on an irrefragable foundation of morality . " Where shall be found that irrefragable foundation , one which can be accepted as such by all religionists and all non-religionists , save in the testimony of human experience deduced by searching and fearless inquiry into the social results of motives and of acts as these are interpreted by the trained reason ? Only an irrefragable foundation of morality of this sort can develop a national mo-  |p711  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unsocial impulse , to dominate education and to give method to social action . If it is true that we need this minimum of commonly accepted ethical standard , and must depend for it chiefly upon the school as that affects character from the kindergarten to the college , then we must grow teachers of the elementary schools ( in which alone the vast majority of children get their school influence ) capable of the high exercise of mind this inquiry into the verdict of the nature of things and the course of human development demands . How can we do this unless we have not only courses in sociology , pure and applied , in the normal schools , but also an atmosphere of valiant truth-seeking and scientific veracity equal to that which any college or university can boast ? This is a matter near to the feminine ideal and its representation in the school , from the fact that the overwhelming majority of teachers of the elementary schools are women . No problem in public education pleads more eloquently for solution , however , than that of the social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a small fraction of young people go to college , and since attendance at day and evening high schools is becoming an increasing custom among children even of the poor and since the reaction of the school upon the home often reaches its strategic point when the boy and the girl at the period of growth in which their sense of personal choice becomes keen take from the high school to the home the standards they have gained from the teacher , this question is of deepest importance . The college man or woman , moreover , if profiting by the opportunity given to gain command over culture-tools , can easily make good deficiencies in the college course as these are revealed by ripened experience ; while the boy or girl who learns so little of so many things in high school is likely to fail in knowledge of ways of supplementing school instruction . If then sociology , or a knowledge of the laws of human society , needs to become a part of high school training , how may it be accomplished ? Not surely by text-book instruction in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of social laws and conditions , or confused by much descriptive treatment of the remote and strange in human existence , is a  |p712  sorry sight . Civics and philanthropy , however , based upon right understanding of group relationship and political and social structure , the social institutions , especially the family and the school , and the State which gives us our sense of human solidarity , ? these are vital and inspiring to youth . Vocational ethics in choice and standards of work , including such study of economic history and its social interrelations as may throw light on personal problems , or lead to large views of human industry and achievement , these are vital themes for the young . The sociological basis for self-culture , mental , physical , moral , the cosmic reasons for making the most and best of oneself as a part of the social whole , all that constitutes what Dr. Ward calls the " ethics of applied sociology , " this is a much needed appeal for modern youth . The young question all things with an imperious , What have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a time when ethics is becoming socialized , certain universal standards of choice and of action in the conduct of life must be gained by them , if at all , along broad lines of social necessity . Hence if sociology has any moral guidance in an hour of radical change of thought and of life , by all means saturate the teaching influence with it in order that the young may profit by the new way of outlining human duty . And still more , if sociology has any special guidance for womanhood in an hour of profound change in outward circumstance , any fresh sanctions for established codes of morals in marriage , any new readings of social responsibility for the home in a time when the old admonitions and restraints fail to command , in the name of social health and social progress send all the women and girls to school to the new science ! And if they will take it more eagerly , as seems to be the case , when mixed with special ingredients called " household economics " or " domestic art , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all the new educational opportunities open to women the establishment of training schools for social service , schools for fitting men and women for ameliorative and constructive work in philanthropy and civics , has proved the most satisfying and helpful . Women have been accustomed throughout all the past to bearing in a peculiar degree the social burden  |p713  of the weak , the undeveloped , the incompetent and the infirm . These new schools show them how to help bear these burdens , not only in ways more humane for the individual , but also more wise for the social whole . There are men in these schools of civics and philanthropy , it is true ; a few , gained by dint of much earnest work on the part of the directors ; but the overwhelming majority of students are women , and doubtless the disproportion will be slightly , if any , decreased in the days to come . Some specialties of legal and political aspects of the social movement , some leadership of the labor struggle , some few large administrative offices , some institutional superintendencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the great task of taking care of the socially backward , and the ever-changing but never-ending ministration to individuals which every form of social helpfulness yet devised has included within its programme , will in the future , as in the past and in the present , send ten women to every one man as students to these schools . The sort of instruction given in these new technical schools is precisely along the lines of the socialization of the family life and of the feminine ideal for which the times most loudly call . Hence their significance is not alone for the social movement as a whole , but also for the specific development of women in the larger and more complete citizenship to which they are called . Back of all these changes and developments of the educational ideal and practice as applied to women lies the stupendous fact that humanity , at least in its centres of enlightenment , has come to realize the worth and value of human nature as a whole . Not yet is it clearly seen that women , as women , have still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the intellectual as well as on the moral side ; but it is already becoming apparent that those human qualities which men and women have in common should not be wasted , ignored or misused because embodied in a woman 's form . The ways in which the school must be modified , now that all boys , instead of a few selected boys , attend it , take long to tell and longer to work out . The changes in the school which will follow the further admission of all girls , with all boys , require profound study and detailed description . But the master fact that has opened the  |p714  door of kindergarten , primary school , high school and college to girls and women can be told in a sentence : Humanity has at last conferred on women the franchise of the mind . Henceforth not the " affection of good " alone is the ideal of womanly excellence ; the " understanding of truth " is also her high privilege and her conscious duty . " He for God only , she for God in him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and woman to each other and to the universe . As at the beginning of the Christian era came a call to women to own and save their own souls , not as members of a particular family , but as individuals , who must singly and alone " appear at the judgment seat " ; so at the beginning of the twentieth century women are called upon to " make up their own minds " on all the vast and terrible issues of life , and to see to it that they have the mental equipment necessary to that difficult process . For this end the school has at last opened its doors to women , ? in order that every atom of the social whole shall feel the currents of the mind , as well as the pulses of the heart , of creation , moving them all alike in response to " whatsoever forces draw the ages on . "                     