@@487212

A COMMON criticism of the stage to-day is that actors for . - the most part do not act , they merely speak lines . Perhaps no dramatist lends himself more easily to sucha manner of production than De Musset , with his literary dialogue full of poetic metaphor and balanced repartee . It is therefore doubly to the credit of M. Copeau 's company at the Vieux Colombier that they succeed in making so vital an impression with a delicate romantic fantasy like " Les Caprices de Marianne . " The actors of the Vieux Colombier never " speak lines " ; speaking or silent they are always thinking , listening human beings . The art of listening is in danger of becoming a lost one on the part of American actors . Perhaps the " star system " is to blame . A star must have all the lines that are " coming to him , " and often those that should be coming to someone else . Naturally the achievement of the great.is the ambition of the less , so no one wants to listen on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one wants to listen in the stalls either . Perhaps it is only in a repertoire company like the Vieux Colombier , where one 's fortunes do not depend on the speed of the success of a single play , that the actors have the leisure to listen as well as to talk . There is indeed an unhurried atmosphere about the Vieux Colombier that makes an evening there a restful and refreshing delight . Once inside , we forget Broadway seething at our doors . We fall back into the leisurely tempo of the old world , the only tempo in which works of art can be created , the only tempo at which they should be produced . A De Musset production must be a work of art or it is nothing . The plays of that artist are exquisite but frail . They have not enough vitality to withstand a poor presentation . M. Copeau 's production of " Les Caprices de Marianne " was in every way satisfying ; the setting , the lighting , the grouping , and the costuming made a pictorial background worthy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ de la Liberte , " on the other hand , could scarcely stand the test of its excellent production . Rushed through at top farce speed it might have succeeded with an audience before they had time to realize its defects . Played quietly it appeared as a good comic idea developed in rather slovenly fashion , the monologue cruelly overworked , the dialogue only moderately amusing . It is not Tristan Bernard at his best  --  far from it . The actors of the Vieux Colombier did their best , and deserve the fullest credit for their effort , but even they could not redeem it from mediocrity . T. H.                     