@@487083

" Talk of Roosevelt next year reviving . " Of course it is . Republicans who believe that they have an invincible hero can not help looking his way as they anxiously contemplate 1912 . But some of the misapprehensions on the subject are both amusing and pathetic . Thus a Washington dispatch informs us that the friends of the ex-President are confirmed in the hope that he may come forward as a candidate again , by the news they get from New York that he is about to sally forth and attack Boss Barnes , with the purpose of wresting the State leadership from him . If this is true , however , it is the most conclusive evidence that the Colonel has not the slightest idea of allowing his name to go before the National Convention . Last year , it is true , he fought Barnes in the name of decency and righteousness ; but now that the latter is in undisputed control of the State organization , and able to name the majority of the New York delegates , he becomes by that very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would now dream of attacking him . The unanimous decision of the Federal Circuit Court as to the manner of dissolving the Tobacco Trust is , we be . lieve , in line with law , precedent , and common sense . It sustains enaphatical. ly the lawfulness of the plan of distributing shares in the newly-formed companies pro rata to existing shareholders in the Trust . It rejects the contention of the independent tobacco interests that the Trust ought to be broken into a much greater number of separate units , that no single company be left with a more complete equipment than any of the independents now possess , and that no present shareholder in the Trust be allotted shares in more than one of the separate corporations . We have hitherto set forth our own ' reasons for believing that none of these three proposals is called for by the Anti . Trust Law , and that all of them were contrary to precedent fixed by the Supreme Court in the Northern Securities and Standard Oil reorganizations . Thatthe second of them was economically unwarranted , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinion . The court dismisses even the Attorney-General 's suggestion that the new corporations be held under special legal surveillance during the next five years , with a view to reopening , if desired , the question whether conditions created by the reorganization were honestly in harmony with the law . The leading opinion sets forth that " it is not apparent that this court has the power to do so , " or that the Supreme Court 's mandate authorized the Circuit Court " to prescribe the temporary terms of a modus mvendi , " with the power for the present court , or its successors , to modify the terms of reorganization five years hence , when new investors might have come into the property on the basis of the present plan . In Maryland , the election of a Republican Governor , for the first time since the civil war with the single exception of the election of 1895 , is not the only interesting result of the recent voting . In addition to that , the disfranchising amendment has been snowed under , the vote in Baltimore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is to be hoped that common sense exists in sufficient quantity among Maryland Democrats to make this latest verdict on a perennial nuisance suffice for good and all . The negrophobia , real or pretended , which underlies these ever-repeated attempts to get round the Constitution of the United States , is peculiarly indefensible in a State in which the colored population is not much more than one-sixth of the total ; but be that as it may , the way in which the attempts have been defeated , time after time , in spite of the most desperate endeavors of legal lights to devise some plan that would go down , ought to suffice to make any sane Anglo-Saxon drop the thing at last , in sheer disgust if for no other reason . After two years of commission government , Chelsea , Mass. , has voted to return to the old system of Mayor and Aldermen . As in the case of Galveston , it was a disaster that led to the adoption of the new form of government , Chelsea having been almost destroyed by fire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presumably , the census returns for 1910 showed a falling off of 2,000 from the population of 34,000 in 1900 . The majority in favor of the old system was not large , but that it should not have been overwhelmingly on the other side will be the wonder to the ardent advocates of the commission form . Chelsea is of the size to which that system is supposed to be well adapted . Whatever the local reasons for its abandonment there , the result , while settling nothing as to the inherent merits or defects of the system , is a reminder that it is not a panacea . Whatever may be its ultimate fate , it is well for , its supporters to recognize this in the beginning . By his inflexible refusal to treat with striking and lawless employees of the city government , Mayor Gaynor has rendered an inestimable service to the community of New York , and to the cause of law and order everywhere . That he has been thoroughly sustained by public sentiment is manifest . Indeed , were it otherwise , there would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but the hearty support which the city has given to its executive head in this matter is rendered peculiarly significant by the circumstance that a good many persons desire , from the standpoint of their own personal comfort , the change which the mutinous street-cleaners demand. , All such considerations drop out of sight when the choice between law and anarchy is presented ; in such a situation nothing but unconditional surrender can De considered for a moment . To the Street Cleaning Commissioner and to the police , in their decisive grappling with the difficulties , the hearty thanks of the community are also due . The granite temple encasing the log cabin at Hodgensville , Kentucky , in which Abraham Lincoln was born , is really a happy piece of symbolism . How better could one commemorate the rise from humblest beginnings to the highest destiny ? It is appropriate , too , that the memorial should stand in an out-of-the-way corner of that pioneer West whose qualities and energies and role in our history Lincoln so thoroughly embodied . We are not over-rich in national shrines . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Jackson 's Hermitage carry with them something of a party flavor : we think of them in a somewhat narrow sense as pilgrimage-places of Democracy . That may be the fault of party orators who have shown a tendency to claim the two men for their own . No such attitude is conceivable with regard to Abraham Lincoln . His memorial , because of its geographical situation , will probably never attract the crowds which flock to Mount Vernon , but , on the other hand , the visitor to Hodgensville will be drawn there by something more than tourist curiosity . It is significant of the steady awakening to the architectural possibilities of our cities ? that the first important event in Bangor , Me. , after its destructive fire of last April , was a mass-meeting which directed the Mayor to appoint a Civic Commission to study the burned district , and to report suggestions for improvement in connection with its rebuilding . Most permits to rebuild were withheld awaiting the report . This was presented within thirty days , but its provisions have received little notice outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of Landscape Architecture , Bangor has certain natural advantages that are unusual in relation to a city plan . That these have not heretofore been utilized to their full extent is shown by the statement that , for four hundred feet up the Kenduskeag stream , the original beauty of the bank has been smothered under thirty feet of trash , the accumulations of many years . Another feature is the number of buildings that form street terminals , visually if not actually . No one will be surprised to learn that this was usually the effect of chance rather than design . Not less important is the progress , again unconscious , that has been made toward a civic centre . Before the fire the buildings were arranged in a haphazard fashion , but the land owned by the public now lends itself easily to interesting treatment . Bangor thus affords one illustration more of the consolation for our lack of harmonious city planning to be found in the opportunity opened by our fire losses . The award to Mme. Curie of the Nobel prize for chemistry is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great honor and emolument to a person who had already been  --  though jointly with two others , M. Becquerel and M. Curie  --  the winner of a Nobel prize seemed so extraordinary that one ' felt a momentary hesitation in accepting it as a fact . That Mme. Curie 's work , however , has been of the highest merit and importance in the years that have passed since the discovery of radium by herself and her husband is well known ; and the estimate placed upon her researches and upon her ability by fellow-workers in the domain of physics and chemistry has had more than one recent demonstration . In the early part of this year , she missed by only one vote the honor of election as a member of the Paris Academy of Sciences ; and at the International Congress of Radiology , held a year ago at Brussels , it was to Mme. Curie that the task was committed of preparing a standard specimen of a pure radium salt , to serve as a basis of reference for all workers in radiology . The discoveries she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as to dispose completely of the notion , entertained by some , that in their joint work in the discovery of radium her , part was sub-ordinate to that of M. Curie  --  who himself , of course , always asserted her claim to a full and equal share in the discovery . Mr. Carnegie 's latest magnificent gift of $25,000,000 is proof positive that his numerous benefactions for general and educational purposes are to be continued permanently . He has , as it were , incorporated himself for philanthropic purposes , chiefly of an educational character , and under a charter which leaves abundant discretion to his trustees and does not tie them up in a way to hamper them or their successors years hence , in the carrying out of Mr. Carnegie 's purposes . Primarily , it is the " business of founding and aiding libraries " which is to be turned over to them . When before in the world was there ever a business of philanthropy conducted on so vast a scale by a single individual ? Also it is to be an enterprise to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the United States by aiding universities and technical schools , scientific research , etc . Mr. Carnegie incorporated will , we are confident , continue to give as wisely as Mr. Carnegie In propria persona . In the current number of the Survey there appears a letter from Joseph A. Hill ; Chief Statistician of the Census Bureau , which gives facts and figures of great importance . Whenever the subject of the wages of saleswomen comes up , the question must arise in every one 's mind , how many of them live at home ; for their situation , both economically and otherwise , is radically different from that of those who live among strangers . An inquiry by the Census Bureau , covering 27 of the principal cities of the United States , and embracing 65,186 saleswomen " sixteen years of age and over , " showed that 60,062 of these were single women , and that of the single women 86 per cent . lived at home . It also appears that of these single women living at home less than 5 per cent . were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while in 26 per cent . of the cases the family contained one , in 30 per cent . two , and in 39 per cent . of the cases three or more breadwinners besides the girl or woman herself . These circumstances are , of course , in no way conclusive as to the question of what wages should be , or what results from their being what they are , but they are of primary importance , and can not be ignored in any intelligent discussion . Moreover , the significance of facts like these does not end with the particular phase of the wage question immediately concerned . We are constantly confronted with statistical announcements to the effect that , on the one hand , x dollars a year are absolutely essential to the maintenance of the average workingman 's family , above starvation , and that on the other hand the annual income of the average - workingman is only y dollars ? a much smaller sum  --  and we are left to reconcile this with patent facts as best we can . This would , perhaps , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are thousands of persons of strong sympathies and weak reasoning powers , to whom such statements suffice as conclusive proof of the utter failure and wickedness of the existing economic system . That a large proportion of the workingmen are single men , that these single men either live with their own family or contribute , as boarders , to the revenue of some other family , that the grown-up girls or single women add to the family income , etc. ? these things are lost sight of . The situation in Canada once more exemplifies how party labels in British politics , both at home and in the colonies , are by no means an infallible guide to party programmes . The frequency with which the British Conservatives have stolen the Liberal thunder is one of the principal things that have kept the Conservative party alive . In Canada we have seen the Laurier Ministry borrow from its opponents the policy of preferential trade with England . We have also seen the same Liberal Ministry go in for the idea of a Canadian navy , a measure so strongly impregnated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alarm . Thus the late campaign presented the paradox of the Liberals defending and the Conservatives attacking an imperialistic policy . Nor is that all . In the Cabinet organized by Premier Borden , a place has been found for Mr. Monk , the chief lieutenant of Mr Henri Bourassa . Mr. Monk 's appointment is now denounced by the Liberal press as a " fatal concession to Quebec nationalism . " Of Mr. Borden himself it is stated that he is a reformer rather than a Tory , and that possibly , " if his whole mind could be revealed , he has much sympathy with the social programme of the British Liberals . " Thus party government tends more and more toward denoting a difference in mere methods , rather than in fundamental policy . Winston Churchill 's first speech as First Lord of the Admiralty ought to produce a fairly good impression in Germany , for he went out of his way to pay a tribute to the truthfulness of the German Government in its statements about the German naval programme . When it is remembered how , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outdoing one another in raucous assertions that Germany had a secret battleship or two up her sleeve , it is apparent that Mr. Churchill finds frank confession good for the soul . As for the rest , Mr. Churchill speaks , as all First Lords must , of the necessity of having a big , strong fleet ready for instant action and far superior to any possible rival . This-sop to the big-navy boomers was , of course , inevitable . He also frankly admitted , as others have before him , that the growth of the navy was determined by Germany 's attitude and fleet . After expressing a desire for a cessation of this mad competition , Mr. Churchill stated that the navy estimates will be decreased slightly , " provided that the national security is not in the slightest degree compromised by such reduction . " This is vague enough , Heaven knows , to please all ' hands and offend nobody . The German Chancellor 's assertion in the Reichstag that he neither " expects praise nor fears blame , " evidences a philosophical turn of mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For no one in all Germany seems satisfied with his achievements in the Morocco negotiations . There is a universal belief that , after carrying the country to the verge of war , he backed down completely . Members of every party have openly criticised him , from the Socialists to the Centre , and in addition colonial ministers have resigned in protest , and the Crown Prince openly signified his disapproval in the royal box in the Reichstag . Both of the latter happenings are unheard of demonstrations . Childish though the Crown Prince 's behavior seems to have been , it may yet compel the Chancellor to tender his resignation ; ft has already earned for the Crown Prince a week 's arrest and a sound scolding at the hands of his royal father . The very nature of the official statement to the effect that the Crown Prince and his brothers are not conspiring for the overthrow of Von Bethmann-Hollweg , is unprecedented in German politics , while the whole incident smacks of something pretty close to mutiny among the Hohenzol'erns . Certainly , the Crown Prince @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not argue that he possesses either wisdom or self-restraint . On the whole question of the effect on public opinion of the reported atrocities of Italian soldiers in Tripoli , no one is better fitted to speak than Mr. G. M. Trevelyan . A proved lover of Italy and a most sympathetic historian of her struggles for freedom and unity , two letters of his in the London Tones show into what doubt and pain he has been plunged by the acts performed in the name of " military exigency . " He declares that he has received too muchkindness from Italians , and has " seen too much of Italian officers , to believe that cruelty will be allowed to become systematic in their army . " Yet the evidence , in the face of all the denials made , compels him to believe that a " spirit of savage reprisals " entered into the Italian troops , and that they committed deeds shocking to humanity . Mr. Trevelyan does not deny that the same thing has happened with soldiers of other countries , " not excluding the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afford to let her war against the Turks get the reputation of being cruel . To apply to Arabs the devastating treatment that the Austrians applied in Brescia is , affirms Mr. Trevelyan , simply to bring out the fact that " the Arabs have much more legal right to resist them than the Italians had to resist the Austrians . " The revolution in China harks directly back to the struggle of 1894-95 with Japan In that war the prestige of the old Manchu army , which for two hundred and fifty years had sufficed to keep the Chinese in subjection , was complete . ly destroyed . The Throne faced the alternative of a revolution or the creation of a modern army capable of defending the national honor abroad . The first task was to procure a body of trained officers , and within a few years no less than nineteen military schools were established . These schools were manned by Japanese army officers , and later by Chinese graduates from the military schools of Japan . To officer an army of a size commensurate with China 's needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clans . The door had perforce to be thrown open to the Chinese . The latter embraced the new profession with an ardor that seems to belie the traditional aversion of the Chinese for war . But , as one authority has explained , the Chinese hated military service so long as it was the exclusive privilege of their Manchu conquerors . To-day it is estimated that there are five thousand students enrolled in the officers ' schools in China and Japan . As events have shown , it was , with the Manchus , only a postponement of the evil day . In fear of a popular uprising , they allowed the Chinese to acquire gradual control of the army , and the latter have lost little time in making use of their opportunities .                     