@@487073

All the talk about the forthcoming report of the Tariff Board , and the lowering of duties which the President will recommend on the strength of it , serves to point one moral . This is the misfortune and political mistake of Mr. Taft 's tariff vetoes , particularly of the wool bill . He may now have to urge a measure very nearly the same as the one he disapproved Such a step would be awkward in itself , and would be doubly embarrassing from the fact of the small likelihood that Congress can be got to do now what it had already done last summer . That was the great risk which the President ran . In seeking to avoid the possibility that a slight injustice might be done in seeking to relieve the tax-burdens of the public , he made it highly probable that a gross inlustice would long be continued . As was pointed out at the time , the President would have been on much stronger ground if he had signed the wool bill and then prepared to make an urgent Plea for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the strength of the sifted facts gathered by the Tariff Board But he preferred to take chances , and , as is now apparent , took them on the side of tariff favoritism . We require no subsidies These could not be fairly distributed any more than other special favors All that is needed is to give American enterprise a fair chance by changing our antiquated navigation laws , which have driven our commerce from the seas . In these words Gov . Harmon has just reiterated the historic plea of Grover Cleveland , whose Attorney-General he was . This sound position can not be controverted . Subsidies are nothing more or less than governmental graft to the favored few  --  taxing all the people that a comparative handful of persons may profit thereby ; that an industry may be artificially stimulated , often for sentimental reasons . Our fleets have disappeared from the seas because we , have crippled and throttled American enterprise , as Gov . Harmon points out . Grover Cleveland 's words were : " The ancient provision of our law denying American registry to ships built @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light of present conditions , not only to be a failure for good at every point , but to be nearer a relic of barbarism than anything that exists under the permission of a statute of the United States . " But year after year the Republicans have refused to alter this law ? it has not even interested Mr. Taft . What the Philippines have cost the United States has been a much-mooted question . When Gen. Wood , the Chief of Staff , was testifying before the House Committee on Military Affairs last spring as to the military cost of the occupation , he dodged the issue on the ground that it was difficult to furnish the required statement because of the accounting methods of the War Department . The bureau chiefs were then directed to show the cost on the assumption that if the army had not been in the Philippines , an equal number of American troops would have been maintained in the United States proper . According to press dispatches , the computation is now complete , and the cost of our military occupation since December @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the peace treaty with Spain , has reached the enormous figure of $167,486,403 . This is the price we have paid for Mr. McKinley 's fearful error of judgment in taking over the islands  --  to say nothing of the waste of American and Filipino lives . What sensible man will dare to assert that , putting it on the lowest ground , this coil-it-try has obtained $167 , - 486,403 worth of advantage out of our subjugation of the islands ? - The recent report of the Commissioner of Pelisions brings out the startling fact that within thirteen years of the close of the war with Spain , and eleven after the subsidence of the Philippine insurrection , there are no less than 23 , - 383 invalid soldiers of these wars on the pension rolls , in addition to 3,032 dependent mothers , 522 fathers , 9 brothers and sisters , 1,217 widows , and 327 children . In all , there are 28,490 pensioners as a result of these wars  --  actually a larger number than there were soldiers in the regular army at the outbreak of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there were troops before Santiago . In addition , there were 8,386 Spanish war claims pending on June 30 , 1911 . Already we have paid out $34,142,976.37 in pensions for services against the Spanish and Filipinos , as against a total of $45,853,024.19 paid for pensions to the warriors of 1812 , and $45,279,686.83 expended in the support of veterans of the Mexican war during a period of sixty-five years . To-day there are still 1,639 pensioned survivors of the Mexican War and they were mostly very young men , we may confidently look forward to paying pensions to at least 15 , - 000 persons fifty-two years hence for services in Cuba and the Philippines . And then people wonder wily the United States must tax them so heavily , directly and indirectly . The spectacle of Gov . Blease violating his oath of office and counselling the sheriffs of his State to violate theirs , has produced a profound impression throughout South Carolina . Men who have hitherto passed over a lynching with the comment that it removed a worthless person , have come to see what such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with vigor , only to be vilified in return by the Governoh Best of all , the influential press has roused itself to a vigorous cam -- paign against lawlessness . First and foremost is the Columbia , S. C. , State , the candor and vigor of whose utterances put most of the Northern press in a poor light by comparison . It has been particularly indignant over the acquittal of a white man who killed a negro " by mistake " while lying in wait for a white offender against his home . Undeterred by Gov . Blease 's threats , it has spoken its mind freely about hiin and the Honea Path lynching of which he approved . In two towns , Union and Dillon , citizens ' meetings have been called to repress lawlessness . And in the face of all this the Governor of the State glorifies the lynchers and promises them a pardon in advance ! How deeply the spirit of defiance of authority- has - seized upon Pennsylvania is shown by the refusal of the Catlin Committee to give up its Philadelphia investigation at Senator Penrose 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promised housecleaning is not wholly clear . He argues that the election of Blankenburg makes it unnecessary , and that , in addition , " the well " from which funds were obtained to carry on the work is now dry . But Senator Catlin seems to feel that an attempt has been made to use the commission as a political tool , the taxpayers ' committee declares that it has important evidence to present , and , as for the money needed , the committee offers to pay its own expenses . Attorney-General Bell , however , adds his dissent to those of the man whom he still evidently regards as his real chief ? Senator Penrose . The committee , nevertheless , is issuing subpoenas for councilmen and prominent corporation officers as if it really had been created to accomplish something more than the temporary awing of Pen-rose 's political foes . The one man tentatively accepted for the McNamara jury , on Wednesday of last week , is described as a farmer of English birth who expressed great respect for institutions and laws . His examination was of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a peremptory challenge or not , the incident is the bright spot in the case One can imagine the relief with which judge , counsel , prisoner , court officers , and spectators alike must have heard his avowal . Scores of talesmen have professed admiration for labor unions or capitalistic enterprise , or doubt concerning the desirability of the death Penalty or circumstantial evidence , but it has been left for an English-born farmer to confess esteem for the whole system of law under which capital and labor exist . The Harvard Alumni Bulletin declares that football injuries this season " have been more serious than in any other year since the rules were revised ; this statement applies not only to Cambridge , but also to New Haven and other places where football is played . " There is , it insists , no satisfactory explanation for the increase in the hospital list . " It may be merely luck . " But the ill-luck was very plain in the Princeton game , where the Harvardteam was literally smashed up . Its best player , probably the best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the shoulder . Two quarterbacks were disabled , one by a kick in the head which temporarily deranged him . As another quarterback had previously had his leg broken , the fourth quarterback in order of merit finished the game , Naturally , people ask what kind of game this is in which physical injuries in one contest can wreck a team 's chances . The Harvard eleven has not played together since the Princeton game two weeks ago . All of this recalls President Eliot 's parting fling at the game , as he sailed for Europe , that it is " worse than pugilism . " At West Point there is a growing belief that the game injures seriously too many valuable men . Among the spectators there is a very common feeling that the matches are less interesting than ever , despite the forward pass and the increased kicking . Yale has proved that indifference to the higher intellectual values can no longer be charged against the American undergraduate . When college men riot in the theatre , it means that the drama among us has ceased to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life . At one stroke , Yale has undone the mischief built up by generations of tired business men , and given notice to the world that the playgoer will no longer meekly accept what the managers have decided is good for him . Like the first night of " Hernani , " Saturday night in New Haven marked an epoch . The extraordinary popular appeal exercised by the theatre was never completely demonstrated until two lines of fire hose had to be trained upon an audience to persuade it to go home after the final curtain . A writer in the Southern Workman reports that the total number of reindeer in Arctic Alaska is now nearly 23 , - 000 , a remarkable showing when one remembers how short a time has elapsed since the Government established the first herds in that territory . Not only is the reindeer of enormous value for transportation purposes  --  the superintendent of the service travelled last winter more than 2,500 miles with a reindeer sled over the frozen tundra and icebound rivers of the lower Bering Sea region  --  but the natives are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This amounted to more than $18,000 for the last fiscal year , a figure which does not , of course , include the value of the skins used for clothing or the meat used as food . The reindeer are distributed among twenty-eight stations , eighteen owned by the Government and ten by church missions , and the Government 's herders are compelled to serve as apprentices for five years before they can qualify to take care of the herds or to set up for themselves . The Government does not sell any of its animals , but loans one hundred at a time for the same period of five years , when the one hundred must be returned and the mission or native borrower keeps the surplus The arrest of Gen. Bernardo Reyes on the charge of conspiring against the Madero Government will work both for and against the maintenance of peace in Mexico . To the extent that it advertises to the world the existence of serious danger on the northern frontier of the republic , the action of our Government will be seized upon with satisfaction by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the enforced removal of Reyes from the scene of possible conflict should go far toward giving a quietus to the insurrectionary movement in the north . To attempt a parallel between the role Reyes has endeavored to play and the role Madero played not very long ago , is ridiculous . Madero 's uprising was unmistakably a national movement against a system that had been on trial for almost fifty years and had been found wanting The new regime has manifestly had no opportunity to show what it can do , and any uprising against it must be regarded as factious . For a " man on horseback " and the supposed idol of the masses , Gen. Reyes has cut an extremely sorry figure throughout the disturbed conditions of the last two years . Looked upon at one time as the man to make headway against Diaz , he showed neither courage nor resolution , and as a result , as events proved , missed a great prize . When another man had demonstrated that the nation was tired of Diaz and stood designated as his successor , Gen. Reyes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that peaceful means have failed , this man , who was once regarded as the " moderate " man whom Mexico needed , does not hesitate to plot insurrection and civil war . From Washington it is reported that the arrival of a new Russian Ambassador at the capital will be followed by the active resumption of negotiations concerning the treaty of 1832 between the two countries , with special reference to the passport question . Russia 's discrimination against American citizens of the Jewish faith has long ceased to be a matter that . affects the interests of only one section of our population . From President Taft down , it has been generally recognized that the refusal of the Czar 's Government to honor an American passport in the hands of a Jewish-born American citizen bears directly against the dignity and prestige of our Government and against the spirit of our treaty relations . For years the State Department has been engaged in pourpariers with the Russian authorities without any visible result . Hence it is to be hoped that the reported renewal of negotiations will show something less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an earnest desire to bring the matter to an issue . The State Department 's regard for Russian susceptibilities would be justified only by evidence of a desire on the part of the Russian Government to deal manfully with the problem . An interesting sidelight is thrown on the succession of Mr. Bonar Law to the leadership of the Conservative party by a speech which he made at a party gathering in York , only two days before Mr. Balfour 's sudden announcement of his own retirement . Mr. Law 's speech was a striking personal tribute to the distinguished leader against whom so much criticism and complaint had recently been directed , and a reminder of the remarkable qualities which Mr. Balfour has exhibited during a long and difficult political career . Attention was called to his double achievement as Secretary for Ireland , which certainly deserves Mr. Law 's encomium : With a courage which never faltered , - with a steadiness which never flagged , he Put down anarchy and asserted the supremacy of the law . But that was not all . Even then , when he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sagacity to see that force , as John Bright said , is no remedy , and he had the statesmanship to begin that course of improvement in her social conditions which has made a new Ireland . But , far from permitting this to have the character of an apology for defects . in Mr. Balfour 's later record , Mr. Law protested that his admiration of the strength and courage of his leader was never so great as " in the hour when his fortunes and those of his party were at their lowest ebb . " Whether or not Mr. Law had any inkling of the coming withdrawal of Mr. Balfour , this ardent expression of admiration and loyalty indicates that his succession to the leadership was calculated to promote good feeling among those by whom the murmurings against Mr. Balfour were most resented . Britain 's comic , excitement at realizing how near she was to war with Germany two months ago is another illustration of how people will awaken with a tremendous shook to something they have known all the time . It is like Wall Street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been anticipated by every one in Wall Street . Several British M.P . ' s have been discussing the momentous fact that last September the Admiralty was awaiting an attack by the German fleet , and that it was quite unprepared for such an attack . Of this revelation the really interesting part , relating to England 's unpreparedness , is generally declared to be quite untrue . So there remains the startling disclosure that the British Admiralty took into consideration the posSibility of a conflict with Germany . Birt inasmuch as the Admiralty 's business is precisely to give its attention . to such a possibility , this latest bit of news is almost as astonishing as if we were told that the French General Staff had all its plans worked out for an offensive or defensive campaign against Germany . When the British Government delegated Mr. Lloyd George to address a solemn warning - to Germany , it is reasonable to suppose that the heavy guns on the Dreadnoughts were not dismantled and that the crews were not all sent away on shore leave . Scarcely had France 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of final settlement when the French press began a campaign against Spain in. reference to the same subject The alleged Spanish " pretensions " to Larache have been angrily commented upon , and are said to have really caused the whole trouble . This is rather coolly and absurdly to ignore the evidence that what suddenly roused Germany to activity was the march of French troops to Fez . Irrespectively of that , it can hardly be denied that Spain has good warrant under the Algeciras agreement for all that she has thus far done or attempted in Morocco . What the French newspapers apparently fear is that the Spanish Government is entering into negotiations with Germany for the alienation of Spain 's territorial holdings in Africa . This has been- specifically denied by Prime Minister Canalejas . All this will tend to confirm the opinion that another international conference on Morocco will be necessary . Within a short time Parliamentary government in Germany has made two important strides toward what can no longer be described as a far-off event  --  the acceptance of the responsibility of the Emperor 's Ministers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indignation aroused by the Kaiser 's famous " calculated indiscretion " of two years ago , the principle has been conceded that henceforth the Emperor , in pronouncing on grave matters of public policy , must speak only through the mouth of his Chancellor . Recently the Imperial Government expressed its adhesion to a bill brought forward in the Reichstag , providing that treaties involving a change in the boundaries of a German colony must receive the assent of the Reichstag and the Bundesrath . The late agreement with France concerning Morocco and the Congo is excepted specifically on the en post facto principle . It is not quite correct to speak of the new statute as involving a curtailment of the Kaiser 's power . The Imperial Constitution declares that the consent of the Reichstag is necessary in the case of treaties involving alterations in the territory of the Empire . To have argued that a colony was not a part of the Empire would have been a quibble . Furthermore , the German Constitution provides that treaties dependent for their execution upon measures within the competency of the Reichstag @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government could take over 150,000 square miles of territory without going to the Reichstag for appropriations to cover the cost of administration seems most irregular .                     