@@485065

THE proceedings of the British National Liberal Con- ference at Birmingham , at the end of November , were interesting not only as an indication of the severe strain under which the Coalition is now cracking ? Mr. Asquith " in subpcena tones " summoned all Liberals to cut loose from their " enslaving and enfeebling bonds " ? but also as a measure of the movement to the Left within the ranks of British liberalism . Between the Manchester School of yesterday and the liberalism of today , particularly the ManChester liberalism of today , is a startling breach of policy and principle . Even in spite of the elimination of a large part of the radical " Manchester program " and the consequent withdrawal of the Manchester delegation , the Birmingham Conference adopted resolutions demanding a tax on land values , and favoring " the acquisition of all mineral rights by the state , " as well as " an experiment in the working of such monopolies as railways , canals , and coal mines , with a view to national ownership if experience proves that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole . " In addition , the Conference reaffirmed the traditional Liberal opposition to protection , particularly as exhibited in the provisions of the budget and in the Imports and Exports Regulation bill , commonly known as the anti-dumping bill . The Government , however , has muddled through the critical days preceding the Christmas recess with little regard for Liberal or Labor disaffection . None of the important measures before the House have been disposed of . Mr. Lloyd George is desperately supporting the Conservative candidate in the Spen Valley district against Sir John Simon , the only Liberal candidate . The Government scheme for Irelandwill , according to a reported speech of the Home Secretary , Mr. Shortt , " be scoffed at by every man , woman , and child in Ireland , " but will be imposed upon the people at all costs . Altogether , both the country and the Government are facing something in the nature of a Parliamentary crisis , and if an election is sprung upon the people in the near future , no one will be surprised . /MEANWHILE , the attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the minor atrocities of the extremists of both sides in Ireland to the more lurid expressions of hatred and distrust in India . The disconcerting revelation of the massacre of last spring , when many hundreds of unarmed Indians were deliberately slaughtered by British troops at the order of British officers , has thrown the Government into further confusion . Lord Montagu , the Under Secretary of State for India , in the course of some uncomfortable moments of questioning in the House , requested a suspension of judgment pending a full official report of the occurrence , which , he promised , would not be delayed . Since the published account of the massacre came from General Dyer , the officer who ordered , witnessed , and approved the action of the troops , the ingenuity of the officials who make the promised report will be sorely taxed to find much extenuating- evidence . Whatever the outcome may be , liberals and radicals in Great Britain have been confirmed beyond the possibility of doubt in their suspicion that the Government has consistently withheld , even from Parliament itself , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Government 's whole colonial policy and its methods of colonial administration has been implanted in the minds of the people and their representatives ; the strength of the Indian Nationalist cause has been reinforced from the very ranks of the enemy ; and the Government has a new charge to face before the tribunal of public opinion . THOSE who saw in the French legislative election of November 16 only a crushing defeat of radicalism and a nation-wide endorsement of M. Clemenceau will be hard put to it to interpret the municipal elections held two weeks later . Lille , Roubaix , and Maubeuge , great industrial centres in the heart of the devastated district , elected Socialist mayors , and over a hundred communes in the invaded departments of the north returned Socialist councils . A dozen of the industrial suburbs of Paris elected Socialist mayors and municipal councillors . The Socialist vote in Paris , which on November 16 amounted to 28 per cent . of the total vote cast , rose to 35 per cent . Lyons , the second city of France , seems likely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken . Strasbourg elected 17 Socialist municipal councillors , and 19 representatives of the four opposition parties ; M. Peirotes , a Socialist , continues mayor of the Alsatian capital . Of the other Alsatian cities , Guebwiller and St. Marie-aux-Mines returned Socialist councils ; Mulhouse will be equally divided between Socialists and non-Socialists ; and Colmar has a fusion Socialist-democratic and anti-Clemenceau council . At Toulouse and Bordeaux the Socialists were defeated only by the fusion of their opponents . The fact is , of course , that the elections of November 16 were greatly misrepresented in the American press . The Socialist vote , which amounted to 1,100,000 in the legislative election of 1914 , rose to 1,720,000 ? a gain of more than 50 per cent . Anti-Socialist fusions and a complicated system of multiple constituencies reduced the party representation in the Chamber of Deputies to 60 , although on a proportional basis it should have been 160. - M PADEREWSKI , who from the first has had to face I , considerable opposition as Premier of Poland , has finally been forced to retire . The new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of parties in which only the extreme Left is unrepresented . The Paderewski Ministry , which was also non-partisan , was never able to command a clear majority in the Diet , yet its final overthrow came on an issue with which any Ministry would have been powerless to cope  --  the question of relief from the desperate food situation . Poland has suffered acutely from the general European food and fuel shortage , and conditions there , according to reports in the British press , have been rendered much worse than they would otherwise have been by the freezing of a large-part of the potato crop and the breakdown of the transportation system . The Government measures to relieve the situation were of necessity inadequate , and the economic distress , reflected in the political situation , brought about the collapse of the Ministry . This , however , was only the immediate cause of its fall . The conservative land-holding party was opposed to M. Paderewski because of his concessions to the Peasant party in the matter of agrarian reforms , while the Peasant party , which holds the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was primarily a conservative . The Socialists and other parties of the Left are opposed , of course , to any bourgeois Government . It is true that M. Paderewski had lost prestige by his failure to induce the Allies to grant the full Polish claim to Eastern Galicia , but even taking into account the imperialistic temper of the new Poland , it appears improbable that this diplomatic failure would have seriously injured M. Paderewski 's position had he been able to count upon any considerable support in the Diet . THE dignified reply of the Mexican Foreign Office to the second American note demanding the release of Mr. Jenkins will doubtless displease those Americans who hold that an American in Mexico is above the law of the land he visits . The note points out with some vigor that " the sole belief of the United States in the innocence of Jenkins is not sufficient according to Mexican laws to establish that innocence and avoid legal effects . " Whether the temper of the note will bring about that harmony between the United States and Mexico which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In spite of the repudiation by the Department of State of Senator Fall and his belligerent resolution , the Administration has shown no sign of treating Mexico like an honorable equal . Naturally , Senator Fall is aggrieved . He had every reason , as he says , to believe that the Department of State agreed in every detail with his position , and " was prepared to act decisively at once . " Senator Fall ignored , however , an important ele- ment in the situation . The Government may sever relations with Mexico , but it must do so without the aid and support of a Republican Senator ; it may desire war , but it must be the Administration 's war . Meanwhile , the fate of the Carranza Government hangs in the balance of the coming Mexican election . President Carranza himself is supporting Senor Bonillas , the Mexican Ambassador to the United States , who is running on a general liberal platform of social betterment and " the development of the resources and wealth of the country in conformity with the ideas and the ideals of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present Government is opposing the can-didacy of General Obregon , and has refused to accept the General 's retirement from the army . Whether this opposi-tion will , as has been hinted , lead to actual insurrection in the City of Mexico , is yet to be seen , but General Obregon firmly refuses to abandon his candidacy . THAT the powers that be are disposed to contribute to the prevailing hysteria regarding the activities of " red " aliens in the United States is shown both by the report of Commissioner General of Immigration Caminetti , and by the proposals of the House Committee on Immigration , of which Representative Johnson , of Washington , is chairman . Mr. Caminetti recommends that the office of Assistant Sec- retary of Labor be established , with jurisdiction over all immigration matters , that the present war regulations concerning the deportation of alien anarchists be made perma-nent , and that anarchists be regarded as criminals . The Immigration Committee repeats the above proposals , inci-dentally recommending the abolition of the office of Com-missioner General of Immigration ; and in addition urges the establishment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the creation of nationalization courts to expedite hearings and do away with the release of unde-sirables on their own recognizance . The significant point in these proposals is the shifting of emphasis in the case of the undesirable alien , whether coming or going , from an economic to a political ground . When the supervision of the alien was placed in the hands of the Department of Labor the alien was regarded principally as an economic factor , his degree of desirability from time to time depending on the condition of the labor market . Now , in spite of Commis-sioner Caminetti 's statement that during the last fiscal year only two alien anarchists were excluded and thirty-seven deported , and that , of 6,000 aliens who should be deported , " only a very small number are anarchists , " the alien ih apparently to be regarded as a menace to the Government , a dangerous and wily agitator , who approaches this country with a bomb up his sleeve and a red gleam in his eye , and hence a proper subject for the courts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and deportation laws to members of the I. W. W. and similar organizations , whether or not they preach or practice violence . Perhaps some of the numerous aliens who have expressed a desire to be deported may have read that part of a recent editorial in the New York Times which asks , " Why give any questionable new arrival the benefit of the doubt ? " NOW that 249 " Reds " are on the high seas bound for Soviet Russia , 110,000,000 Americans will , we are sure , begin to sleep in peace once more . The Administration is at one stroke freed from the Congressional charge of having been too lax in the matter of deportation , and those who believe that extremist doctrines can be exterminated by force are correspondingly gratified . At this moment it is idle to point out that the deportation of a thousand times 249 men and women would not end the spread of radical ideas . Nothing can do that but justice , fair play , and the coming of real democracy in America . And elsewhere , too , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe with the news that Bolshevism is spreading rapidly on the Continent and even in England . The Senator has at least learned something , for he has discovered that besides repression , upon which he still vigorously insists , there must also be an educational campaign . Precisely ; if the new ideas can not be shown in the public forum to be destructive and disintegrating , they will inevitably prevail and no amount of shipping out of " Reds " will help . Of course we do not mean that the United States is not justified in returning to their native countries aliens who announce a deliberate purpose of using violence to change American institutions . But any spreading of the belief that America can be safeguarded by shipping out any foreigner whose views are distasteful to an administrative official will do more harm than good . AFTER proceedings against the Chicago packers lasting several years , the Department of Justice has finally obtained the consent of the packers to retire from all business except the wholesale distribution of meat , its byproducts , and dairy goods . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Morris , and Wilson  --  will have two years in which to sell their holdings in public stockyards , in stockyard railways and terminals , in market newspapers , and in public cold storage warehouses except as necessary for handling their own products ; to disassociate themselves from the retail meat business and all " unrelated lines " ; to abandon the use of their distributing system for any but their own meat and dairy products ; and to " perpetually submit " to the jurisdiction of the United States District Court under an injunction forbidding any combination among themselves or with others , or any monopoly of food products . The disassociation of the Chicago packers from the retail grocery business may have a good effect , but Attorney General Palmer 's prediction of a material decrease in the cost of living will be accepted by the public with considerable reservations . THE choice of Dr. David P. Barrows , head of the Department of Political Science in the University of California , as president of the university in succession to Dr. Benjamin Ide Wheeler , appears to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and from the California public generally . Dr. Barrows has had a long and successful career as teacher and dean , and has just-completed a service of more than two years with the army in the Philippines and Siberia . If newspaper reports are to be believed , however , the new president has made an unfortunate start . A post of the American Legion in the northern part of the State , it appears , asked the opinion of the executive committee of that organization , at San Francisco , regarding the public presentation of German music . In reply , the executive committee sent to the local post a copy of a resolution adopted at the Minneapolis convention of the Legion , strongly opposing the performance of German music in the United States . Dr. Barrows , who holds the office of State commander of the Legion , is quoted by the San Francisco Call as saying that " any elaborate revival of German music is injudicious and poor taste at this time . " " I believe , " he is reported to have said , " that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until after peace has been signed with Germany and relations resumed with that country , and until after Germany has shown her willingness to carry out all of the terms of the peace treaty . " We do not know how " elaborate " the musical program to which the American Legion objected was , but it is pitiful to see the head of a great State university allying himself with those who want the war to go on , not against German armies or German intrigue , but against German art . THE report of the Board of Administration of North Dakota is an extraordinarily interesting example of enlightened social consciousness . The Board , consisting of two ex-officio members and three members appointed by the Governor , was formed by merging in one body the powers and duties of the former Board of Education , Board of Control , and Board of Regents ; it has control of the penal , charitable , reformatory , and educational institutions of the State , and is charged with the expenditure of 63 per cent . of the annual Legislative appropriation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sake of economy and efficiency , but more , in the language of the report , because " the Legislature was imbued with a new conception of the social character and possibilities of the so-called penal , charitable , and reformatory institutions . " These institutions , as viewed in North Dakota , are not to be regarded as means of punishment for crime or as cures for social evils , but as opportunities for general social enlightenment , and hence may properly be grouped with institutions more conventionally styled educational . It is as refreshing as it is unexpected to find that , in the opinion of the Board , too much stress is laid on administration , and not enough on scholarly ability , in the conduct of the schools . This is heresy , but of such a sort as should give educational . reformers a new lease of life . IF all the American poets took a vote as to whom they considered first among them , the modest ones would put first on their list , and the conceited ones second , the name of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them have just testified by their tribute to him on his fiftieth birthday , their master . He was always a classic . In a splay-footed age he came walking like a thoroughbred . In a brawling age he was willing to utter only clear notes . While others painted as on barns and fences he used the finest ivory ; his art has been largely that of the miniaturist . No one has known better than he how to present a likeness and a thing of beauty within the hard , bright , compact limits of the miniature . Compression , indeed , has been his forte and triumph , perhaps his danger . A good many of his poems are like nuts , which you must take the pains to crack before you can have the pleasure of tasting them . Yet if he has compressed his poems and sometimes locked them up against invaders , so has he distilled them to their essence . They have astonishingly little to show in the way of dross and dregs . Distinguished , they are also distinctive . His reticence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them all  --  a keen , sharp tang , a powerful personal rhythm , an unforgettable fusion of passion and shrewdness . If the American public neglects Mr. Robinson , it does not deserve to have men of genius ; at any rate , the poets know better .                     