@@487101

otes Mr T M. Healy 's " Stolen Waters a Page from the Conquest of Ulster , " which Longmans have in preparation , is based on unpublished manuscripts , state papers , etc , dealing with the title to two great fisheries in northern Ireland. , Sir Clements Markham 's " The Conquest of New Grenada " is announced by E P Dutton The Putnams are issuing the following Cambridge books " The Concept of Sin , " by F R Tennant , " The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Romans , " edited with introduction and notes by R. St John Parry , " The Second Epistle General of Peter and the General Epistle of Jude , " edited with introduction and notes by Montague Rhodes James , ang " Light on the Gospel from an Ancient Poet , " by Edwin A. Abbott . The Hawthorne Memorial Association has been incorporated for the purpose , in the words of its charter , " of the erection or establishment and maintenance of a memorial to Nathaniel Hawthorne in the city of Salem , Mass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ house in which Hawthorne was born On Derby Street is the old Custom House , in which he acted as surveyor On Mall Street , off the Common , is the house in which he wrote " The Scarlet Letter , " etc . The city has quite enough associations with him to warrant a general interest in the memorial which is proposed . The Association has selected as its artists Bela . L. Pratt , sculptor , and R Clipston Sturgis , architect . The expense of the memorial is not to exceed $50,000 . Those interested may get full information from Harlan P. Kelsey , secretary- , Salem , Mass , and contributions should be made out to the Hawthorne Memorial Association , addressed to Mr. Kelsey . We read in the Cambridge Review : After quite a little flutter of verse-loving fly-sheets , the changes in the Classical Tripes were carried in the Senate on Saturday by 55 to 44 ; and in 1915 and thereafter candidates will not necessarily lose anything if they do not offer Greek or Latin verse The economic evolution of Lorraine is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Geographic for November . The industrial conditions at the time of the Franco-Prussian war are compared with those of the present day , showing a remarkable.progress in these forty-two years , " through persevering work and methodic organization " On the other hand , in an article on Spanish emigration it is shown that " almost the whole of Spain is being drained of its peasantry , a grave economic condition malaise due largely to bad land ownership , heavy taxes , and the irregular climate " The other contents are geologic studies of the North Atlantic and English Channel sea-bottom , and the structure of the Titteri , one of the ranges of the Atlas Mountains The frontier region of Turkey and Servia is sketched by Maier 0 . Kreutzbruck v. Lilienfels in the military department of Petermann 's illitteztungen for November Thee four principal routes which invading armies would take are described in detail , and there is an admirable map , in which is shown the location of the various fortifications Among the other subjects treated is the temperature of the earth in its relation to the development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's " Personal Traits of Abraham Lincoln , " reference was made to her opinion that not more than a hundred of the stories attributed to Lincoln were probably genuine Mr. Anthony Gross , in " Lincoln 's Own Stories " ( Harper ) , has brought together about three times that number While the collection includes anecdotes about Lincoln , as well as stories by him , and while such inclusions as the Union letter to Greeley and the Gettysburg Address are foreign to either category , the reader who likes to begin anywhere and stop at any time will probably find the volume both entertaining and instructive . " Joseph Pennell 's Pictures of the Panama Canal " ( Lippincott ) consist of a series of lithographs made by Mr Pennell in the early months of this year , together with paragraphs of explanatory text The spirit of the work is aptly conveyed by a sentence or two from the paragraph accomanying the picture of The Guard Gate , Gatun . The scale , the immensity of the whole may be Judged by the size of the engines and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line , light , and mass , and yet those were the last things the engineers thought ( 11 . But great work is great art , and always was and will he This is the Wonder of Work . Mr. Pennell 's bock is indeed an extraordinary record of this Wonder of Work , much of which will be concealed when the canal is completed and filled with water Grace G. Montgomery has adopted a novel and very practical method , that of question and answer , in her " Auction Bridge in Ten Lessons " ( Scribner ) . The salient features in her directions for playing the game do not differ materially from those given in other handbooks on the subject , and the chief value of the present volume is in its compression and convenient size , and in its clear arrangement . It should be of considerable assistance , both to beginners and to players of moderate skill who wish to improve their game Jeannette Marks has herself felt the spell of Wales , and endeavors in " Gallant Little Wales " ( Houghton ) to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conscientiously written , and in parts instructive , yet somehow it seems to miss Just , the impression which the author evidently wished to convey There are many irritating repetitions and some anecdotes of personal experiences which , however thrilling to the subject of them , fail to intrigue the general reader , and there is a chapter devoted to Dr. Johnson 's tour of North Wales which is rather perfunctory and quite unprofitable . On the other hand , the author is able to reflect a little of the spirit which animates the Eisteddfod , and in the chapter on Hill Top Churches she skirts a field which might repay fuller exploration Perhaps it is the inevitable comparison with the absorbing Borrow , perhaps the recollection of treasured emotions of one 's own , evoked by adventures in this romantic corner of Britain . whatever it be , the present volume somehow fails to set the pulse of enthusiasm beating . Dr J. Franklin Jameson has edited , with an appreciative biographical introduction , the late Gertrude S Providence in Colonial Times " ( Houghton Mifflin ) The volume is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the part now published , with the exception of a fragmentary final chapter on old Providence houses , was left in a completed state at the author 's prematui e death in 1910 Few students knew more intimately than did Miss Kimball the early history of Providence and Rhode Island , while at the same time her previous publications , notably the " Correspondence of the Colonial Governors of Rhode Island " ( 1902-1903 ) and the " Correspondence of William Pitt " with colonial officials ( 1906 ) , kept before her a clear view of the wider historical relations of the period As a consequence the present work while exhibiting an easy familiarity with local and personal details , rarely loses sight of the general historical background , and entitles the book to a high place in the scanty list of first-rate local histories . The checkered career of Roger Williams has nowhere been traced with a better mixture of sympathy and impartiality than in Miss Kimball 's first three chapters ; and the chapter on the early shipping trade of Providence , foreshadowed in part by the author @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the town from 1787 to 1807 , published in 1896 , is a solid contribution The forty-seven full-page illustrations are intelligently chosen and notably well executed The Lost Cause and causes that are hanging in the balance are brought into juxtaposition to the little volume of Roger A. Pryor 's " Essays and Addresses " ( Neale ) The book opens with the author 's speech on the independence of the South , delivered in the House of Representatives after the election of Lincoln ; it closes with his argument in the case of the People of New York vs the North River Sugar Refining Company , described as the first effort in any court in the land to break up a Trust This was in 1890 , butprevious to the passage of the Sherman act , and the effort was successful . Between the two dates Pryor was a member of the first Confederate Congress , and , ultimately , a Justice of the Supreme Court of New York . His style has the old-fashioned leisureliness , and the two addresses mentioned are the only ones of much interest The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speech , and more dates . " New Trails in Mexico : An account of one year 's exploration in Northwestern Senora , Mex. , and southwestern Arizona , 1909-1910 " ( Scribner ) , by Carl Lumholtz , is not on the whole as interesting as the author 's previous work , entitled " Unknown Mexico , " which was published in 1902 The latter contained the record of five years ' exploration and embraced territory more than five times the size of that - shich he now deals with The method of treatment is much the same in. both books Perhaps the most valuable contributions in the present volume are the maps which cover an area hitherto little known , that of the extreme northwestern corner of Mexico The romantic early history of this country together with that now included in the present State of Arizona is only slightly touched upon . " Original documents , " the author writes in his Preface , " relating to the history of this region , are not always of easy access , and I have not had an opportunity of consulting them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York seem to have been overlooked in this connection This is one of many instances where a library , and especially this wonderful collection of Mr. Huntington 's , is not without honor in its own city . Mr Lurnholtz 's work is evidently a transcription directly from the notebook with little rearrangement of material , a fact which will often make it difficult for the specialist to separate from the mass of rather prolix description the material he is seeking , although a good index is furnished . It is to be regretted that the interesting flora and fauna were not considered by themselves w th , greater detail and accuracy , per-haps in appendices as has been done with the geology of the country ' To the general rea der the book should prove entertaining-in its description of travel in an 1.11-vatered country which is virtually unknown . Mrs John King van Rensselaer has written a book of 392 pages on " Prophetical , Educational , and Playing Cards " ( Jacobs ) , with a few chapters on chess and fortune-telling . The interest in Mrs. van Rensselaer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between cards and the ancient mysteries of Toth-Hermes-Trismegistus . Ever since Menestriei ' , in 1704 , looking through the accounts of King Charles VI , discovered that rn 1302 the Royal Treasurer had paid Jacquenin . Gringonneur " 58 sols Parisis Dour trois jeux de cartes a or et diverses couleurs de plusieurs devises , " the problem of the origin of cards has been a most intricate subject M6nestrier himself believed that they had been invented in . France Heinecken , in 1771 , and the Abbfi Rive , in 1781 , tried to prove Germany and Spam , respectively , as the original home of all cards . Then , in 1779 ( and not in " about 1785 , " as we find on page 216 of Mrs van Rensselaer 's book ) , appeared a curious work by a certain Court de Gebelin , which devoted a chapter to cards . De Gebelin , who wrote one of those general histories much in vogue in the eighteenth century , but since forgotten , tried to prove that cards were nothing but the allegorical figures which represented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not . taken very seriously . The mostvaluable contribution appeared , however , in 1784 . Johann Gottlob Brietkopf , one of the founders of the famous music-printing house of Leipzig , in his " Versuch , den Ursprung der Spielkarten , die Einfuhrung des Lemenpapiers , and den Anfang der Holzschneidekunst in Europa zu erforschen , " declared , that cards were of Eastern , probably Indian , origin , and had been imported into. , Europe at the time of the Crusades via the Saracens , Sicily , and Central Italy . The-further investigations of D'Ambly , Chatto , Lacroix , and Cicognara , but most especially those of Leber ( 1842 ) in the Archives of Viterbo , have all supported Breitkopf . Cards  --  playing cards as well as divining cards , which were adopted for their purposes by magicians and palmists as soon as the printing press and the wood cut brought them within reach of all  --  according to the best knowledge upon the subject , were first used in Northern India , and were , like the now forgotten four-handed chess , a war-game @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the people . Cards , like cooking books and children 's picture-books , are very easily destroyed . Only a few old packs are left to us . Their study is a difficult one , and full of pitfalls . It seems to us that Mrs. van Rensselaer has investigated the subject in , a most haphazard way . She accepts the theory of De Gebelin without anything more , and buries it under a mass of illassorted and heterogeneotus information . She adds a quantity of **45;1052;TOOLONG occultism We have read through the book with great care . We ' find , however , that to refute every single statement made by Mrs. van Rensselaer would take a work of at least 600 pages . We can only hope that the controversial interest which her book may call forth ' will induce a more careful investigator to give us a readable and understandable volume on this fascinating subject . The Missouri Historical Society of St Louis has just published a translation of Dr F A Wislizenus 's " A Journey to the Rocky Mountains in the Year 1839 " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were driven by the authorities to our shores , on account of participation in revolutionary movements In 1836 he established himself in St. Clair County , in Illinois , in a settlement of German refugees like himself , who , because of their superior education , were styled " Die Latemer " The young German doctor was not satisfied by the quiet life , being seized , as he writes , by an " irresistible impulse for wandering , " and at length made the journey to the Rocky Mountains This he described in a little volume , now excessively scarce , which was published in St Louis in 1840 The story of his adventures is told in a simple , straightforward way , which creates in the reader a feeling of confidence in his observations . The book is w ell printed , and is a great credit to the Society The Macmillan Company has issued a reprint of the autobiography of Bishop Henry B Whipple of Minnesota , " Lights and Shadows of a Long Episcopate , " which was first published in 1899 . It is the story @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Indian , a man of unique and fascinating personality , whose more than forty years as Bishop of Minnesota form a most creditable chapter in the history- of American religious effort The narrative of his experiences is full of in-terest , The Nation of April 25 called attention to Monsignor Ward 's excellent history . of the activities of the Roman Catholics in England in the early nineteenth century The author has just published a third and final volume of his " Eve of Catholic Emancipation " ( Longmans ) , covering the decade 1820 to 1830 At the beginning of this decade the Catholic Church in England was a house divided against itself  --  divided by personal antagonisms and political diffei.ences Little progress had been made towards political emancipation What had been done had been done mostly by Catholics in England But in 1823 Daniel O'Connell came forward in Ireland , and by his Catholic Association began to give unity to the political movement He also began to transfer the main source of Catholic political agitation from England to Ireland , where it has ever since remained By the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formed innumerable local centres for political discussion in Ireland , and in England enabled him to pay the expenses of agents and to influence the newspaper press The Association became so powerful a factor that within two years the English Government felt that safety demanded its dissolution By it , however , O'Connell had proved himself a man of originality and power in the eyes both of the English and of the Irish When he conceived the bold and novel plan of standing for election as member of Parliament from County Clare , in spite of the fact that he could not take the oath required to confirm his seat in Parliament , he was elected , as Monsignor Ward describes , with unbounded enthusiasm , by the priests and by the people By this act O'Connell forced the crisis which finally led the Govermnent to concede Catholic Emancipation Besides describing this political struggle , the author gives a good account of the restoration of the English Jesuits , of the payment of the claims for the destruction during the French Revolution of the Catholic property at DouaY , and of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decade of the nineteenth century So long as much foreign philosophical literature of real importance remains untranslated , the appearance of English versions of morks of minor consequence can not be recorded with entirely unalloyed satisfaction The collection of essays by Emile Boutroux , which F Rothwell has done into English , under the title " Historical Studies in Philosophy " ( Macmillan ) , was not a book of which the translation can be said to have been ' imperative The French original appeared fifteen years ago . Exactly half the volume consists of two reprinted ericycicipmdia articles  --  those on Aristotle and Kant , from " La Grande Encyclopedie " Of this circumstance the English publishers , unlike the French , have neglected to make mention These articles give brief biographies of the philosophers with whom they deal , and fairly clear and skilful pr  --  cis of the philosophers ' writings . But , except for a. few interesting paragraphs on Aristotle 's relation to modern thought , they contain no critical or constructive matter of consequence , and the article on Kant includes rather more than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ valuable portions of the book are those treating of Socrates and of Jacob Beelime The translator has inexplicably omitted from the English version the part of the original having a special interest for English readers  --  an historical discourse on the influence of Scottish upon French philosophy The translation has the sole merit or being tolerably idiomatic ; with the French tongue and with the terminoloA7 of philosophy it betrays no very intimate acquaintance Elementary blunders are numerous  --  such as the conversion of the caterpillar ( chenille ) into " a snail " ; the translation of l'eneyclopedie phi , losophique ( used as the name of a philosophical discipline ) by " philosophical Encyclopedism " , and of droll invariably by " right " The most amusing instance of this last error is the undesigned irony of the sentence ' " Kant regards penal right as based , not on utility , but on reward He defends the death penalty against the sentimentality of Beccaria . " Kant did not preppie to " abolish learning " in order to " find room for belie2 " , he merely proposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ super-sensible ) . To say that Kant 's " Critique " is en des muniments de l'esprit liumaim is not to say that it is " one of the pillars of human thought " On p. 164 the sense of an entire passage is reversed by the substitution of " impossible " for " possible " The volume is admirably printed , and is furnished with an index , which the French edition lacks " Letters of Ulysses S Grant " ( Putnam ) , edited by Jesse Grant Cramer , is a small collection of letters written by the General to his father and sister between the years 1857 and 1878 Their historical value is very slight One learns how the secession movement was received in Illinois around Galena , there is a hint of the " pulling and hauling " for appointments in the army at the opening of the war , and something about the carping criticism indulged in by Northern newspapers with respect to military operations . But the letters are mainly concerned with personal and family affairs . Even about the General himself they tell us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his experience as a farmer , the later something about his travels And certainly no one would read these letters for the letters ' sake Gen. Grant was not of those who , like Horace Walpole , write interesting letters even when they have nothing to say " I have nothing particular to write about , " he says rather helplessly " We are all very well . Julia contemplates visiting St Charles next Saturday " Yet , give him something tangible , and he writes well enough , with that direct simplicity , that homely phraseology , that precision and economy of words , which , in the Memoirs , won the praise of so fastidious a critic as Matthew Arnold Here , certainly , the style is the man ; and the chief , and almost the only , interest which the letters have , is in revealing that elemental simplicity of mind and heart which made Gen Grant a great man He had , in the highest degree , the common man 's common sense , his capacity for hitting the mark by instinct without resorting to logical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political opinions before , I have but one sentiment now That is , we have a government , and laws , and a flag , and they must all be sustained . " Now , if you boil down all the volumes of argument employed to sustain the Northern position , this is precisely what they come to This was exactly the position of Lincoln But what with Lincoln was a reasoned conclusion with Grant was an instinctive sentiment Whitelaw Reid , Ambassador from the United States to the Court of St James 's , died at Dorchester House , London , on Sunday He was born in Xenia , 0 , in 1837 , and in 1858 graduated from Miami University ( Oxford , 0 ) . In 1858-9 he edited the Xenia News After experience as legislative correspondent , as war correspondent , and as librarian of the House of Representatives , he became attached , in 1868 , to the editorial staff of the New York Tribune , of which paper he was editor-inchief and chief proprietor from 1872 to 1905 . In the latter year he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been Minister to France , under President Harrison Several colleges , including his own , conferred honorary degrees upon ham Princeton , Yale , Cambridge , St Andrew 's , and Manchester gave him the LL D , and from Oxford he received the D C L Mr Reid was the author of numerous publications , among them . " After the War , a Southern Tour , " " Ohio in the War , " " Schools of Journalism , " " Some Consequences of the Last Treaty of Paris , " " Our New Interests , " " Problems of Expansion , " and " How America Faced its Educational Problem " The death , at the age of seventy-nine , is reported from Cannes , France , of the Rev Thomas Augustus Jaggar , D.D , a bishop in the Episcopal Church , who in 1908 was appointed bishop in charge of American churches in Europe He was the author of the " Bohlen LeUures " for 1900 , and various essays . The Rev John Donnan Countermine , D D , a Presbyterian minister , whose death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week from Philadelphia , was the author of several books , including " The Religious Beliefs of Shakespeare , " " Joseph Addison , the Man and Author , " and " Daybreak Everywhere " Another clergyman author who died last week is Henry B Pratt , aged eighty , a graduate of the Princeton Theological Seminary . At the time of his death he was engaged on a revision of his work on the Spanish Bible for the American Bible Society Among hip other works is " The Buried Nations of the Infant Dead " Dr William Hand Browne ; writer , and for many years librarian of the Johns Hopkins University , died on Friday in Baltimore He was born in that city in 1828 , and graduated in medicine from the University of Maryland in 1850 Since 1891 he had been professor of English literature in Johns Hopkins . He was the author of " Maryland , the History of a Palatinate , " " George Calvert and Cecilius Calvert , Barons Baltimore , " and collaborated with Col R M Johnston on the " Life of Alexander @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Clarendon Dictionary of the English Language " and " Selections from the Early Scottish Poets " He also translated Von Felice 's " Greece and Rome " other works                     