@@487060

Ethnologists have a handy way of classifying mankind by the longness or shortness of the head , and in the uncertainty that has beset me as a critic I have sometimes wished that so impersonal a test might be applied to artists . Spiritually at least , I am confident that the painters of the great periods would show a startling preponderance of long heads . Your Titians , Claudes , Rubenses , Constables , Millets , Wattses , Manets seem to have been patient , well-conducted men of a considerable shrewdness and intellectuality , at peace with a bourgeois world , and quite devoid of that cultivated instability which we too much dignify by the name of the artistic temperament . In fact , until very recent times the artistic temperament seems to have been proper only to the irritable race of poets . The troubadours had it , or at least so pretended , and the whole line of despairing rhymesters finds an authentic forefather in Petrarch . A kind of short-headedness , indicating a surplus of the moonshiny qualities , was permissible and even expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as erratic geniuses . The first of this type apparently was the mercurial Leonardo da Vinci , yet he contrived to enlist wealthy patrons in his sublime vagaries with the astuteness of a new-style promoter . Mind is , after all , the ruling part of him . But let us accept him as the real transmitter of the artistic temperament , and we shall have to jump more than three centuries before we find his example generally followed . The full-fledged conception of the painter as a self-sufficing genius in a world unworthy of him is a dogma of quite recent romanticism , and , incidentally , the romantic apotheosis of the artist heralded some of the worst art the world has ever seen . Of course , a kind of roundheadedness , a state in which impulse and intellect , because both are weak , balance comfortably , has ever been the rule . But the world has probably never produced artistic roundheads so generously as about two generations ago . For a time the demand kept pace with the supply : those were the golden days of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Hudson River School . Then came sudden revolt and disgust . It became imperative for the artist to detach himself from the roundheads . Unhappily , the tradition of longheadedness had been broken . That of shortheadedness was still very much alive , and for a generation past most artistic heads of any account have been worn short . I. The reader who has had the patience to follow this phrenological metaphor will now understand the singularly iso lated position of the modern artist . Rejecting the banalities of the schools , he paints as if he were the only man in the world . The rare critic or patron who looks in on him praises this individualism . The painter is warned not to compromise ; he becomes ashamed to own a master or an influence . By single-handed effort he must not merely find what he has to express , but also die . cover for himself the immensely deli cate and complicated procedures of his art . Contrast this condition of unaided individualism with that of those old artists who at a tender age fully commanded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a general taste that they both shared and led . Surely , it is not surprising that we have so many bad artists ; that we still have any good ones at all is an eloquent testimony to the indestructible vitality of the creative impulse . I must repeat that the superiority of the old masters did not imply isolation . Their mastery of vision and execution made them better , not worse , interpreters of widely shared feelings . They got inspiration from pretty much the whole of the life about them . Only the poorer sort were specialists . What was Titian 's specialty ; or Rubens 's ? The modern painter , on the contrary , is generally a specialist in landscape . And here , I believe , his choice is often less temperamental than forced : Nature is the logical solace of the man who finds himself ill-adjusted to society , and landscape painting is in many cases rather an evasion and a retreat than a true vocation . Admitting that , a deep concern with nature is characteristic of our time , the actual production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest in the subject . Whoever doubts this wide discrepancy between the preferences of the artists and those of their natural patrons need only inquire , How many landscapes are painted ? how many sold ? Of this overproduction Eugene Fromentin justly remarked that it constituted " an extremely curious problem in political economy . " I may add in sociology . Finding himself shut off from the common concerns of his times , the landscape painter often attempts a still more radical evasion . Under the spell of bare vision and fearing to blunt the keen edge of impression with memory of any sort , the artist - sternly isolates his times of seeing and painting . By a voluntary effort , the personality is all but reduced to a succession of visual and executive states without apparent coherence . The picture becomes merely the swiftest possible record of some-:thing momentarily seen . The slightest infusion of memory will spoil the picture . If the eye or hand for a moment flag , the creative spell is hopelessly broken . The artist may , to be sure , pull himself together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supervened . Painting of this sort inevitably savors of the sketch . There is no time for details , and painters of this type often profess to see and render not objects , but an all-enveloping irradiation of light . Such , of course , is the meaning of Monet 's Haystacks and Cathedrals ; they are mere recorders of evanescent effects of illumination . In fact , the essence of impressionism lies , not in technical recipes of any sort , nor yet in subject matter , but in this endeavor to isolate and enhance the creative moment , preserving at all costs the innocence of the eye and reducing the life artistic to a series of keen but disconnected emergencies . This , I believe , has been the ideal and measurably the practice of most of the strongest artists since Edouard Manet . Lest I seem to impute unfairly this dogma of the isolated impression , let me cite a pair of witnesses . The etcher , Cadwallader Washburn , in a recent number of the Print-Oollector 's Quarterly , writes charmingly of his boyish appreciation of nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enthralled with Nature , was destined to receive impressions exceptional for the absence of affectation . Nature appealed to the impressionable boy with all her intimate charms , untrammelled by association of ideas or of preoccupation by Art and her attributes The difficulty is , Mr. Washburn continues , to maintain this ingenuous attitude . This confessional passage is confirmed by Professor Ostwald 's parting counsel in that suggestive little book " Letters to a Painter . " In words that Manet himself might have uttered , Professor Ostwald concludes . mean mixing several pictures on one canvas . His patience consists in the courage to abandon an unpromising beginning and start fresh . How consistent this attitude is appears from the fact that the need of swift and uninterrupted execution has evoked an appropriate technique  --  the much vaunted direct method . Here nothing is implied that need affright the layman . To paint directly is merely to lay colors alongside of each other and not on top of each other . The latter procedure involves waiting for the under coat to dry . Such delay is abhor . rent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the essence . Sefior Sorolla is said occasionally to let the sun go down upon one of his big canvases unfinished , but not often . The innocence of the eye , swift execution , the direct method  --  these are our modern contribution to the theory and practice of painting . What is new , however , is less the doctrine than its formulation and general acceptance . There have been many swift and ingenuous painters in the pastHals , Velasquez in certain phases , the fantastic Greco , the luminous Guardi . These precursors of the direct method are tactitly excepted from the ban that forbids traditionalism . In short , the new theory of the picture has naturally not been wholly rigid . Yet the tendency of the past generation , emphasized today by the Post-Impressionists , has been towards an individualism wholly self-sufficing and anarchical . The criticism of II . this theory involves a purely esthetic and a merely technical inquiry  --  is momentary vision esthetically the best ? Is memory the foe of the painter or his friend ? is the most satisfying art a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intention ? or is it the product of an isolated ecstatic moment ? This is the line of aesthetic approach . The technical issue is simpler : is the direct method of painting  --  the method of Zorn and Liebermann , of Sorolla and Besnard , of Wilson Steel and Childe Hassam  --  essentially adapted to modern needs of expression and superior to the historic methods now disused ? As if to answer these questions , Kenyon Cox has published the six lectures recently delivered at Chicago on the Scammon foundation - I-  For years nothing so clear and cogent on general principles of art has come under the eye of the present writer . Let me quote with occasional interpolations that definition of the classic spirit which is the arraignment of most modern painting : The Classic Spirit is the disinterested search for perfection this would seem ambiguous  --  a Post-Impressionist could sail under that device , it is the love of reasonableness and self-control the impressionist might claim these qualities for his - keen observations and swift notations , it is , above all , the love of permanence and of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transient effects and studied discontinuity . It asks of a work of art , not that it shall be novel and effective presumably , however , the Classic Spirit is not committed to the genre enaugeux , but that it shall be fine and noble . It seeks not merely to express individuality or emotion , but to express disciplined emotion and individuality restrained by law . Such doctrine is poison to the neo-romantic artist . It strives for the essential rather than the accidental , the eternal rather than the momentary  --  loves impersonality rather than personality , and feels more power in the orderly succession of the hours and the seasons than in the violence of earthquake or of storm . And it loves to steep itself in tradition . It would have each wqrk connect itself in the mind of him who sees it with all the noble and lovely works of the past , bringing them to his memory and making their beauty and charm a part of the beauty and charm before him . This eloquent credo of Mr. Cox leaves me little to do by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the picture . Memory , he insists , is at every point an enricher of art . Creatively , the work is the better the wider its associations . More surprisingly yet , Mr. Cox feels that such associations are as well a distinct aid to appreciation . Rankest heresy this . That the vision of the feeblest work of art should shut out all other impressions whatsoever is law and gospel among painters today . Why , the inevitable and clarifying analogies that come to a critic are frequently set down to lack of essential sympathy and culpable failure to keep his eye on the object . Mr. Cox 's statement will seem violently reactionary . I expect to see him mocked as a hopeless academic . That will only show how far we are sunk to-day in neo-romantic individualism . To every great artist from Giotto to Constable such assertions of the dignity of traditionalism and the need of social approval would have seemed truistic . I know that Professor Saintsbury and other critics believe that in comparatively recent times we have made the momentous , discovery of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the value of that discovery when I find any anarchical genius display the depth , richness , and range of the least of the humble giants of the past . When I do find a modern of this breadth I End an avowed traditionalist . There is Delacroix delving in the Venetians and learning daily from that Rubens who , while repelling , enthralled ; Watts sitting at the feet of Titian , Raphael , and Michelangelo ; Millet bred out of Virgil and the Bible , adorer of Poussin and Correggio ; even Manet , highest type of the individualist painter , craved recognition , and sobered his extraordinary vision in communion with Velasquez . And at home , if we especially prize the interiors of Tarbell , is it because he has tempered his irritably intense vision under the influence of such serene intirnists as Chardin and Vermedr ? Nor can I believe that the lovely spacing of Homer Martin was attained without some reflection on the designs of Claude . And carrying the theme into the field of letters , have we not all marked the waning of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that devout traditionalist Keats ? No , the individualists are of yesterday , and they have produced absolutely nothing to warrant the assumption that the relation of the artist to himself and his world has altered for the better . In fact , all visible evidence points the other way , and the fact that such evidently just and humane thinking as Mr. Cox 's should be on the defensive is merely the sign of a general waiver of social ' standards and of a particular flaccidity of wstbetic opinion . I can not leave the dogma of the work of art as the vivid expression of a momentary state without noting that it is merely a tardy echo of a famous literary fallacy . It was Edgar Allan Poe who , with customary lucidity , made the logical application of the romantic doctrine of unchecked individualism . In the admirable lecture on " The Poetic Principle " Poe maintained that there can be no such thing as a long poem since the creative impulse is brief ' in the poet , and attentive ecstasy brief in the hearer . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dictum of romantic criticism  --  had only the defect of identifying art with lyrism . Nobody will question the value of the lyrical mood , but no sensible person will follow Poe in tolerating the " Iliad , " as after all a series of rather decent short poems . Similarly , it should be possible to admire the nervous beauty of a Menet without blindness to the thoughtful and elaborate perfection of , Puvis 's Wood of the Muses or Raphael 's School of Athens . Moreover , if any comparison is to be made between the lyric and the epic perfection , the epic will appear more admirable as more broadly human , more various in appeal , and far rarer in occurrence . It was the enormities perpetrated in the name of the epic that exasperated Poe , and , concededly , lyrical failure is less appalling . But this obvious advantage that lyrism shares with all less ambitious emprises is more than offset by the ' fact that the epic manqu6 rarely fools anybody , whereas many of us spend our entire lives in a condition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope I have not seemed wholly to condemn the ' current fashion of vivid isolated vision . On the contrary , I regard it as the beginning of artistic righteousness . I see , too  --  and here I could wish a more sympathetic attitude in Mr. Cox  --  that the recent fetishism of the retina was a quite natural and necessary reaction from a pitiful pensation that had , virtually forgotten how to see . But I am also Convinced that impressionism in the broader sense is a juvenile phase  --  a means not an end , and that a really adult painter will regard the hard won innocence of the eye merely as one indispensable item in a comprehensive human equipment . There is no reason why the present neo-romantic individualism should not become a disciplinary stage to a genuine and idiomatically modern classicism . But before this ascent is effected , there must be much unstiffening of anarchical dogma , all the more stubbornly because unconsciously held . Establish the spirit and it will readily find its own methods . Indeed , the present direct and opaque method @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing more to express than what may be quickly seen and brusquely asserted . At all periods of oil painting , the direct method has been used for sketches . It is only of late that what are in conception and execution sketches have been offered as definitive works of art . On this whole matter of technique , Mr. Cox has an instructive chapter in which he analyzes the methods of Titian , Rubens , and Paolo Veronese . That we should return to some form of monochrome underpainting with transparent glazes above is his conclusion . It is noteworthy that Professor Ostwald , who approaches the question from the point of view of optics and maximum color effect , agrees with Mr. Cox that the finest qualities of oil painting imply building ' up with transparent colors upon a proper preparation . And , as if to confirm the view , the accomplished painter-critic , Roger E. Fry , has recently advocated tempera as more fitted than oils to the brittle method by which reflected light is now usually rendered . Actual experiment in England , Bavaria , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ professional mysteries , a layman must enter cautiously . I can not agree with Mr. Cox that the direct method is in itself flimsier than the double painting he advocates . In all of art , I can think of no painting more tonically satisfying as to mass and place than that of Menet . And I doubt if any weakling in the direct method would develop strength by adopting the perfect formula of Veronese . My eye agrees with Mr. Cox 's in feeling much of modern landscape painting bleak and chalky in effect . The restlessness of the method is undeniable . I take something less than complete pleasure in such able work as that of Ernest Lawson , surely one of the most skilful , devotees of impressionistic vision and the direct method  --  it is because I think he scores too many points in a picture and asserts trifles too brusquely . Here , - too , the method may not be at fault . Mo-net 's London pictures and lily pools are of serenest charm , though directly painted . Still , on the whole , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two stages . That would force delay , and at least open the possibility of reflection . It would revive certain lost beauties of transparent color , make for suavity , and offset the tendency towards strident assertiveness . That our few really imaginative painters have declined to live by the shibboleth of directness is significant . Albert Ryder , A. B. Davies , Brush , have experimented widely , and often build up the color , with the gradualness of a lacquer technique . Alden Weir shows in his latest and best work an interesting dualism . His landscapes , I believe , are directly painted ; his figures show an elaborate interweaving and overlaying of color that can not be described as a direct process . Cottet , as his art has broadened , shows a similar development . In short , the experimental period dominated by Manet and Monet is likely to end in more subtle and traditional ways of achieving the glow of broken color and procuring effects of specific illumination . The desire for a more complicated and thoughtful beauty will send men back to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Delacroix , Millet . And these examples sufficiently prove that an intelligent traditionalism is often the shortest road to artistic self-realization . IV . This essay would be incomplete without a word on the newest development in Paris , where a stale art is being violently rejuvenated . The Post-Impressionists have carried the current dogma of esthetic anarchy a point further , and thus have attained a logicality at once complete and absurd . Already art had been reduced to a vividly quick transaction between the individual soul and nature . Now nature is abolished and the soul communes spasmodically with itself . Color , for Matisse and his disciples , is no longer representative of anything in nature , but is an immediate symbolic expression of an inner emotion . Beyond this , the Post-Impressionists seek utmost simplicity and continuity of contour . They realize with Stendhal that the spectator has " only a certain quantity of attention , " and they grasp at that modicum with resolute vehemence . Literalism of whatever sort is their abhorrence . Knowing this work only in fragmentary examples , I am loath @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement . Matisse , whose more ambitious things strike me as so many gravely compiled puerilities , seems to me also a powerful and original draughtsman . I think he will so impress any person who is content to judge the work without prejudice : by its feeling . Gauguin , though pitifully uneven , had decorative moments of rare primitiveness and effectiveness . C ? zanne , who hardly is of the group , in his grasp of mass and saturation of color had objective and undeniable merits of a high order . Yet , broadly speaking , the movement seems to me based on false and confused axioms and to have produced no works of art worthy of the accruing critical pother . The theory of immediate personal expression in unnatural color seems to be based on false analogies . A seraph is red , or a Tibetan love-god , for a sound ecclesiastical reason . The convention is social . Of Conventions improvised in the void of isolated personality I am distrustful . Such symbolism partakes of caprice . It is at best mildly clever , like Arthur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And Post-Impressionism is not even constant to its own solipsism . It substitutes for the anti-traditionalism of the true impressionists a cult of barbaric simplicity . The outlines of neolithic cave-man , the paintings of the African Bushmen  --  these are the latterday Grecian examples . This cult of the primitive is , as Prof. Irving Babbitt has interestingly noted iik " The New LaokoOn , " one of the plainest stigmata of romantic hypertrophy of the ego . In its disgust with prevailing cheap naturalism I thoroughly sympathize with the new movement ; I conceive it may revive some simpler and more energetic forms , but I fail to see in it any large hope . The ailment of modern art is isolation from the choicer social forces , and a consequent overvaluation of the mere idiosyncrasy of the artist . There have been good and promise in the impressionist movement only because the artist , though eschewing social discipline and support , yet has had the restraint of a fanatical fealty to certain natural appearances . This single remaining external discipline Post-Impressionism , , seeks to abolish . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of whatevbr sort is not a more exclusive self-consciousness , but a generous conformity to the best feelings of our fellow-men. ? As Fromentin , surveying the art of France , nearly fifty years ago , wrote : " We must hope for a kind of miraculous purification in the atmosphere of society or in the air of studios . " And possibly the studios must take the initiative , for while our society is merely ignorant and without standards , our artists , the average and the extreme alike , are largely committed to standards either partial or palpably false . FRANK JEWETT MATHER , JR . Princeton , N. J. " Meissonier " and " Puvis de Chavannes " will soon be added by Stokes to the Masterpieces in Color series . " Memoirs of the Life and Works of JeanAntoine Houdon , " by Charles Henry Hart and Edward Biddle , will be brought out shortly by the De Vinne Press of New York on hand-made paper with plates . Two hundred and fifty numbered copies will be printed at a subscription price of $15 net  --  after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Great Engravers series , edited by A. M. Hind ( Stokes ) , is a squarish book neatly bound in cartridge boards and containing seventy-five good process facsimiles . Of these something more than a third are of woodcuts . A brief chronological note gives the main factS of Diirer 's life . This attractive little album is equally , eligible for the table of the amateur or the shelves of the young student . The monument which Jacob Epstein is making for the tomb of Oscar Wilde will be erected next spring at Pere . Lachaise . Thomas Ball , the sculptor , died on Monday . He outlived all the American sculptors who attained prominence in the last half of the nineteenth century , and reached a greater age than any of his contemporaries . He was born in Charlestown , Mass. , in 1819 , and was the son of Thomas Ball , a house and sign painter . Mr. Ball first turned his attention to painting , and in 1851 took up sculpture , his earliest work in that line being a bust of Jenny @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Florence , being a member of the colony that included the Brownings and Hiram - Powers . He then returned to this country , and in 1898 took up his residence in Montclair , living in a beautiful Italian villa . Mr. Ball 's work a9 a sculptor is shown in many of the cities of the United States , the most notable examples being the equestrian statue of Washington in the Public Gardens at Boston , the Lincoln emancipation group in Washington , a statue of Gov . Andrew at the ' State House in Boston , a statue of Dantel Webster in Central Park , a statue of Edwin Forrest as Coriolanus in the Actors ' Home , Philadelphia , a statue of Josiah Quincy in front of the City Hall at Boston , a statue of Charles Sumner in the Public Gardens at Boston , and a large figure of Washington in Methuen , Mass . Mr. Ball completed in 1905 a work of art on which he had been laboring for fifty-two yea.rs  --  a painting entitled " Christ in the House of Martha and Mary . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to abandon painting for sculpture . The picture now hangs in the Couper home , as does a painting of Mr. Ball 's mother . The sculptor wrote an autobiography , " My Threescore Years and Ten , " which was his chief essay in the literary field , although he was the author of several lyrics and minor poems . The death is reported from London of Adolph Grose , the sculptor and etcher . He was born at Dijon , France , in 1837 , but went to England and became a British subject . For his paintings , Stoning of St. Stephen and Amende Honorable , he won medals at the Salon in 1867 and 1868 , respectively . Tony-Robert Fleury is dead in Paris ; he 1.1 as once president of the Societe des Artistes Francais . Prof. Hugo von Tschudi , the director of the Bavarian National Galleries at Munich , is dead at Cannstadt , aged sixty . Until 1909 he was director of the National Gallery at Berlin . Among his numerous writings is a life of Mendel.       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     