@@430612

Since Aristotle 's day , at least , men have diligently searched for a key with which to let themselves into the inner life of their fellows ; and no subject of study seems to have been so fascinating and at the same time so elusive as this one . The ancients sought to solve the great mystery by comparing the features of man with those of animals , on the principle that likeness in features denoted similarity in  | intellectual and temperamental traits . They assumed , for instance , that a man with a leonine brow must have a lion 's characteristics , while a man with a canine brow must have the traits of a dog . This mode of approach to the secrets of character has been the favorite one , though not the only one , all the way down to our own day . Mr. Fosbrooke 's " Character Reading through Analysis of the Features " is based in part on this conception , and in part on the doctrine that a particular formation of features denotes a special sort of intellect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depend entirely on analysis of the features in a strictly anatomical sense . At times he bases his " reading " on the expression of the features , rather than on their form , size , and relation . The frontispiece is a picture of a woman , and bears the title , " Concentration . " It is evident that the author intended the reader to get the idea of concentration from the expression of the woman 's face , ? the lines of strain in the brow and about the eye , ? and from the attitude of her body ; and not from the size and shape of her nose , ears , or chin , the color of her eyes and hair , the construction of her lips , or any other anatomical characteristic . The sketches for the various types of each feature are unusually good . The impression which a hasty turning of the leaves makes upon one is that there will be some interesting secrets revealed in this book , and that students of human nature will get suggestions from it which they can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be disappointed when he comes upon Plate I. , for this is a reproduction of the conventional phrenological chart in which all the varied faculties of the soul are localized in the left hemisphere of the brain . What the right hemisphere is used for is a mystery about as profound as the other mysteries discussed in the book . A dozen or so of the faculties , such as " language , " " form , " " size , " " weight , " " color , " " order , " and " calculation , " are located over the left frontal sinus and below the left eye . The author says that the " bump " theory in character-reading was exploded years ago ; and yet he endorses this phrenological chart , and relies upon it in his analysis of concrete eases in the latter part of the book . It seems extraordinary that in the light of modern research on the brain anyone should locate " ideality , " " sublimity , " " hope , " " spirituality , " " veneration , " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left hemisphere . It has been shown literally hundreds of times that this is the general motor region which regulates the movements of the dextral half of the body . If one should be injured in the left hemisphere where the chart localizes " spirituality , " he would be paralyzed in the right leg . He probably would not have any more or any lass spirituality than he had before . If one should expose this area and stimulate it , the right leg of the subject would respond ; but there would be no spiritual demonstration whatever . But the most amazing feature of this phrenological chart is the location of the language faculty underneath the left eye . Modern research has shown that the vocal language centre is in the middle motor region of the left hemisphere . The visual language centre is in the occipital lobe . The graphic language centre is differentiated out of the general right-hand centre in the left hemisphere , and the auditory language centre is in the auditory region of the brain . How anyone in these times can continue to befuddle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examination of the topography of the region below the left eye is inconceivable . There are many conflicting statements in the book , ? although no more than in any book which attempts to delineate character on a physiognomical basis . One may read that a certain face shows in the forehead " reflective and perceptive formation , ability to reason from cause to effect , good comparative powers , natural knowledge of human nature , construefive and executive ability , reverence , firmness , and a love of approbation , a desire to learn , power of judgment as to size and weight , mental order well developed resulting in a good memory . Eyebrows show indications of irritability , the eye shows observation , penetration , and intellect . Upper eyelids show selfishness , self will , and self satisfaction . " What little progress psychology has made in trying to differentiate the characteristics and powers of individuals has led to the view that the strongly reflective type of person , one who has marked ability in reasoning from cause to effect , is likely to be lacking in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to show that there are as many kinds of memory as there are kinds of perceptions and ideas , and to say that the forehead shows that one has a good memory is indeed humorous . Often in this book one reads that the forehead shows lack of concentration , while the nose shows just the opposite , the lips something else , and the chin still something different . What kind of a theory of mind can a person have who believes that mental characteristics are revealed in anatomical traits , when different traits suggest diametrically opposite abilities ?  | If thosa who are engaged in an attempt to develop a science of character-reading would take their cue from Darwin , they might in time give us something which would be of service ; but when they base their " readings " upon phrenology and physiognomy , they are certain to lead their followers into blind alleys . Darwin showed that the fundamental emotions are revealed in characteristic muscular movements and adaptations of the body as a whole , and of the more mobile parts of the face , hands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the struggle for existence , and they have persisted even down through human life in more or less modified and complicated forms . Darwin also showed that certain of the very general intellectual traits , such as attentiveness and concentration , are revealed in specific muscular adaptations ; and the frontispiece in Mr. Fosbrooke 's volume illustrates this very well . But no man has ever shown any connection whatever between the expression of the eyes , the lips , etc. , and particular types of thinking , as in physics , chemistry , psychology , philosophy , history , etc . And still there are many persons who imagine that every intellectual activity is revealed in some kind of characteristic tension or adaptation of some or all of the features . A large proportion of American people have apparently not yet grown out of their superstitious feeling about the reading of character . They still think that someone has discovered the connection between every " attribute of the soul " and the construction and expression of the features . Superstitious people of this sort read the analyses of features @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in which a great multitude of the most general activities , abilities , and attributes are enumerated ; and they will feel that they are in the presence of a great revelation of subtle truth , when they are really only being plunged deeper and deeper into confusion . The author is probably not under as great an illusion as his readers will be , for in his chapters on " How to Read Faces " and " The Knowledge of Physiognomy and Its Uses " he does not make a definite statement applying his own principles , though he does this for the concrete types presented in the last chapters of the book . But how can anyone test the accuracy of his analyses when they concern only imaginary persons designed by the artist ? It may be added that the artist has done his work admirably , and that the book is attractively made on the physical side .  |                     