@@486336

The central fact in the Congressional situation is expressed in the phrase " nearly a hundred Congressional districts still in doubt . " It is , therefore , entirely possible that , regardless of the outcome of the Presidential contest , the Democrats will retain both houses of Congress . Both parties have had gains and losses in the House of Representatives . The Republicans have picked up nearly a score of districts now represented by Democrats . In the East they have gained seats in Maine , Maryland , New Jersey , and New York , and in the West they have had successes in Illinois , Iowa , Kansas , Wisconsin , and Oklahoma . New York has tried to make a slight compensation for her decided Republican leanings on the Presidency by giving the Democrats a seat or two from those now held by their opponents , and even . Pennsylvania has been kind enough to give them one district , while North Carolina follows her custom by defeating the one Republican she occasionally sends to Washington , and Connecticut , Ohio , and New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result of these gains and losses is to cut the present Democratic majority of 23 in two . The Republicans have been rather modest in their claims of carrying the House , and the outcome indicated by the figures named would not be very surprising . The numerous doubtful districts , however , may greatly increase the Democratic majority thus indicated . The situation in the Senate was also not unforeseen in its general outlines . It was recognized that the Republicans could win there only by obtaining a substantial victory in the Electoral College . Yet there are surprises in particular States . That Ohio would give the Republicans a gain of a Senator was counted upon , but Maryland adds to the unexpected features of the election by also replacing a Democrat by a Republican . One is not especially astonished at Indiana 's apparent substitution of two Republicans for two Democrats , but how the party of the late Senator Aldrich is taken aback by the action of Rhode Island in electing Senator Lippitt to stay at home ! This is what comes of popular election of Senators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Utah 's surprise in exchanging a Democrat for Senator Sutherland . Few of the President 's friends will mourn Martine 's fate in the President 's own State . Altogether , the Senatorial elections promise to reduce the Democratic majority from 16 to 4 . Mr. Hughes has carried the State of New York by a big majority ; but Mr. Whitman has a bigger majority for the Governorship , and Mr. Calder has a very much bigger majority for the Senatorship . Gott strafe Wilson does n't seem to have counted for much in the great State of New York , or in the great city of New York , the home of the Staats-Zeitung , the Herold , the Fatherland , and the American Truth Society . Of Wisconsin , we were told in a dispatch on Wednesday that " Hughes is running nearly 30 , - 000 ahead in the State , but Milwaukee will give to Wilson about 7,000 , indicating that the much-talked-of German-American vote for Hughes did not materialize . " Hamilton County , Ohio , with the big German-American centre , Cincinnati , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it by 18 , - 000 , and in 1904 Roosevelt piled up in that county a plurality of more than 40,000 . And throughout the country the President showed up far stronger than his party . In spite of all this , it would be foolish to deny that a good many American citizens of German birth or extraction voted for Hughes to show their dislike for Wilson ; but instead of the deafening rush of an avalanche which the professional German-Americans have been leading some timid souls to fear , the sound is one that it almost requires a microphone to detect . The German-American vote is one of a dozen elements  --  the Catholic vote , the woman vote , the Jewish vote , and what not ? which enter more or less as real factors in the result , but of which , after all , far the greater part is cast upon considerations which are quite independent of the peculiar interests or prejudices of the class in question . But , comparatively small as is the part that has been played by the so-called German-American vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the campaign was permitted to be such as it was . This would have been completely averted if Mr. Hughes had , at the very outset of his campaign , done what he easily might have done to bring about that result . He need not have said a word to hamper his freedom in the event of election ; without doing this at all , he could have made it unmistakably clear that he desired no votes cast for him upon the expectation that his policy would be more favorable to Germany than President Wilson 's had been . Having thus , so far as In him lay , washed his hands of the German-American alliance , he could have afforded to give no further attention to the matter . As it was , he carried the burden of that alleged alliance about his neck throughout the campaign . The depressing effect of this circumstance upon the whole of his canvass can hardly be overestimated . How many votes it may have directly turned against him , there is no way of estimating ; but far more serious was its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole probably the most important part , of that general impression of emptiness and impotence which was produced by his whole campaign , except that part which related to the Eight-Hour-law episode . As a matter of electoral power , the German-American vote was no great affair ; as a test of character and judgment , no limit can safely be set to the influence it exercised . So far as the State results in New York are concerned , the great surprise is the remarkable run made by Mr Calder . Just why he should have led the field as he did is not clear , unless it is the fact that Mr. McCombs 's physical inability to campaign and his total lack of any real message of themselves gave Mr. Calder a walk-over . Aside from this it shows the results of three years of active campaigning and the loyalty of the Republican machine to one of its own . Gov . Whitman is , of course , entitled to make the most of his great victory , all the more so in view of the narrow margins by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his column . To run well ahead of the Presidential candidate can , however , not be as great a cause for pride as if Mr. Hughes had made a popular appeal . As for Mr. Seabury , he made a plucky fight , running in some places ahead of Mr. Wilson , in others behind . This will hardly disappoint him seriously , for he has three times been elected a judge after having first been defeated for that office . If he runs true to form once more , he will be renominated and elected in 1918 . His greatest handicap was that the farmers knew so little about him , but had he been better known , he would hardly have won , in view of Tammany 's treachery and the general drift to Hughes . Finally , it is interesting to note that in a number of small towns like Auburn , Hornell , and Rome , there was a marked drift to Wilson ; but the greatest Republican strongholds , like Rochester , did the trick , together with the farmers , who did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The returns on special questions within the States indicate that suffrage has made slight and prohibition notable progress . South Dakota , which once before refused women the right to vote , reports the decisive majority of 10,000 for the suffrage proposal ; while in West Virginia early returns show that the suffrage amendment has been defeated . There seems little doubt that the prohibitionists have carried Michigan , where the up-State districts voted two to one for the amendment , and Detroit may also have carried it ; in South Dakota , the very decisive majority of 25,000 is reported for it ; and in Nebraska , fairly complete returns give it a majority of 20,000 . On the other hand , as was expected , prohibition received a defeat in Missouri and in Maryland of apparently such emphatic nature that it will be difficult to raise the issue again . The addition of one more suffrage State will bring the total , including Illinois , to thirteen ; the addition of three more prohibition States will bring the total to twenty-two . The complete answer to the argument that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republican National Committee and Hughes . The moment peace is signed there will break out in Europe a fever of manufacturing such as the world has never seen . Goods to be dumped on our shores will be produced more rapidly , more cheaply , more efficiently than this country can hope even to approach , and precisely because Europe will have had the advantage of three years of war and we shall not . That is the handicap which Wilson has imposed on American industry . We shall be forced to compete with a Germany stimulated by the loss of a million dead and three million wounded . We shall be compelled to meet the challenge of French industry brought to an unparalleled pitch of efficiency by the destruction of half the French factories and the annihilation of one-third its skilled workers . Our farmers will be under the necessity of competing against the Russian wheat fields stirred into unprecedented productivity by the disappearance of four million peasants . Against Europe leaping forth to the conquest of the markets of the world in the full glow of her ravaged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and her disorganized finances , stands Defenceless America , without a single advantage in the way of casualties , invasions , exhausted capital , wasted harvests , ruined factories , and depleted shipping . Thus , by keeping us out of - war Wilson has not only destroyed the soul of the nation , to the greatagony of Mr. Roosevelt ; he has administered the death-blow to our prosperity by depriving us of the mortuary lists , widows , orphans , cripples , blinded , prematurely old , insane , ash heaps , ruins , shattered factory chimneys , torn up railways , demolished bridges , and depleted food stores , upon which alone the flourishing industrial life of a continent can be built up . No step in civil service refornI is more urgent than the inclusion of postmasters of the first , second , and third classes in the classified civil service ; and while it is in Congress that the heavy fighting must be done , the fact that President Wilson has announced himself for the measure is very encouraging . President Roosevelt was able to place 14,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mere executive rule ; President Taft was able to do the same four years later , in 1912 , with the remaining 36,000 . President Taft advocated in the latter year the inclusion of all postmasters and many other Federal officers , as collectors of customs and internal revenue , surveyors , assayers , and receivers . The Democratic Administration has been converted to this liberal view only slowly . Burleson recommended in 1914 the inclusion of third-class postmasters , in 1915 that of second-class postmasters as well , and this year will recommend the inclusion of all ? President Wilson giving his " hearty approval . " In these three classes there remain only about 9,000 Presidential appointees , but the exclusion of these important posts from the classified service is a great stumbling-block in the path of thoroughgoing improvement in the whole Department . As for the other side of the matter , President Taft has eloquently expressed the vexation of having to turn from affairs of national or international importance to consider a post-mastership from the standpoint of party and local squabbling . Better evidence of the Filipino @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon his recent return to Manila would be hard to find . His welcome was the triumphal one given the bringer of the Jones law ; to the thousands lining the streets or those banqueting him he might have spoken indiscreetly . Yet he is reported even to have put Governor-General Harrison to shame by saying , after the latter had ascribed the opposition to the law to " misinformation and intrigue , " that the American people were the best friends the Filipinos could have , and even the opponents ofthe Jones bill acted in the conviction that they were doing best for the islands . He did not predict complete withdrawal of the Americans as certain , but spoke of the alternative of an autonomy which should leave the Filipinos free except with regard to foreign affairs  --  the Filipinos themselves to make the choice . He assured the Filipinos that America would not relinquish her sovereignty while foreign aggression was possible , and that " the United States will undoubtedly have to be shown that we are prepared to maintain a stable government under all the conditions that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . financial and economic as well as political . " A speech so free from presumption , from railing at the opponents of prompt Philippine independence , from appeal to passion , should strengthen the willingness of Americans to deal fairly with the Filipinos it represents . It is refreshing to learn from the &witsZeitung; that two cities of the German Empire ? Bridgeport and New Haven  --  and indeed an entire German province , that of Connecticut , have done honor to several prominent Americans . The affair happened in this wise ( we follow the Staats-Zeitiow 's precise language ) : The German Central-Verband of Bridgeport sent yesterday the following telegram to Capt . KOnig , of the Deutschland , in New London : " The Germans of Bridgeport send you and your brave men their heartiest cong-ratulations , and hope to have the pleasure of welcoming you personally here in Bridgeport . " The Central-Verband of Connecticut will , in addition , give a banquet to Capt . Kiinig and his men at the Hotel Taft , in New Haven , and , besides Gov . Holcombe , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us hope that this handful of Americans fully appreciated the compliment , and that they did not feel too embarrassed in the presence of so many natives . On the face of the facts as now known , the sinking of the Marina , with the loss of American lives , is of serious concern to our Government . If the stories of survivors are true , the ship was torpedoed without warning . This would constitute a distinct violation of the solemn pledge made to the ' United States by the German Government . The German Embassy at Washington concedes the gravity of the occurrence , as reported , and declares that , if any German submarine commander has disregarded his orders , he will be " severely punished . " This would imply , too , that an official apology would be offered and an indemnity tendered . Meanwhile , the President and the Department of State are ordering a swift and rigid investigation . Its outcome we are bound to await ; but it is certain that , if the incident proves to be as flagrant as now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the general principle that submarines must not sink merchant ships without warning , will take appropriate - action . The views of Mr. Davison , of J. P. Morgan &; Co. , regarding the status of our loans to the Allies , are timely , because they clear up certain persistent misconceptions . He states as his " unqualified opinion " that " the unsecured Government bond of Great Britain or France , free from home income tax and payable in dollars in the United States , is just as sure to be paid as the unsecured bond of the United States , no matter how the war terminates . " We have no hesitation in saying that this is the opinion of every intelligent financier . But Mr. Davison goes still further , quoting " one of the highest authorities in Great Britain " as having said to him that " an internal obligation of the Government is a debt owed by the Government to its own people , " Vut that " an external obligation of the Government is a debt of all the people , through the Government , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an indisputable fact , though often overlooked in discussions of England 's pending loans in the United States . It means that the $500,000,000 Anglo-French loan of 1915 is substantially a first lien on the property and income of the English and French people , and that the $550,000,000 English Government loans of this present year are similarly secured by the English people 's property and income . When the people of Great Britain have willingly increased their annual taxes by no less than $1,500,000,000 , the financial status of these American loans , as regards the probability of future payment , ought to be plain enough . Mr. Davison speaks with some deprecation of the requirement this year , by our lenders , of collateral on the British Government loans . He asks how the American people would feel if the United States were at war and England were to take our war loans only on condition that they should be secured by pledge of South American government bonds . As an economic question , the parallel is fair . It is possible , however , that Mr. Davison overlooks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the plan for " collateral . " A two- or three-year loan , secured in this way , is a proper investment for American banking institutions ; there was more of a question regarding permanent investment by our banks in a five-year unsecured bond like that of 1915 . So long as our investing public generally had not accustomed itself to securities of foreign governments , this consideration was important . The mention of Servian forces as operating in the Dobrudja is another instance of the trouble to which the Allies have gone to emphasize the sentiment of unity of purpose and unity of front . The number of Serbs cooperating with the Rumanians and Russians is certainly small . The only way they could have been brought into the Dobrudja was either by ship from Corfu through the Mediterranean , the Atlantic , Archangel , and all the way across Russia , or by the still longer water route to Vladivostok and across Siberia . The transports that carried the Serbs to a Russian port had brought the Russian troops that are now operating on the Macedonian front . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fortune of war , but , as in the case of the Russian detachments in France who have been in the trenches on the front in the Champagne , it was sentiment , and not military expediency , that counted . Even Belgium has spared , out of her meagre forces , a few armored-car operators who were reported in action on the Russian front at the beginning of Brussiloff 's advance last June . On the side of the Central Powers there has been a much more practical amalgamation of forces . Germany has contributed officers to Turkey , which needed them , and has used in turn large numbers of Turks in Galicia and the Dobrudja . There was , no reason the first of this week to doubt that Gen. Mario Garcia Menocal had been reelected President of the Cuban Republic . On the face of the returns he had a fair lead , and these returns were complete except for the Province of Oriente , at the extreme eastern end of the island , which is a Conservative stronghold . There a full count was expected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at in the delay in compiling the vote , or in the claims made in behalf of Dr. Alfredo Zayas . A complicated ballot and the difficulties of communication on the one hand , and the temperament of the Liberal leader on the other , are the explanations ; and confirmation of the Liberal defeat might have been read in the offer of arbitration and the threat to force American intervention . Only the counsel of desperation could have suggested either of these measures to ex ? President Gomez , the real Boss of the Liberals , for whom their candidate for the Presidency is a mere figurehead , having been Vice-President under GOmez , and his candidate for President in 1912 . GOmez is not the kind of man to arbitrate . He acts first , and tells why afterwards  --  when it suits his convenience ; and he is perfectly aware that the idea of a third intervention is full of terror to the average Cuban , who believes that if Americans again take possession of their Government it will be a permanent occupation , and who can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as repugnant to Americans as to the Cubans themselves . To speak plainly , it is the baleful influence of Jos ? Miguel GOmez that American lovers of Cuba fear , not Dr. Zayas . In 1908 Giimez defeated Menocal for the Presidency . Both men had made enviable reputations in the War of Liberation , but Menocal was a Conservative by nature as well as by party affiliation , a representative of the aristocracy , having large industrial interests . GOMez catered to the mob , and governed on the Jacksonian theory that " to the victors belong the spoils . " Naturally , he made a record of administrative inefficiency . But a splendid palace on the Prado is a monument to his business ability in matters not of public interest . The Cuban Government is modelled as closely as possible on that of the United States , and Menocal has always been a student of American politics . Of a distinguished family , which included Aniceto Menocal , an engineer in the United States navy ; Raimundo Menocal , the surgeon , and Armando Menocal , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then at the Maryland Agricultural College , and in 1888 graduated from Cornell as a civil engineer , with the highest honors . A major-general at the end of the war , he served as chief of police in Havana under Gen. Ludlow , and later organized the Cuban Lighthouse Service . He aimed during his first term to give a clean , business-like administration of public affairs , and has been in this respect successful , although thwarted in certain plans for public improvements and economies by a Liberal coalition in Congress . He is determined to reap the fruit of these efforts for the common weal during the next four years .                     