@@485484

IT has been commonly observed that a man long in public I office develops a dual personality , an external and an internal character with a hollow space between . In the case of Roosevelt , however , the remark , or the complaint , has been made that there was no " inside . " Certainly to an extraordinary extent under myriad-eyed scrutiny he wore his heart upon his sleeve . His versatile expressiveness of tongue , pen , and hand , his passion for representing every thought by an observable act  --  if possible , by an act of Congress  --  resulted in an unusually complete externalization of his essence . " Tell him everything , " wrote Roosevelt to Bill Sewall when Mr. Hagedorn set out to get the old guide 's account of days in Maine and on the Dakota ranch . Bill Sewall and Mr. Hagedorn between them have added a footnote to Roosevelt 's own Western chapters , but they have let no biographical cat out of the bag ; and undoubtedly Roosevelt knew that there was none in the bag that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Iglehart 's bag . It contains nothing of peculiar value except his own piety , unless indeed one accepts the good clergyman 's somewhat novel interpretation of the big game hunter 's career : " Theodore Roosevelt , in accomplishing the miracles of his life-time , had a crucified and risen Savior before his eyes , whom he consulted at every step of life , who told him where to go , what to say , and what to do . " Even this does not constitute an exception to the general opinion that he was , inside and out , essentially all of a piece ; for Dr. Iglehart detects no flaw in the spotless garment of the -- Colonel 's practical Christianity . Still , as the titles indicate , most of the biographies appear to feel that there was in his intimate behavior and immediate personal effluence something fascinating and precious , almost intangible , worth recording , if one could capture it . The working of the spell Mr. Abbott happily illustrates by his story of William Barnes leaping to his feet to applaud the Carnegie Hall speech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to his arch-enemy : " Why , I was on my feet before I knew it . Roosevelt , confound him , has a kind of magnetism that you can not resist when you are in his presence . " Mr. Thayer 's name and his sub-title arouse expectation which his book , though noteworthy for other reasons , disappoints . It is not in any Boswellian sense an intimate biography . It is no such achievement of research and judgment as " The Life of Cavour . " To the facts of Roosevelt 's public or private life already in print it adds little . As a record it is less satisfactory because less complete and detailed than the earlier biography of W. D. Lewis . It is blemished by numerous gratuitous slurs at Mr. Wilson . In its concluding chapters it abandons the style of history and biography for the style of invective and venomous hypothetical prophecy . If we had broken off relations with Germany after the sinking of the Lusitania , asserts Mr. Thayer , " by the summer of 1916 , the war would have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among the Allied armies would have been saved . Russia would have been spared revolution , chaos , Bolshevism . . . . Thousands of square miles of devastated territory would not have been spoiled . A hundred millions of dollars . . . would never have been spent . All this is not an idle dream . . . . History will hold him President Wilson accountable for those millions of lives sacrificed , for the unspeakable suffering , " etc. , etc . Now it may be said very briefly that History will do nothing of the sort . What History will do is to inquire in what tumult and chaos of emotion any votary of hers permitted himself to pen those preposterous lines . History will remark that Mr. Thayer seems to have written with heat  --  with heat enough and wrath enough but quite outside that clear and equable light of the mind in which one may hope to see with some steadiness the shining outlines of truth . Perhaps History will say that under the pinch of " military necessity " she stopped her august ears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bent on a definite end and ruthless in means , permitted himself exactly that sort of indefensible diatribe ; but that to repeat and publish such stuff a year afterward is an unpardonable prolongation of the atrocities of war . In a sense of its own , then , as we have seen , Mr. Thayer 's biography is intimate . Slenderly documented , properly speaking uncritical , its special value resides in the intimate revelation of Mr. Thayer 's personal feeling about Roosevelt and Mr. Wilson in connection with an outline or sketch of Mr. Roosevelt 's career , terminating in a panegyric . This intimate revelation is composed with care and written with a vigor and distinction of style that are unfortunately to seek in most of the Roosevelt literature , which has been produced , one suspects , in the Rough Rider 's spirit with an eye single to getting there first . In addition to its style and its violent injustice  --  qualities which are always intriguing  --  it has other points of interest chief of which , for our purpose , is the indirect light that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the demonstration lies in the fact that Mr. Thayer was not much of a Rooseveltian before the late war . Roosevelt 's support of Blaine in 1884 had led Mr. Thayer and other political purists to regard him as a " lost leader . " In the period of the Spanish War he had feared that Roosevelt was a fighting cock  --  that his projects " were inspired by innate pugnacity which he could not outgrow . " He implies that he considered his handling of the Alaska Boundary dispute injudicial ; and he records having chaffed Roosevelt over the Panama affair as a " wicked conspirator. " * As late as 1912 he had never voted for a Republican presidential candidate ? " I reminded Roosevelt that I had never voted for 1 im because I did not approve of his tariff policy . " He objected to the Progressive program in general as tending to destroy representative government ; and he holds that experience has justified many of his objections . - Yet after distrusting for a life-time Roosevelt 's temperament and disapproving the characteristic features of the domestic and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the greatest of modern Democrats , and the chief interpreter of the highest ideal of American Democracy . " Obviously Mr. Thayer in the intensity of his hatred for " the atrocious and reptilian Hun " has undergone an experience like religious conversion which has upset his standards and transformed all the old values of his life . For the good that Roosevelt accomplished his biographer is willing not merely to pardon but to glorify all his transgressions . He is in a mood to canonize Robin Hood and to smile at his brigandage as the beautiful instrument of his kindness to the widow and orphan . He has , in short , embraced the peculiar ethical spirit which all the anti-Mexican jingoes and imperialists of the Republican party are now so noisily whooping up as " Americanism . " Mr. Abbott 's book is not so " dynamic , " and it contains no chapter which would be so applausively received at a Republican national convention as Mr. Thayer 's two concluding harangues entitled " Prometheus Bound " and " Prometheus Unbound . " Less burdened than Mr. Thayer with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Abbott has had a freer mind for collecting and recording the materials of a really " intimate " biography . His Roosevelt is not a revolutionary internal experience but a man objectively considered at close range and in circumstances favorable to the harvesting of original and distinctive impressions . As everyone knows , there was a time when a private staircase connected the office of The Outlook with the executive office in the White House ; there was the golden period of the contributing-editorship , an office invented by Mr. Abbott ; Mr. Abbott was the ingenious and only begetter and educer of the " Autobiography " ; Mr. Abbott was Mr. Roosevelt 's valet , secretary , courier , press-agent , baggage manager , master of the purse , and master of ceremonies on the grand tour of Europe after the hunting trip in Africa . These were-capital Boswellian opportunities ; and Mr. Abbott has employed them loyally , with good taste , modestly , and with admirable good temper . As an instance of his loyalty one may refer to the way he covers up and warns the reader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delivered in Berlin in 1910 . Without in the least describing its contents , he intimates that it was " academic , " " abstract , " inferior in style and content , and " did not particularly interest me " ! Loyalty was a virtue that Roosevelt rated very high . Mr. Abbott names what impressed him as the four great Rooseveltian characteristics , of which one was , of course , courage . The other three , far less recognizable in Roosevelt 's public life , were caution , humors and gentleness . By illustrating these his editorial colleague and travelling companion serves him well . He is particularly happy in fixing by many little strokes the image of a man with a boyish heart , joyous , laughing , and convenienter gratiosus ? " a good mixer . " " Would n't you like a cup of tea ? " says King Haakon of Norway . " By George , your Majesty , " cries the Colonel , " the very thing I should like . " At the funeral of King Edward grave diplomatic question rises between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to whether Roosevelt as special ambassador * The gentlemanly cynicism of the Cabinet is illustrated by a choice story of Mr. Abbott 's , which he bad from Roosevelt himself . When the latter asked for an endorsement of the legality of the " taking " of Panama after the act , Mr. Knox exclaimed : " Oh , Mr. President , do not let so great an achievement softer from any taint of legality I " shall wear a frock coat or evening dress . The Colonel , called into conference , instantly cuts the knot : " If the English people want me to , I 'll wear a pink coat and green-striped trousers . " A man who easily adapted himself to circumstances , rose to emergencies , and was singularly devoid of inhibiting moods and vapors , Roosevelt shone in his literary and editorial relations by his orderliness , punctuality , dependability , and readiness to take suggestions . Probably Mr. Abbott 's most important political side lights are on the break with Mr. Taft and on the famous neutrality article in The Outlook . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ haunted by a shipboard story of Admiral Dewey 's hysterical collapse and proposed migration from the country following the unpopular disposal of his Washington house . " Lawrence , " Roosevelt said at the time  --  and in the simple remark there was much of his character that his countrymen most admired ? " they may treat me like Dewey , but I 'll tell you one thing , I shall neither weep nor shall I go to Europe ! " The total effect of this collection of familiar studies is to tone down an impression of formidable and headstrong fierceness which Roosevelt 's public manners and official behavior produced upon many observers . At a semiofficial cabinet meeting to discuss one of his open letters to Mr. Bryan  --  a meeting attended by Mr. Abbott and vividly described by him ? Mr. Straus suggested the modification of a sentence as too ' severe . " No , Mr. Secretary , " said the President , " I think it should stand as it it . You must remember that this is poster , not an etching . " Roosevelt felt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why his friends can do him good service by bringing out the etchings . The " Letters to His Children , " the editing of which Mr. Roosevelt himself supervised , is a charming and invaluable addition to this familiar literature . Mr. Bishop , who writes a sympathetic introduction , reports that Roosevelt in the glow of his satisfaction with the collection said shortly before his death : " I would rather have this book published than anything that has ever been written about me . " Everyone knew before it appeared that Roosevelt was a eulogist of family life , and every one must have guessed that he was an eminently successful and happy family man . The evidence was in the eimple and hearty joyousness of his tone whenever he touched the theme . It was even more substantially embodied in the children to whom the letters were addressed , fortunate and spirited young persons who romped through the White House and grew up under the eye of the nation to give valorous justification of their father 's pride in them . The Roosevelt living-room has long been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shades of other rooms for a moment to show the President touseling the " blessed " boys at bed-time , or urging the gardener to throw a brick-bat at them if they annoy him , or frying chickens while Mrs. Roosevelt washes the dishes on a week-end outing in Virginia , or in the absence of Mrs. Roosevelt " acting as vice-mother " and reading aloud from the poetry of Scott or Macaulay , or sending to one of the boys at school a letter illustrated with drawings by the author , or advising " Ted " not to neglect study for sport and on the whole not to enter the Army or Navy ? " I believe in you too much , and have too much confidence in you . " The paternal discipline was affectionate and hardy , tempered with the great deference paid in every good American household to the opinion of " Mother , " and with a wide margin of freedom for the initiative of the youngsters . It is curious that the chief of the Rough Riders and " the greatest of modern Democrats " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ church school ; likewise , that he should have repeated the early Victorian complaint that Dickens " by no possibility could have recognized a gentleman . " In the next letter , however , the sins of Dickens against gentility are all forgiven ; for Senator Lodge gives the Colonel a fine quotation from Dickens in derision of pacifists , and this , he declares , " ought to be read before all the tomfool peace societies and anti-imperialist societies of the present day " ( 1908 ) . Occasionally there is a long and somewhat considered letter to Kermit with criticism of authors that they are reading together , or a bit of the poetry of history , or a passage commemorating some proud or rich moment in the career of the writer . But for the most part the letters appear quite unpremeditated and absolutely natural ; and it is a marvel that a President of the United States could play bear in the barn and recite the fact so simply and heartily while perfectly conscious that biographers would report his behavior to all posterity . Some of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some at Sagamore Hill and the White House , some on hunting trips in the West or at sea , some in Panama and Porto Rico ; but skilful editing has amusingly and rather delightfully reduced public personages and events to unoppressive decorations of the children 's world . Senators , admirals , and ambassadors as they flit across these pages ' bulk scarcely larger than the turtles and rabbits of the domestic menagerie , and seem hardly more important than the white-throated sparrows or the buckeyes and pink dogwood in the high beauty of April , through which " Mother and I " ? Mother always " looking very young and pretty " ? " walk . every morning . " The English-Speaking Brotherhood The English-Speaking Brotherhood and the League of Nations . By Sir Charles Walston ( Waldstein ) . Columbia University Press . IR CHARLES WALSTON has for many years been a cham- " pion in behalf of idealism in international relations . There burns in him the prophetic flame of the race from which he springs , and this flame has been nourished by a rich and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early education in the United States . At an impressionable period he lived in Germany , and he assimilated its best thought befOre Bismarck and Treitschke and Realpolitik had had time to fetter and pervert it . He then settled in England and became a lover of that land and its ways . There can be no question about the patriotism of Sir Charles . His devotion to British ideals and institutions , his faith in the general rightness of the British people , determines the color of all his political writing . He is in a position to realize better than most people the stupidity of chauvinism , and his guiding sentiment is " He loves his native country best who loves mankind the more . " His filial affection for the country of his birth has inspired his effort to bring about community of action between her and the land of his adoption . He has proclaimed the cultural and spiritual unity of the English-speaking peoples and has seen in their cooperation an important step in the realization of his dream of world-peace . His cherished ideal was to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the English-speaking brotherhood as soon as the light dawned on them . The consummation was to be in the form of a supreme international court of justice backed by an overwhelming military force . This was the view which he expressed many years before the war , the view which he repeated in his " Aristodemocracy " shortly after the otubreak of the war , the view which he reiterated in an address of the present volume , " Wilsonism and Anti-Wilsonism , " delivered just before the signing of the armistice . There he declares categorically that no security can be found in Holy or Unholy Alliances , and goes so far as to maintain that the peace of the world will never be secured by a League of Nations with a Parliament of Nations ( practically what the covenant of Versailles provides for ) whose representatives are dependent upon a mandate from the government which appoints them . He assumes that his own ideals are those which President Wilson had at heart in going to the Peace Conference and he thinks that he is holding up the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of formulating the principles of a world league in its purest and highest form and not in atemporizing spirit of compromise by the acceptance of some intermediary scheme which does not fully guarantee a lasting peace . In the light of such firmly-held views we can not but regard the publication of the present volume , after the signing of the treaty with Germany , as a sublime act of faith covering up a feeling of inner disappointment . Sir Charles has not a word to say directly in either approval or censure of the covenant and treaty , but the impression created by a repetition at this time of the lectures in which he voiced his hopes for an English-speaking union twenty years ago is that we have barely conquered the first step in the long journey before us . After expressing his distrust of all alliances as agencies for world-peace , he declares that if the discussions at Paris should result only in confirming the alliance of the states opposed to the- Central Powers ( " with the object of preventing wars in the future , " he cautiously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right direction . He is ready to accept with gratitude and as complete compensation for the sacrifices of the war an even lesser measure of solidarity in the form of a treaty between Great Britain and the United States to keep the peace mutually and to combine in enforcing it throughout the world . This , as we have remarked , is a pure expression of faith on the writer 's part . It is not a conclusion reached by weighing all the factors involved or by appraising the practical consequences of the world-settlement actually reached or about to be reached . Its only foundation is another article of faith , namely , that Britain and America stand in the forefront of civilization , " that in political , social , and economical education we stand as high as any nation , and higher than any group of nations we can imagine massed against us . " We know from experience that however true this belief may be , it is one to which a ready and willing assent can not be obtained from other peoples . And indeed Sir Charles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another war between those who are inalienably wedded to the absolute sovereignty of individual states as they now exist and those who stand for some authoritative international rule . He tries to comfort us with the promise that this war is to be very short and the very last , but there is little assurance-in his promise . The intense attachment to our own absolute sovereignty displayed by the United States Senate makes the realization of the great vision seem pathetically remote , since the United States is the chief prop of his structure . The disregard of all real and immediate factors like this removes Sir Charles 's book to the region of academic abstraction and pious wishes .                     