@@493097

RIEF as it necessarily and unfortunately is , President Wilson 's trip to England will , we hope , result in a better understanding be-tweet ' , the American and the British governments and indirectly help an agreement among the Allies in favor of a liberal and democratic peace . It is Painfully clear that in spite of the unexampled Warmth of his reception by the French government and the French people the result of the President 's a ? .10nrn in Paris has been to bring out serious dif-ferences of policy among the French , Italian and Alterican governments . One of the well informed American correspondents in Europe has described those differences as vital but not insuperable . The best chance of overcoming them depends upon the reaching of some agreement between President Wil-be and the British Cabinet . If an agreement can De reached between the maritime Powers , it will enormously improve the prospects of obtaining a teatY of peace which is built on durable founda- ? na , and which will win the loyal future allegiance ? I the American people . President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Paris . Strengthened by British cooperation , he may succeed in accomplishing some at least of his high purposes . Divided from Great Britain his chances of success look very meagre . A N agreement in relation to their own possible future differences and to maintain outlines of the treaty of peace should be possible between the American and the British governments . Lord Grey has publicly advocated an adjustment of the controversy over the " freedom of the seas " almost identical with that recently proposed in the New Republic ; and it is an adjustment which would satisfy the legitimate interests and do honor to the statesmanship of both governments . For the rest , the most serious remaining differences between the two governments turn partly on the policy with respect to Russia , partly on the kind'of assistance and relief needed by the people of Central Europe and partly on the size of the demands made on Germany for indemnification . These differences are serious , but they will be much less serious , provided an understanding can be reached as to the facts of the actual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people of Central Europe and how much they can be made to pay . In any event , the disposition of English liberals in dealing with such matters is fundamentally similar to that of Americans , and English liberal opinion will exercise a strong pressure on the government . The work of reaching an agreement will be aided by the underlying similarity between the interests and the ideals of the two nations . Alone among the warring countries , the two English-speaking governments bowed to liberal opinion by publishing their war aims , and the two programmes while by no means identical were near enough alike to make an agreement entirely possible . I N connection with the negotiations between the United States and Great Britain and the possi bility of a complete future understanding , Americans should keep in mind one fact of prime portance . Historically the relationship between Great Britain and the continent is not dissimilar to the relationship which has come into existence as a consequence of the war between America and Europe . Great Britain was always ready to take part in continental politics , whenever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not enter into any alliance with a continental power , and she always preserved a considerable independence of action . Until recently it looked as if , because of obligations assumed during the war , this partial isolation of Great Britain has come to an end , but the complete victory over Germany , the disintegration of Russia and Austria-Hungary and the aggressive policies of France , Italy and Poland restores a general condition of continental policies not dissimilar to that which resulted formerly in the partial isolation of Great Britain . If the continent becomes again a group of competitive military Powers , united chiefly for the purpose of thwarting one another 's ambitions , the British Commonwealth will instinctively draw away from the continent just as it did after the Napoleonic wars . Like the United States it can not afford to enter into a permanent political relationship with continental nations except on some basis which subordinates military to naval power but which at the same time makes naval power the instrument of organized international security and fair play . MHERE is a demand from many quarters that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , France , Italy and all other countries have their fill first , and then if anything is left over , which is improbable , let Germany have it . The argument for this course is based on the theory that the guilty and innocent should not be treated alike but that with food as with indemnities the aggressor should be punished and the victim rewarded . But what if by starving Germany , as there is danger we may do , we overthrow our own civilization ? Famine in Germany means chaos , pillage , the nonpayment of indemnities and the spreading of disorder throughout the whole of central and eastern Europe . Our main business is to restore order in the world and to give the world a chance to live , and we can not do this unless we send food to Germany . There will be less food in the world in 192o and 1921 and 1922 if by starving Germany today we add to the forces making for world dissolution . A LL the prominent Russian emigres are now in Paris or headed for that city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secure international leverage to wreak their particular wills upon Russia . Each party of emigres hopes somehow to win at least a shadowy recognition at the Peace conference . Such recognition would increase the ease of access to the propaganda funds still lying about in non-Russian capitals . But the Allied governments are not likely to fall victims to such schemes . Not one of the factions clamoring for recognition can deliver any considerable Russian influence in return for favors it may receive . The Bolsheviki appear to have more power than any other faction in Russia , and although Allied inter ' vention has greatly increased their numbers , they remain weak . The great mass of the Russian population is apparently abstaining from politics . It is just possible that if the Allied governments would also abstain from . Russian politics and at " tempt to work for the good of the Russian peoPle through the cooperative associations , whose or ganization has remained practically intact , a partY , of moderation might arise with which the Allied governments could do business . OULD it be possible through skilful proPa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support to monarchy , even such monarchy as a restoration of the Romanoffs would involve ? Apparently the American Defense Society believes that the trick can be turned . In a circular ad ' dressed to American ministers of the Gospel the chairman of the board of trustees of that organia3 " tion enjoins the preaching of sermons on December 2 9 th on the " need for some action being taken in Congress to see that Russia is given the heiP she needs . " The " help " specified in the circular , proves on closer inspection to be the supplying f Admiral Kolchak 's party with " every necessity ta enable them to drive out the Bolsheviki and restore order in the country . " If the ministers to whalli the circular is addressed have paid close atteri ' tion to the news out of . Russia , they will remember that Admiral Kolchak has already driven til moderate constitutional elements out of the " Omsk ' , government . " They will also recognize in Kola-la the Siberian adjutant of Denikin , who was an iotl " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ha ? of the Romanoffs . The American Defense SocietY may thus inveigle a few unwary American ministers into a movement for the restoration of the Russia0 autocracy . But might they not go farther in the , h ! , end if they came out boldly and said " We are for a Tsar ? " NE part of our war record in which we shall 8 not take pride is our treatment of the ? ill. scientious objector . It was inevitable that in apply " ing so novel a principle as that of the mber selecrivf draft we should have stumbled upon a nu ? t difficulties we had not thought of . We did 1 ' 1 ? know how many queer sects , how many unusual personal ideals there were among us . And so when we drew up regulations intended to insure efficiency in the control of slackers while making due allowance for conscientious scruples , we made a rough job of it . As a consequence we have men Serving long prison terms for resistance to the draft who in any other civilized country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in part atone by amnesty . But what no amnesty can atone are the methods we have employed in our attempt to discipline such Prisoners of conscience . Excessive periods of solitary confinement have been employed and are still being employed . The manacling of prisoners to the bars of cells was a device apparently employed ? I ) to within a month ago . It was announced by the War Department on December 6th that this mode of punishment would no longer be used . Very ? Inch worse things have happened to conscientious objectors but apparently without authorization from the war administration . OBODY accuses the War Department of in- 4- venting new and unusual forms of punish'tient for whipping the conscientious objectors into Submission or insanity . All that the War Department did was to turn this novel type of offender over to the war machine , to be handled by the conventional methods . Those methods were effective for their purposes ; whether they would stand the tests 4 an enlightened penology is beside the point . Solitary confinement , manacling , cold douches and the like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the conscientious objector presented an entirely different problem . To quote from the War Department News Bureau circular Of December 6th , " with the influx of political priseners to disciplinary barracks , particularly at Fort Leavenworth , extremity of attitude on the part of , ls new type of prisoner has at times led to extremity discipline , as provided by military regula-t 1 " s . These clearly were not formulated with the Political type of prisoner in mind , and their ef-fi , e , etiveness as deterrents has been questionable . " The War Department has at last learned what it should have been clear-sighted enough to know ripin the beginning . IN the case of a positive living spirit like Ran- e dolph Bourne death is an accident against which : etY feeling revolts . Bourne by intention as well f , necessity pressed against the edge of life . He ii'lt things keenly , favorably or unfavorably , and career held firm to the most difficult of careers , the book of seeing things for himself . Behind his therereviews and editorials and educational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in American tradition , aesthetic as well as political , and yet demanding more of America on that account than the most exigent of aliens . Bourne was drawn to the aliens by nature . He felt for them and with them , and he welcomed with special fervor every manifestation of their progress against Philistia . It is a question whether time would have altered him . Opportunities had come his way and his gifts were ripe , but it is not always certain that time will round the sharp corners . Yet Bourne gave every promise of being more and more salient and contributive . It is a misfortune that he is gone . CC ORE than half a century ago socialism was invented in Germany , " says the New York Times , editorially . Has the Times given no heed to the voluminous proofs offered by Allied scholars that the Germans have invented nothing ? As to socialism : did not Karl Marx take the cue to the " materialistic interpretation of history " from the Englishman Harrington , and the theory of surplus wealth from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a century ? The Germans thrust the living soul of British and French socialism behind the bars of the Hegelian system and thus imparted to it something of the psychology of the political prison . The open and humanitarian spirit that characterized the socialism of Owen and Fourier , Louis Blanc and Proudhon became infected with hatred , suspicion , intrigue . But the socialism that is now abroad in the world has in a large measure overcome those vices . Only the German chauvinists will claim that present day socialism is in any true sense German . If it bears one national character rather than another , that character is French . S day a history of history will be written which will show how in all countries and ages the chronicling of events has been used to inflate tribal or national pride , intensify animosities , glorify war and prepare the ground for future wars . The social class that holds power is the class that directs how the histories shall be written , and thus we have and have had priestly histories , kingly histories and great capitalist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a quite appreciable extent the historians and their patrons have been responsible for the world war as well as for the peculiar acerbity of those nationalistic and racial antagonisms which now make a real peace so difficult . This provocative history , declare the German Socialists , must now cease . The German Minister of Education therefore promulgates an order forbidding all teaching of history intended to incite race antagonism or glorify war . The motive underlying this official decree is excellent and yet it is doubtful where any policy of repression , even a repression of the bad , will meet the difficulties of the case . The German order , true to German type , forbids also " all false teaching about the world war and its causes , " " all disloyal remarks and observations " about the revolution and the revolutionary government and all teachings and actions by teachers tending towards counter-revolution . In other words we are faced with a typically bureaucratic Verboten instead of with an opening of the windows . Let us have no official repression of histories , and let us put our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A RECENT issue of the National Civic Fed- eration Review contains an article entitled Shadow Huns and Others , written by T. Everett Harre . It is an onslaught on American writers who are said to be playing Germany 's game by " sowing the seeds of distrust " between America and her European associates . He assigns to the New Republic the foremost position in this nefarious group of pro-German propagandists . He accuses us of being stupid and pretentious understudies of George Sylvester Viereck and Jeremiah O'Leary . To support these accusations he quotes passages from the New Republic in which we drew attention to the existence of differences of political purpose between President Wilson and the British or French governments . Our course in emphasizing and discussing such differences is in his opinion a sufficient excuse for trying to fasten on the New Republic the same kind of odium which their enemies have expressed by calling the Germans Huns . The crucial question raised by the substance of this indictment is , of course , a question of fact . Did any divergence actually exist between the political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fight , and the political objects which the British , French or Italian governments planned to achieve in the event of victory ? If no such divergences existed or if , in so far as they existed , they were unimportant , the course of the New Republic in insisting on , their existence might be disloyal and odious . But what if such differences did actually exist ? What if their existence were of enough importance to imperil the success of the war aims on behalf of which the President has asked his fellow-citizens to fight ? Surely in that event it was a patriotic service to advertise the differences and to plead , as the New Republic has done , for an inter-Allied conference which would iron out the differences and agree // upon a joint political programme . By so doing the New Republic was not fomenting discord among the enemies of Germany . We were merely calling attention to the dissensions which were certain eventually to boil up to the surface . We were pleading for a removal of their causes , for the political unity which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of military com- mand . Mr. T. by Everett denying Harre the justifies es his onslaught of any diaps " - parently crepancy between the war aims of the United States and those of its European associates . He asks " Who in the Allied Councils , in the opinion of the New Republic , would have been opposed to Mr. Wilson 's programme ? " If he wants an answer , let him read the newspapers . According to the Paris correspondent of the New York Tri ? bune the " French both distrust and dread sonian idealism . They prefer the rich blend or idealism and realism represented by Mr. Roose velt . " Mr. Harre can judge from Mr. Roose ; velt 's own words of the amount of " disunitY which exists between the rich Roosevelt blend of idealism and realism which is preferred by the French and President Wilson 's shameless idealism The answer looks conclusive , but perhaps , ridia lous as it may seem , the New York Tribune will be considered a prejudiced witness . Mr. Harre may answer that the Tribune is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among the enemies of Germany and like the New Republic should be stigmatized . as " Shadow Hun . " Let us turn , then , to the New York World , whose editor-in-thief acconl " panied Colonel House to Europe and which in spite of its honorable independence certainly avoids any act or words which would add unnecessarily to Mr. Wilson 's difficulties . In a recent issue the World declares : " To say that the governmen , , ts with which the President is now to deal personal are generally regarded as hostile to the kind 0 peace that he advocates is merely to state a fact of common knowledge everywhere except in the United States . " Thus the New York World Oe is manifestly fomenting disunity and must be posted as a candidate for membership in Mr. Harre 's club of " Shadow Huns . " Again , let us take the record of Mr. Theodore Roosevelt as compared to the record of the Nes : , Republic in this matter of " creating disunity ' Mr. Roosevelt like ourselves early recognized the existence of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President 00 ' that of some of America 's European associates ' t The difference turned chiefly upon whether or 10. the treatment of a beaten Germany should h 