@@466507

ACCORDING to the leaders of the AntiSaloon a League , the United States will be a " saloonless nation " by 1920 . They propose to work this miracle by obtaining an amendment to the Federal Constitution which will outlaw the manufacture and sale of alcoholic liquors . This will be merely the culmination of an anti-alcohol campaign which they have led for twenty-five years . It is not , however , the purpose of this article to discuss the advisability or inadvisability of national prohibition or whether such prohibition would actually prohibit . Side by side with this movement American industrialism has been waging warfare against the saloon . A drinking workman , even one who drinks only occasionally , now has great difficulty in getting and keeping a job . Few employers will tolerate him about their establishments . This success of business men in driving alcohol from the factory constitutes , as the Manufacturing Record says , " one of the most significant revolutions of the age . " Industrial prohibition is not a new idea . The wisest American foresaw this development nearly two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modern science , discovered that fresh air did not cause colds , and who preached the doctrine of open windows when people hermetically sealed themselves in their rooms , also detected certain errors current in his day ? and in ours ? about the use of beer and spirits . I drank only water ( he says , describing his early experiences in a London printing-shopl ; the other workmen , beer . On occasion , I carried up and down stairs a large form of types in each hand , when others carried but one in both hands . They wondered to see , from this and several instances , that the sower .4me rican , as they called me , was stronger than themselves , who drank . itrvng beer . VOL CXXXIII. ? No. 795. - 54We had an alehouse boy who attended always in the house , to supply the workmen . My companion at the press drank every day a pint of beer before breakfast , a pint between breakfast and dinner , a pint at dinner , a pint in the afternoon about six o'clock , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I thought it was a detestable custom ; but it was necessary , he supposed , to drink strong beer , that he might be strong to labor . I tried to convince him that the bodily strength afforded by the beer could only be in proportion to the grain or flour dissolved in the water of which it was made . He drank on , however , and had four or five shillings to pay out of his wages every Saturday night for that muddling liquor ; an expense 1 was free from . And thus these poor devils keep themselves always under . Thus Franklin describes the industrial liquor problem as it existed in art i English printing-shop in 1725 . Industrial America presented essentially the same picture until half a dozen years ago . We can readily recognize all the details . The vague belief that alcohol increased the workman 's efficiency prevailed until recently in the average American establishment . The " ale- house boy " for nearly two hundred years regularly made his trips between the workroom and the nearest corner saloon . The saloon-keepers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon wages every Saturday night , represented , in Franklin 's day as in ours , the exhausting economic effect of drinking . Franklin , please note , says nothing about the religious or moral aspects of the alcohol habit ; he merely sees that it is wasteful financially and destructive physically . His attitude was not that of the Anti-Saloon League ; it was that of the Tin Plate Trust and the Pennsylvania Railroad . Let us imagine Franklin , after a lapse of nearly two centuries , visiting the plant of the Illinois Steel Company , at Joliet , Illinois . He would find that in this , as in so many other reforms , he had merely been ahead of his time . Posted all over the establishment this sign would delight his soul : NOTICE To the employees of the Joliet Works , Illinois Steel Company : For the promotion of safety and welfare , it is hoped that all employees will avoid the use of intoxicating liquors . Under the rules of the Joliet Works , any employee who uses intoxicating liquor while on duty will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plant , Superintendents of Departments and Foremen will select for promotion only those who do not use intoxicating liquors . If Franklin should stroll into Gary at night , he would find electric signs over the entrance gate to the Illinois Steel plant , asking him these pointed ques-tions : Did booze ever do you any good ? Did booze ever get you a better job ? Did booze ever contribute anything to the happiness of your family ? These flaming signs indicate an entirely new aspect of the prohibition crusade . The anti-alcohol movement in the United States has had three distinct phases . First , the church declared war against the saloon . Then science and medicine began to demonstrate its evils . Nov American industry , in its search for mental and physical efficiency , has decided to abolish alcohol . For generations business and industry had not only tolerated alcohol , but had almost superstitiously regarded it as essential to success . In the early nineteenth century the town bell regularly rang at ten in the morning and four in the afternoon ; this was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Farmers regularly provided rum at harvesting time ; the belief prevailed that it protected their men against sunstroke . On the other hand , workmen exposed to cold , such as ice-cutters , or carpenters and masons in winter time , used this universal solvent as a protection against chill . American industrialism , as it developed , took over all these ideas , the growth of factories greatly stimulating the retail trade in alcohol . The saloon-keeper showed a natural affinity for the factory ; when the occupation was peripatetic , like rail road-building or lumbering , the grog-shop automatically followed the workmen 's headquarters . Men regularly drank on the way to the shop in the morning , on the way home in the evening ; the laborer ate his noonday meal at the free-lunch counter , and frequently took back with him to the factory plentiful supplies of refreshment in pails , bottles , and sometimes in kegs . Until the last decade the dram-shop performed any number of business and social uses . " Fifteen years ago , " said Samuel Gompers , in 1904 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a saloon . It sheltered workmen at night , thus serving as a " club " ; it acted as a hank , the gentleman in a white apron obligingly cashing all pay checks . " I he steel mills displayed particular tolerance toward whisky ; they believed that the worker in a blast furnace would die if he did not have frequent potations . After every heat the men regularly adjourned to the nearest saloon and reinforced themselves for the next one . Twenty years ago the doctors regarded water as sure death for a typhoid patient , and , similarly , employers actually believed that water would almost instantaneously kill a workman who had just left a blazing furnace . Even in those days , however , the industry noted that alcohol had certain disadvantages . Foremen always dreaded Mondays and the day following payday , for the men were invariably listless and accidents were then most frequent . It seems incredible that , thirty years ago , drunkenness seemed to be almost an indispensable adjunct of railroading . The neatly clothed , freshly shaven conductors we know to-day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old days , commonly spent the time between runs in a saloon and did not hesitate to take a bottle of whisky into his cab . The brakeman , the train-hand , and the worker in the roundhouse were not infrequently jovial , care-free souls . In 1886 , William H. Baldwin , then recently graduated from Harvard , started his noteworthy railroad career on the Union Pacific . " There are about one hundred and thirty men living here , " he wrote from one of his stations . " They are shopmen , engineers , firemen , and section hands , Their church , town hall , dance-hall , and reading-room are three saloons . If a man wishes to write a letter , meet friends , read , eat , drink and he merry , he goes to the only places which will give him the opportunity ? the saloons . Some of the engineers have educated themselves far better than half the graduates of Harvard have been educated . There are many who have seen better days , but have been knocked out with bad rum . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who looks as if he had been drunk all his life and had slept alternately in the gutter or on the floor of some saloon . " Constant quarrels , fist fights , blunders , and slovenly work were the inevitable consequence of these conditions . Terrible accidents were much more common than now , and the official report not infrequently contained the statement that " some one had been drinking . " But times have changed . What explains the improvements that arc taking place every day ? The last ten years have witnessed important developments in the study of alcohol . The scientific laboratory has tested , and is testing , all the superstitions which have developed in the course of several centuries . And we can not study this literature without reaching one definite conclusion . A few opposing voices still uphold the cause of alcohol ; the weight of scientific authority , however , has rendered a pretty sweeping verdict against it . We all know , of course ? no scientific experiments are necessary to teach us ? that excessive indulgence is injurious ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they condemn alcohol in moderate amounts . These conclusions have the utmost importance for every citizen , but they have a particular meaning for laboring men . For alcohol affects unfavorably all the physical and mental operations most essential to working efficiency . The increasing complications of factory life , the extensive use of machinery , and the intricate organization needed to turn out the modern product make unusual demands upon the workman . Above all , the laborer must have speed , physical and mental quickness , attention , and endurance . Now , the alcohol molecule , freely circulating in the body and the brain , affects adversely all these qualities . It enfeebles attention , dulls the intellect , prevents ready co-ordination between mental and muscular action , decreases the powers of attention and perception , and generally enfeebles the system . Elaborate experimentation shows that wine and whisky , even in " moderate " amounts , lower resistance to infection ; a regular drinker , even though he is not an inehriate , is especially subject to colds and even more serious disorders ; this , merely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inefficiency . The laboratory workers have destroyed another illusion , dear to the " moderate drinker " ; that is , that alcohol " puts new life into a man , " increases his energy and enthusiasm . The physiological chemist coldly tells us that alcohol is nut a stimulant , but a depressant . Any mental and physical elation we feel is simply its effect as a narcotic ; it is merely temporary and , when it passes i away , it leaves the mind and body more exhausted than before . in the last few years a great social and economic reform has been sweeping over the United States . That is the movement for workmen 's compensation , and this , even more than scientific studies , is giving the coup de grace to alcohol . The adoption , by most of our large industrial states , of laws making employ-ers responsible financially for injuries suffered by employees has suddenly brought them face to face with the problem of drink . For alcohol plays an important part in causing accidents . The German investigators , in their methodical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ connection . Other investigators may deny the indictment and point to the few industrial accidents recorded in state reports as caused by " intoxication . " The fact that the casualty companies have few claims to pay in which " intoxication " figures as the cause is also alleged on the other side . But these assertions have no pertinence , for we are not discussing " intoxication , " but alcohol . A workman obviously intoxicated causes few accidents simply because men in this condition or subject to this condition are not allowed to work at all . They seldom get jobs , are usually discharged on their first offense , and are always sent home when they appear in a drunken condition . The " moderate drinker , " whose impaired perception , weakened attention , and muscular and mental listlessness may cause frightful calamities , is , so far as external evidence shows , entirely sober . An accident caused by him , therefore , does not go on the records as one caused by " intoxication . " The new liability and compensation laws give the employer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , irrespective of the cause . If he tolerates alcohol-users on his premises , he must pay the cost of their mistakes . The question in this modern form thus touches employers at their most sensitive point . And the amazing growth of industrial prohibition in the last three or four years herein has its explanation . As a result of these laws employers have installed safety appliances and started " safety " campaigns ; their new rules against alcohol have precisely the same inspiration . The railroads led in the reform . Clearly , there can be no greater crime than to intrust a passenger-train to an engineer of alcoholic tendencies . In particular , alcohol is a causative agent in toxic amblyopia , an eye disease which makes it difficult to distinguish one color from another . The bearing of this upon reading signals is apparent . However , no extensive argument is needed to show the necessity for active wits in men who , merely by misplacing a switch , ignoring a signal , or misreading a telegram , can kill hundreds of people . Yet , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , practically ignored the dangers of drinking . Here , again , the financial point largely explains their awakening , as damage suits are becoming more and more expensive . The roads gradually installed air-brakes , block signals , and other safety appliances ; finally , reaching the human element , they adopted rules against alcohol . But even William H. Baldwin , one of the pioneers in this reform , believed that they could enforce only the mildest rules . " If the men are ordered not to drink , " he said , " they will just indulge in a little extra profanity at our expense . " The most that could be hoped for , he believed , was to prohibit drinking in working-hours . At first the railroads merely placed this limitation on their men . As this regulation only scotched the evil , the railroads , perforce , began interfering with the " personal liberty " of their employees . Not only must an employee not drink in working-hours ; he must not drink at all ! In some cases the applicants had to sign the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ penalizing a visit to a saloon with dismissal soon became a general rule . But railroads which went to this extreme soon found themselves facing a curious dilemma . They prohibited their men from visiting saloons , yet they were conducting saloons themselves ? that is , they were serving liquors in their dining- and club-cars . Several of our greatest railroads ? the Pennsylvania , for example ? met this issue in the only honest way . This is why the thirsty traveler , asking for his customary cocktail in the dining-car , is politely informed by the colored gentleman that " no drinks are sold on the train . " " American railroads , " says the Railway Gazette , " have become one of the greatest and most effective temperance organizations in existence . " There are probably 2,000 , oco railroad employees to-day living under the strictest prohibitory regulations . Recently another large company discharged one hundred and twenty-six men who had committed this offense . But the railroads are fighting the evil in other ways . They fit up clubrooms for their men ; the wonderful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the campaign for sobriety . We may reasonably doubt whether state prohibition prohibits in Kansas and Maine ; there is not the slightest doubt that industrial prohibition does prohibit on our railroads . Intemperance among railroad employees is now practically unknown . The most ardent temperance enthusiast does not show greater hostility to the use of alcohol than America 's captains of industry at the present moment . Take , for a single illustration , our greatest industry , the steel trade . I have before me a mass of letters from nearly one hundred and fifty manufacturers of iron and steel . They include the greatest concerns in the country ; many of the constituent members of the United States Steel Corporation are represented . In these letters the responsible officials give their policy on the drinking question , and express their opinions as to its practical success . Through them all there runs the same tone : the opinion is unanimous that drinking , even in moderate amounts , decreases efficiency , increases accidents , and is altogether demoralizing to the workmen and to the plant . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Carnegie Steel Company , the American Steel and Wire Company , the American Tin Plate Company , the American Manganese Steel Company , the American Car and Foundry Company , the American Bridge Company , to mention only a few , are now conducting a great campaign against drinking . Already they have cleaned up conditions that existed only half a dozen years ago . All have eliminated from the steel industry that youthful Ganymede who was once its conspicuous ornament ? old Ben Franklin 's " ale-house boy , " who regularly " rushed the can " in working-hours , for the refreshment regarded as essential to industrial efficiency and contentment . These steel-mills will now " fire " instantly any man who drinks in workinghours . Many are weeding out employees who stop on their way to the factory for their morning nip and on their way home at night for a similar purpose . A visit to the free-lunch counter at noon frequently means dismissal . Before a man is employed he is asked if he uses alcohol ; if he answers yes , the applicant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , like our greatest railroads , prohibit drinking both on and off duty , and discharge a man caught visiting a saloon at any time . A workman who cashes his pay-check at a saloon is immediately sent " to get his time " ; a garnishment of wages by a saloon-keeper automatically results in dismissal . The American Steel and Wire Company has ordered its men to withdraw from clubs where liquor is sold ; a year ago the Carnegie Steel Company posted a notice declaring that all promotions hereafter would be made from the ranks of the abstainers . The Delaware , Lackawanna &; Western Coal Company has prohibited foremen , bosses , and others who have workmen in charge from visiting saloons ; the example is too dangerous a one ! These large employers adopt other methods for divorcing alcohol from industry . Some have purchased saloon property near their plants merely for the purpose of abolishing the bars . Nearly all fight the granting of licenses in the courts and direct their men , under penalty of dismissal , not to sign applications for licenses . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an official of the Du Pont Powder Company , at Conneys Point , New Jersey , " is as dangerous around a powder- plant as a bombthrower . " The Midvale Steel Company recently appeared in the license court to oppose a saloon-keeper who was planning to locate in its neighborhood . One phase of industrial prohibition is a movement known as " pushing the saloon from the doors of the factory . " These " agitators " mostly cold-blooded execu-tives of great manufacturing plants ? take the stand that the same laws which keep drinking-places away from churches and schools should also apply to their establishments . The American Foundrymen 's Association is leading this movement . Other employers are trying to find the long-sought substitute for the saloon . Some supply cold milk and other harmless drinks , at a nominal price ; others , following the example of the railroads , are establishing clubrooms . These places furnish lunch at a small figure ? thereby enticing the men away from the free-lunch counter ; billiards , bowling-alleys , reading-rooms , libraries , gymnasium , and social quarters supply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weapon against the saloon is that adopted by the Philadelphia Quartz Company , which has large plants in Pennsylvania , Indiana , and New York . This concern had the usual three types of employees ? excessive drinkers , moderate drinkers , and abstainers . Instead of adopting stringent prohibitory rules the company decided to deal with its employees on the strict basis of justice and common business sense . Who were the ones , that is , that gave the greatest dollar value for every dollar paid them ? The question answered itself ? the non-alcoholized , of course . Many years ' experience had clearly demonstrated that fact . Was it not unfair , almost dishonest , to pay the drinking man the same wages as the abstainer ? Acting on this basis , the Philadelphia Quartz Company has issued an order giving a ten per cent . increase in wages to total abstainers . The company makes no pretense that it is seeking to save souls , although it hopes that the families of its employees will benefit ; its idea is to discourage drunkenness , and so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay than the drinker ? that 's all there is to it . " The actions of the men , " writes Mr. William H. Stanton , the general manager of the company , at Chester , Pennsylvania , " their attitude toward the company , their management of the work ? in fact , their very looks indicate ? that they feel they have made a good decision . They have more self-respect , more self-confidence , feel themselves to be better men , better citizens , better employees , and are altogether happier than they ever were before . " Indeed , these hard-headed business men grow almost as enthusiastic as the temperance advocates in describing the beneficial results of their crusade . Their methods of combating the vice are almost revivalistic in character . Paid temperance exhorters are brought in to preach during the lunch-hour ; antidrinking literature is distributed to the men for home consumption ; the walls and bulletin-hoards are covered with warnings against the saloon ; and , in certain Eastern states , " water-wagon clubs " are being organized among workmen . Sonic concerns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effects of alcohol , and pay the men full wages for the time spent in this educational course . The anti-alcohol campaign has now become part of the " safety first " movement . This elaborate programme , initiated for the purpose of improving our disgraceful national record for industrial accidents , now regards the struggleagainst alcohol as a necessary part of its work . In 1914 the General Round Table meeting of the National Safety Council devoted a large amount of time to discussing this question . More than seven hundred representatives of industry stood up and adopted a resolution declaring that the " drinking of alcoholic stimulants is productive of a heavy percentage of accidents and of disease affecting the safety and efficiency of working-men . " The National Safety Council is conducting a bulletin-board " educational " crusade in thousands of factories aimed directly at the workingman . Every week more than two million employees read its startling broadsides . " Not safety first , but sober first , " has now become its cry , and " safety , sobriety , success " is another succinct motto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to almost any great plant to-day sees groups of toilhardened men , absorbing wisdom from the Safety Council 's posters . Here is a picture showing an aged drunkard reeling out of a saloon door , before which stands a neatly dressed young man , with one foot inside , but with his eyes hesitatingly glancing back at the disappearing derelict . The heading , " A danger signal , " conveys its lesson . Another group stands before a poster showing a huge bottle inscribed as follows : " Whisky . We guarantee it to do these things : Make you lose balance , nerve , employment , money , friends , family , selfconfidence , courage , health , and life ? that 's all . " Another shows a workman walking the primrose path of " promotion " ; across this path lies a bottle on which is written " Booze . " Here is the pictorial representation of a workman , his shoulders piled with encumbrances intended to portray the burdens under which he must struggle toward success . The most conspicuous bears the legend " Booze @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pithy questions and condensed sermons . " A saloon-keeper who sells booze will not employ a drunkard as a bartender . Think it over ! " Perhaps the prize of all these broadsides , certainly one which has an extensive circulation , is the following , printed in a succession of red and black ink : BOOZE We want only clear-thinking men in our employ . You can not think clearly and act safely if you are a boozer . Booze poisons the brain . It stimulates for a short time only ? then deadens the senses . When men 's minds are dull , accidents are bound to occur . It takes alertness ? quick thinking and acting ? to avoid danger . If you must booze , then do n't report for work . We do n't want boozers on our premises . They are dangerous , not only to themselves , but to all others who come in contact with them . Booze will never get you a job nor help you hold one . Booze will not help you pay your debts nor increase your earning power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later one must be sacrificed for the other . Side-track booze before booze side-tracks you . What good is industrial prohibition accomplishing ? Perhaps the experience of one manufacturing district will most satisfactorily answer this question . A few years ago the nation r. as shocked by an unusually brutal lynching at Coatsville , Pennsylvania . This town is located in the heart of a coal-and-steel district ; its population , like that of most of our industrial centers , represents nearly all nationalities , with a considerable sprinkling of the native stock . The thinking people , including the heads of most of the steel plants , got together to devise ways of so improving social conditions that such a tragedy should never disgrace them again . As usual , the alcoholmolecule seemed to be the influence that chiefly promoted race disturbances , and the plans for a house-cleaning necessarily took the form of eradicating this nuisance . Mr. Charles L. Huston , vicepresident of the Lukens Iron and Steel Company , a concern that employs two thousand men , led the movement that finally succeeded in closing all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was made to reopen them , Mr. Huston got up from a sick-bed to protest before the court . The closing , he said ? and the other manufacturers agreed with him ? had worked an almost unbelievable improvement in conditions . It had decreased accidents fifty per cent . in the Lukens plant ! The quality of employees had improved and the superintendents had had much less trouble in getting efficient men . The grand jury of Chester County submitted a report declaring that crime had greatly decreased . Merchants testified to increased purchases of children 's and women 's clothing , bank presidents reported a great increment in savings deposits , and citizens generally declared that Coatsville had become a decent place of residence . In the old days , the average citizen was afraid to let his wife or daughter walk up the main street ; now a drunken man was a rarity . All this reads like the report of the W. C. T.U. or the American Temperance Society ; what makes the evidence significant is that it is supplied by unimaginative business men .   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @         