@@466073

WHEN the Dutch , in 1599 , began their arduous task of converting the unexplored island of Sumatra into a profitable colony , they heard strange tales of the wealth and power of the kingdom of the Menangkabau , which occupied the interior , and which , it was said , boasted that " its relations extended from China to Turkey . " The report that the ruler was a queen , and that the women owned all the land of the vast territory occupied , added spice to the tale . It was a comparatively easy matter to gain the good will of the people of mixed races who were found in the hot , low-lying coast country , but the Menangkabau occupied the uplands , beyond a range of mountains , while between the coast and mountains lay a stretch of marshy lowland many miles in width , covered by a jungle of tropical growth and exuding a deadly miasmatic atmosphere whose d angers the Dutch knew only too well . Every overture was met with haughty disdain , but the armies of the Netherlands found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mysterious kingdom which was offering no trouble . They could afford to wait , and wait they did for nearly two hundred and twenty-five years before a direct acquaintance with the Menangkahau was made possible . Then , in 1821 , happily for the Netherlands , these people found themselves involved in civil war , and appealed to the Dutch for aid . The situation afforded a long-desired opportunity , and the Menangkabau did not appeal in vain . A group of foreign emissaries known as the Padris had entered the country , and for some time had been conducting a fanatical revival of the Mohammedan religion which these people had espoused centuries before . Many of their customs were curiously at variance withthose of Islam , and the Padris , designing to compel the people to a strict observance of Mohammedanism , had succeeded in fomenting a rebellion . The purpose of the rebels was the entire reorganization of the government , the abolition of every social and political custom not in exact accord with the prescribed rules of the Koran . The war against the Padris lasted seventeen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Dutch expected the speedy annexation of their territory as a reward for their services ; but the proposal was met by a new rebellion , and it was not until 1899 that complete pacification was effected . Even then the haughty Menangkabau made no ignominious surrender to the force of superior arms , but yielded willingly instead to the clever diplomacy which has made the Dutch world-renowned as colonizers . Some twenty years before peace was declared , and while negotiations were pending , these people had astounded the Dutch by asking for schools , teachers , and books . One school was established . and its pupils became teachers of other schools , and through them so general a desire for education had spread throughout the country that the final contract with the Dutch was apparently actuated by a wholesome ambition to gain advantages that contact with Western civilization alone could secure . The Netherlands pledged itself to leave the adat ( the system of law based on custom ) undisturbed , and to stand as protectors of the people against possible enemies . In return the Dutch received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uncontested claim to a large part of the interior of Sumatra . Now that a closer acquaintance with the Menangkabau is made possible , it is known that their fundamental institutions belong to the Matriarchate , or Age of the Mother 's Rights , which many sociologists believe to have been a stage through which all races have passed . They number 1,320,000 , and occupy a territory eight times the size of the Netherlands . The women own the land and houses ; family names descend in the female line , and mothers are the sole guardians of their children . Some of the customs of the people have been deflected from their normal course of development by two powerful patriarchal influences . At a remote period of unknown date the Hindus overran the chief islands of the archipelago . How long they remained , or why they withdrew , or if they merely intermarried with the native peoples they visited and thus lost their identity , are questions that are asked many times , though never answered ; but they left a permanent impress of their arts . religion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came through Arab traders and priests , probably about the thirteenth century , who converted the people to Mohammedanism and formed a connection which VOL . CXXVIII. - NO. 767. - 92has been intermittently continued until the present day . Since Hindus and Mohammedans alike assign wo:nen to seclusion and a position of utter subordination to men , it is evident that there was something tremendously virile in the " Mother 's Rights " institutions of the Menangkabau , or something unusual in their environment , to have withstood such all-dominating forces . This conclusion becomes the more apparent when taken in connection with the fact that distinct traces of the Matriarchate are to be found throughout the Malay race , to which these people belong , though nearly all tribes have substituted Patriarchate institutions . A visitor to the country of the Menangkabau is convinced at once that he is among an unusual people . There is none of the servility which characterizes their neighbors , the Javanese . The men are hold and daring in appearance ; their women as noticeably resolute and independent . Groups of buildings of such peculiar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sides from tropical groves of towering cocoa-palms , bamboo , and banana-trees . The distinguishing feature of these houses is a curved roof-tree sharply upturned at the ends . Legend declares that there was once a great war between Java and Sumatra , during which there was much loss of life , and still there came no end to the conflict . The queens of these two peoples then decided that no more men should be killed , but that the dispute should he decided by a contest between two bullocks . The Sumatran bullock won , and the people were known ever after as the Menangkahau , or Bullock Victors . The bullock 's horn was adopted as the symbol of their supremacy , and now appears in the roof-tree of every building , bridge , and cart-cover . The roof-tree of an original house represents a pair of bullock 's horns . Upon the occasion of the marriage of the eldest daughter a wing is added at one end , its roof being shaped like a single horn . As fast as the daughters marry , other wings are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each end ) are sometimes added to the house of a prosperous family . The roofs are thickly and skilfully thatched , and the upturned ends of the tree mounted by shining metal tips . They are sometimes decorated by showy geometrical designs formed by interlacing silver thread and the black fiber of the aren-palm into the thatch . The houses of the poor are sided with woven bamboo ; of the rich , with wood completely covered by carving picked out in color ? red , black , white , and gilt predominating . Every house has one or more rice - barns , supported on high piles to insure safety from the depredations of animals , and surmounted by a somewhat disproportionately large roof shaped upon the usual curved ridge . The gables are painted or carved , and frequently the sides are ornamented in the same pattern and colors as the house . A group of family houses will have a small curved - roof building with open sides , a balei , where the men of the family gather for discussion , and a community house where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sleep . It will also have a missigit , or mosque . The architecture of these religious buildings is uniform throughout the country , and is plainly imported . The square building is surmounted by three superimposed roofs , but often an imposing en- trance has been added introducir , the local architectural features of the introducing iar bullock 's horn roof-tree . There are no family dwellings in the neighboring islands , - Ceylon , India , or southeastern Asia , which approach these buildings in originality of design or richness of decoration . Neither Hindus nor Arabs have produced anything bling them , and apparently they unique creation of the Menangkabau themselves . Nut only are they characteristic in style , but also in size , being much larger than similar buildings i n neighboring countries . The interior of these houses is no less ornamental than the outside . The walls are entirely covered with carved or painted designs which include tree s , flowers , and animals , some extremely well drawn . Strips of skilled embroidery or gold brocade fill vacancies left by carver or painter . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the children and unmarried women sleep . At the back and ends are small sleeping-rooms , a house sometimes containing as many as fifteen . In rich families these arc supplied with bedsteads and mattresses , covered by the overhanging sheet edged with crochet - work , which is seen in every Dutch home in the East Indies . Tables , chairs , hanging-lamps , clocks , framed pictures , sewing-machines , and graphophones are frequently found . In one house where we were unexpected visitors refreshments were served on dainty French china and each guest was provided with a finger-bowl . These European accessories give a modern air to these quaint dwellings , but the presence of the primitive loom , spinning-wheel , and embroidery-frame signifies that the bridge has not yet been burned between the old time and the new . Marriage is exogamic , and before the days of Mohammedanism all husbands doubtless went to live in the homes of their mothers-in-law , as is the usual custom under the Matriarchate . The polygamy allowed by Mohammed interfered with this practice , and a curious compromise was effected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The polygamous husband now remains in the family of his own mother , and merely visits his wife in the home of his mother-in-law . If he takes the four wives authorized by the Koran , he usually spends a week with each , or at least he times his visits of equal lengths ? watchful mothers-in-law , with an eye to the family exchequer , see to it that he does not overstay the prescribed period . Here he eats and sleeps in the apartment of his wife . In former times , since the women controlled the land and carried the family pocket-book , the husbands made no contribution toward the family expenses . Instead , the men were supported by their wives and received their pocket-money as a gift from them . Now , many men have attained " economic independence " through the opening of new oc-cupations and business opportunities brought about by the Dutch occupancy , and such men are expected to bring a gift of food , clothing , or money to their wives upon the occasion of each visit . No law compels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its perfect work , and few men avoid the obligation . As social intercourse is as free as in America , young people fall in love in a natural way and make their own choice of matrimonial partners , but when the choice is made negotiations between the parents of the young couple begin and the price which the bride shall pay for the husband is determined , as well as details for the proper celebration of the wedding . For an ordinary man the sum paid rarely exceeds eighty dollars , but two hundred and fifty dollars is gladly paid for a head man , whose position is regarded as one of great dignity . The Lompongs , a neighboring tribe which claims to have sprung from the Menang-kabau at a remote period , are now patiiarchate in most customs , and husbands give purchase money for wives . Here eight hundred dollars is frequently paid for the daughter of a good family . In both tribes the purchase-money is used to buy the " trousseau " of hus-band or wife , as the case may be , and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ receiving the money are expected to give . In both tribes divorces are obtained with ease , but the purchase-money must be returned in the event of separation . The husband merely announces his desire to leave his wife and divorce is at once granted , but the wife must be able to give assurance that her husband has not visited her for one hundred days , nor sent her a gift during that time , a provision said to be made by the Koran , before she is times when the wife is rich the husband is not easily dismissed , in which case the cause comes before the balei , where he is so pitilessly ridiculed for wishing to stay in a family which does not want him that in the end the wife is sure to win . The children always remain with the wife and keep the name of her family . Husbands have attempted to gain possession of their children , especially their sons , upon divorce being granted , but no one has as yet succeeded . Divorced men usually marry again ; divorced women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( the harta poesaka ) and one-half of what the father and mother may earn together ( the harta pentjarian ) ; the other half , or the harta pentiarian , and all the father 's independent property go to the children of his eldest sister . This provision of the adai is growing ' extremely unpopular , since so many men hold well-paid positions under the Dutch government , and in order to evade it fathers have been known to give their property to their own children while living . Nearly all the land is still owned by the women , and its cultivation is in their hands . The head of the house is called the Indua , and as such she controls the family property . At her death her property and authority pass to her eldest daughter , and in the event that there is no daughter , to the daughter of her eldest brother . In case the absence of daughters renders the inheritance too complicated , a girl may be adopted , but she must , in order to continue the family name and property @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a girl marries , a piece of land is assigned to her , and her husband is expected to aid her in its cultivation . As a matter of fact , men do little agricultural work . Rice is the chief product , and it requires constant and laborious attention . When the Dutch first entered the country the numerous broad , fertile valleys were as perfectly terraced and as carefully cultivated as a park . This had apparently been true for many centuries . In these rice sawas , the women may be seen standing all day up to their knees in mud , their garments tucked high , sowing , transplanting , weeding , and cultivating the young plants . The dykes which hold the water on each small terrace must be kept in repair and the birds frightened away when the grain is ripening . Later it is garnered , head by head , threshed , winnowed , and dried , all by simple primitive processes , and then carried home by the women in huge baskets on their heads , to be stored in the rice-barn . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women , and crude sugar manufactured . A simple machine , worked by a bullock , extracts the sap , which is then boiled in an open kettle . All the processes are conducted by women . Of late , coffee , rubber , pepper , and cinnamon are also cultivated . A weekly pasar , or market , is held in every village , and for miles around women of remarkably independent and business-like mien may be seen wending their way by every road and mountain-path toward the pasta . Hundreds of them carry great baskets on their heads loaded with chickens , ducks , geese , turkeys , rice , and other grains , and anastonishing variety of vegetables and fruits . Sometimes a mother and all her daughters form a group , each loaded with produce for the market . An air of earnest business pervades this poser . There is no loitering , loud talking , boisterous play , nor drunkenness , yet thousands of people go and come during the day in the larger centers . Customers ( men and women ) pass quickly from group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for it , and go their way . The barter of old times has long since given way to money as a medium of exchange . Women money-changers are located at convenient places , where they sit on the ground , Oriental fashion , with their money before them ; they make change with quick intelligence . Little restaurants are also numerous , the more pretentious being under cover and supplied with a long table and benches . In the simpler ones , the customers sit cross-legged around the group of kettles over which a woman presides , being cook , waitress , and treas- A SURVIVAL OF urer . The endless variety of comestibles to he seen in these eating-places is indisputable evidence that the women of the Menangkaban have found time in the midst of their arduous labors to develop the art of cooking far beyond primitive stages . Elaborate sweets , made of sugar , tapioca , sago , or gelatin , colored with fruit or flower juices and decorated tastefully , are numerously displayed . Ears of maize , roasted over small charcoal braziers , find a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with or without a batter , are fried hot for the waiting customer in deep cocoanut-nil , while the author of Two Hundred Ways of Coo k ing Rice would be truly astounded at the innumerable ways of serving it which are unknown to Western cooks . Meanwhile , where are the men , and what are they doing ? Along the roads they may be seen , also marching to and from the pasar , but with no baskets on their heads or burdens on their backs . With a i payung ( Chinese umbrella ) underone arm , a little bird-cage covered with a tasseled square of velvet in the other hand , and a big cigar in the mouth , they seem the embodiment of irresponsible idleness . This Conviction deepens when groups of these men are seen under the broad shade of the pasar trees , lazily sleeping , exchanging gossip , or comparing the merits of their birds , while the 1 women are hard at work . But Dutch officials give assurance that the first impression is deceptive , and this opinion is supported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to all primitive people , made warriors and hunters of these men , and in those capacities they afforded protection to ! ! the women which enabled them to develop agriculture and the primitive arts to a high degree . Even yet tiger-baiting is a noble and heroic pastime , and the elephant , rhinoceros , panther , tapir , orang-outang , and python are to he encountered in the territory . They enjoy the repute of being bold , fearless , and sagacious soldiers , and their folklore is ful ! of accounts of wars " and brave deeds . They have , however , being free from the daily duties imposed by family support , an abundance of leisure , which is often employed in such games and training as will prepare men for war and the hunt . These are conducted by skilled teachers , and , although something similar exists in other islands of the Insulinde , it is said that the Sumatran games arc distinctly different from all others . With backs bent at right angles , hands and arms outstretched , they glide , twist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and to right and left , with such rapidity and variety of pose , such agility and skill , that the looker-on is held fairly breathless with amazement . There are also kicking- bouts and fencing with sharp daggers which would make our college athletes green with envy . These men ate certainly not in a state of deterioration . They have , however , borrowed some of the vices of their neighbors , and the Dutch found cockfighting with them a popular male amusement . They put a stop to it , but it is suspected that they still pursue it on the sly , and that they pit their caged birds ( which are usually pigeons ) against one another . The arts are not unknown . The men are clever wood-carvers , and do creditable work in brass , glass , and silver . When a house is to be built , the whole family contribute service to the enter-prise ; but the men do the carving and painting . In the pasar also they have some place . Apparently , they deal in all commodities which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ i butch-er 's meat , " their own creations in brass , glass , and silver , and imported goods which supply the fast-growing taste for Western products . They are also the drivers of bullocks , and not infrequently bring the women of their family , together with the produce , to the pasar in a native carriage.Politics also form part of the occupation of men . The Menangkabau , like most people of similar development , are organized into soekot 's ( clans ) , the members of each saekoe being descended from a common ancestress in the female line . Questions of common interest to the whole people are discussed first in every family circle , the leader being the Indua , and later , or at the same time , by the men of the family in the bald . Here the leader is not the husband of the Indua , but her eldest brother , who is called the Mamuk . H i Ile represents the family in all public ways , but has no authority of his own . After the family has reached a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ council composed of the Mantuks of all the families in a clan or village of a clan , and presided over by a head man elected by them , which next considersilli . The question , having passed through the various villages , goes to the council of the soekoe , where an hereditary chief ( panghoeloe ) presides , and next to a district council composed of the panghoeloes of all the soekoes composing the district . Upon a great open square a circle of flat stones placed on end forms the meeting-place , where in the open air , with the smoking volcano , Mt . Metapi , on one side , and Mt . Singalling on the other , as monitors , the final decision is reached . Before the largest stone , some eight feet high and four wide , sits the great chief . Before the other stones of the circle sit the Panghoeloes , the size of the stone indicating the relative importance of each . Here the adat is amended and revised , and all problems concerning the people are discussed . The Dutch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the women has ever been made . The hereditary chiefs do not derive their authority from their fathers , but are the eldest sons of the chief 's eldest sister . Dutch history records communication with the great head oF the Menangkabau in the long ago , variously styled emperor , king , sultan , maharajah , but the people themselves say they never had a male head , their chief always having been a queen . One Boendo Kandoung is gloriously remembered for her heroic and victorious leadership of the armies ; and another , whose name , Wilhelmina , indicates a European origin , fought side by side with her soldiers , as brave as the bravest . Now the position of chief is occupied by the Dutch government . It is evident that the women work much harder than the men , for not only do they produce the food , cook it , care for the house and children , but they make their own utensils of pottery , mats , baskets , and many articles of daily use from braided bamboo rattan or grass . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the garments of the family , and still find time for skilled embroidery . Their highest art is the woven gold cloth which in the long ago was among the rare treasures that Western royalists imported from India . The patterns used are numerous , intricate , and original , and no cloth more beautiful has ever been produced by human hands . Vet . CXXVIII. ? No. 767.  - -  03 The Menangkabau woman of a rich family at a festival hears little resemblance to the hard-working , muddy laborer of the rice-field . She has brought forth her hidden treasures , and , decked in " cloth of gold " from head to foot , with necklaces and bracelets , and pins in her hair ( all of gold and jewels ? often valuable heirlooms ) , she might well pass for the Queen of Sheba . The chiefs , too , or husbands of rich wives skilled in weaving , come out brilliantly clad in gold brocade . As a whole , the Menangkabau can not be called a handsome people , for in common with most natives of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blacken their teeth and chew the betel . Of late these customs , odious when viewed from our . Western standpoint , have been abolished in the more progressive houses , and the sons and daughters of such homes are as fresh and intelligent in appearance as our own . There are male and female native doctors , who use native herbs as medicine ; and skilled massage , practised by the most intelligent of their neighbors , is among their accomplishments . Priests and priestesses , known as Iladjis ? men and women who have journeyed to Mecca and there become " holy " ? administer to spiritual wants . The territory occupied is one of unrivaled beauty . Majestic mountains , wild rocky rivers , tumbling noisy waterfalls , sharp kloofs in the hills , crater lakes , and one great palm-bordered lake ( Singkarah ) fifty-two miles broad and eight hundred and fifty feet deep , are among its features . These bovenlanden , from one thousand to four thousand feet above the sea , are relieved from the steaming heat which renders life almost unendurable on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broad , well-watered , fertile valleys with a wealth of the tropical man 's three best friends ? the cocoa-palm , the bamboo , and banana . From these , at the smallest possible outlay of energy , he may derive shelter , clothing , food , and drink . Many tribes of the same race in the East Indian archipelago have yielded to the temptation to exert no further effort than that necessary to support life , and in consequence have sunk into the lethargy which has effectively checked all progress ; the Menangkabau have possessed within themselves some hidden stimulus to energy , and by degrees they have wrested royal tribute from Nature , already generous in her gifts . Their entire country is prosperous , although some sections are more so than others . Certain families are spoken of as rich and others as poor , and it is true that the one owns broad acres and handsome houses , and the other has no land at all ; but there is no pauperism . The people have been well prepared for the impetus which the touch with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leading to the pasars , where throngs of women , with baskets upon their heads , and men carrying their little bird-cages , are to be seen , there are also boys and girls ? clean , bright , and sturdy , with hooks and slates under their arms , trudging along to school . Although the tribes of the Insulinde are almost as numerous as the hairs of the head , and many are responding to modern education in encouraging fashion , yet the sons of these Matriarchate mothers are most in demand by the Dutch government for positions of trust . From Atchee , at the extreme north of Sumatra , to the island of Timor at the south , young Menangkabaus are to be found in responsible posts , where their honesty and intelligence become " towers of strength " to the Dutch . The Menangkabau speak a dialect of the Malay language , and in their schools must secure their education through the medium of two languages ? neither of which is their own ? Malay and Dutch . Some ethnologists have claimed that the Matriarchate represents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free and the father of the family uncertain . If this he true , the Menangkabau have long outlived that period . Rapeis absolutely unknown , and prostitution does nut exist . No Menangkabau girl has ever been known to live an immoral life in harbor towns where native and foreign women by the hundreds fill houses of prostitution . Adultery is no more common than in lands of the highest civilization ; the adat demands from both parties at fault a heavy fine paid to the community , and popular condemnation constitutes a still heavier penalty . It is ordinarily believed that polygamy , made possible by " wife capture " among primitive people , was the cause of the overthrow of the Matriarchate . That these institutions have survived among the Menangkabau may be explained by the fact that this method of securing wives has not existed within the memory of these people or in their folk tales . The tribe did not produce women enough to make ordinary polygamy possible to any extent . Now there are iz , oco more men than women in the tribe . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wives from neighboring tribes ? Chinese , Japanese , and the mixed races of the coast country . These women , coming from patriarchal peoples , own no property , and are dependent upon their husbands not only for their support , but for every privilege and pleasure . Evidently the Matriarchate will disappear . In this transition period it happens occasionally that a man is the head of a patriarchal home , which he supports and rules , and at the same time is the husband of a Matriarchate wife , who supports herself and children and holds herself haughtily independent . The people are now taking an intelligent view of their own comparative status among the peoples of the world , and more than one possesses a fair knowledge of ethnology . At present they probably represent the highest civilization existing under this form of social organization .                     