@@493040

IF Secretary Lansing 's note to the Austro-Hun ? garian government on the sinking of the Ancona could be considered without reference to the pre ? vious notes to Germany or to previous expressions of American dissatisfaction with the behavior of the Central Powers , it would deserve warm and undivided approval from American public opinion . The barbarity of launching a torpedo at that vessel while its innocent and unfortunate passengers were still struggling to escape is almost more deserving of the abhorrence of all humane people than is the torpedoing of the Lusitania . Americans should be thankful that the government of the United States has the legal as well as the moral right to protest , and they should pay cheerfully any price which needs to be paid in order to make the protest good . It is time to have our sense of responsibility re ? inforced . War brings with it so much inevitable barbarity , and in many cases the facts are so dif ? ficult to establish , that the tendency of prolonged fighting is to make the public conscience callous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American attitude towards the uglier aspects of the European war . It is much less sensitive to indubitable instances of the infliction of suffering and death on non-combatants than it was six months ago . It has been abominably callous and indifferent about this very Ancona tragedy , and would have connived at any attempt made by the administration to evade it . The President deserves all the more credit for the sharp and uncompromising manner in which he has expressed and emphasized this new American grievance against the Central Powers . OUR doubts about President Wilson 's handling of American relations with Germany and Austria do not concern the Ancona note itself . They concern rather the whole policy of which the An ? cona note is apparently the culmination . We would like to know what Mr. Wilson really proposes to do to Germany . It looks as if he were adopting an unnecessarily indirect and devious method of indicating American discontent with German be ? havior . The enforced recall of the two attaches was intended to chastise not two minor officers who had only been obeying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The reproach and con ? demnation which the President in his message heaped upon disloyal and lawless German-Ameri ? cans was apparently aimed chiefly at the officials across the water who instigated the disloyalty and the law-breaking . Finally the extremely peremptory tone of the Ancona note has almost certainly been addressed quite as much to Berlin as to Vienna , and is intended to accomplish more than a disavowal of the slaughter of the Ancona passengers . Doubtless these are shrewd tactics for a President when he wishes to warn a foreign power that his patience is exhausted , without at the same time committing any act which will necessarily involve a break with the offender . But are they not too shrewd ? No doubt the German Foreign Office has been made fully to understand what Mr. Wilson means , but the great majority of his fellow countrymen have // not . They have not the faintest idea how near their government is to a break with Germany . If the break comes and proves to be costly and dangerous , they will be wholly unprepared both for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his anxiety to avoid embarrassing public agitation has refused to take public opinion into his confidence and has slowly infected a certain part of it with a kind of moral tepidity . If the occasion arises when in his opinion national self-respect requires a more vigor ? ous resistance to German and Austrian invasion of the independence and security of the United States , he will find that the support in public opinion which such a policy needs has been gradually and seriously weakened . IF Yuan Shih-Kai had refused to play his part in the carefully prepared program which has been consummated by his acceptance of the imperial title , he would have " lost face " in the eyes of his coun ? trymen . The better element in China regards him as the strong man who alone can save the country from Japanese aggression . Yet his action may pre ? cipitate the very catastrophe which they have en ? deavored to avoid . As Emperor of China he may be obliged to acquiesce in the terms of Group Five of the Japanese demands presented early in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outstanding between China and Japan . The policy of Yuan and his counsellors may have been deter ? mined by reasons which it is impossible for us at this distance accurately to gauge , but it would ap ? pear to have been wiser had he deferred his decision to some date at which he could have counted upon a more effective balancing of rival interests at Peking . Unless Japan is subjected to unlooked-for pressure from London , Paris and Petrograd , she is not likely to accept without protest this open defiance of her recent polite but nevertheless ominous sug ? gestion that it would be unwise for China at this time to change her form of government . Japan has expressed her determination to preserve peace in the Orient . This peace may be threatened by revo ? lutions in China which Japan in conformity with her declaration will feel called upon to suppress . Should . Japan intervene in China at this time her troops will be permanently established , and Yuan may discover that in endeavoring to save his face he has lost the power which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for shipping in so far as they have been revealed are disappoint ? ing . In place of a courageous and determined policy of public operation of definite steamship routes to subserve definite transportation requirements , it is proposed that the government shall enter tempo ? rarily into the business of shipbuilder and ship-broker , buying or building a certain aggregate ton ? nage of ships and leasing them in large part to pri ? vate parties . What can the administration hope to achieve by such a program ? Certainly not a very substantial increase in the American merchant marine . American shipyards are already working to capacity , and orders placed by the government can only displace vessels that would otherwise be built for private parties . Neither does the program offer a solution to the problem of build ? ing up a class of American seamen . The private lessees of publicly owned vessels will be as helpless in the face of competition with oriental seamen as private owners have been in the past . Even if the administration decides that the government should itself operate some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon as the busi ? ness becomes profitable the government will with ? draw , will itself jeopardize the whole program . The government can not secure a personnel of expert shipping men to conduct a temporary enterprise . Shippers will not dare incur the enmity of powerful established lines by patronizing a government line if it is soon to be discontinued . Nor can South American governments be expected to cooperate in a project to which the United States is not per ? manently committed . pREVIOUS ship purchase bills have lacked at least one good point which the new bill as foreshadowed in press dispatches will introduce . A shipping board is created with regulatory power over all foreign shipping . This marks a distinct progress away from the earlier notion of regula ? tion by government competition , in the direction of a more effective mode of administrative control . But here too the program has serious faults . The board is to be at least in part political , including in its membership two and perhaps three Cabinet of ? ficials . If the Interstate Commerce Commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roads and the public , it has been because its member ? ship has been so largely free from political influence . If the fortunes of a part of the shipping board are to be bound up in the success or failure of a particu ? lar administration , the whole board will be under suspicion . Again , the same board which is to regu ? late private shipping is to own and perhaps to operate the government fleet . Aside from the obvious injustice of subjecting shipowners to regu ? lation at the hands of their immediate competitors , the result must be to divide the allegiance of the shipping board between promoting the govern ? ment 's venture as a shipowner and protecting the shipping public . A separate non-political com ? mission should be given supervision over gov ? ernment-owned ships no less than over private lines . ADVOCATES of stringent regulation of the railways have been unnecessarily alarmed by the paragraph in the President 's message in which he suggests the appointment of a commission to investigate the present legal and economic standing of the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and method of rail ? road regulation as the result of the commission 's work , it would be because the friends of administra ? tive control of the railroads failed to take advantage of the opportunities afforded by the investigation . Perhaps the inquiry is being instigated by people who are seeking a relaxation of government super ? vision , but it need not be allowed to result in any such relaxation . It may , on the contrary , be made to result in a more effective method of national control . The present machinery is as unsatisfactory from the point of view of those who are seeking to make the railroads the agents of the public economic welfare , as from the point of view of those who propose to make the railroads more profitable to their stockholders . The Interstate Commerce Com ? mission is overworked and needs badly a somewhat different organization . It certainly requires per ? sonal representation on the boards of directors of the interstate railway systems . The railroads them ? selves are in favor of federal supervision of the issue of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vexatious and wasteful super ? vision which they are now getting from state com ? missions . In these and many other respects the Whole question as to the proper limits and methods of railway regulation demands reconsideration by an independent public authority . It would remain for the advocates of more regulation , of less regu ? lation , of different regulation , or of national owner ? ship to urge their cases before the commission and secure what support they could for their favorite solution of the existing difficulties . In any event one negative result of the inquiry may be confident . ly predicted . Public opinion would not stand for any backward step in the work of converting the railroads into national utilities . IN a recent reference to the dismissal of Edward McCall as chairman of the New York Public Service Commission of the second district , THE NEW REPUBLIC did Governor Whitman a manifest Injustice . It attributed to him an intention to sub ? stitute for a dismissed Commissioner a man who Would be appointed chiefly because he was willing to use the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Governor 's pre ? vious substitution of a partisan Republican for a very competent and experienced Commissioner , Mr. Maltbie . It has proved to be unfair . Some Politics may enter into Oscar Straus 's appointment as chairman , but its object certainly can not be thedistribution of patronage among hungry but de ? serving Republicans . Mr. Straus is a man who has earned the confidence even of his opponents in poli ? tics . His influence on the Commission will increase public confidence in its disinterestedness . In order to complete work so well begun , what Governor Whitman now has to do is to fill any other vacancies which may come about during his term of office with men whose technical qualifications as public utility engineers are as unexceptional as those of Mr. Straus as an experienced administrator . CHICAGO has once more consulted an expert on the problem of washing its dirty face . It now knows to the last ton how much grime is daily deposited on its virile countenance . It can tell to an ounce the average inhabitant 's ration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atmosphere . But the whole inquiry is fundamental ? ly disloyal and insincere . Everybody knows that in its secret heart Chicago has not the slightest desire to change its appearance . It is not merely inured to dirt . It would feel naked and indecent without it . It is all very well for effeminate travelers to return with emulous tales of New York 's smart ? ness . But Chicago knows better . It has taken years for it to generate a particular tone and flavor . Such things are not lightly parted with . As it is now , the entire Middle West revels in the effluvia of Chicago . It scents it joyously from afar , and young visitors still dream with rapture of walking on the face of the Chicago river . To give this up for insipid cleanliness would be like giving up Pink Marsh for Little Lord Fauntleroy . MUNICH professor of archaeology named von Bissing is reported to have said that one of the principal preoccupations of the German government in Belgium is to make sure that the Americans do not use for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secured over the Bel gians through the latter 's stomachs . Two things about this dispatch are interesting . The first is that the professor is the son of Baron von Bissing , who is Governor-General of Belgium ; the second , that he speaks frankly of a German policy apparently intended to discredit or to weaken the work of the Commission for Relief in Belgium . It is a tribute to the effectiveness of the work of the Commission that the Germans should fear its influence over both Belgian minds and Belgian stomachs , but the tribute is a poor asset from the American point of view . Germany has never understood our philanthropy . She suspects us even when we bear gifts . But what can she do ? Either the relief work must stop , or it must be left where it is at present , in American hands . If the Germans choose to stop it they must take the consequences ; and those consequences , as // they know , will be serious . They can not even prac ? tice a petty but embarrassing interference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the British . There are other parties to the agreement under which the work is carried on than Germany and the Hoover committee . The work must be continued and it must be continued by Americans . It will be time enough after the war to enter into controversies about the effect of the Commission 's work on American and German trade with Belgium . When that time comes , questions about Belgian trade will , we hope , be settled by the Belgians themselves . NO word of ours can add anything to the poign ? ancy of the plea made in the following letter for an immediate and generous response to the needs of the Belgian people . So clear an opportunity to help should appeal to everybody with an open heart and a sensitive conscience . There are , to be sure , many people in the world whose needs and suf ? ferings may be even greater than those of the Bel ? gians , but they can not all easily be reached and the Belgians can . The work of relief in Belgium has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and most ably carried on by an American or ? ganization . Contributions will all reach their mark ; they will not result in pauperization , and they will help a little to make a sorely afflicted people believe in the existence of international sympathy and the possible future reality of international obligations . SIR : May I give two possible answers to the edito ? rial in your issue of December 4th , comparing the generous response of America to the suffering last year with the paltry gifts of to-day , when she as a nation is fattening on the war ? I believe that the many stories of the sufferings of colossal groups of people have dulled our senses . We have lost the power of visualizing the individual in relation to ourselves , and think only in terms of na ? tions , in many cases unknown and far away . This does not fire the imagination to action ; the horrors that two years ago were unknown have lost the power to startle us even spasmodically into acts of unselfishness . I believe also that in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , America stands inactive because confused . We can not help the fifty thousand French ? men with mutilated faces waiting for operations that will make them " sufficiently presentable to look for work . " We wish we had not read the account of the Armenian atrocities , because the story arouses emo ? tions which have no outlet in action . There are so many little children alone in this big world ! One day a young Belgian official called my attention to his white hair . " That turned in a month , " he said , " because I could not find the parents of frightened children , nor the children of agonized parents . " America hears it all , shivers and cries out that the guilty nation must be crushed . For one winter we gave no banquets , limited our Christmas gifts to the children , and knit scarfs at the opera . Now that new nations have been dragged into this hell of suffering America has to a great extent resumed her ordinary life , as though when it is a case of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to act at all . It is strange what a sense of accomplishment is obtained from merely talking . To ridicule those who sail forth in fanatical ships , to scold those who talk prematurely of peace and long to " wipe Germany off the map , " seems to argue to the average American that he has good red blood in his veins . Amidst all this confusion of voices there is one clear and distinct call to America . The destitute in Bel ? gium must have clothes , and only goods from a neutral country can enter . The bales of cloth that were piled high in the central depot at Brussels have been used . The looms are silent , for although the Belgians are a nation of weavers the raw material is gone . The well-to-do in Belgium , like the well-to-do everywhere , have garments on hand . An empty ware ? house does not mean immediate suffering for two-thirds of the people , but one-third ? three million peo ? ple -- are absolutely destitute , and it is these three mil ? lion whom the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At the beginning of the war blankets from the Ter-monde factories , material from all Belgian manufac ? turing plants , cotton sheeting , hats , boots and stock ? ings were collected in the " Pole Nord , " or large skating rink in Brussels , which was turned into a huge department store . Old and new clothes valued at a million and a quarter came from abroad ; the old were fumigated , cut over , and all were added to the stock . All goods in this great storehouse have been in charge of the " Comite Nationale de Secours , " who from this center sent them to local distributing stations where they were given out to individuals to make into garments . Up to July last over $22 , - 000,000 had been given by the Belgians themselves for relief work . Last spring the Commission and National Commit ? tee felt that if the war ended before the second winter , with economical management there was sufficient ma ? terial in Belgium to clothe the people until December , 1915 . Space on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to send any more clothes . Possibly the receipt of hundreds of evening dresses , thousands of white four-in-hand ties , slippers and long gloves , may have hastened the order . Mr. Hoover does not want old clothes now , even though the people of Belgium would gladly use them . The sanitary laws are very stringent ; old clothes might , in this critical game , cause trouble . Even if fumigation could remove danger , the thoroughness re ? quired is too much of a drain on time , space and money . They want material rather than made garments , for the women of Belgium must have work if they are to be kept sane through another year . The strain from the combination of idle hands and hatred in one 's soul is what breaks down the nerves of most prisoners . The most hideous physical aspect that strikes a stranger in Belgium to-day is the inactivity . This was the most highly industrialized state in Europe ; now the factories are silent , and the land in its stillness is terrible . Material from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is the new need of Belgium . The people want shoes . The exact number of pairs , the exact sizes , are given in the book , " Clothe Belgium and Northern France , " that anyone can have for the asking at the Commission for Relief in Belgium , 7t Broadway , New York City . The book tells how many sweaters are needed for boys , how many caps for girls , how many blankets , and exactly where and how to send the pack ? ages from each state in the Union . In a recent letter from Willebroeck , Belgium , the writer says : " The kind of wind that blows across these wet lands below the level of the sea is deadly cold and penetrating , and this weather lasts steadily until into April , with the ground under foot as wet as a sponge and as cold as melting snow . . . . The director of the public school , proud that his school had been re ? opened , told us that every family sends the brightest child to school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wearing a sister 's clothes and some the mother 's ) ; the rest of the children must stay in bed or at most in the house near the stove . They may not come on the street in what clothing there is left . . . There is no begging , and it is against the present etiquette of Belgium to cry . I saw but one woman cry , and that when we gave clothes to her children , and only because she was weak from typhoid fever . " The war has lasted almost too long for this heroic nation . Belgium still believes in America .                     