@@487118

President Taft , as empowered and directed by Congress , has fixed the rates of toll to be charged vessels using the Panama Canal . In this he has been guided by expert advice , and the rates , being virtually the same as those soon to be in force on the Suez Canal , can not be deemed unreasonable . Whether they will , as Prof. Emory Johnson believes , make the Panama Canal self-supporting after twenty years , is open to doubt . There are too many uncertain elements in the problem . The amount of shipping that will seek the Canal , the cost of maintenance and of administration , can not at present be accurately determined . As the estimates of the expense of building the Canal were pushed up from time to time , we suppose that most people came to the conclusion that it can never be made to " pay " as an investment . Nor do we think that the country has been deeply concerned about that . To have carried the vast enterprise through to success , and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be a national achievement into the cost of which patriotic pride will not inquire too narrowly . But the nation has another interest in the matter which the President does not mention in his proclamation establishing the Panama tolls We refer , of course , to the question of exemption from tolls of our own coastwise traffic . Money losses in the operation of the Canal the country can face with equanimity , but if its honor is seriously impugned , that is a matter which ought not to let patriotism sleep . The question whether such a discrimination is not in plain violation of a treaty will not down . Business men as well as public officials see its critical importance . This was shown by the recent action of the New York Chamber of Commerce in voting down a report which sought to dispose brusquely of the contention that the Hay-Pauncefote treaty called for absolutely equal treatment for all ships , including our own This dispute about the due legal interpretation of a treaty is eminently one to be referred to the Hague Tribunal . The United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions If Great Britain asks that the controversy about Canal teals be sent to The Hague , how can President Taft possibly refuse ? In view of his record , we do not believe that he will . But what will the Senate do ? It is generally conceded that President-elect Wilson was wise in announcing an early extra session of Congress ; but the new Administration will have no easy task on its hands . Its difficulties will be three in number . it must so order its programme that its majority at the extra session will agree on the tariff legislation . It must not do too little . It must not do too much That the party would find its position awkward if it made mere pretence of revision , must be apparent to every one . It is committed to thorough revision , not only by its platform but by the speeches of Ife ranclIrint-Pq Hnt nn the other hand , it is also committed , both by platform and candidates , to proceeding with its revision in such manner as to injure no legitimate industry . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common sense and political experience would commend it . The situation may thus seem to be unpleasantly involved . We do not so regard it , however , and for two good reasons In the first place ; the new Congress will be fortunate in having already before it the four tariff-reduction bills  --  affecting the steel , cotton , wool , and chemical schedules -- all of which were drawn with care by the House committee in the , present Congress , all of which passed the House , and all but one of which passed the Senate . Here is a ready basis for the work of the extra session Nothing will hinder the remodelling of any of these measures , and the remedying of such defects as may have arisen from the fact that the tariff bills of 1912 were not expected to run successfully the gantlet of a Republican Senate and a Republican President . Furthermore , when thus resubmitted , these bills are reasonably sure to command the votes of the insurgent Republicans in the upper house . If the party leaders were to be asked why the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the tariff schedules , common sense and political experience would give the answer . No such revision , whatever its character and purpose , ought to be proposed without the most careful Preliminary study of the problem . Nor can it , on the other hand , be safely put through except with constant view to the probable revenue from the altered duties , in its relation to the needs of government . But the new Secretary of the Areasury will not take office until the fourth of March ; his budget of public revenue and expenditure will not be submitted until the ensuing December , and it will even then have to be Judged in the light of the general plans of the appropriation committees . A comprehensive and general plan of tariff revision , as early as March or April , would therefore be subject to inevitable handicap . When to this consideration is added the fact that only with the assembling of the extra session will the Congressional committees be armninterl. end the further fact that the committees which must prepare the tariff bills will consist in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the wisdom of not attempting to do too much in the extra session should be manifest . The " greatest political miracle of the age , " according to the New Orleans Pixies-Democrat , occurred in Louisiana on Tuesday of election week , when in some places more votes were cast on Constitutional amendments , many of them of little importance , than for President . In one New Orleans precinct every voter cast his ballot in favor of nine of the nineteen amendments , and in another every voter but three voted for- the entire batch . Such unanimity arouses suspicion in the mind of the Times-Democrat , which attributes it to a meek following of instructions from ward bosses . Ten of the nineteen amendments were carried , no less than four of which exempt some form of property from taxation . One of these is a glaring illustration of the details with which we load our State Constitutions ; it extends the tax-exemption time of the Pan-American Steamship Company . The amendment receiving the largest vote was one providing for the levying of a tax for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one allowing women to serve on school and charity boards , and one providing for the recall . The Supreme Court 's decision in the Bathtub Trust case is of great importance not only in relation to the particular - question involved , but also as furnishing strong confirmation of the hold of the-law in general on the problem of monopoly . What the Court has done in this case with a plea in defence of immoral monopolistic practices based upon alleged rights of patentees will all the more surely be done with pleas that have no such pretext behind them . The " rule of reason " expounded in the Standard Oil and Tobacco Trust cases is once again shown to be a rule of common sense , looking to the substance of the acts complained of , and not to their mere form . The favorite argument of the enemies of the anti-monopoly law  --  that if truly enforced it would make impossible thousands of contracts and arrangements which every one knows are an indispensable incident of modern business  --  already begins to wear the air of an antiquated , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which are obnoxious to the prohibitions of the law , as it has been interpreted by the Supreme Court in decision after decision , are rapidly becoming plain enough for any person of ordinary honesty and intelligence to recognize without difficulty . The meaning of the announced abandonment , temporary or permanent , of its proposed New England extension by the Grand Trunk Railway of Canada , is not yet clear . But the business men of such cities as Providence and Boston have drawn their inference at once , to the effect that it means surrender of the Grand Trunk management to pressure from the New Haven Railroad , whose monopoly of New England transportation facilities was threatened by the new undertaking . The Grand Trunk , which originally connected Montreal and the Great Lakes , and which is now building westward in Canada to the Pacific , was already connected by leased lines with Portland , Me. , and , by owner ship of the Central Vermont , had an outlet at New London , Conn . Its projected new line , chartered in 1910 as the Southern New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a junction point of the Central Vermont and the Boston &; Albany , to Providence , R. I. A spur of the same line was to run direct to Boston , and another new line was to connect Boston with the north-and-south Grand Trunk line in Vermont One-third of the Providence extension had been already graded , and some $2,000,000 had been spent . Clearly enough , an independent railway system with such connections meant competitive conditions on a considerable scale The version of the abandonment of work given out by Grand Trunk officers may possibly be conclusive . Montreal newspapers quote the president of that company as saying that no fresh offers have been made by the New Haven , and that no negotiations even for a " traffic agreement " are under way . It is also perfectly true that a railway coinpany which places its loans in Montreal or London would not find this a convenient moment , with all the European markets upset by the Balkan affair , to raise large amounts for new construction . Nevertheless , the New England chambers of commerce are justified on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that thorough railway man who , as president of the Grand Trunk , was able to impose his own larger views on timid London directors , went down with the Titanic ; and the suspicion was natural that the New Haven management would seize that occasion , especially when it was followed by an unfavorable market for the Grand Trunk 's loans , to renew its efforts at repressing a formidable competitor . The real situation , whatever it is , can not be long disguised . In advance of conclusive information , all that need be said is that the blocking of this solitary movement for independent transportation service in New England , at a time when the public mind is stirred up in an unusual degree over questions of free competition and monopoly , would have a most unhappy effect . Signs are increasing that city noises are at last becoming too much for even American nerves Something has been accomplished in New York towards reclueing the screech of boat whistles , but that old offender , the trolley car , still . pursues its clattering way . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ propose to get rid of the worst of its Uproar . Looking back over the great improvement in transportation in recent years , he says there is no reason why we should not silence the noise of street cars . The one thing needful , in his opinion , is merely to fix attention upon the problem . When we really care for quieter streets , we shall find methods of obtaining them . What has been attained in eliminating smoke and smell from automobiles ought to be an encouragement to those who are undertaking anti-noise crusades . It is but a short time since a foul odor and a blinding vapor were apparently an essential part of the motor-car . To-day we actually arrest people for driving cars that " smoke , " and Hiram Maxim , jr. , has gone his father one better by inventing a motor-boat silencer . Somewhat disquieting is the account of tenant-farming in the great Southwest which Charles W Holman gives in La Follette 's Weekly . According to him , the standard of living of the tenant farmer has steadily deteriorated and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of wide landlord holdings has spread . Statistics are adduced to support this view . Thus , in Texas , Mr. Holman declares , the ratio of tenanted to owned farms has gone up idecidedIy . In 1900 tenants cultivated 174,991 farms ; owners , 174 , - 639 ; while in 1910 the figures had risen . to 291,106 and 194,993 , respectively . The South as a whole also shows growth of the tenant system . In 1880 tenants cultivated 36 2 per cent . of the total farms , while in 1911 ) they were working 53.1 per cent Mutual misunderstandings between landlord and tenant , the desire of the owner to get a larger return from his acres , accompanied by his unwillingness to follow crop rotation or other modern methods , and a consequent feeling of futility and lethargy on the side-of the cultivator , have combined to make the lot of the under-fed , overworked , and ill-housed tenant farmer a hard one Some of Mr. Holman 's suggested remedies are impracticable , but his picture of the actual conditions appears to be drawn without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with ' the aid of the pharmacopceia is apparently having a rather hard time of it . Long ago he gave up the centre of the stage to the surgeon with his marvellous instruments and daring operations . On other sides he is beset by the serum-therapist , the psycho-neurologist , the hygienist , the dietitian , the sanitarian , and the assorted flying squadrons of faith-healers . White pills and brown mixtures in bottles have fallen into sad repute . The physician who resorts to them falls under the suspicion of being something of a fogey or something of a quack . But , in justice to the old-fashioned general practitioner , it may be pointed out-that a great many of the new fashions in the curative art impress one as being the old methods under new labels . To give anaesthetics nowadays is not enough ; one must give an anmsthetic without frightening the patient " Anoci-association " is the name for this formula of ether + psychology ; but " anoci-association " is strangely reminiscent of the classical - bedside manner , " and psycho-therapy is not unrelated to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a memorial to Charles Lever , in the British cemetery at Trieste , where the novelist , who was consul there , died forty years ago , is proposed by the British chaplain at that port . To the younger generation , the genial Irishman is only a name , if so much as that ; but there are many old fellows to whom this suggestion will recall memories of pleasant hours in the company of a spirited and manly writer . Lever does not abide with us like Thackeray or Dickens ; he was distinctly of the lesser breed of novelists and entertainers . But for this very reason , some of us experience a certain pang in thinking of the clays when he helped to make life pleasant , which we do not feel in relation to the mightier masters The age in which the Harry Lorrequers and the Charles O'Malleys and the Arthur O'Learys sufficed to attract and amuse persons quite as sober and serious as we all are to-day was an easier , a more livable , age than ours for the reading world ; whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is no question that the loss is thei e The simple , hearty doings and sayings of true men , loving and hating and jesting and fighting ; these , with no oppressive burdens of self-consciousness , and no thought of the bearing of their acts upon the salvation of the universe , sufficed to make the farrago of Lever 's books , and we took them at their face value and were grateful . They also serve who thus lighten the burden of the day for thousands . Rows in the House of Commons are no novelty . The Liberals , seven years ago , were guilty of much the same sort of boisterous breaking up of the session as the Conservatives indulged in last week . The rules are inefficient in the matter of dealing with disorder , and the Speaker can do little more than appeal to the gentlemen of England to leave off acting like rowdies . If they will not , his only recourse is to suspend the session . Such proceedings seem almost unintelligible to Americans , who are accustomed to see their presiding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the point of calling in the police , if necessary The English parliamentary tradition would be aghast at such extreme measures . At the very moment of denouncing the Liberals for weakening respect for the House of Commons , the fine flower of Tory chivalry feels privileged to turn it into a Bedlam . But sanity will soon be restored . The Conservatives have had their fling , have once more expressed their scornful contempt for the Ministry , and have displayed their splendid " fighting spirit " Presently , no doubt , the business of the House will be resumed . On a test vote , the Liberals showed that they had a majority of 109 , and the absurdity of maintaining that such a majority shall not be allowed to determine the action of the Commons is too glaring . One of the scandals of English polities has for years been the bestowal of peerages , baronetcies , etc. , upon men who have made large contributions to the party campaign chest Both Conservatives and Liberals have followed this practice , which in essence is not very different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate , or rewarding a man who has come down handsomely for election expenses by making him an Ambassador . But it must be confessed that the conferring of such " honors " by the Liberal party has an incongruous look beside its current de-. nunciation. of the House of Lords , and , gives Tory critics a chance to make fine play about a " Radical Plutocracy " The case is made worse by the fact that a great many wealthy supporters of the Liberal party have been getting their recognition in recent years . The London Nation , though friendly to the Gov- , ernment , complains that the ' distribution of these honors has " never in the history of party " been so " lavish as during the last three or four years . " It admits that some of the men singled out are worthy , but frankly states that of some others , " notably of a recent Privy Councillorship , the less said the better . " Naturally , the Tories are saying more rather than less . Gen. Savoff , chief in command @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's share of praise and fame for the wonderful campaign which the troops under him have made . It is reported that this causes a certain soreness in some Bulgarian military quarters . There it is pointed out that Gen. Savoff ' had been in retirement since 1907 , when he resigned as Minister of War , and resumed active duty only when the recent orders for mobilization were issued . From this it is inferred that he could have had little'to do with preparing the plans for the offensive campaign which he has so brilliantly executed . But this does not necessarily follow , as the Bulgarian staff must have been for years at work on the planswhich have just been carried out . Be this as it may , no one denies that Gen .. Savoff has shown high skill in handling large armies , together with correct and rapid military intuition , and the ability to inspire his men with the determination necessary to strike blow upon blow . Savoff is now undergoing the inevitable comparison with Napoleon . One of his military maxims , the only one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is . " Speed is trumps . " This has surely been illustrated by the swift march of the Bulganans to victory after victory . Gen. Savoff seems , also , to have acted upon that saying of Napoleon : " The general who keeps fresh troops for the day after a battle is nearly always beaten. , You must give your last man to the battle , for the day after a complete victory there are no more obstacles before you . "                     