@@465381

FOR more than two years I have been General Agent of the New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor , the oldest and one of the most extensive organized charities in America . They have been particularly busy years . The financial panic , the crash of innumerable small industries , the universal lull in production , resulting in unemployment so general that at the height of the crisis the New York State Commissioner of Labor reported almost forty per cent . of the skilled workers idle ? this vast economic cataclysm drove thousands , who had never been dependent before , to the refuge of charity . Day after day , month after month , I witnessed the spectacle of strong men compelled by the starvation of their wives and children to submit to the humiliation of accepting alms ; of women whose infants were undersized because they had gone hungry for months before their babies were born ; children barefooted and ragged in the midst of winter , for whom their teachers asked clothing so that they might attend school ; the honorable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no control , to mingle with dissipated and decrepit paupers , with the scrofulous , and those most tragic creatures men and women beaten in the fight for a living , beaten likewise in the fight for the mastery of their own characters , broken , irrecoverably lost , body and soul , begging for help to make one last stand against the almshouse and the Potter 's Field . They formed a grim and melancholy procession . And yet the effect of daily contact with so much human wretchedness was curiously different from what the casual onlooker would logically have expected . Going up and down the hallways and crowded application-rooms , interviewing the workers of the staff , entering the miserable tenements where poverty huddles the poor like stampededsheep , watching the impoverished sick at the public dispensaries , I used frequently to catch myself unawares humming or singing , as heartily as if it were the best and merriest of worlds . I make this confession , because I found that the majority of my fellow workers shared my buoyancy and hope . They went cheerfully about their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ familiarity to the poignant appeal of human suffering , nor indeed because of the qualified satisfaction they derived from alleviating pain , but because they held the conviction that poverty , instead of being a providential lash to the wicked and oil to the lamp of the chosen , is , in fact , a relic of barbarism , man-made and not God-made , unnecessary and preventable . This conviction , so full of inspiration , is almost universal among social workers , as professional philanthropists are called ; it is the central article of their faith ; it lends the distinguishing quality and character to contemporary charitable work . Broadly speaking , it is based upon the fact that we are living in an age of economic surplus , in an age when labor harnessed by science produces more of the necessities of life than the race requires for its bodily sustenance . There is wealth enough in the world , social workers believe , to make successful war on poverty , to abolish unsanitary and brutalizing tenements , to provide labor with food and clothing enough for its physical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furnish opportunities enough to replace general ignorance with general enlightenment . Fortified with this knowledge , they have evolved a programme for the emancipation of the poor . A word about their historical antecedents will help to elucidate both the philosophy and the strategic position of these modern liberators . The earliest charitable records in America reveal a curiously engaging quality of village neighborliness . The communities in which our fathers lived were , like Miss Mitford 's Village , little self-centred worlds where " people knew every one , were known to every one , interested in every one , and authorized to hope that every one felt a corresponding interest in them . " Witness the following delightfully quaint entries made during the seventeenth century in the alms-account book of the deacons of the Reformed Protestant Dutch Church in Albany : " To small beer for the use of Uncle Peter , 1g. 13s . " ; " Jongen de Brouster for wetnursing Aaron Isack 's child , 35g . " ; " To William Brouwer in money 8g. , ler which he pawned 1 pair of white stockings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as if the Good Samaritan himself had ministered to these victims of the thieves of adversity , and had left his pence with the host at the public inn for their comfort . This sunny neighborliness shines out especially in the funeral accounts of the last of the church poor ? Ryseck , widow of Gerrit Swart , who was buried on the 17th of February in the year 1700 . The items set down for the funeral expenses run as follows : " Three dry hoards for the coffin 7:10 ; 34 lb. nails , 1:10 ; nicking the coffin 24g. ; cartage 10s. ; a half vat and an anker of good beer , 27g. ; 1 ga . rum , 21g. ; 6 gal . Madeira for women and men , 94g. ; sugar and cruyery , 5g. ; 150 sugar cakes , 15g. ; tobacco and pipes , 4:10 ; Hendrick Roseboom doodgraver , 30g. ; use of the pall , 12g. ; total , 232 guilders . " Could the wife of the burgomaster have been more handsomely consigned to the grave ? The simple neighborly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or to the beginnings of the industrial revolution in Europe . With the application of steam to manufacture , with the triumph of the factory over domestic production , with the far-reaching social dislocations that these changes brought in their train , the great swarming western migrations began . By the end of the eighteenth century the " foreign element " were like an army encamped in the midst of New York . The facilities for moving the newcomers inland were entirely inadequate , and an increasing number of destitute immigrants were stranded in the seaport town . Conforming to the spirit of the old village tradition , groups of citizens banded together to give aid to these needy strangers , and at the same time public appropriations for poor relief began to mount into the tens of thousands . When one considers the hardships of pioneer life , the exceptional courage and daring that were required to send men and women into the western wilderness , it ( Ines not appear strange that a large number imposed upon the city 's hospitality , menacing with their importunate petitions the unquestioning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ character of neighborly village charity was the extension of the suffrage in 1926 to all citizens , except negroes , without property qualifications . This occurred only a few years after the energetic cunning and astuteness of Aaron Burr had definitely established Tammany Hall as the dominant political power in New York . The enfranchised beneficiaries of public poor relief thus acquired a new status as compliant troopers in political campaigns and offered a constant temptation to politicians to disburse city money with reference to elections rather than to the need or worth of the recipients . These facts largely account for the insistence with which the pioneers in organized charity dwelt upon moral turpitude as the principal cause of pauperism . The theory that people were poor because they were intemperate , thriftless , or lazy was not entirely the product of the aristocratic prejudices of the best citizens of the day . When in 1843 Robert M. Hartley , the father of systematic charity in America . organized the New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor , it was in great measure true that the destitute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either through dense ignorance of their opportunities or through the lack of the moral and physical stamina that led so many of their sturdier fellows to avail themselves of the boundless natural resources that America offered gratuitously to any who were ready to take a hand in building the nation . Writing in 1845 , Hartley deplores the fact that in spite of enlarged public and private provisions for the relief of the indigent , " the streets were still filled with mendicants , the benevolent were harassed with applications , and importunate impostors were constantly obtaining the aid which was designed only for the needy and deserving . " The attitude of mind created by these conditions Hartley expressed in several of the admonitory tracts which , as General Agent of the Association , he addressed to the city 's poor . " Every able-bodied man in this country , " he declared , " may support himself and family comfortably ; if you do not , it is probably owing to idleness , improvidence , or intemperance . . . . You will gossip and smoke , neglect your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drink and carouse. do almost anything rather than work . and expect , forsooth , to be supported by charity . . Some of you in all honesty ask not alms , but work ; but how will you get what does not exist I There are so many more hands than work that by remaining here you are doomed to starve in idleness or subsist by charity . . . To the sober and industrious we say , Stay not here to pine in idleness and want , when the wide and fertile country offers you employment and all that is needful for comfort and elevation . ' " Those who wilfully and stubbornly remained in spite of these admonitions , Hartley and his associated Good Samaritans determined to make the best of " by elevating their moral character and teaching them to depend upon . themselves . " They divided the city into 278 sections , each one in charge of a resident male volunteer ? a member always of one of the best families ? who pledged himself to withhold all relief from unknown persons , to visit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and , by discriminating and judicious relief combined with admonitions to pm-dance , thrift , diligence , and temperance , to help them discover those hidden springs of virtue within themselves from which alone their prosperity might flow . But Hartley and his associates did not limit their activities to personal visitation . Almost all the devices for improving the condition of the poor that arecurrent in our day were devised by them . Hartley was instrumental in establishing free public dispensaries , public baths , and public lectures on personal and domestic hygiene . He devised a cook-book filled with frugal recipes to foster thrift among the poor . He conducted a tenementhouse investigation which , in many respects , is still a model of what such an investigation should be . And he advocated legislation for the control of tenement-house construction . He also inaugurated a milk campaign of the most far-reaching character . But . owing to the prevalent conception of poverty , the inspiration of all these activities was not economic or social , as we understand those terms to-day , but ethical . His milk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the early temperance movement . The customary feed for cattle in the vicinity of New York was distillery and brewery waste ; in feed children on milk taken from distillery-fed cows was , according to his theories , deliberately to breed intemperanee in infants and thus to foredoom them to pauperism . Hartley 's fight was , after all . not so much against an adulterated milk as against the devil , who so delights to lay character waste by planting his agents in the hearts of men . This general point of view still underlies much of our charitable literature , it permeates the appeals issued by most of our charitable societies to-day , and undoubtedly prompts the gifts of a large number of contributors to charitable funds . They give out of pity for those unfortunates who are reaping the whirlwind that Adam sowed , and whose only hope , they believe , lies in regeneration . But even while Hartley and his fellow Good Samaritans strove to maintain the social integrity of their city by ushering the surplus population westward and by reforming the characters of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so largely responsible for the flood of immigration , had overtaken America itself and was ruthlessly overwhelming the simple economic relations upon which the old village neighborliness rested . Local workshops were giving way to factories and mills organized on national and international lines . The centralization of production and distribution resuiting from the development of steam was changing the city from a back eddy of immigration into an increasingly powerful magnet for cheap labor . It had been the hope of Hartley that his methods would effectually banish pauperism . But in 1882 the promoters of the new Charity Organization Society described the situation then existing in New York in the very words used by Hartley thirtynine years before . They complained of a multiplicity of petty and uncoordinated charities , resulting inevitably in great waste of energy , effort , and money , and in the encouragement among the poor of pauperism and degradation . Yet , in spite of the segregation of the rich and the poor at opposite ends of the city , the total disappearance of even such neighborliness as Hartley 's volunteers were able to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place in the economic life of the community , these successors of Hartley still adhered to his interpretation of poverty , and sought to remedy the evils that had stirred them to action . This they did by the enforcement of a more thoroughgoing system of home visitation , by the establishment of a central registration bureau , which , by making the facts concerning all applicants for poor relief available to individuals and societies , would , it was hoped , prevent duplication of effort on the one hand and imposture on the other . It was not until the middle of the nineties that the characteristic and exhilarating point of view of contemporary charity began to make its appearance . Possibly the most important of the many factors that contributed to the intellectual revolution out of which the new conception arose was the economic teaching of Simon N. Patten , Professor of Political Economy in the University of Pennsylvania , a number of whose students have been the leaders in the new movement . Professor Patten taught the heretical doctrine that " the depraved man is not the natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a crushing load of misfortunes , superstitions , and ill-fitting social conventions . " In the course of his illuminating lectures he repeatedly declared that the poor are what they are because of their situation , which gives them no opportunity to express their inherent but suppressed qualities . " We need not work for regeneration , " he writes in one of his books ; " it will of itself flow from the sources we neither create nor control . . . . When sanitation , good housing , and shorter hours of work have generated enough energy to relieve starving faculties , poverty men will adjust themselves as capably as normal men , and will also appreciate culture and morality . " And the creation of this regenerating environment depends to-day , Professor Patten holds , solely upon the good-will of the wealthy and upon the constructive capacity of social workers , because " for the first time in the history of civilization mankind has reached a point where the means of satisfying its needs are in excess of the needs themselves . " By 1879 the segregation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city was already complete . The congestion of population in the regions where the working classes lived had so developed that it was no longer possible for men who were able to devote only their leisure to the task , and who no longer , as in the days of Hartley , lived in the districts in. which they administered relief , to keep themselves familiar with the swiftly growing and rapidly shifting population . Paid visitors were accordingly employed and vicarious neighborliness became a profession . Then as the staff of paid workers grew it became necessary to purchase the services of men of administrative ability , both to superintend the employees and to act as intermediaries between them and the Boards of Managers , who thus became , as it were , capitalists of benevolence . Now it happens that the men who were selected for several of the most important of these administrative positions were the disciples of Professor Patten . It is largely through them that Professor Patten 's interpretation of poverty as the product of adverse environment has come into philanthropy ; and it is their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the old school that has largely determined the character of the programme by which they hope to abolish poverty . The significance of Professor Patten 's interpretation lies in the fact that it transfers the major responsibility for poverty from the individual poor to the wealthy and influential who , as landlords , merchants , bankers , captains of industry , and capitalists , in the last analysis create the environment in which the poor are compelled to live . But these are the very men who have organized and are financing our great charities ! The paid workers have accordingly adopted the assumption that if those who represent the enlightenment , honor , and altruism of the community understood the facts , they would , as stewards of the wealth of society , take the steps necessary to remedy the adverse conditions that produce poverty . Their first task , therefore , has been to convince their employers that the expenditure of money for food , coal , and clothing , rather than for expert service , investigation , and legislation , is wasteful both from the business and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they maintain , is at best a makeshift , the need for which will disappear when the evil conditions ? bad housing , low wages , long hoursare corrected . It is for this reason that the best energies of the paid workers are to-day directed to research and investigation and to framing appeals , based upon facts , to the business intelligence , as well as to the altruism , of their employers , and to the socially and economically dominant group in the community whom their employers represent . The force of their appeal lies not only in the humanitarian hope it holds out , that poverty ' with all its depressing brood of miseries can be abolished by the wise application of surplus wealth to the environment of the poor , but in the pertinent argument that such a course will transform the human waste that is now piled up in culms in our industrial centres into efficient labor and productive energy . The relation of the paid social worker to the stewards of the wealth of society is akin to that which the modern " efficiency engineer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; their major function is to discover the surest scientific means for eliminating waste ? waste in this case not of gold , steel , or lumber , but of human life . To this end they treat the community as a social and economic unit and strive to 1 CXX. ? No. 720. - 104 eliminate poverty ? which is but a term for human waste ? by the application of the altruism and business intelligence of the capitalists of benevolence to the machinery of government . Their ordinary course of procedure is as follows : Collect the facts , lay the facts before a committee of the best citizens , and trust to their altruism to devise means for the improvement of conditions , and to make these means effective through legislation , either national , State , or municipal . In this way one group of paid workers has assembled facts about child labor , and through the organization of national and State childlabor committees has awakened public opinion to the evils of child labor , and has secured the enactment by many States of restrictive laws . Another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the working-day among women , assembled facts showing the evil effects of excessive fatigue upon women , laid these facts before the judges of the Supreme Court of the United States , who , on the basis of the evidence thus presented , declared constitutional the Oregon law limiting to ten hours the working-day among women . In 1898 , three years after Dr. Edward T. Devine , the most distinguished of Professor Patten 's disciples , had become General Secretary of the Charity Organization Society , that society , as the result of facts laid before it by its paid workers , appointed a tenement-house committee ; this committee in turn secured the appointment by Governor Roosevelt of a tenement-house commission , whose recommendations were embodied in a law designed to bring about important reforms in tenement construction , and in a separate municipal tenement-house department created to enforce the law . At the time Alen the law went into effect conditions in the tenements , to quote the first commissioner of the department ? who was likewise president of the Charity Organization Society ? , " were in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; vile privies and privy-sinks , foul cellars full of rubbish , in many cases of garbage and decomposed fecal matter ; dilapidated and dangerous stairs ; plumbing pipes ' containing large holes emitting sewer-gas throughout the house ; rooms so dark that one can not see people in them . " Since then the new law has been in force for seven years . In the forthcoming report of the department it will be shown that of the more than 400,000 rooms that in 1902 had light and ventilation below the legal standard , 39,051 have been equipped with larger windows , and that of the 101,117 totally dark rooms , 43,737 have been opened ? by order of the department . Fifteen thousand new-law tenements have been completed and occupied by upward of a million people . Moreover , the commercialized immorality that formerly infested these homes of the poor has been practically driven out , and the provisions for general sanitation and protection against fire have been to a very considerable extent made effective . Since 1002 the field of social reform , thus sown and cultivated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unprecedented crop of kindred enterprises ? playground associations , committees on the feeding of school-children , committees on amusement centres for working men and women , anti-tuberculosis associations ? all of them looking to the further extension of the social service departments in the city 's human repair-shops . The Good Samaritan is thus being incorporated in government . This far-reaching tendency to develop municipal altruism has inevitably given rise to the cry of " socialism . " In a recent article Mr. Edgar F. Levey , himself chairman of the Committee on the Prevention of Tuberculosis of the Charity Organization Society , has raised a warning voice . To show the extent to which " modern philanthropy is tending to merge into municipal socialism , " he cites a statement of Dr. Edward T. Devine , unofficial dean of the social workers of the country , to the effect that the reformation of the adverse social conditions that produce poverty " can be accomplished only by the resources of legislation , of taxation , of large expenditures , or by changes in our educational system , or in our penal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in our industrial system . " But no charge can be farther wide of the mark . Real socialism , as Doctor Devine points out in the article from which Mr. Levey quotes , advocates a complete revolution in our economic and industrial system , the substitution of cooperative for capitalistic production , distribution , and exchange , on the ground that the fundamental cause of poverty and human misery is the system of exploitation of men by men for profits , which compels employers , even when personally virtuous and benevolent , to rob the workers of the just reward of their labor . Socialism preaches not altruism , municipal or individual , but the democratic , class-conscious political action of the workers , asserting that the emancipation of the workers from poverty can not be bestowed , but must be won by the workers themselves . In direct opposition to this doctrine , Doctor Devine expresses the faith of the social workers that " no industry essential to the common good rests upon child labor , unrequited accidents , and indecent standards of living . . . These things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the profits of exploitation and greed , not the profits of business enterprise and commercial honor . " And he further affirms his belief in the essential wholesomeness of - modern industry , and his conviction that when the thieves and cheats have been hounded out of business , business as it is can still go on . He declares , moreover , that it is contrary to good business sense " to permit typhoid for lack of a filter , er inefficient children for lack of good schools , or criminals for lack of playgrounds , or wayward girls for lack of protection , or exploited childhood for lack of a factory inspector , or industrial accidents for lack of a compensation law or an insurance system . . . There is no more firmly grounded programme than that of social work , " he concludes ; " its natural allies are the financiers , and the sanitarians , and the engineers , and the captains of industry . " By influencing the good-will of the wealthy to the support of this programme , whose most effective instrument is government , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our economic surplus to the masses , and thus through the bestowal of alms , private , municipal , and State , to lift the poor up from their poverty . 