@@430642

p 391 THE revolt against Diaz , with which the present chapter of Mexico 's troubles opens , was a just protest , and being so it was intensely popular . It had its origin in an effort to restrict the arrogant dominance of alien influences in the country . Coupled with it was the cry of the wronged masses against the absorption of vast estates into the hands of a favored few . The story of that aggression of the grafting land barons would make a pathetic history . Now that the foreigner has been almost completely driven out of Mexico , the agrarian problem is almost the only one that the common people think about . Whether the revolutionary leaders and their voluntary followers think of the agrarian question is open to doubt . They are subsisting on revolution . The end of the revolution means for them return to labor , which is less alluring than the excitements of their present adventurous existence . The only conspicuous leader who does seriously erect the solution of the agrarian problem to the hight of an ideal is Zapata @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " He has consistently fought and argued for a re-distribution of the land among the poor , in accordance with his " plan de Ayala . " When other chiefs have sought his cooperation he has been as imperturbable as Pope Leo when the Anglican bishops sought a basis for consolidation of the English and Roman communions . In effect the reply was , " The way lies open ; espouse my standards . " Zapata would be the logical leader if he were of larger intellectual calibre . His limitations of legal knowledge , and his narrow radicalism , however , put him out of the race for large executive authority . A man of great ability and understanding is needed for the reconstruction of the Mexican Government . To be successful such a man must be not only an organizer and a stern administrator , but also a sincere reformer . The agrarian problem must be solved . It can not be solved by the wholesale confiscation which the revolutionary programs proclaim . The measures that must be adopted will seem like half-measures to the simple people , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be theirs . Hence the wisest reform will be unpopular , and only an iron rule can maintain order while the delicate adjustments of equity are being made . An attempt to do it by a truly free and representative government would end in a violent whirl into fresh anarchy . If any man , not a Mexican , can pick out the capable ruler to grasp this situation , he must be a genius in discernment of human ability . The man who can accomplish this political miracle has probably never been seen before in the kaleidoscopic turmoil of Mexican affairs . He is more apt to be some petty lieutenant like the little Corsican who threw undiscriminating grape-shot down the avenue and then reported Paris at peace . The Mexicans must find him for themselves , or he must rise up with the Mexicans clenched in his fists . To hark back to Tagle because he is in line of succession from Madero , would be a folly only comparable with the pitiful fiasco at Vera Cruz . Tagle is a good man ; he would be eminently useful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There are many other such men in Mexico . Ability is by no means lacking among the Mexicans ,  | but genius is always rare , and Mexico needs transcendent qualities in its new ruler . It must not be overlooked that the Mexicans have not that tender regard for the Madero regime that has been accepted at Washington . They are profoundly conscious of the fact that his spectacular capture of a little port of entry opposite El Paso did not drive Diaz from Chapultepec . It was something far deeper than that . It was because the civil government of Diaz stopped . The people refused to obey the orders of the central government . Local self-government , altho still possessing some taint of dictatorial appointment , had become a fact . To that extent had Diaz developed his plans for leading up to a self-governing republic . When these local officials sat stolidly and repudiated the frenzied commands of the cientificos , the machinery of government was paralyzed . It is not without significance that the unhorsing of Diaz was accomplished by a temporary stoppage of the machinery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ started again just as soon as De la Barra assumed control as provisional President . It argues a respect for law and order , and it must not be forgotten that the mass of the people who acquiesced in that almost bloodless revolution are still in Mexico . This is something for the future strong reorganizer to build upon . They elected Madero because he was the only conspicuous man before the people . Then followed a rude jolt to popular confidence when an obedient Congress voted some 800,000 pesos out of the national treasury to recoup the President 's brother for outlays in the revolution , while other claims were conveniently shelved . It was this that helped to render Orozco 's rebellion possible , precipitating one new movement after another until a horde of people had tasted of the maddening wine of brigandage and loot . Nevertheless , the great mass of the Mexican common people are not engaged in revolution . It is doubtful whether those in arms , including office holders and their adherents , constitute twenty-five per cent . of the adult male population . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or flight . They are struggling against starvation as best they can . By virtue of a sort of freemasonry , born of mutual want and desperation , they ingeniously protect each other in cattle raids for the sake of food , and in the hiding and surreptitious distribution of the necessaries of life , so as to exist despite the ruthless ex actions of the officials . Their disposition toward the foreigner is not inherently unfriendly ; many of them will even protect the hated Yankee as far as they can if he happens to be a personal friend . These people ? probably seventy-five per cent of the Mexican population ? are the hope of the future . The trades people are almost wholly on their side . The cultured Mexicans , now almost entirely expatriated , include a large proportion whose habits of mind and whose purposes are equally pacific . Given an opportunity , the conservative element , according to its light , would endeavor to hold in check the friends of anarchy . Thus it would seem that , so far as a foreign power can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its most useful function would be to place an absolute embargo upon all munitions of war , both by land and sea . Our administration at Washington has had glimpses of this truth , but its policy has been vacillating , and the orders of one day have been reversed the next . To render such an embargo effective an adequate patrol by land and sea would have to be maintained , and the force of inspectors at border ports of entry , and at shipping points where vessels clear with cargoes for Mexico , , would have to be greatly augmented . It is even possible that for a time an absolute blockade would be necessary in order to prevent the surreptitious shipment of arms and ammunition . All thinking Americans who are interested in Mexico , have been in full agreement with President Wilson that armed intervention would be deplorable , but they have been equally condemnatory of the policy which he has pursued in order to avoid it . He has undertaken to dictate what Mexico should or should not do , and he has always followed his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not resort to arms . Even his last call for peace and order , backed by a halfhearted cooperation of the A B C powers , was nullified by the same stupid blunder . In the very beginning of the revolutionary disturbances a simple demand for the observance of the treaty rights of our citizens in that Republic , unaccompanied by public comment or explanation of future purposes , would have produced results . Americans of wide experience in Latin America are quite used to going about their business while revolutions rage around them . As a rule it has been necessary merely to keep under cover when the political storm was central over the particular spot where one happened to be . When the battle was over doors reopened and the routine of business was resumed . The American was not spat upon , jailed , shot , or driven away . The pusillanimity of our government has made us despised by the Mexicans as a race of weaklings and cowards , until at last we have come to such a pass that a simple manly insistence upon treaty rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has long gone by . President Taft made the initial mistake in adopting a policy of temerity . President Wilson then had the chance to assert a proper standard of national dignity , and he sacrificed his opportunity . The conquest of Mexico in itself would be no light affair . In the beginning our unseasoned troops would meet with discouraging defeats . At the sound of the war trumpet factions will disappear , and every Mexican will fly to the colors , burning with patriotic ardor to repel the invader . The women are as intensely patriotic as the men , and would take their part in the struggle . The notion that Mexicans are disloyal and cowardly is a superstition grown out of boastful tales of Texas rangers . The true spirit of the Mexicans is better illustrated in the siege of Tomochic , a mountain town in Chihuahua , some years ago , when Diaz was compelled to make an example of his authority in quelling a revolt against the tax levies . It was a place of only 500 inhabitants . The first body of rurales sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invested the town , and it took a week to capture it with the aid of two field guns that battered down the larger buildings . When the troops entered and searched the wreckage , the oldest survivor was a girl of thirteen , and the little children kicked and clawed their captors like wild-beast cubs . It would require a large army to subdue and garrison the country . An era of unexampled graft in the subversion of Mexican land-titles would ensue , which would be as a mountain to a molehill compared with the disgraceful land-grabbing that followed the annexation of theSouthwest . It would be so monstrous as to corrupt the whole nation . The assimilation of so large a population of aliens would present other problems of the gravest character . Conquest and annexation are undesirable and unnecessary . Until we have tried ' a simple embargo upon all that can contribute to the dominance of a few by force in Mexico , we have not exhausted the peaceful and dignified means at our disposal for ending the Mexican trouble .       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     