@@487203

THE safe arrival of another contingent of our troops in France gives us further reason for congratulation on the excellent work of our transport service . Thousands of troops and tons of material moved and not a soldier , and apparently not a ton of supplies , lost , constitute a remarkable record and show conclusively that U-boats can be completely foiled if enough precautions be taken . That similar success in protecting our merchant ships and those of England has not attended the efforts of the English and American navies must be ascribed to the fact that there simply are not war vessels enough to convoy and protect them all . The achievement recorded not only furnishes ample evidence that we can continue to move troops and supplies three thousand miles across the seas without fear of appreciable loss , but also indicates a very bright future for the Anglo-American campaign , generally , against the submarine danger . What can be done absolutely for a limited number of vessels will , with expansion of shipbuilding , eventually be done for the great mass of cargo carriers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the Reichstag a memorial protesting against a general truce . The reason given is that it " would work to the advantage of England . " Now , the Fatherland party is made up of the high and mighty imperialists and militarists of Germany . It was founded and is backed by men like the grim von Tirpitz , whose motto is to demand everything and yield nothing . They were alarmed at the conciliatory tendencies of Bethmann-Hollweg , and attacked , as they are still attacking , the resolution of the Reichstag declaring for peace without annexations or indemnities . That resolution , they assert in their memorial , is " no longer consonant with the present situation . " It is , then , this group of fire-eating extremists in Germany that opposes the Government in the matter of an armistice on the ground that it would benefit the enemy . There is no denying that Germany has furnished more than excuse enough for universal skepticism . The fact remains , however , that we can not refuse even to consider news from Germany . It is our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with known facts , and is in accord with the general verdicts of human reason ; but if we find it meeting the standards of credibility , then we are bound to believe it and act upon it . In the present instance the task is easy , for it requires only a slight examination of the precedents and rules relating to an armistice to show that the , Fatherland party is , from its own point of view , quite right . A general armistice , such as the Russian acting Government is proposing , might in actual fact be disadvantageous to Germany . It would be so if the suspension of military and naval operations for , say , two or three months were not followed by a peace , but by a renewal of the fighting . THE great reason for this is that an armistice does not lift a blockade . It suspends military operations . The troops must not undertake any aggressive action . But the holding of the existing lines is contemplated , and the line held by a blockading navy is kept intact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than can the front of the army . The leading historic example is the armistice in the Crimean War . It was signed February 25 , 1856 , and provided that the troops on both sides should retain their positions and undertake no offensive . But it also agreed that " the blockades were not to be affected thereby , though no act of hostility was to be committed by the naval forces . " It needs no arguing that an armistice of that kind , with war to be resumed afterwards , would be seriously injurious to the German cause . The German submarines would have to be called off . Yet no merchant vessels could get through the blockade to carry supplies to German ports ! All that Germany might do , pending the armistice , to strengthen and equip her forces for the event of a resumption of hostilities , would be outdone by England and the United States in the interval . The matter is too plain for dispute . A general armistice , along the accepted lines , would almost surely work out to the advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imagine that any armistice of that kind can be or will be concluded . Neither side will go into it blindfold . If hostilities are suspended , it will be only in the expectation of a peace conference , and only after the chief terms of peace have been unofficially agreed upon . The German Foreign Secretary was correct in stating that peace congresses have usually known in advance what conditions would be assented to by one side and the other . He intimated that there are ways of finding out now . Possibly some light will be given by the negotiations between the German authorities and the Bolsheviki . This affair is not so simple for the German Government as it might seem . Lenine and Trotzky are putting blunt questions to the German authorities . Will they agree to the Russian formula of peace without annexations or indemnities ? If not  --  if too much is demanded  --  the Russian Revolutionists may go back to start a sort of infuriated crusade against autocratic Germany . Even if an agreement could be reached as regards the Russian frontier , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stipulation also of Austria  --  that the armistice shall be declared on all fronts . That could be done only by consent of all the other belligerents ; and there is no possibility that it will be given unless some understanding is reached running far beyond an armistice . THE brief abstract of the treaty by which Italy was brought into the war , published by Lord Northcliffe on Friday , shows that Italy demanded a high price . It included not only the Trentino and ? all of Dalmatia , but Istria and certain Greek islands as well  --  a handsome price for serving democracy and combating German militarism , and one in shining contrast with the entirely unselfish spirit with which the American people entered this war under Mr. Wilson 's leadership . Unfortunately , these territorial advantages offered to Italy were not based on ethnological or historical reasons , and their acquisition by Italy would inevitably mean further dissatisfaction and unrest  --  additional grievances making for future wars . But most interesting of all is Article 15 of the treaty , which reads as follows : France , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italy in her disallowing representatives of the Holy See to take any diplomatic steps for the conclusion of peace or regarding matters pertaining to the present war . From this it appears that France and Great Britain must have been delighted to have President Wilson answer the Pope 's note for them , since they were pledged in advance to disregard the Pope 's appeal for peace , no matter how just or helpful or well advised . THE Government might be thought already to have a sufficiently firm grasp of all trade affecting America . It controls all our exports , it exercises under the Trading with the Enemy act the closest supervision over commerce of even indirect benefit to Germany , and its system of bunker licensing gives it practical authority over neutral or Allied vessels making long voyages to touch at our ports . Yet now there comes a Presidential order for a licensing system controlling imports . The first list of articles placed under Federal authority is somewhat curious . Of a half-dozen of the bulkiest of our imports it includes sugar , but not coffee , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or sulphur ore . The system can be used to stop the importation of luxuries in place of necessities , but that can not be the leading motive . Its principal utility will be in legitimate warfare against firms in neutral lands having a certain German complexion , and in bringing legitimate pressure upon the many neutrals that value highly their export trade to America . Lands which have it in their power to do us favors or disfavors will have a new motive for choosing the former . A S in so many other lines of industry , so in the railindustry , it is highly advisable to preserve cool and sane judgment while discussing the various emergency expedients adopted or proposed because of war conditions . In particular , talk of the danger or desirability of Government ownership of the railways appears to us much beside the point . Intervention of the Government in the matter of distributing and handling railway freight was a necessity of the situation . But the necessity would not be met by actual public ownership , even supposing such a thing to be possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conceive of the Government incurring the prodigious financial burden which would be involved , on top of its other burdens . So far as subsequent legislation is concerned , the experience of the day has pointed to Federal charters of the railways more than anything else , and to more elastic procedure in the matter of determining changes in rates . But to argue , as we observe is occasionally done , that the Interstate Commerce act ought itself to be repealed out-of-hand and for all time , is to descend to nonsense . SUCH proposals ignore in most extraordinary fashion what the Interstate act has accomplished in the way of putting an end to the desperate wars of competitive rate-cutting which , under the previous era of unrestricted rate-making , had reduced the managements to despair . The New York Times tells us that " the troubles of the railways have been progressive ever since the Supreme Court in the90 's overruled the lower Court 's decision that railways were not subject to the Sherman law . " Now , without arguing for the moment the question whether that law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and ignoring equally the danger which that law averted , of perpetual control of competing railways by groups of men who did not own them , what may we say of the subsequent history ? The Trans-Missouri Association decision was handed down in March , 1897 . At that date , one-fourth of the country 's railway capitalization was just emerging from receivers ' hands . What happened in the ensuing decade , when it seemed as if home and foreign capital were buying into the properties at any price , can scarcely have been forgotten . In 1897 , not quite 30 per cent . of outstanding railway stock was paying dividends ; in 1913 , despite an immense increase of stock issues , 66 per cent . of the whole was on the dividend-paying list ; and meantime the average rate on dividend-paying stock had risen from 5.43 per cent . to 7.97 . Few well-informed people deny the need of some changes in public policy towards the roads . But let us not misrepresent history . HE healing hand of the American Red Cross is felt 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ felt most of all in France . The first semi-annual report of the War Council shows that up to November 1 the total appropriations for expenditure in that stricken country reached $20,600,000 , comprehending great sums for civil relief as well as military work with the Allied and American troops , and that the plans for expenditures up to May 1 next call for a total of $40,000,000 . England , Russia , Rumania , and the Armenians and Syrians have received more than a million each , which with smaller expenditures elsewhere carries the total in Europe and Asia outside France above $7,250,000 . The expenditures made in the United States , amounting to about $11,000,000 , and the costs of administration bring the grand total already to nearly half of the $88,000,000 collected , and explain the warning of the Red Cross that before May it will be necessary to call upon the nation for a generous replenishing of resources . The membership of 5,000,000 which the Red Cross now boasts should materially assist in the campaign for more money , and help make reduplication of the fund of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the clearest evidence of carefulness and good judgment in the work done under Mr. Davison and his associates . WETH the need of saving coal greater than ever , advocates of the Daylight Saving bill , which passed the Senate last summer but was blocked in the House , are preparing to make every effort to obtain its enactment this winter . The weight of argument behind it is fairly overwhelming . Twelve European countries , including England , France , Italy , Germany , Austria , Denmark , Holland , and Sweden , with Australia , have adopted a similar measure ; and England alone computes her saving in coal at 300,000 tons . The development of small-scale gardening or farming , the promotion of outdoor recreation , the more natural day , are all reasons for the innovation , and it is not believed that even those countries which undertook it purely as a war-economy measure will return to the old uniformity in summer and winter hours . The measure has been endorsed by President Wilson , by the whole Cabinet , by the Advisory Commission of the Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and by the Chamber of Commerce of the United States . TN one detail , the initiative and referendum amendment I adopted by the Massachusetts Constitutional Convention for submission to the voters next autumn is more radical than that adopted by any other State : it requires only 15,000 signatures to compel a referendum upon a law , 20,000 to initiate a law , and 25,000 to initiate a Constitutional amendment . Most States that have direct legislation require the signatures , not of an absolute number of the voters , but of a percentage of them . The smallest percentage so required is 5 . Even radical Oregon requires 8 per cent . for Constitutional amendments . But conservative Massachusetts is proposing to demand the signatures of at most 5 per cent . of her present voters , and as they increase , the percentage , of course , will drop . An offset to this low percentage is the requirement that not more than one-fourth of the signatures may be obtained in any one county . But the great check upon hasty Constitutional changes lies in the provision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Legislatures . This provision distinguishes Massachusetts from other States having " direct " government . In addition , several matters are excluded from the initiative on Constitutional amendments . These include measures relating to " religion , religious practices , or religious institutions , " while the independence of the judiciary is carefully guarded by excluding from the operation of the initiative any measure relating to " the appointment , qualification , tenure , removal , recall , or compensation of judges ; or to the reversal of a judicial decision ; or to the powers , creation , or abolition of courts . " The Convention , having thus disposed of the most discussed subject before it , will meet to finish its work next summer , after which the initiative and referendum amendment will probably be the central issue of a lively campaign . GOV . McCALL 'S letter to the Governor of West Vir- ginia in its complete form is a notable state document , being nothing less than a classic upon the subject of justice to the weak . It is as strong upon the particular considerations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negro Johnson as it is upon the great principles concerned . The charge that a threat was made by the representative of West Virginia that if Johnson opposed his return , he was likely to have his " neck stretched , " Gov . McCall declares , " imposed upon us a new responsibility for a careful and vigilant investigation , " an investigation that resulted in " unequivocal " advice against the return . Gov . McCall also points out that " failure to honor a requisition is no new thing , nor does it constitute any affront to a State , " adding : " We welcome any just criticism by the authorities of other States as tending to improve the quality of our jurisprudence . " But his great service is in placing this case in its proper perspective by centring attention upon the real issue at stake : Contempt of the law does not concern the black race alone , but it profoundly affects all our people . It has shown itself in one State with great ferocity against the Jews ; in another State against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another against those who come from Japan ; and there is no important race in our population whose members have not been made the victims of its vengeance . It was Gov . McCall who made a thought-provoking revision of a popular phrase by suggesting that democracy should be made safe for the world . He is as happy and as forceful in almost his last sentence in this letter : " When we are nobly contending to make the world safe for democracy , she West Virginia can help us show our spiritual fitness for the task by leading the way to make America safe for common justice . " THE sketch of the life of William E. Chandler in " Who 's Who , " vised , of course , by himself , is silent upon the years between 1867 and 1881 . Yet his most powerful stroke was his prompt action on the night of the election of 1876 , when , hearing from a newspaper friend how the returns looked , he telegraphed Republican leaders in Florida and Louisiana not to be in a hurry about conceding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no political position , having resigned as secretary of the Republican Committee before the campaign , but he had taken an active part in the canvass , was well known , and had come to New York to hear the result . It might have been possible to seat Hayes in any case , but Chandler 's strategic move was unquestionably of enormous importance in facilitating that perilous operation . His services in creating what used to be called the " new navy " are less familiar , the credit for that development usually being given to the late William C. Whitney . He was a picturesque rather than an altogether admirable figure , more representative of old-time than of present politics , and a proof , along with Zachariah Chandler of Michigan , Jerry Simpson , of Kansas , and Tillman , of South Carolina , that one may live almost anywhere in this country and yet make oneself the cynosure of all eyes . HE private conversation of great men is always a fas- cinating cinating subject of speculation . Who would not have given his old shoes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gladstone talking to James Russell Lowell ? Fancy getting a first-hand account of what Lincoln actually said to Lord Hartington , or President Roosevelt to E. H. Harriman . But all such interviews are cast into the shade by the hour and a half which Judge Hylan last week spent in the sole company of Charles F. Murphy . What interchanges of wit must have taken place ! So charmed was Judge Hylan with the interview that he was unaware how the minutes slipped away , with the reporters anxiously waiting beyond the closed door . " With thee conversing , I forget all time , " he must have murmured apologetically to the departing Tammany boss . The two men displayed the most delicate consideration for each other . When Murphy came out he was mum to the newspaper men . He could not say what had been talked about . As well expect him to repeat what President Wilson said to him at his single interview in the White House . The high courtesy of perfect confidence must be observed between Murphy and the Mayor-elect . If anything at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it must be by " the man inside . " But this phrase seemed a little later slightly jarring to the fine sensibilities of Murphy . So he telephoned to the reporters to say that he meant no shade of disrespect to Judge Hylan , and really intended to say " the Mayor inside . " The punctiliousness of a high-bred gentleman demanded no less of him . Besides , if there is to be a break between Tammany and the next Mayor , it is best to defer even the appearance of such a misfortune for good government .                     