@@486770

It is strangely true , as Mr. Finck observes , that there was no English - work on Massenet until the publication of the-present volume . It is equally true that there was no widespread interest in the creations of the French Puccini till the indefatigable Oscar Hammerstein , seeking material with which to infuse individuality into his seasons at the Manhattan Opera House , hit upon the happy idea of giving Massenet 's operas in a characteristically Parisian manner . Mr. Finck is justified in his assertion that the few scattered performances of " Werther , " " Manon , " and one or two other of Massenet 's operas at the Metropolitan Opera House never focussed public attention upon the peculiar manner of this interesting French master . The presentation of " Manon , " in the days when Jean de Reszke made an enchanting melodic personage of the Chevalier des Grieux , was one in which the work , as a whole , was prostituted to the office of glorifying two or three singers . There was something like real pathos in the one appearance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her flitting across the operatiC stage cast but a momentary shadow upon the glamour that went with the name of Jean de Reszke . Later , we heard the opera with other prime donne , but none of them even faintly suggested the real Manon . Mr. Finck is most amiable in his ? comments on the present-day representatives of Marion and des Grieux at the Metropolitan . With all his kindness , he must feel in his heart that it is not an ideal French conception of the work that IS offered to the public . He doubtless felt this when he - was impelled to ' write comments showing that he placed the productions of Oscar Hammerstein above those of the Metropolitan Opera House . There can be no question that the juster appreciation of the value and the character of Massenet 's operas dates from the night when Mary Garden revealed to New York her ravishing Thais . Mr. Pluck ' recognizes the artistic im1 ortance of this incident and very properly accords to Hammerstein 's , productions of Massenet 's works the first posit tion in his volume @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end reserves for the final part of his book consideration of those operas - which are not yet known to the American : public . - The plan of the present book is simple and direct , and the work will undoubtedly serve excellently its purpose . Mr. Finck , by reason of his warm sympathy with the French school - of opera and his high admiration for some of its leading interpreters , was precisely fitted to produce a book of this type . WrthOutdoubt , he could have subjected Massenet 's art to a more searching and  -- cliscriininating criticism , had he po chosen to do ; but . it is obvious that this , would haVe been outside the scope pg ( his 7 present volume , Thich is designed as a ' help to further public . understanding Of the nature and beauties Of these charMing ' operas . It is pleasant to find that he has not hesitated to pay a proper tribute ' to such imperSonators of Massenet 's people as Mary Garden , Dahnores , and Renaud . Nor has he forgotten how much the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cleofonte - Campanini , a conductor wonderfully free from racial cr national prejudice and narrowness of view . ' Perhaps in the final estimate of things musical , whenever that shall be made , it will appear that Mr. Finch has not laid too much stress on the greatness of Maurice Renaud . In the lyric world , he is , indeed , a splendid artistic figure . His interpretation of the monk Athanael ought to live in operatic history as one of the most pathetic and poignantly tragic creations . Its perfect counterpart was his assumption of the role of the Friar Cook is " Le Jongleur de Notre Dame , " an exquisitely poetic piece of human comedy , of which the gentle humor and fathomless sweetness of temper will assuredly remain perennially clear in the minds of thoughtful lovers of opera . ? A. few years ago Richard Strauss announced that he would write no more orchestral tone poems , but would confine himself to the operatic field He has done so , yet he finds time meanwhile to dash off an occasional song . Melody is scarce in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wullner type to make them palatable . Strange to say there has been hitherto no collection of the Strauss lieder This want is now supplied by " Forty Songs by Richard Strauss , " just published by the Oliver Ditson Company . In accordance with the plan of the Musicians Library , to which this volume belongs , James Huneker , being the foremost American champion of Brahms , was engaged to select the songs and write an introduction ; but why did he devote eight columns to that composer 's career and his orchestral works and less than two columns to his songs ? As a measure of their value this may be just , but in a special collection of these ' songs , and the first one , too , ' one would " have welcomed more copious comments from one so well-informed and so enthusiastic  --  one who finds that Strauss is , in these lieder , " the patient , curious master of miniatures , the ivory worker of exotic shapes " ? a characterization that seems more applicable 