@@486103

The condition upon which Mr. ' Roosevelt will accept the regular Republican nomination for President in 1916 , as stated by his campaign secretary of 1912 , is simplicity itself . All that the party of total depravity need do is to " purge " itself . Purge , says Mr. Martin , is the Colonel 's own word . This is not the Herculean labor that one might think Let the Colonel be named , and , ipso facto , the party is purged , black is white , the party of piracy is the party of social justice . We should not be surprised if this view of the matter had already occurred to the agile standard-bearer of the Progressives . Nor would acceptance of the nomination be desertion of the Progressives . The country has not so soon forgotten the inspiring scene when settlement workers joined with bosslets in the strains of " Everywhere he leads me I will follow on . " How can you desert a party that proposes to cling to your coat-tails ? The fact that in a number of directions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the almost complete absence of alarmist talk concerning the operation of the new tariff . The general judgment of business men is to the effect that the tariff has played little if any part in bringing about the conditions in question , and that the return of full activity is to be expected in the ordinary course of things , with the tariff just as it is . This feeling is not based on an examina tion of the figures of foreign commerce , but on an appreciation of factors affecting businesswhich have no relation to the tariff ; and , indeed , the figures for the brief period since the new tariff law went into effect Can not furnish any solid basiS for inference . Such as they are , however , they offer no temptation for exploitation by any who might feel inclined to use them to point an alarmist moral . As Secietary Redfield says , in commenting on them , " the flooding of our markets with the alleged cheap wares of Europe has not happened . " ports for October , the first Merin Untity than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happens that exports greatly increased . Incidentally , it is worth while to mention that , according to the doctrine that passed current in high-tariff circles during a period of a dozen years and more after the panic of 1893 , business gets knocked in the head by a reduction of the tariff long before the law is passed ; and perhaps the failure of the thing to show any signs of going off on time this year may account for the sobriety of the protectionists in the present circumstances . This is most gratifying news that comes from Washington in relation to the Administration 's policy as to segregation . Just how much has been done towards restoring the situation as it existed before the unfortunate move was made which introduced an offensive distinction between negroes and whites where none had existed is not yet quite clear ; but it seems plain that the word has gone forth that the segregationists must take the back track . In one important office , it is stated , the separation of the races has come to an end already , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all along the line . We trust that all this will soon take the shape of an accomplished fact ; and we do not hesitate to say that in performing this act of justice and humanity , President Wilson will not only have the approval of his own conscience , but will distinctly and notably strengthen himself with the people of the whole country . The courage and right-mindedness which would be shown in a complete wiping out of his error would more than redeem the original fault . - Penny wise and pound foolish is the policy of road-building in most parts of this country . Its folly is now ranch more apparent than formerly , owing to the coming of the automobile . Indianapolis , for example , is Waking up to the fact that it has been spending thons'andS of dollars on maintenance of roads which are always fast approaching 1 ( et the county in which is situated Detfoit , the home of the automobile industry , manages to keep itsteu to twenty-five dollars a mile a year . This is to be placed in contrast with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mile expended in New Jersey , New York , and Massachusetts . The explanation is stated to be that the Wayne County ( Detroit ) Commissioners have the wisdom and the courage to put $15,000 into every mile of new road , building it of concrete , and thereby virtually wiping out maintenance cost . Even Detroit can hardly have the traffic of some other portions of the country , but its course in road-building could be followed with profit in many places One important element in it is the continual study of the roads built , with the result of great improvements in the concrete structure . In explaining South Carolina 's indifference to woman suffrage , the Columbia State makes a striking confession regarding the misuse of manhood suffrage in that commonwealth . The State has about 330,000 men of voting age . But " the central and principal policy of our politics is the exclusion of 165,000 of these possible voters from the polls because they are negroes . " Worse remains behind , however , in the use the white voters themselves make of the franchise . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that in recent years we have failed to conduct a white man 's primary free from fraud and corruption . . . . We lack either the intelligence or the courage to prosecute bribe-takers and bribe-givers . OUr corrupt-practice laws are honored in the breach . We have so far neglected to arrange a party enrolment that is even a reasonable check On illegal voting and ideating . " The discouraging elebient in the situation is that the primaries were once conducted honeStly ; their debauching is a recent development . If there be " treason " in the State 's frankness , it is the kind of treason that it behooves honest voters to make the most of . - Advocates of the army canteen who have asserted that nothing but the sale of beef and light wines in army posts would reduce drinking in the service and its corollary , venereal digea6e , inb their eyes when they read SeCi  --  tari Garrison 's first annual " report . The . rate for alcoholism with troops serving in the United States was , he says , lower in 1912-13 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the war year of 1898 . As for venereal disease , last year Secretary Stimson reported that the American army 's record was " shameful beyond that of the army of any other civilized nation " ; this year , Secretary Garrison says , the admission rate to hospitals for venereal disease has been reduced to less than one-half of the average annual rate for the five preceding years . What has worked these miracles ? Chiefly a simple little law passed by Congress stopping the pay of officers and enlisted men incapacitated for duty by reason of drink or shameful disease . This legislation went into effect on September 12 , 1912 , and therefore affected but nine and one-half months ; a still more favorable showing is expected for the year 1913-14 , particularly as the army medical authorities haVe bestirred themselves and have lent valuable aid by a campaign of education and of compulsory prophylaxis . Army opinion is turning more and more to the abolition of isolated army posts , those costly suburban villages whose very isolation and restraints make for restlessness and disorder . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see our troops placed in barracks in cities , precisely as is the case in Europe and England . Then the canteen problem would solve itself , and if the men drank more than Was goad for them in the saloons of the town , the punishment could be of the sternest . Human nature is the same the world over ; if German and French and British troops can be made to behave amid urban temptations , ours can similarly be controlled , unless our officers are unequal to the task . The dedication of " Grundy County 's new $80,000 court house " in northern Illinois is noteworthy for the sort of political discussion of which it was made the occasion . Twelve words sufficed for the actual dedication , but the main part of the speechmaking was concerned with some of the most important issues of the day . Ex-Speaker Cannon spoke against the initiative and referendum , the recall of judges and decisions , Presidential ' primaries , and the direct election Of President ; A. representative of . Gov . Dunne spoke in favor of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recall of judges and decisions . Neither appeals to partisanship nor personalities were indulged in . Surely , this is the stuff of which public opinion is made . There is appropriateness in such a discussion in the State that had the privilege of hearing the Lincoln-Douglas debates , and no reason exists , except the unwillingness of speakers , why the same kind of thing should not be more frequent everywhere . If there were any marks of irritability in the speech of the New Haven 's new president before the Railway Business Association in New York , they are easily comprehensible in the light of contemporary events . But there can be no doubt that President Elliott 's statement of the case of the railways against the Government in the matter of remuneration for the carrying of the mails is well founded . His protest against the prevailing method of fixing remuneration on the basis of weighings made once in four years is by no means so forceful as his explanation regarding the parcel-post problem The four-year arrangement is one that has long been in effect , and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be assumed to have worked justly in the long run . A normal increase in mail traffic during these four years was assumed and presumably discounted in advance . But no such sudden increase as that occasioned by the parcel post was contemplated , and there can not be the least doubt that the railways should be compensated proportionately , nor that they will be . Postmaster-General Burleson has already spoken out to that effect , and Congress will be urged to make the necessary appropriation . To charge " deliberate fraud " by the Government is absurd . - The simultaneous award of two Nobel prizes  --  the year 1912 was not a year for friends of peace to rejoice over ? to a statesman in the person of Elihu Root and to a professor of international law , is in accordance with precedent . In both cases the prize has been worthily bestowed . Some day , however , it is to be hoped that the administrators of the Nobel Fund will depart from the custom of choosing between professors of law and high officers of state and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have hitherto been unrecognized . We refer to a man like Dr. Karl Liebknecht , whose exposure of the intimate relations existing between gun manufacturers and army officials affords an excellent insight into the workings of armament politics . Or the Nobel Fund directors might reward the enterprising reporter or special correspondent who. procured the other day for the Paris . Maim copies of the secret treaties between Bulgaria and Servia , in which the shrewd and unscrupulous game played by the great chancelleries of Europe on the eve of the Balkan War is brought to light . It is an open question whether such disclosures of the commercial and diplomatic wire-pulling that drives nations into " inevitable " and sanguinary wars , are not as powerful an agent for peace as the books of professors of international law or the acts of statesmen . It must be assumed that the person , or persons who sent out the false wireless reports of a fire on the steamer Rio-Grande thought they were doing no more than playing a practical joke They could hardly have been so deliberately inhuman as to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not at all impossible for just such a hoax to cause destruction of life and property . Suppose that another- vessel had actually been on fire or in distress , and sending out wireless calls for help . These calls might have failed to reach the vessels racing towards the Rio Grande , owing to their getting out of range of the messages ; or they might have believed their first duty to be on behalf of the steamer first summoning their aid . Indeed , the calls sent out as a hoax would be likely to picture an especially dangerous condition , such as to lead a vessel to turn its course in the direction of the ship that did not require help rather than in the direction of the one that did . The le-ast that the Government can do is to make the thorough investigation that is promised ; but surely no one ' Operating the wireless " for fun " will indulge in pranks of this sort , if he once realizes the peril in which he may be placing whole shiploads of human beings . Members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the novelty immensely . Robert Burns 's famous prayer has been answered . The gift has been given us to see ourselves as others see us . If society has enjoyed the revelation , it is to be congratulated . It is not always that the sight of one 's own unfamiliar profile or the sound of one 's unfamiliar voice is conducive to satisfaction . The motion film , in conjunction with the phonograph , thus directed to self-study , can be made of enormous educational value and a factor for the increase of human happiness . Take the after-dinner speaker . A cinematograph presentation of himself , erect above rows of heads bent in submission , reinforced by a phonographic reproduction of himself staggering on through a Serbonian bog of platitudes and imbecilities , would make an extraordinary impression in the cold light of the morning after . The swelling tide of oratory will experience a remarkable subsidence when a speaker begins wondering whether he could really have been so big an idiot as he looks and sounds . Said Mr. Taft the other night with regard to Mexico @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Government can do is to support the hands ' . of the President and the Secretary of State one and relieve us from the awful burden of such a war as I have described . One can only contrast the manly tone of this plea for calm and conscience in the face of a great emergency with the partisan outcry from Progressive quarters against President Wilson 's " do-nothing " policy . Repeatedly we have been asked to consider how the Mexican question would have been settled in. a jiffy if affairs were in the hands of some one who shall here be nameless , but who is now on the way from Paraguay into the Amazon forest . Just what would have been done to settle the Mexican difficulty off-hand , we are not told . Apparently , interest lies less in the point that something would be done by this nameless statesman than that there would be something doing . The defeat of the rebels at Tampico emphasizes the obstinacy of the present struggle as compared with the two previous campaigns , since the outbreak of civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that the forces of Francisco Madero began operations . By May of the following year President Diaz had abdicated and Madero had made his entrance into the capital . The counterrevolution headed by Orozco came into being in February , 1912 , and met discomfiture in about half a year , the Felix Diaz coup at - Vera Cruz in October being in the nature of an isolated demonstration . The present campaign against Huerta began in March and has now been nearly ten months under way , although it is only within the last three months that the rebel offensive has assumed considerable proportions . It is notable also that the fate of Porfirio Diaz was decided in the northern States . This was true of the revolution headed by Orozco , whose downfall came at Torreon . The present fighting is much more obstinate . The Constitutionalists have pressed closer to the capital than in the two earlier uprisings , and have felt themselves strong enough to undertake an assault on a sea-coast town . But Huerta , though more closely pressed than either of his predecessors in office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the British Trade-Union Congress , in rejecting by a ism , " would be hasty . Thereby the meaning is conveyed that LarkiniSm is a species of blatant demagoguery , a campaign for personal aggrandizement , without justification in the facts of life and labor in the Irish capital . The truth is that Larkin 's is a passionate and possibly unrestrained voice , which nevertheless the conscience of the British nation at large has recognized as a voice crying out against the well-nigh intolerable conditions to which the working class of Dublin is subjected . In voting down Larkin the man of wrath , the British trade-unionists have simply declared that the spirit of wrath is not the state of mind in which to carry on a successful campaign of any kind , and especially so formidable a movement as a general strike . British labor in recent years has had experience with general strikes more or less complete , and has discovered , as labor all over the world has discovered , that the general strike is a weapon not lightly to be brought into play . - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in South Africa contains some statements so straightforward that it is not strange much of the English press characterized it as a grave indiscretion . He spoke of the Hindus ' " passive resistance " to laws which they regarded as invidious and unjust . " They have the deep and burning sympathy of - Iiadia , and also of those who , like myself , without being Indians , sympathize with the people of the country . " And the Viceroy went on to mention reports of repressive measures " which would not be tolerated for a moment in any country claiming to be civilized , " adding that these reports had been imperfectly denied by the Government of South Africa . Such a speech was certainly not calculated to allay feeling , but there is no doubt of the Viceroy 's sincerity . If he could display such heat , it is evident that native sentiment is acute indeed . When news of the speech was received in South Africa , Gen. Botha replied with much resentment , challenging Lord Hardinge to bring any alleged cruelties under investigation . Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its peoples , but two of its Governments , at odds .                     