@@430785

 | NEARLY three-fourths of the world , counting by population , is already at war , and there is a probability that before the climax is reached some of the remaining nations will also be brought in . Germany and her allies are opposed by half a score of democracies pledged to fight to the bitter end in the cause of humanity , freedom and the higher civilization . Until the war ends it will be impossible to reckon up the total expenditure , although we can draw some sort of an inference from the fact that the first three years are believed to have cost in money alone not less than one hundred billions of dollars . The entry of the United States and other republics of the Western hemisphere into the sanguinary arena , in defense of the national liberties outraged by Hohenzollern autocracy and trampled underfoot by Prussian militarism , will , in the fourth year , be followed by a big addition to the world 's war expenditure . The United States alone is raising by loan seven billion dollars to " go on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be forthcoming to the fullest extent that may be wanted is only to utter a self-evident truism . What will be the upshot of the enormous financial disturbance caused by this universal raising of War Loans , and of such vast sums of accumulated wealth being diverted from productive industry to the unproductive machinery of destruction ? On a superficial view there might be a temptation to repeat the historic query " To what purpose is this waste l " but it needs only a little reflection to reach the conclusion that there can be no question of " waste " when the money is being applied to the advancement of liberty and to defending human rights against hectoring bullies pursuing mad-dog methods . It is enough to say that no sacrifice is too great for the maintenance of civilization ;  | no outlay is thrown away if it will crush the ambition for world-domination . What McCulloch , the British economist , said of the English debt created during the Napoleonic Wars applies with equal force to the conditions prevailing in the far greater struggle of today : " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and liberties , and our triumphs by land and sea are the real equivalent of the public debt and of all the blood and treasure we have spent in warlike enterprise , and they are quite as ample , and conduce as much to our prosperity as a nation , as if they had been realized in an increase of population and wealth ; no sacrifices can be too great that are required to preserve national security and independence , and a loan expended on armies or fleets employed for such a purpose is quite as well and profitably employed as if it had been laid out on agriculture or in promoting manufacture or trade . " But the economic effects of these huge borrowings will , nevertheless , be anything but agreeable . The most salient consequence will be a trebling or quadrupling of national indebtedness , with its sequel of greatly increased taxation over a number of years . Nor are the belligerent nations only involved ; every neutral , or at least every European neutral , uncertain as to what may happen , has had to put its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ otherwise to be prepared for possible contingencies . Practically every important State in the world has had either to raise exceptional revenue by taxation or to borrow money at wartime rates of interest . M. de Bloch , the Russian economist , writing in the early years of this century , estimated that " all the wars that had been waged in Europe from Waterloo down to the end of the Russo-Turkish War " had involved an outlay of six and one-quarter billion dollars , and he declared that no country could bear the economic exhaustion which a general outbreak of hostilities would cause . Yet no less than sixteen times that amount will have been spent by the first of August , and so far signs of exhaustion are only to be seen in enemy quarters . National debt may be defined as debt incurred by the nation as a unit either to its own subjects or to foreigners . It has existed in some form or other ever since forced loans were wrung by medieval monarchs from reluctant merchants . Various are the pretexts that have been put forward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the need to  | fortify the Treasury against unforeseen emergencies , the anticipation of taxes on real or pretended grounds , and the industrial development of young countries ; but the chief cause has always been war . It has been responsible for by far the greater portion of the European debts existing today . Next to war the most potent influence in the creation of national debt in recent times has been too rapid progress combined with corrupt administration . In a period of great prosperity , when there has been much surplus money to invest , it has often been easy for young countries to borrow externally beyond their probable means , with the result ? sooner or later ? of dishonorable default , a result to which reckless finance inevitably leads . There are few South or Central American republics that have not contracted debts to foreigners without any reasonable expectation of ever being able to meet the interest obligations , let aline to pay off the principal . Nor can it be said that history is rich in records of nations that have shown an impatient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most signal example of an infrequent honesty is that of the United States in redeeming , with heroic promptitude , aided no doubt by rapid growth and prosperous development , the debt created during her Civil War . It is well to keep this example in view now that the whole world is rushing to the moneylender , with or without good security , and the taxpayers of every country are also its principal creditors . Formerly , when national debt was spoken of , funded or long-term debt was meant . The war , which has changed so many things , has necessitated a wider definition of the term . It has called into existence on an unprecedented scale various kinds of short-dated liability , and whereas floating debts before the war were a relatively insignificant factor , they have now become , at any rate temporarily , a very important one . They fluctuate in amount because short-dated loans are continually being paid off and others are being issued , but it is safe to assume that a considerable proportion will ultimately re-appear as long-term debt . Current revenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part is renewed from time to time until it can be discharged out of the proceeds of a loan extending over years instead of months . When , therefore , we now speak of national debt we generally mean any interest-bearing national liability irrespec- tive of its length of life . An obligation of repayment is not necessarily one of its qualities . The plan of obtaining money by the sale of permanent annuities , which is also included in national debt , is not debt in the sense that there is a duty to repay the capital value on a specified date or on any date at all ; it is debt , however , in the sense that interest has to be regularly paid . This method finds little or no favor nowadays . It was the expedient of times when money was more difficult to raise and when capitalists were more usurious in their demands . It is now recognized that posterity can not fairly be saddled with the service charges of irredeemable debt , and that expenditure for war purposes , even when posterity must bear part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an unlimited period , taxing the industry of remote unborn generations . A finite term , therefore , is an essential condition of modern borrowing . The old-time British Consols and Tennyson 's brook are the only things that " go on for ever . " When the debt incurred in the war between England and France was consolidated the only possible way of ever reducing it was by the cancellation of stock purchased in the open market , or by some heroic proposal of conversion which might or might not be acceptable to the holders . Although national loans are no longer issued on irredeemable terms , and a goodly amount of such as formerly were has been replaced by terminable debt , the interest that has to be paid on what remain must be included in any calculation of outstanding national debt . All the war debt raised in the course of the present war is for strictly defined periods , long or short as the case may be . It may take the form of a three-months ' Treasury bill , tendered for , or a. three-years ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In endeavoring to reckon up the national debts accumulated since July , 1914 , we are confronted with two difficulties . In the first place , the monetary relations of the Central Powers with their misguided accomplices , and also with each other , are something worse than obscure . In the second place , the finance of the Allies is complicated with loan arrangements of a similar accommodating kind which , unless one is careful , may be counted twice over , although really only one liability . If , for example , A lends $5,000 to B , and B lends $1,000 each to C , D , and E , the effect is precisely the same as if A lent $2,000 to B and $1,000 each to C , D , and E.  | It is known that Great Britain has advanced to her own Dominions and the Allied Governments sums amounting in the aggregate to five billion dollars , but as neither the names of the borrowers , nor the amounts borrowed by them , have been disclosed , we are in the dark as to how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allocated . For present purposes , however , the principal thing necessary is to see that in estimating the liabilities of the various nations we do not inadvertently debit possible secondary borrowers and the primary borrowers as well . The former of these two phases of the same difficulty is the more serious . Nobody outside the Governments of the Powers themselves knows anything definite about the financial relations of the German and Ottoman Empires . Nor is much more known of the financial position of AustriaHungary . Statements have been published from time to time about the issue of war loans , but it is obvious that the main purpose of such publicity has been to conceal rather than to reveal the truth . It can be approximately estimated from the numbers of men that Austria and Turkey have been able to put in the field how much they must have spent , and such an estimate , even on the most conservative basis , far exceeds the total indebtedness that has been admitted . According to the more or less official statements that have been permitted to circulate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present year , to 3,400 million dollars . The real position is , however , a sealed book . These figures do not in any case include the loans and credits in Germany , respecting which nothing is known . It may be taken for granted that in one way and another the Dual Monarchy has incurred war liabilities of twice or three times as much as is admitted in the official statements . It is doubtless with the object of deceiving their own people that the Central Powers are so assiduous in trying to belittle the magnitude of their financial sacrifices . When Count von Roedern talked about twenty-five billion dollars covering the whole of their combined costs down to the end of 1916 , he was either egregiously misinformed or was juggling with figures . Turkey is , in a special degree , the mysterious factor in the problem . Taking her expenditure as not exceeding five million dollars daily , even that low estimate means an excess of at least three billion dollars over the proceeds of any prac- ticable new taxation . Before the war the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showed a deficit of six and a quarter millions . All her principal revenues were already ceded for pre-existing debt , and she was saddled moreover with unpaid military liabilities contracted during the Balkan War . Although much remained to be done in clearing up confused issues and adjusting new responsibilities , Turkey was making encouraging progress towards a financial equilibrium when her lunatic rulers rushed her to the precipitous declivity of Gadarene self-destruction . This has played havoc with her trade ; her exports have long since come to an end except to her near neighbors ; her revenues , which depended largely upon agriculture , have so shrunk that they no longer meet the requirements of the Council of Debt Administration . Germany is understood to have advanced amounts on several occasions , but they have invariably been in inconvertible paper which , when the crash comes , will be virtually worthless . Germany financing Turkey is a case of one cripple propping up another , an experiment which always ends in both coming to the ground together . Bulgaria 's indebtedness has increased during the relatively short time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundred and twenty-five million dollars to six hundred and fifteen millions . Most of it is probably owing to Germany and Austria ; quite recently the former advanced her catspaw a further ten million dollars ? of course in German paper . Only a few months ago the Bulgarian Finance Minister publicly stated , with something like a reproachful wail , that his country had not seen a single piece of German gold . It is needless to say that the economic state of Bulgaria is very bad , and it is admittedly impossible for her to raise by taxation revenue enough to pay interest on the debt , which amounts to $123 per head of her sparse population . The grotesque proposition has been actually made that Roumania should be compelled to take over a moiety of the Bulgarian war liability . Germany herself , though making much pretense of financial candor , withholds many of the facts which are indispensable if a correct view of her position is to be obtained . We know that the Reichstag has sanctioned credits amounting in the aggregate to 19,750 million dollars , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , according to official statements , more than fifteen billions , to which must be added a floating debt of probably four billions more , making the national debt over nineteen billions . Between October 27 , 1916 , and March 31 , 1917 , the expenditure under the mass levy and including loans to allies , seems to have been at the rate of about twenty-five million dollars a day , and this rate is not likely to have decreased since , so that by the latter date the expenditure must have greatly exceeded expectations . It is in fact a figure that can not be in the least relied upon , any more than the loan subscriptions can be relied upon to show Germany 's true indebtedness . It has been the boast of the Finance Minister that Germany alone of all the belligerents has been able to finance the war with longdated loans , but everyone outside Germany knows perfectly well that this is only a rhetorical flourish made " with intent to deceive . " Not only is Germany not financing the war with long-dated loans , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those that have been contracted . A tax revenue of about three hundred millions is a poor security for the subscribers to war loans whose interest , on the very lowest computation , will be much more than thrice that amount . The financial position of the Allies , on the other hand , is quite clear ; and their statements , with one or two exceptions due to uncontrollable causes , leave nothing to be desired on the point of frankness . England and France take the whole world into their confidence , Italy makes no attempt at concealment , the United States takes every step in the full light of day . The estimated amount of the debt of the United Kingdom on March 31 last was nineteen and a half billion dollars , but three and one-quarter billions of this were in existence before the war began , so that the addition due to the war is sixteen and one-quarter billion dollars . Some of the constituent items have been altered from time to time by the different conversions , but the " new money " figures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ millions , 3,080 millions , and 5,002 millions respectively . Floating debt in the form of Exchequer bonds , Treasury bills , etc. , was nearly five billion dollars at the close of the financial year , about a billion had been borrowed from the United States , fifty millions from Japan , and miscellaneous liabilities of three hundred and fifty millions  | brought up the total to the nineteen and one-half billions already stated . This , of course , does not cover the whole of the expenditure between August 4 , 1914 , and March 31 , 1917 , taxation having provided the difference between the new debt ( which , it may be repeated , includes loans to other countries ) and the cost of the war to Great Britain , which has been officially said to be 21,300 million dollars . In addition to the above , there are also the loans raised by Britain 's over-seas dominions . We have the authority of Sir Robert Borden for saying that the loans placed in Canada have exceeded three hundred millions , in addition to provision made to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fifty millions . India , in an early stage , raised fifteen millions for war purposes and has quite recently undertaken to raise five hundred millions to be place at the disposal of Great Britain . Australia and New Zealand have also been responsible for internal loans exceeding one hundred millions . South Africa has largely financed its considerable share in active hostilities , and altogether the British overseas net indebtedness , due solely to the war , amounts , or will shortly amount , to more than 1,165 millions . France began her war finance with the issue of National Defense bonds and borrowing from the Banque de France . Most of the former debt has since been consolidated , and the position at the beginning of the current year was that there was a total debt of eleven and one-half billion dollars , thus distributed ? First loan , 2,385 millions , second loan , 2,303 millions , floating debt 2,400 millions , debt to the Banque de France , 1,720 millions , debt to the United States 248 millions , and some miscellaneous liabilities . France has made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her patriotism has been proved by the adoption of a direct tax on incomes on a scale that would have been impossible before the war . Russia has issued five internal loans , amounting together to two and one-half billion dollars , has a floating debt of not less than two billions , and has also incurred external obligations the full extent of which has not been made known . It is not possible in the circumstances to say , even approximately , what the national debt of Russia actually is . It is pretty well known that her finance , although sound enough an fond , has been subjected to a considerable strain , and  | the further assistance of the United States will be very useful in getting the machinery into full working order . Already new sources of revenue to the extent of two hundred and fifty millions a year have been legalized , but the material effects of the suppression of the sale of vodka , which was a highly profitable Government monopoly , have necessarily been rather gradual in their operation , and the substituted revenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Furthermore , under the late imperial regime there was great administrative disorganization , the railway system was choked and out of gear , and the unlimited material resources of the country were to a great extent unavailable . A strong economic policy for the development of Russia 's productive forces will , in due time , have favorable results , but meanwhile the financial situation will need handling with skill and experience . Perhaps it will be safe to put the Russian war debt of all descriptions at some figure in excess of eight billion dollars with an average interest of six per cent. , thus requiring for its service four hundred and eighty millions a year . Italy 's war expenditure , from her entry in May , 1915 , up to June 30 , 1916 , amounted to 1,560 millions , being at the rate of nearly $4,330,000 a day . Of this expenditure 1,080 millions was raised by means of internal loans , 680 millions in long-maturity redeemable bonds , and 260 millions in Treasury coupon bonds . Assuming the same rate of expenditure , the total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be about double the above amount , say three billions , nearly all of which has been produced by borrowing of one kind or another . Owing to the adoption of a bold fiscal policy , involving eight million dollars of new taxation , the revenue shows itself capable , not only of sustaining the onus of existing debts , but also of ensuring the interest service of new loans that may be required . As everyone knows , the United States has authorized a loan of seven billions . There is no need to go through the list in detail , especially as much is veiled in the mistiness of international arrangement . Roumania has been financed by the Allies , Portugal has had to borrow for military purposes , and ? to be brief ? every country directly taking part in the war , as well as many that are not , has had to increase its liabilities for longer or shorter periods . It is possible , without setting forth these minor developments , to arrive  | though not without the aid of considerable guesswork ? at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up to the end of March last , that is , for thirty-two months out of the thirty-six respecting which Mr. McKenna said at the outset that no one could possibly estimate the cost if the war lasted so long . The conclusions are not put forward dogmatically , or as those of scientific accountancy ? that would be a preposterous claim to associate with any estimate in its nature partly conjectural ? but if they err at all they certainly do not err by reason of any over-statement of the case . Such figures as can be relied upon , the conjectures it is legitimate to make on available data , and the inferences one is bound to draw from the known facts of expenditure , warrant the belief that the world 's debt has already been increased by more than ninety billion dollars . As the cost of the war , while it continues , can hardly be less than ninety million dollars a day ? and the interposition of America will probably make it more ? it may be assumed that the national debts of the principal combatants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even the above inflated figure indicates . There is no occasion , however , to embark , in regard to the duration of the conflict , upon a sea of prophetic speculation . If it ended tomorrow , the magnitude of the world 's existing liabilities would still furnish material for serious enough thought . These liabilities will not , of course , press equally upon all the nationalities engaged . They will vary according to conditions , such , for instance , as the number of the country 's population , whether the occupations of its people are chiefly agricultural or manufacturing , the extent of its accumulated wealth and of its national income . It is obvious that an agricultural country like Turkey or Roumania will not have the same recuperative power , apart altogether from the question of relative wealth , as a commercial and manufacturing country like the United Kingdom or the United States . Also , the pressure upon a small or stationary population will be heavier than that upon a large and increasing one . It would be absurd to class Bulgaria or even the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at eighty billions of dollars , or with the United Kingdom with a transferable wealth estimated at eighty-five billions and a national income of fifteen billions . No calculation of the average liability per head for interest can ameliorate individual hardships  | in the taxation of relatively poor nations . Those with enormous natural resources and industrial enterprise , such as the United States or ( potentially ) Russia , will recover from a big burden much quicker than such a nation as the Turks will recover from a comparatively small one . One effect of the war will be to stimulate the trade activity of the world to find a recompense for the money that has been spent . Where that activity is effectual it will help in varying degrees to make the burden of taxation endurable . The financially strong nations will have the best chance . If any one thing is certain in this maelstrom of uncertainty it is that the commercial expansion of the future can not be effected without capital , and that capital will , for a long time to come , be difficult to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by countries that have no sound security to offer , or whose credit has been greatly damaged by their exhausting sacrifices . But while giving due consideration to distinctions that it would be foolish to ignore , there is no reason to suppose that the nations as a whole will fail to recover from this war as they have invariably recovered from other wars . There may be ? almost certainly will be ? diversions of the stream of human energy and variations in the possession of commercial power . Even an aggressively pushing people like the Germans will require many years to reestablish themselves in the markets of the world , because , should their elaborate menu of vast indemnities turn into a Barmecide feast , they would start in the new contest with the handicap of a colossal debt and impoverished economic resources .                     