@@493154

Charles Booth THE death of Charles Booth deprives England of one of her most precious personalities . He has left us in the midst of things , and one of his last wishes , the desire to see England win and to help in the adjustment of a durable peace , has had to remain unfulfilled . Yet aside from the intransigeance of grief his death can hardly be said to have been untimely . When a man has reached his seventy-sixth year his grateful friends must anxiously anticipate his demise , however buoyantly he may outface each recurrent attack of ill health . But it is just when a man has safely slipped into his eighth decade that we are likely to wish him to live forever . For if we still love and cherish him then , it is because we are charmed by the mellowness of his ripened personality and find fresh delight in the unexpected flexibility of his mind . His last years seem like the fruition of a life well lived and nobly expended . The buoyancy that marked Charles Booth to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the brimful spectacle of the world 's events . If we test him , as all things are being tested now , against the background of the present war , we shall find him ringing true . In these two trying years he never lost his poise ; his finely balanced attitude here is the true measure of the man . For he could look upon his enemy without rancor and honestly fear him without taking refuge in calumny . He could even admire him . Writing shortly after the beginning of the war to friends in America he said , " I think I understand the German dream , aim , and the claim Deutsch-land ueber Alles , ' its intoxication and justifica-tion , its high hopes and boundless ambition . . . . Whatever one may think of her programme and her methods she stands out heroic ? a titan against the world . " The courtliness that characterized all his relations with men did not desert him here . Fully confident of England 's ultimate victory he never ceased to think realistically about the origin of the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a certain inevitability . He recog- , and while nized a world rivalry with Germany he never ceased to hope that the struggle might be avoided he was always anxiously concerned to have his country fit to meet the test . When at last the issue had been joined he was sorrowfully content . His England had to fight as soon as any strong continental power threatened the Channel . Thus it was that he could recognize the Belgian casus belli for what it was worth . Writing again to an American friend he said , " We need not have waited for the Germans to cross the frontier for our action ; but here , as with you too , the large amount of popular feeling which hung around the war for Belgium 's sake had to be secured politically for the sake of a united front . . . . Sir Edward Grey just managed it , and the patience of France was wonderful . " He knew that it was really superfluous to call a life-and-death issue a moral issue . For those who never knew Charles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personality his name will remain memorable chiefly through his " Life and Labor of the People in London . " That imposing work , the parent of all our subsequent surveys , has become one of the classics of applied sociology . Planned to cover the largest city in the world it necessarily assumed gigantic proportions . It provided a method and established a standard for all future investigations of a similar nature . Its grave and minute preoccupation with the details of those innumerable anonymities which constitute a democracy gives it a monumental character , however fleeting some of its generalizations may prove to be . It was , as a matter of fact , undertaken with no ambition towards permanency . For it strove only " to observe and chronicle the actual , " and that , as we know , is constantly changing . Its conclusions were timid , and much of it must already seem old-fashioned to the scientific sociologist . Its importance is mainly as a record , and that importance becomes vivid to us as soon as we look at the book historically and try @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cross-section of an empire city like Rome or even of London in the sixteenth or eighteenth century . But we can not properly value it or understand its shortcomings unless we bring it into relation to Mr. Booth 's career as a business man . Mr. Booth was one of that fast disappearing type formerly referred to as captains of industry . Beginning in a small way he and his brother Alfred Booth soon developed a business which linked two continents and exploited a third when the Booth Steamship Company tapped the fertile resources of the Amazon valley . In the far-flung investments which marked his enterprise he came to value the individual 's resourca and loyalty untilindividuality became a creed with him . Men devoted their lives and died in far-off countries for the good of a firm which dealt with them justly and generously . Mr. Booth was unusually fortunate in attracting men upon whose devotion and zeal he could count . These qualities became his touchstone by which he judged all things . He turned to examine his city as a business man and sought to explain its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His attitude towards sociology was therefore overwhelmingly personal . The London which he studied was his London , which he loved and knew so intimately . Her motley millions became his personal friends and familiars whom he asked to do for their own good and the common weal what the men whom he had known in his business enterprises had done for him and for their own wellbeing . That is why his conclusions are so curiously full of emphasis upon self-help and the virtues of religious conversion as a step towards that end . In the concluding chapter of his fifth volume on industrial conditions in London we find a graphic illustration of his attitude . He is contemplating a cross-section of a London street taken at random and makes the things he finds there representative of his whole research . He sees his Londoners pass and they look good to him . " We thus have the general impression of a well-to-do energetic people , and we find this impression borne out by all the facts and every test that can be applied . . .. Here and there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a glimpse is caught of some back street . We may then turn to our statistics to learn what proportion such things bear to the rest , and it would seem that the proportion is on the whole much the same as is indicated by the panorama of the street . If we would plumb the degree of misery involved , or analyse its causes we may do so from the annals of the people and streets that these volumes contain , or far better , bring to bear upon the quest personal knowledge gained in attempts to improve the conditions of life or relieve distress . " This is a rosy view , too full perhaps of the glow of a personality which sees each success or failure in terms of purely individual effort and passes by the interdependence of the whole . Mr. Booth 's later work shows a gradual turning away from this His individual laissez-faire point of view . tits work as a Privy Counselor to King Edward , a distinction which he received in 1904 , as well as his membership in the Royal Commission to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in the Royal Tariff Commission , enlarged his outlook and broadened his sympathies in the conflict between capital and labor . He recognized more clearly that the poor man and the rich man whom he saw on the street are more than the product of separate individual forces anal are related to each other by social forces which often transcend the individual 's helplessness or his confident self-reliance . Tn the last few years Mr. Booth preoccupied himself considerably with labor difficulties and earnestly sought to alleviate the bitterness of industrial strife by pleading for equable methods of arbitration . His pamphlet on Industrial Unrest and Trade Union Policy published 1913 in London and New York was an attempt to formulate such a scheme and make the efficiency movement equally profitable to the trade unionist and the employer . On his last visit to America just before the war he warmly championed these new views . But it is the large work nevertheless which holds his endwring monument . As a survey of London and a record of its teeming activity it reads like the Domesday Book of our modern @ @ @ 