@@430637

 | MR . JOHN D. ROCKEFELLER recently favored the people of the United States with his views concerning great philanthropic foundations , notably his own , and on efficiency in philanthropy . The article was striking because it exprest the views of the world 's richest man , who is also the world 's greatest philanthropist , and because it can be considered an adequate statement of the philosophy that seeks to justify our existing economic and industrial regime , and the relation of t h e great foundations thereto . The wisdom of permitting a man to accumulate huge fortunes has often bee. - challenged . From the knowledge I have gained in my work as chairman of the Federal Commission on Industrial Relations , I go further and challenge the wisdom of giving public sanction and approval to the spending of a huge fortune thru such philanthropies as that of the Rockefeller Foundation . My object here is to state , as clearly and briefly as possible , why the huge philanthropic trusts , known as foundations , appear to be a menace to the welfare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an enormous fortune means arbitrary power over the lives and destinies of other men . Nothing is clearer than that the world 's striving for democracy is now expressing itself in the economic field , even more than in the political field , and we are fast coming to realize that the forms of political democracy avail nothing when the lives of the many are controlled by the few who wield arbitrary economic power . So , at the outset , thinking democrats resent the very possibility of philanthropy on a huge scale , because this philanthropy is predicated on the possession of enormous fortunes , and , therefore , of arbitrary power over men , women and children . Even if the great charitable and philanthropic trusts should confine their work to the field of science , where temperament , point of view , and economic theory can not enter , many of us should still feel that this was work for the state , and that , even in the power to do good , no one man , or group of men , should hold the monopoly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rapidly growing fund of more than $100,000,000 , enters the economic and political field , no such fundamental objection need be admitted in order to convince thoughtful men of the possibilities of danger that lie in such an enterprise . EXPLOITING WORKMEN AND SUBSIDIZING SCIENTISTS Let us take the Rockefeller Foundation , the most active of all , to illustrate the potential danger of such institutions to democracy in America . Mr. Rockefeller is taking money obtained from the toil of thousands of poorly nourished , socially submerged men , women and children , and spending these sums , thru a board of personal employees , in such fashion that his estate is in a fair way not only to exercize a dominating influence in industry , but , before many years , to exact a tribute of loyalty and subserviency to him and his interests from the whole profession of scientists , social workers and economists . There are literally thousands of men in these professions receiving subsidies , either directly or indirectly , from the Rockefeller estate , who can not take any step toward effective economic , social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their benefactor . No sensible man can believe for a moment that research workers , publicists and teachers can be subsidized with money obtained from the exploitation of the workers without being profoundly influenced in their points of view and in the energy and enthusiasm with which they might otherwise attack economic abuses . And there can be no question that the income of the Rockefeller Foundation comes , in large part , from the exploitation of wage earners . Before the complete exposure of the Colorado situation , but with thousands of his fellow citizens charging him with responsibility for the Colorado strike and its attendant horrors , Mr. Rockefeller employed an expert , Mr. W. L. Mackenzie-King , former Minister of Labor of Canada and a distinguished citizen of the Dominion , to advise him regarding the labor problems in industries where Rockefeller funds are invested , and also to make a comprehensive , world-wide study of industrial relations for the benefit of the public . This is one of the many apparently innocent and useful projects of the Rockefeller Foundation . But when the announced purpose is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discrepancy . WHAT DID MR . KING DO ? Mr. King undertook to act as Mr. Rockefeller 's advisor on industrial relations as long ago as last August . His first act , after joining the Rockefeller staff , was to write a letter to Mr. Rockefeller , suggesting , in effect , that the arbitrary , undemocratic policy of the Rockefeller Coal Company in Colorado need not be greatly modified under pressure from labor , because unemployment and distress resulting from the European war would weaken the power of labor and force labor to take about what the employer cared to give it .  | It is the author of this letter to whom the world is asked to look for a way out from the problems which have arrayed employer and employee in hostile front . It is Mr. King whom we are asked to take as our guide in working our way to a consummation of that full measure of human liberty and economic democracy on which the heart of the world is set . THE STRIKE AT ROOSEVELT Mr. King was in New York last winter during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American Agriculture Chemical Company at Roosevelt , New Jersey , a suburb of New York , were on strike because they could not support their families in comfort and decency on a wage of $1.60 per day . Twenty-one of the company 's former employees were shot down by deputized gunmen for peacefully protesting against conditions that meant privation , suffering , disease and even death for themselves and their families . Altho the Rockefeller Foundation , then busily engaged in an effort to justify itself before this Commission , held one-half million of the bonds of this company , apparently it made no attempt to investigate the situation at Roosevelt . Its executive officer , Jerome D. Greene , when questioned on the stand , was not prepared to discuss the fairness of a wage of $1.60 , and agents of this Commission who followed the situation closely could find no evidence that Mr. King , or any other representative of the Foundation , had visited Roosevelt or made the slightest effort to wipe out this particularly outrageous social morass into which its roots reached . Not only was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which expected Americans to bring up families on $1.60 a day , but one of the directors of the Rockefeller philanthropies , Mr. A. Barton Hepburn , was both a director and a member of the executive committee of the company . And Mr. Hepburn testified that his sole information regarding conditions in the company 's plants was obtained thru telephone conversations with one of the company 's officials , and thru a chance meeting with this official at a college alumni dinner at Delmonico 's restaurant . Mr. Mackenzie-King , in his testimony at the Washington hearing recently , declared his investigation , in so far as it included the Rockefeller industries in Colorado , to be a secret one , and challenged the authority of the Federal Government to compel him to declare how much money was being expended or the character of the information which he was obtaining ; closing this portion of his evidence with the declaration that it was not at all necessary that the American people be enlightened as to the facts in Colorado , but that the conscience of Mr. John D. Rockefeller , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any other force that could be brought to bear in Colorado at the time he was giving his testimony . In the light of the record in Colorado and at Roosevelt alone , such philanthropy as that of the Rockefeller Foundation can justly be characterized as an attempt to present to the world , as handsome and admirable , an economic and industrial regime that draws its substance from the sweat and blood and tears of exploited and dispossessed humanity . THE MEN IN OFFICE Just the list of directors in the various Rockefeller philanthropies shows the enormous power that may be exercized by men financially interested in perpetrating unjust industrial conditions . In the list is the president emeritus of our greatest university , shown by the inquiry of this Commission to have been personally interested in the publicity bulletins issued by the operators of Colorado to influence the public mind against men who are risking their lives to lift Rockefeller employees up from economic subserviency , and to vindicate the supremacy of the laws of that state . This gentleman apparently concurred in branding the denial of the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and venal militiamen which followed , as " The Struggle for Industrial Freedom in Colorado . " Included also in the list of men holding places on boards controlled by Rockefeller millions appears the name of the president of our greatest southern university , the university that , before all others , has molded opinion in the southern states ; the commissioner of health of our greatest northern state ; the United States Commissioner of Education ; the surgeon general of the United States army ; a Cabinet officer ; a high officer of the international Y. M. C. A. ; an American ambassador ; the president of another great university , and an influential magazine editor . I do not mean to imply that many of these are not high-minded and disinterested men . I believe they are . I believe that many of them share the fear of the influence of such a huge philanthropic trust when it turns to the economic field , and that more than one of them may have accepted places on the board because they felt they might prevent dangerous tendencies . But we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them all apparently drew no line , in lending his cooperation , between the Rockefeller philanthropies and the Rockefeller exploited industries . No argument is needed to convince a sensible American of the subtle and pervasive and irresistible power that is wielded autocratically by men who control the disbursement of huge sums of money . It is a power that goes straight to our instincts , to our points of view , to the raw materials of which our opinions and judgments are made . THE MEN IN CONTROL But how much , as a matter of fact , can we rely on the presence on the Rockefeller board of these men ? It was admitted before the Commission on Industrial Relations in New York that practically all of the important decisions and the routine work of the charities , and , above all , the disbursement of moneys , are administered by a finance committee composed of Mr. Rockefeller , Jr. , and of the personal employees of himself and his father . These salaried men reflect the points of view of their employers and carry out the Rockefeller will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they sit in council with the Rockefeller agents who denied industrial justice to the Colorado miners , and on the witness stand , as representatives of the Foundation , they speak bitterly of the Colorado unions in the same breath they declare that they are conducting a scientific , unbiased investigation of the labor problem . They admitted that , even had Mr. King so far forgotten his loyalty to the Rockefeller interests as to urge recognition of the union , they would have differed with him and resisted such a policy . According to the testimony of Mr. Jerome D. Greene on the stand in New York , Mr. King is an adviser whose advice may be freely rejected , and there would be no friendly reception for recommendations which conflicted with the policy of Mr. Rockefeller ? not Mr. Rockefeller , the philanthropist , but Mr. Rockefeller , the industrial overlord . WHERE THE MONEY COMES FROM It should be remembered that the Rockefeller Foundation , in protecting its own hundred millions of securities , will give similar protection to the vastly greater fortune still held by the family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held by the Foundation contains the names of most of the corporations in  | which the family fortune is invested . In a day when society sees it as a burning wrong that one man can levy tribute on the right of millions of other men to live and to work , Mr. Rockefeller could find no better insurance for his hundreds of millions than to invest one of them in subsidizing all the agencies that make for social change and progress . The wealth of the great foundations is wealth created by the many . Even were those directly concerned in its making accorded a decent wage and a voice in determining their conditions of employment , the surplus should still be available for the work of scientists and scholars , in such form that these devoted men could pursue their studies for the benefit of mankind without wearing the uniform of Rockefeller and the others . Already there are thousands of eager young scholars and scientists who know that some day , for the sake of their work , they may be drawn into the retinue of the foundations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engaged in social betterment work to speak ill of Mr. Rockefeller , Mr. Carnegie , and the other men who have amassed fortunes in industry , and the universal instinct of self-justification will inevitably lead them to seek excuses and justifications when the cry of exploitation or of tainted money is raised . THE PERIL OF THIS PHILANTHROPY Most dangerous of all , to me , seems the attempt by the Rockefellers , especially , to ' become molders of public thought on the subject of industrial relations . Every precaution that can be taken to give the seeming of impartiality to this inquiry can only make it the more dangerous . Perhaps the most fortunate thing in connection with the Rockefeller industrial inquiry is that the quality of Mr. King 's mind has already been shown , as well as the fact that the public control of this inquiry rests in the hands of the same men who sustain the Rockefeller policy in Colorado . But , to my mind , a still greater menace to industrial democracy appears upon the horizon . Mr. John D. Rockefeller , Jr. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial department of his foundation he was securing the cooperation of many labor leaders in his effort to bring about " permanent peace " in Colorado . Will not the same glamor of great power and limitless resources , which has attracted diplomats , statesmen- and educators , make its appeal to these men ? When Mr. Rockefeller testified at Washington , he was asked to name the labor leaders with whom he was cooperating in Colorado , but admitted his inability to do so . Nevertheless , if labor leaders should thus be induced to cooperate , I can not see how the inquiry could help having a tremendous effect in taking the edge off the fearlessness and disinterestedness of labor 's leadership . I can not imagine any greater catastrophe than for the subtle influence of the millions of these masters of industry to pervade even the Iabor movement itself . With labor cooperating in aggressive and whole-hearted fashion with the great movement toward industrial democracy , we could view , without serious alarm , the chloroforming of our economists and social workers . But if the influence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor itself , this great forward movement of our time might be seriously retarded , if not destroyed . I believe , on account of the thoro airing which this proposed Rockefeller industrial inquiry has received , together with the note of protest from President Samuel Gompers directed against the whole Rockefeller investigation into industry , that organized labor will continue to remain sternly aloof and to view this new activity with stedfast distrust .                     