@@486171

Mr. Johnson , setting out from " Goethels of Panama , " traverses embattled Europe in nine " Poems of the Great War , " and finds in the concluding section , thirteen " Poems Chiefly of Friendship or Admiration , " a " still and calmy bay " in which his war-rent vessel drops a peaceful anchor . The earlier themes are of Cyclopean mass and fibre , and the rumble of invective shakes the lines , but the parting impression is one of delicacy , and even in the war-clangor the tenderness outlasts , if it does not out-soar , the indignation . The reality of the poet 's gift seems unquestionable , and , if I were compelled to specify its differentia , I think that some such phrase as crispness in pliancy or precision in mellowness would be the quickest exit from my difficulty . Mr. Johnson is a point-maker ; the separable , the emergent , phrase is normal in his craftsmanship . But he is not subject to that law which makes the individualism of points unfavorable to a consecutive or gliding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ music is fluidity , and the rebellious points obey this impulse , as the very pebbles in a brook take on the rounded and fluid curves of the ripples through Whose lapse they are visible . I find Mr. Johnson a trifle lax in the point of structural unity ; thoughts merely ? cluster where they should interlock or interfloW ; even the excellent poem on " Embattled France , " of which I now quote as many stanzas as my dread of the scissors of the editorial Atropos will permit , would be still better if it were tightened in the girths . Across the sea that once was free now let the message leap That France has won our Western hearts , and waked our souls from sleep ; Proud land ! no more Shall we mistake the shallows for the deep . And we who knew and loved her true and shared her welcome kind The welcome of her heart , and more , the welcome of her mind How could we know these newer bonds that evermore shall bind ! That she , the Queen of Peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she , the Queen of Art , who keeps the key of Beauty 's door , More royal than her royal lines , should be the Queen of War ! For , though the years have drowned in tears her thrones and quartermgs , She . kingless , has not lost the proud residuum of kings : Noblesse oblige is written on every flag she flings Oh , there is calm of Sabbath psalm and there is calm of woe , And calm of slaves who never the calm of freemen know , When , though the storm may tear the wave , the sea is calm below . Upon the air no martial blare proclaimed the fateful call ; No drum need make the summons the spirit makes to all : Not softher to the solemn earth the autumn leaflets fall . With gaze that saw far things of awe she stood as in a trance , But faltered not before the shock of War 's long-dreaded chance , And every soul was born again  --  an effigy of France ! 0 . W. Flamm &; Correspondence THE RIGHTS OF @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : SIR . In to-day 's Nation I find in the article entitled " Maritime Tyranny " this paragraph : " What is meant is a more sure definition of contraband , and , in general , the recognition of the rights of private property at sea in time of war as they have long been recognized on land . " This last assumption has become a commonplace in the argument for the protection of private property at sea , but is it sound ? In what wars has private property on land been respected ? Certainly not in our Civil War , in the Franco-Prussian War , in the Philippines , in the Balkan Wars , nor by the punitive expeditions in China . Least of all have the Germans respected private property during this war , either in . France or in Belgium I wish the foundation on which this assumption rests could be stated , and it could be reconciled with the facts , such as the sale of Chinese loot in New York after the Boxer insurrection . MOORFIELD STOREY . Boston , November 23 . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hague , substantially to the effect that private property on land can not be confiscated in time of war . That the rule has been violated does not make it any less the rule . There is no such rule for private property at sea. ? ED . TUE NATION . THE PRESIDENT 'S PEACE MOVE . TO THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : The President 's round robin to the belligerent Powers will be a ? source of humiliation to Americans who value their country 's honor and rights The note comes at the moment when Washington had reached an ugly impasse on the submarine controversy . The President , by introducing a new and sensational matter of discourse , effects a new evasion . If your sapient neighbor the Times is right in supposing that the real aim is to make Germany show her hand , this could and should have been done directly , and without ambiguous and offensive expressions towards the Entente Allies . It would have been enough to remind ' Germany that her peace initiative and position of military advantage imposed precise expressions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ move should have been made collectively by the neutral Powers This would have given the proposal a moral weight it now lacks . But the President wished to reap single-handed all accruing personal glory . The requirement that the Allies state their terms categorically , though appparently unfair , is really disingenuous . The peace terms of the Allies will depend largely upon a condition they can not predict ; namely , the state of mind of Germany at the time peace shall be negotiated . The Allied Powers can not now bet on this sort of an uncertainty . So far from forcing Germany to show her hand , the note actually makes it possible for her to quibble over the order of negotiation . The whole clumsy manoeuvre gives every evidence of having been made in Germany . They have played on the President 's personal vanity , while sidetracking the awkward submarine issue . It is possible that the move corresponds to the flabby peace sentiment of the country . It none the less aligns - us with our contingent foes , embarrasses our friends , and sacrifices for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is plain that nothing ' ut a desperate military outlook would justify the Allies in accepting a peace with a victorious Germany . France and England will live at the sufferance of a predominant Germany only if forced . But nothing is more numerically certain than that three more years of the present wastage will see Germany deficient in man power and fighting within her own borders . Then a real peace may be possible . The President 's premature and meddlesome move will go far to rob this country of the prestige it might legitimately have gained , in helping to establish the basis of a lasting peace . FRANK JEw.b.LT MATHER , JR . Princeton , N J. , December 24 . ACADEMIC FREEDOM . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : Sin : Dean Wigmore 's able article in the Nation of December 7 , which sets up the ideal of judicial immunity as that towards which the teachers and investigators of the country should strive , is interesting . But is that what the country needs ? The lawyer and the judge are allowed freedom of speech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ content with a similar privilege . In the first place the legal ideal is not one of freedom , but of group solidarity . The history of the American bar is sufficient evidence that the profession as a whole has always been on the side of the biggest battalions . In the East its talent was devoted to the industrial masters , in the South to the slave masters , and in the West to the transportation lords . Without arguing this point to meet certain obvious objections , let us see if a profession which in its very nature is attached to the side of the strongest in society can serve as a model for the investigator whom society sets to work , with a very modest allowance , on the great verities of life . The freedom of the judges is the freedom to pronounce from the bench what is the law in the case , but society is always making new law and the investigator seeks to ' give it new facts on which to base new law . Is the freedom to express in academic language and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the freedom winch society demands for the scholar , or , let us say , with Dean Wig-more , the privileged professor ? I think not . Such limited freedom would only lead to group solidarity , smug professional contentment , and perhaps national egotism , such as we had in Germany , where academic freedom was a boast but not a reality Such a situation for the scholar and the teacher of young men could only lead the United States into a state of self-complacency in which an effective protest would be well-nigh impossible , at least in learned circles A Luther would he as impossible with us as he would have been in modern Germany . A country rich beyond all precedent needs above everything else some group of people who are restless and yet who have the information and the standing to get a hearing , men with whom discretion is not the first word in the lexicon . Dean Wigmore 's ideal of a divided and strictly inter-professional freedom could not possibly answer this need . Now nobody would regret more than the present writer a tendency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or hyper-conservative ideals . That could lead only to unfortunate results . But it is quite another thing to ask scholars to imitate the American Bar Association , which has never developed a radical , which could not endure the presence of a distinguished negro as a member , and which is to-day our nearest approach to an aristocracy . The university professor in the past has not distinguished himself for the advocacy of reforms of any sort . Shall he now , as he is about to organize in a national association , commit himself to a system which would tie him inevitably to the , side of the successful , of the strongest in our life ? That is what the judiciary has done , and of necessity had to do , for the maintenance of the law , as I have said , is its business . On the other hand , science , if it be possible to save that branch of human endeavor , ought to seek to make new law , to set men free from the shackles of the law . If that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they not speak whenever and wherever they choose and even make fools of themselves as did Christopher Columbus , William Lloyd Garrison , and others ? A COLLEGE MAN . December 11 . CMS MEXICANUS SUM . TO THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : Ex-President Eliot 's assertion that " America has now turned its back on the familiar policy of Rome and Great Britain of protecting or avenging their wandering citizens by force of arms " has not been heartily applauded by all his fellow countrymen . Why was not " Civis Romanus sum , " uttered with effect in Gaul or in Persia or In Spain , a perfectly good statement standing for a perfectly good policy ? Why not , indeed  --  provided the Roman was equally affected by the foreigner 's statement : " Gallus sum " or " Perses sum " or " Hispanus sum " But the Roman was n't The respect for national privileges was not mutual : Rome 's policy was one of intimidation , not of fair play , and so pursued could never lead to much more than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  this policy . But only if the statement " I am an Englishman . " is expected to win from the foreigner not a jot more of courtesy or consideration or concession than the foreigner 's statement " I am a Swede " or " I am a Venezuelan " or " I am a Greek " is England using this policy righteously and in a way that leads to permanent world peace . We Americans are invited to adopt this policy more strenuously in Mexico , and elsewhere . If we devote ourselves heart and soul to military and naval preparedness , we can probably make our citizens in foreign lands nearly as awesome as Roman or Englishman . It may be that we shall be forced to do this . But are we , more than Roman or Englishman , likely to find this to be the road towards that enduring international peace which all men in these days should be both dreaming of and searching far ? There are no doubt still some barbarous races whose introduction to comity and civilization must come through the ministrations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so surely among those races ? Has the ' Christian policy been well tried with them ? Have they been fairly and considerately dealt with long enough and consistently enough to prove them insensible to unarmed justice ? Have we so dealt with Mexico in the past ? Has it always been a case of murderous Mexican and magnanimous American ? Is it true that no Mexicans have been killed by Americans on both sides of the Rio Grande lately and during the past century ? Did we long ago exhaust all the possibilities of national and individual kindness in dealing with this ungrateful people ? If we can answer these questions affirmatively , it is clearly time for us to try the Roman policy . But are we to fancy that we shall play the Roman game much more fairly or fortunately than the Romans played it ? Will the statement " I am a Mexican " be enough to secure in this country such consideration as we insist the statement " I am an American " shall secure in Mexico ? Will it content us if our citizens in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be accorded the " greasers " in our border States ? In short , will we make the policy one of give and take , one which seeks to exchange rather than to exact respect ? If here again we can answer yes , then we , apparently , are big enough to play with fire , big enough to transform and sanctify an ideal which has always Prayed arrogant , selfish , and alienating . PAUL NIXON . Brunswick , Me. , Nol ember 24 . BELGIAN DEPORTATIONS . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : Sm : I was glad to see in the last number of the Nation a statement that a mass meeting was to be held in New York to protest against the deportation of Belgians . Your readers , I think , will be interested to know that a mass meeting was held in Tremont Temple in Boston on Tuesday , November 28 , some 2,500 people attending . Strong resolutions were passed and forwarded to the President and to the members of Congress from Massachusetts . The telling speeches were loudly applauded , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Storey 's statement : " I should be glad to see the President of the United States notify the German Emperor that unless this deportation ceases the Government of the United States will break off diplomatic relations with Germany . " H. LANGFORD WARREN . Cambridge , Mass. , December 10 . INSTRUCTION OF THE NATIONAL GUARD . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : Sm : I have just been shown your issue of October 12 , in which you animadvert , on Page 335 , upon the administration of the National Guard troops on the border and upon the apparent lack of instruction given them by the regulars . You draw your conclusions from the experience of a small part of the National Guard , and , so far as can be judged from your article , of only a part of that part . Moreover , this part  --  this is an important fact of which you are probably ignorant  --  is just the part which is least controlled by the regular army , owing to the requirements of military administration . The facts are that the New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which is commanded by Brig. - Gen . James Parker , United States army , but , owing to the fact that the New York Division commander is a major-general , and therefore of higher military rank than Gen. Parker , this division is excepted from his control and Gen O'Ryan reports directly to the department commander , Major-Gen . Funston . , Gen. Funston does not prescribe the courses of instruction to be given in. the various separate commands under him , leaving that to the generals commanding , which any one with any idea of proper military administration knows is the correct procedure . The course of instruction of the New York Division is entirely in the hands of Major-Gen . O'Ryan , so that the regular officers attached to this division to assist in its instruction are bound by his orders . If the course of instruction prescribed by Major-Gen . O'Ryan had included extended order drills , the Seventy-first New York would have had them , unless its commanding officer disobeyed orders . If it had included a course of rifle-firing , such as the National Guard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York would not be as ignorant as they now are , according to your article . Until September 30 , I served in the Brownsville district under Brig. - Gen . Parker and was brigade adjutant of a National Guard brigade during the last two months of that time . Every National Guard regiment in that distiict has completed a course in target practice with service ammunition . Every National Guard regiment in that district has had extended order drills and has had squad , company , battalion , and regimental manoeuvres , and by this time should have had brigade manoeuvres also . I have had a number of officers of the National Guard in this district speak to me of the value of the experience which they were having by reason of their service on the border , stating that they were receiving training which it was utterly impossible for them to receive in their State camps and which was of the utmost importance , including castramentation , sanitation , drill , and tactics . That they appreciated the fact that they were having an unusual opportunity was evidenced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colonel , welcomed and asked for instructions and suggestions of all kinds . Whatever your personal opinions and prejudices , warranted or unwarranted , may be , is it fair , is it good policy , is it good ethics to make sweeping statements without a full knowledge of all the facts in the case , so that your readers are , possibly unintentionally but actually , misled and grossly deceived ? WM . A. KENT , Captain , 4th U. S. Infantry . Fort Sill , Oklahoma , October 18 , We believe that we were well within the facts as to the New York troops , and are in receipt of similar allegations in regard to other State troops in other camps. ? En . THE NATION . IN JUSTICE TO WACO . TO THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : Sin : In your comment on an article by R. P. Brooks , of Athens , Ga. , October 6 , you say : " Waco , Tex. , is the seat of Baylor University . Not a single teacher , or preacher , or newspaper , or public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a convicted negro there . " In this statement you are in error . I am Presuming that you would be glad to have the facts . First , Baylor University . The faculty met and passed resolutions . These were published in the Waco papers . After declaring " that we abhor and deplore the violent acts of the mob , " the resolutions go on to " express our disapproval of every form of mob violence . " and " solemnly call upon our fellow-citizens henceforth to allow the regular processes of the law to take their normal course in every case that may arise . " There was but one feeling , one opinion , and one expression in the faculty , and that was unequivocally against mob law . In the chapel , in the presence of 800 students , I condemned it in as strong words as the English language would permit without violating the ten commandments In all the expressions as we met privately there was not less of shame than of surprise and indignation . Instead of not a single teacher speaking out , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not in New York to expose something where it would do no good , but in Waco to his neighbor where it would do good . Baylor University stands for law and order . Every ounce of her blood is against mob violence and lynch law among all races , under all circumstances , and everywhere . Every professor and the rank and file of her student body stand together for good citizenship , for the demands , the dignity , and the authority of the law . Secondly , the preachers . It was a Presbyterian preacher , Rev. E. E. Ingram , who discovered the plot and got the promise of the leader that the law would be allowed to take its course ; but the leader was not able to control his crowd . There was sermon after sermon in the chief pulpits of Waco against it . Dr. Caldwell , of the First Presbyterian Church , preached a ' sermon against it ; so did Dr. Culver , of the Austin Street Methodist Church , and Dr. Groner , of the Columbus Street Baptist Church . Pastor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strongest possible statement against it . The Seventh and James Street Baptist Church adopted resolutions against it , and so did the Baptist Pastors ' Conference . Indeed , I know of no church , or preacher , or Sunday-school teacher who did not in all public and private ways roundly condemn it . There was actually danger of making too notorious so black a crime Besides this , before this occurrence there had met in the halls of Baylor University the denominational college presidents of the State for the purpose of arousing and organizing the forces of public sentiment against mob violence and lynching , and of starting at the centres of enlightenment a campaign of education for law and order . They issued an address to the people of Texas This address in the form of resolutions was adopted by the Baptist State Convention , by the Methodist Conferences of the State , and by I do not know how many other religious bodies . Dr. ' S. P. Brooks , president of Baylor University , and one of the prime movers , had the honor of introducing it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the privilege of publishing . Thirdly , the newspapers . These in some cases spoke against this deep disgrace and crime ; but , for the most part , it must be acknowledged , they put on the soft pedal , and yet the following , entitled " The Baylor Expression on Mob Law , " from the Waco triweekly Tribune , is not equivocal : - " It had not been the purpose of the Tribune to make further editorial reference to the assize of Judge Lynch , held in this city on Monday , May 15 . This paper spoke promptly without a moment 's delay , in expression of its condemnation , its regret at mob defiance of law and representative public sentiment . But the resolutions sent in to us by the faculty of Baylor University ( and appearing on this page ) have impelled departure from the purpose that had been formed . That expression speaks for itself and merits the appreciation of the , community . It is also a fact to be appreciated that ministers of the gospel have had the conscience and courage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bench at San Antonio last week a United States Judge used the Waco episode as a warning to society . All over the land it has evoked like sentiment , and here we leave it  --  a memory that one does not desire to recall . " For the public officials , I hold no brief ; and yet in their apparent indifference and inactivity they are certainly not exceptional in such situations , whether North or South . The mob element disgraced Waco , it is true , but it did not constitute Waco . Waco has a conscience , but it happens here as it happens elsewhere that the criminal minority takes us unawares ; and here as elsewhere there is an irresponsible element that misrepresents the community . North and South there are those who are working for better laws and better law enforcement . We are learning that we can not make a good government out of bad people , and that we can not have a safe government where any considerable number are either ignorant or vicious . Vociferating resolutions and criticisms of one another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heal the deformities of human society . It will take the training of the schools , a generation of enlightenment in which impulses unrestrained shall be tempered , and passions explosive and misguided shall be steadied and disciplined . before humanity shall rise above animality in crises of extraordinary indignation and excitement . That Waco has shown rare restraint in her just indignation against the mob that disgraced her in its folly and crime is in itself an indication not entirely without hope . At any rate , it is certain that the real Waco with a conscience is not indifferent . J. L KasLsa , Dean , Baylor University . Waco , Tex. , October 15 . We are glad to be corrected and regret our misinformation . But Waco can not hold up its head until the criminals are punished . ? ED . THE NATION.                     