@@487191

The trenchant note of our Government to Austria did not come like a bolt from the blue . It has been amply forecast , and is but a necessary step after what has gone before . Nor can it be described as a mere letting of the eagle scream , as was the famous dispatch which Webster once sent to the Austrian Government . Secretary Lansing , indeed , may be thought to have written in the spirit of Webster 's words when the latter said : " Every nation , on being received at her own request into the circle of civilized governments , must understand that she binds herself to the strict and faithful observance of all those principles , laws , and usages which have obtained currency among civilized states and which have for their object the mitigation of the miseries of war . " But it is not discussion of the laws of war that our Government is now inviting . Its demand is for prompt action ; and this is based , not upon any sudden decision , but upon a controversy which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President now insists that a definite conclusion be put . The note to Austria is plainly a sequel to the representations which this country has made to Germany . That is assumed . Our Government takes it for granted that Austria is fully aware of the positions laid down by the Washington Administration in its demands upon the German Government . The limits within which the United States would permit the conduct of submarine warfare , so far as it affects the lives of American citizens , had been clearly marked off . The question can not now be taken up afresh with every other government . The American attitude is known to all the world . In that attitude , the note states significantly , Germany has acquiesced . From this two inferences are unescapable . The first is that Austria can not be allowed to flout what Germany has decided to respect . And the second is that Germany is to be pressed for a complete and satisfactory settlement of the Lusitania case , just as she made her apologies and disavowals and promises to pay indemnity in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here of being more severe with Austria because she is weaker than Germany . The whole implication , the entire logic of the note , is that equal measure is being meted to both countries by the American Government . It has , in truth , been no secret that Secretary Lansing has been putting pressure upon Ambassador Bernstorff to wind up the Lusitania controversy . If satisfaction in that matter is not soon forthcoming , there may be a note to Germany couched in as strong language as that of the communication to the Austrian Government . Its argument is condensed but urgent . The effect of it is to serve fair notice that the patience and long-suffering of this Government must not be interpreted as willingness to submit to injustice . In each ease of submarine outrage , the President has waited long enough to be assured of the facts . He has done no rash thundering in the index . Full opportunity has been given to the other side to state its case and to determine its policy . But Mr. Wilson evidently feels now that it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sharper tone in reference to the Ancona than he did with regard to the Lusitania , it must be because he believes that the argument has been exhausted , and that the Austrian Government , if it countenanced the proceedings of its submarine commander , was acting as if in deliberate contempt of the doctrines of law and humanity which our Government had made it plain that it would omit no word or act to uphold . These acts , which are abhorrent and barbarous , and which at the same time are In direct violation of American rights , can not be tolerated merely because the scene of them is shifted , or because they are ? done under one flag rather than another . The imperative air of the note means that ' the President feels that the sum of the whole matter has long been before Austria as well as before Germany , and that the hour for a settlement has come . It is not necessary to dwell upon the grave tenor of the note . Its terms are such as one Government rarely uses to another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " this one plainly says " demand . " And the door is shut to everything except a complete satisfaction offered by Austria . She is called upon not merely to disavow the act of her submarine commander , but to discipline him . . Austria has in her time written diplomatic notes with a sharp edge to them  --  witness the formidable demand which she made upon Servia in 1914 ? but it is doubtful if she ever received one more curt and cutting than this dispatch of our State Department . That a distinct threat lies behind it is plain . But the threat does not go beyond the severance of diplomatic relations . This is implied in the phrase that the " good relations of the two countries must rest upon a common regard for law and humanity . " In case the Austrian Government does not take speedy steps to satisfy the President , it is obvious that Ambassador Penfield will be recalled from Vienna . That Germany would feel herself involved in such a course is highly probable ; but this fact may lead her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ induce her ally to yield as gracefully as possible to the just demands of the United States . GERMANY AND PEACE . While Bethmann-Hollweg was engaged in drafting the speech which he delivered in the Reichstag last Thursday , the substance of it had been given to the world by von Hindenburg : " Our enemies are not sufficiently battered . We must hammer them some more . " In the language of statesmanship this sentiment took the following form : " So long as this mixture of guilt and ignorance dominates the feelings of the hostile nations and their leaders , every tender of peace on . our side would be folly . " The state of ignorance referred to is ignorance on the part of the Allies that they are beaten . All through the Chancellor 's statement runs this recognition of an awkward fact . The blunt habit of mind of Gen. Hindenburg puts it frankly . The diplomat expresses it circuitously and plaintively . We are victorious on every side , but the enemy does not know it . We have crushed Belgium , Servia , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to be aware of it . We have shown that Germany and her allies can not be starved into submission , but England stupidly insists that the thing can be done . We do not need to conquer additional territory , we have obtained the fullest guarantees for our safety , but we can not speak of peace lest the enemy interpret it as a sign of weakness . We have won , but our opponents wo n't let us speak in the tones of a victor . The Chancellor thus gave the expected answer to the Socialist interpellation . Is Germany ready to take the initiative in making peace ? No . " Whenever our enemies approach us with peace proposals which are in consonance with Germany 's dignity and security we shall always be ready to discuss them . " Is Germany ready to say what she regards as consonant with her dignity and security ? No . " In previous speeches I sketched the general aim of the war . I can not be more definite to-day , or say what guarantees the Imperial Government demands , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The first step towards peace will come when the Allies have said , We have had enough . In what form must this acknowledgment come from the Allies ? Here the Chancellor 's statement becomes-peculiarly plaintive . The Allies must renounce the destruction of Germany which they proclaimed as their final goal in " the first intoxication of hope , " a goal which , " despite intermediate events , remains the same . " It is hard doing business with a beaten enemy who is still determined to destroy you . There can be no approach towards reconciliation with an opponent who refuses you the guarantees which you have conquered and are in a position to hold against the world . It is a childish argument , this insistence that the first step to peace must be a confession by the Allies that they have been naughty and a promise that they will not do it again . Peace comes not through phrases , but through facts . Mr. Asquith or M. Briand will never say to Germany , " Very well , I promise not to annihilate you , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even defeating Germany . Nations address one another on such important matters in concrete terms . Peace can come only through the defeated nation asking what the victor is willing to take , or through the victor announcing What he is willing to concede to the vanquished . Compared with the Chancellor 's statement , the position taken by the Socialist spokesman , Scheidemann , shows a closer grasp of realities . We went into this war , said Scheidemann , to defend our national integrity . We have succeeded . Our frontiers are amply protected . Let us have peace . But Bethmann-Hollweg is under the necessity of explaining a defensive war which aims at territorial expansion , a war for self-preservation which calls for conquests . He is under the necessity of satisfying public opinion at home with the assurance that the war is won , and reconciling that cheerful view with the fact that the war is not ended , and can not end until the Allies cry quits . In the ' realm of realities we know that either a nation is victorious or it is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself by announcing that it is willing to make peace . If it fears that such a statement will raise false hopes in the enemy 's camp and prolong the war , then it has not attained victory and is not within measurable approach of it . In the Chancellor 's speech the ground-note is confidence , but there are overtones of doubt and hesitation . There are suggestions that if only the Allies are willing to swallow their pride they may find Germany reason able . " The longer and more bitterly they wage this war against us , the greater will be the necessary guarantees . " It sounds like a threat , but it is also an intimation that an easy settlement is possible to-day . Bethnaann-Hollweg speaks of the necessity of establishing the certitude that war will not return . How can that certitude be established ? If not through the crushing of the Allies , then it must be through reconciliation .. He uses the striking words : I can not say what guarantees the Imperial Government demands , for example , in the Belgian question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a foundation for these guarantees . Is this a hint to the moderate elements in England and France that if only they begin to talk peace , Belgium will be regarded by Germany as a subject for discussion ? Does the " combination of Powers " suggest that Germany is willing to enter into a league of reconciliation ? It falls in with the entire tenor of the Chancellor 's speech : Let the Allies own that they are beaten , and the rest is simple . Plainly , this is not the firm tone of a victor . It indicates e , state of mind which we find mirrored in influential sections of the non-Socialist German press . The Frankfurter Zeitung- , out of a clear sky , raises the question of what is to be done with AlsaceLorraine  --  as an internal problem , it hastens to say . Conditions there have been unsatisfactory during the wan Are the conquered provinces to remain as a Reichsland ? Are they to be partitioned among the other German states ? Are they to be incorporated with Prussia ? The Frankfuter ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raising of the question , in the talk of rearrangements and consolidations , there is almost the intimation that in the process of reconstruction a strip of Lorraine might be " rectified " back to France , possibly in exchange for something else . Another writer deals with Germany as a Weltmacht , and suggests that Germany can become that without harming England . She can be a Weltmacht by being incomparably the strongest Power  --  in Europe . Such expressions of German sentiment are known in the Allied countries . If Germany 's position can be weakened by her offering peace , then the damage has been done already . The fact remains that peace has been formally debated at Berlin , and nowhere else , with the result that the Allies are likely to remain embedded in guilty " ignorance " of the fact , Teutonically established , that they are beaten . OUR SUBSIDIZED PRESS . Labor 's National Peace Council is the latest victim of the subsidized press of this country . Ex-Congressman H. Robert Fowler , of Illinois , general counsel of the Association , tells @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position to know . Moreover , we find his statement set forth at length  --  and without denial , mark that ' . ? in one of the subsidized newspapers themselves . " The assaults of the subsidized press upon this organization on the very day of the opening of the Sixty-fourth Congress " stir Mr. Fowler to indignant defiance , to which , as well as to the accusation itself , the subsidized press gives , full publicity  --  and this again without a word of protest . " Neither the intimidation of the wealth of the Armor Trust and the War Trust nor the public slander of their subsidized press , " Mr. Fowler declares , " will in any wise deter us or save them from the exposure of their criminal looting of the Public treasury . " How much of the swag goes to the newspapers and how much is to be retained by the " War Trust , " is of course not indicated ; but no doubt the sum that will go into the journalistic cash-boxes will make a very comfortable addition to the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Allies at the outbreak of the war . We have referred to Mr. Fowler 's remarks as an " accusation " ; but the description is not accurate . He does not feel it necessary to take the trouble to accuse ; he uses the word " subsidized " as though it were a mere designation which he finds current , and which everybody will accept without challenge . And indeed it is current enough . It is at the free disposal of every one that in in distress and every one that is in debt and every one that is discontented ; it is current coin in the cave of Adullam . Mr. Bryan finds it ready to his hand in each one of the successive positions in which he places himself through his deep devotion . to one paramount issue after another . If almost the whole of the influential American press is opposed to the debasement of the currency , this is because it is subsidized by the money Power . If it does not welcome the initiative , referendum , and recall , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If it denounces Bryan 's desertion of his post as Secretary of State , and the lack of honorable observance of its obligations which he displayed while filling it , this is because the press is under the thumb of the men who want to make millions out of the embroilment of the country in the European war . We might ourselves feel inclined to be weighed down by the thought of this deep degradation of the American press , were it not for some curious facts in regard to it . Among these we should place , first of all , the extraordinary circumstance that so much free publicity is given to the charge by the press itself . As is well known to those sociological experts who have made the venality and subservience of the American newspapers their specialty , the greatest weapon of evil which they wield is that of suppression . To one word that is said by these learned gentlemen about distortion of news , or about insincerity of editorial opinion , there are ten said about suppression of the news . How comes it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the exposure of that very suppression , and the accusation of the venality which lies at the root of suppression , distortion , and insincerity alike ? That is a puzzle which it may be beyond the power of the sociologists to explain , but which ought to offer no difficulty to their friends the psychologists . Yet we do not recall having ever seen a word on the subject by either . In default of instruction from these high quarters , we confess that , for our own part , we feel constrained to fan back upon a very simple explanation . The reason that the respectable papers of this country so complacently print these charges , and take no further notice of them , is that they count on the good sense of their readers to set them down as irresponsible gabble . There are many respects in which the American newspaper compares unfavorably with the best examples of European journalism . There is less sense of proportion , less enlistment of special knowledge in the handling of many important departments , more intentness on catching the eye of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sensational , rather than truly important , items . But in point of honesty and Sincerity , we have little doubt that the American press is not only equal , but superior , to that of any European country . There are exceptions , of course ; but it may be said of the great mass of American newspapers of acknowledged standing that they are not only wholly free from the grosser forms of venality , but are conducted in a spirit of genuine independence . Not , as a rule , to be sure , of an absolutely ideal independence . There are personal predilections , perhaps personal affiliations , that influence the policy of the paper more or less ; and there is the sense of representing , in a measure , rather than undertaking altogether to lead , the paper'sconstituency . From the standpoint of the labor agitator , or the social reformer , or the advocate of some ideal scheme of world-regeneration , all this may present itself in the light of a base and unworthy compliance ; but as a matter of fact , the standard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but far higher , than that by which individuals , even high-minded individuals , are usually guided in their personal conduct . Let fault be found with the papers , nevertheless ; they fall below their own standards often enough . But when charges of venality are made , on no better foundation than that the views of the newspaper are not in agreement with those of the accuser , they should serve no other end than that of classing the person who makes them as a cheap slanderer or a silly ignoramus . A SIDELIGHT ON POPULAR KNOW-LEDGE . A professor in a State university of the Middle West has written to the Nation an account ( printed in. the issue of last week ) of an interesting experience upon which he stumbled quite accidentally in the midst of his routine work with a section of his freshman class . They were reading Marlowe 's " Hero and Leander " : Hellespont suggested Gallipoli , and I asked the class  --  it was quite a chance shot  --  where Gallipbli was . To my surprise , no one knew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was amazed when the class confessed that not one had ever seen the word before ! Within the next twenty-six hours I had met three other sections of freshmen , and had placed " Gallipoli " before them , with the same result . A more advanced course yielded two men who had never heard the name  --  one of them was on the staff of the university daily paper . With this for a beginning , the Professor went on to sound the depths of these freshmen 's ignorance by setting them a " simple examination paper " consisting of questions relating to the great war . The result furnishes such an array of ludicrous errors as one is accustomed to find displayed in accounts of such tests . Yet we have to confess that the exhibit , amusing as it is , impresses us less than the simple showing upon Gallipoli . Mani persons fairly well informed about the war might fail to answer several of the questions . But the Gallipoli thing can not be ex- , plained away . It is quite certain that these boys and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the greatest international convulsion of all history without taking enough interest in it to follow with ordinary attention even such accounts of it as are contained in the newspaper headlines . It may be noticed that even in the Gallipoli matter there appears a gleam of encouragement as to the mental condition of these young people . In a more advanced class , there were only two men who had not heard of Gallipoli ; whence we may infer that some development was taking place in the course of their college life . But the questions raised by the exhibition as a whole are both broader and more disturbing than those usually considered in connection with the efficacy of our colleges as breeders either of general culture or of sound citizenship . It is only a small minority , though an extremely important one , that go through college . What these freshmen represent is the youth of both sexes who at the age of sixteen or eighteen go out into life after having had the benefit of a common-school and high-school education . And it is not merely their knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the world , but their mental attitude that is represented . The professor cites some letters in which this mental attitude is explicitly displayed . One speaks of not having time " to spend looking up magazines and reading unimportant matter which does not pertain to his life 's work . " Another is willing to wait until " the war is over , and matters are cleared up , " at which happy time he will not be bothered with the difficulty of finding out which of the alleged facts contained in the newspapers are true and which false . Small wonder that the professor indulged in some bitter comment on such notions of what is an " unimportant matter " and what our " life 's work " is really concerned with . The question of keenest , one might indeed say crucial , interest is , how far the state of mind of these young people reflects that of their elders . Is it the fact that in the small towns and villages and farmsteads from which they doubtless come the tremendous drama that is enacted in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of that civilization from which our own is drawn is destined to turn , excites only the most languid and most distant interest ? It would be rash to infer so much as this ; but certainly something approaching it is strongly suggested . For those who are living at the heart of things in New York or Washington it is difficult to imagine such a state of mind . But even granting that it exists , one must not rush to the conclusion that these people are hopelessly sordid or philistine . If it is only in its broadest lines that the great war is known to them , we must . remember that , as has been said by an acute thinker , there is no operation that the human mind so stubbornly resists as the introduction of new knowledge . And there is lacking that poignant sense of the tremendous reality which is brought about by the contagion of constant and general discussion and of human contact . One practical lesson bearing on a leading question of the time should be enforced by contemplation of such a phenomenon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rule of the people , but some of us have been insisting that to require that every great question shall be settled by popular vote is to reduce the principle of popular rule to an absurdity . Not the least important reason for holding this is that it takes time for knowledge of any great question to permeate the popular mind , and that nevertheless action upon it may be demanded at once , either by enthusiastic agitators on the one hand or by the force of circumstances on the other . An instance of the latter case is the issue of peace or war ; of the former any number of examples might be cited . If in the hard times which gave the great impetus to the silver agitation it had been possible to refer the question of free silver to a popular vote , it is not improbable that the proposal would have been carried , and it is quite certain that the people would have voted upon it without understanding it . In such a matter as any of the issues which have arisen at the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country and Great Britain , the worst possible way to find out the final and deliberate judgment of the American people would be to refer the question to a direct vote . How few of them know enough about it to know what they would think if they knew more about it , the referendum on Gallipoli at this Western State university suffices to give an instructive indication . STEPHEN PHILLIPS AND THE POETIC DRAMA . We are accustomed to thinking of the poetic drama as something that in our time and language is almost non-existent . Yet in the dramatic history of the last two decades two of the chief British poets , Stephen Phillips and W. B. Yeats , have devoted almost all their energies to writing plays . Nor have they written in the spirit in which Browning and Tennyson , Swinburne and Robert Bridges , wrote their dramas in verse . Tennyson 's " Queen Mary " had a slight stage success , but only after much remodelling ; and no one believes that it would ever have been produced had it not been the Poet Laureate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bettered , the tradition of Taylor and Talfourd , writing with the definite purpose of being acted . If their materials and methods in writing , their purposes in seeking production , were absolutely different , the fact but illustrates the range of dramatic possibilities still inherent in poetry . Other and kindred recent experiments In poetic drama have made their mark on both sides the Atlantic , chief among them being the versions of Euripides made by Gilbert Murray , produced in successive years at the Court Theatre in . London before being brought to America . There have been English translations of Maeterlinck , Hauptmann , and Rostand which had the spirit of poetry , if not its form , and which have held their audiences ; and in recent years the pageant and the masque , the superior forms of which are always poetic , have had extraordinary vogue in England and America . But to Stephen Phillips is due special gratitude as the first English writer in years to show the possibility of producing beautiful poetry , and yet of attending to the technical requirements of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equalled in definition of character , tragic passion , and skilled handling of intense action by his later works . He tended to substitute magnificence for actual dramatic movement to a degree that smothered even the poetry in stage presentation . In " Ulysses " the poetry had only a coordinate place with a series of fine tableaux , and in " Nero " the splendor of the settings and the frequency and pomp of the entrances made it wholly subsidiary , while dramatic outline was blurred . But not only were the " Herod " and the " Sin of David " adapted as wholes to the stage , but they and his first play had individual scenes of unusual dramatic merit . The two love scenes of " Paolo and Francesca " are among the most beautiful of their kind in all contemporary drama . Phillips had a certain stage experience during his connection with Benson , and he also worked to the order of influential managers , and was to some degree guided by , neir ideas . Yeats , similarly , wrote with the requirements of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in mind . In Yeats , also , the full possibilities of poetic drama are not revealed . His " On Baile 's Strand , " despite its Sohrab and Rustum : theme of father fighting son , is not dramatic , and neither " Deirdre " nor " The Shadowy Waters " has anything like the fine stirring appeal of the prose " Kathleen ni Hou11- han . " But both , to a far greater degree than Percy MacKaye in " Jeanne d'Arc " or " The Canterbury Pilgrims , " or than writers like Margaret Woods , have shown that there may be realized an English poetic drama . If Phillips 's sense of dramatic requirements was such that early critics accused him of merely giving a poetic handling to old-fashioned melodrama , he merits credit also for offering his actors verse of simple character , its rhythm obvious , and its accent and emphasis much plainer than the Elizabethans . A poetic drama must not differ too markedly in speech from one in prose . Mere declamation , the loading of the action with meditative and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do . But there is no reason why the recitation of poetic dialogue should not treat it as poetry , should not bring out its values of rhyme and rhythm . Our want of actors who can speak a scene from Shakespeare with real feeling for blank verse is one reason why the public does not oftener respond to Shakespearean revivals . At one of Granville Barker 's performances of Euripides a critic complained that in the opening scene the actor not only concealed . from him the fact that the lines were written in rhymed verse , but convinced him that they were not . There may be a division among elocutionists over the propriety of accenting or evading rhythm . But it is certain that the mass of people who make up the potential audiences of poetic drama wish to hear verse read with delicate but perceptible appreciation of the fact that it is verse . Of the prospects of poetic drama it is possible to say little , because production must always depend upon the occurrence of dramatic faculty and taste in some man poetically endowed , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hopeful to find signs that the poetic drama , if well done , may have a more cordial reception in the future than it has had in the past . The war in particular has brought forward a general view that cynicism and ultra-scientific realism were alike becoming distasteful , and that in their place idealism , romanticism , and those things that appeal to the emotions were certain to be in demand . Only the event can test this view , but many theoretical reasons give it force . If it actually proves that emotion and romance have a new place in popular taste , they are sure to find it in some fashion on the stage . But the believer in poetic drama woulld contend that its plaCe is permanent , and that human nature 's liking for it is little affected by changes such as even a great war may bring .                     