@@430590

 | FOR the causes of the titanic struggle now moving Europe , it is necessary to go back a little into history . Europe 's political development , during the past four or five centuries , has been largely conditioned by what international law writers term the " continental conception . " The Holy Roman Empire , with its claim for the dominance of the Emperor and the subordination of the other states , was followed by the independent sovereignty doctrine . This maintained that every nation was not only free and sovereign , but that it was equal to every other nation ii , the councils of the continent . This conception was succeeded , in the middle of the past century , by the idea of the " concert of Europe . " It came to be believed that an agreement of the Great Powers , ? which , since 1870 , have been Great Britain , France , Russia , Germany , Austria , and Italy , ? should determine the policies of the continent and keep the peace . Every dispute between nations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by this " concert , " or general council , which unitedly imposed its will . THE BALANCE OF POWER DOCTRINE At the same time there was growing up the condition and doctrine known as the " balance of power . " After the Congress of Vienna in 1815 , which liquidated the Napoleonic conquests and settled the large lines of the map of Europe for more than half a century , the European nations assumed the point of view that any acquisition of power , territory , or population by any one of them entitled all the others to compensation , so that the relative strength and importance might not be disturbed . Hence we find , after every important war since Napoleon 's time , the practise of the European " concert " to take part in the settlement of the terms of peace and so adjust the gains of the victor and the losses of the vanquished that the much-discussed " balance might not be upset . Any threatened disturbance of this balance has always had in it the seeds of a general conflict . The balance-of-power fetish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present war . The other three may be briefly set forth as militarism , with its attendant jealousy and the obstacles it presents to many needed social and economic reforms ; the age-long world rivalry between Teuton and Slav ; and the struggle of Europe 's swarming industrial and commercial nations for the markets of Asia . The preponderance acquired by Prussia through her victory over France in 1870-71 and its increase by the alliance of the German Empire with Austria and Italy has resulted in those European alliances which have made the alignment in the present conflict . HOW THE ALLIANCES CAME TO BE Bismarck 's fear of France and his hatred of the Napoleonic tradition as exemplified in Louis Napoleon was the underlying cause . In order to maintain a strong front against the republic , he brought about the Dual Alliance between Germany and Austria in 1879 . This agreement , which was not known to the world until nine years later , marks the beginning of the division of Europe into two hostile camps . In 1882 the Iron Chancellor was able to convince the - Italians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the center of the continent , and the Triple Alliance , or Dreibund , was born . In pursuance of his ideal of a friendless France , Bismarck , before approaching Italy , had attempted unsuccessfully to get Russian adhesion to a Dreikaiserbund ( League of the Three Emperors ) . England could not be tempted by either side . In 1890 Bismarck fell from power , and France came to an understanding with Russia . The next year the Treaty of Alliance was signed , which , however , was not made public until 1894 . For a decade the Dual Alliance of France and Russia faced the Triple Alliance of Germany , Austria , and Italy , with the odds in favor of the Dreibund . During the first years of the twentieth century , however , there came about a shifting of the balance . Italy , estranged from France over the occupation of Tunis in 1881 , and because of a vexatious tariff war , became  | reconciled to her Latin sister in 1901 . In May , 1903 , King Edward VII paid his memorable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by this monarch , Britain and France , in April , 1904 , signed an omnibus treaty settling all their differences in Africa . Shortly afterwards a secret understanding was arrived at between the two countries which , despite official denials , is now understood to have provided for British aid to France in case of an attack by Germany . This was the famous Entente Cordiale , or Cordial Understanding . In 1907 Great Britain and Russia , long at odds over  | their respective spheres of influence in Persia and other parts of the Near East , made up their differences in a treaty . DEVELOPMENT OF THE TRIPLE ENTENTE Meanwhile , the French had begun their pacific penetration of Morocco , and ' the German Kaiser had made his spectacular visit to Tangier ( 1905 ) and demanded that Germany 's rights in North Africa be safeguarded . The Moroccan. - question was supposed to have been settled by the famous conference of Algeciras ( 1906 ) . This conference , which brought out the support of England to France , proved that the Entente Cordiale , which had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strength of an alliance . When , as has already been said , Russia and England agreed over their Near Eastern interests , the Dual Alliance had expanded into the Triple Entente . Startling events soon drew the world 's attention to eastern Europe . The Turkish revolution , in 1908 , found echoes in several of the provinces formerly under Ottoman suzerainty . In February , 1908 , Europe was startled by the news that Bulgaria had thrown off the over-lordship of Turkey , and that Austria-Hungary had formally annexed Bosnia and Herzegovina . These provinces had been given to her " for military occupation and administration " by the Congress of Berlin , which followed the Turko-Russian war of 1877 . All Europe was expecting a continental war . The tension was ended in March , 1909 , however , by a peremptory intimation from the German Kaiser to the Russian Czar that if his support of Servia 's protest against Austria 's absorption of the Bosniaks should lead to war with the Dual Monarchy , Germany would " appear in shining armor at the side of her ally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Balkan wars which amazed and frightened the continent in 1912 and 1913 were regarded by Austria and Germany as having been instigated by Russia in revenge . The Czar , however , has apparently seen these in the light of additional Slavonic checks by the Teuton . Meanwhile , Germany again challenged France in Morocco by her dramatic stroke at Agadir ( 1911 ) . Britain supported France vigorously , and it was seen that the Triple Entente had solidified into what was virtually an alliance . THE POLITICAL CHESS BOARD OF EUROPE The continent is now divided into four groups of nations : ( 1 ) The close alliance of the middle European powers , ? Germany , Austria , and Italy , ? into the Triple Alliance , or Driebund ; ( 2 ) the Triple Entente , or understanding approaching an alliance , between Great Britain , France , and Russia , ( France and Russia being formally allied ) ; ( 3 ) the small group of buffer nations whose neutrality and integrity have been recognized or guaranteed , ? Denmark , Holland , Belgium , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Belgium , and Germany , whose neutrality was guaranteed in 1867 , and Switzerland ; ( 4 ) the other countries , more or less isolated , some of them , however , having regional problems of their own . These include the Balkan nations , - Bulgaria , Servia , Montenegro , Greece , Turkey , and Rumania , ? formerly a sort of Balkan extension of the Triple Alliance , but within the past year drawn within the orbit of Russia ; the Scandinavian nations , ? Norway , Sweden and Denmark ( the latter , although neutral , still involved in the general fate of Scandinavia ) , ? and the Iberian nations , Spain and Portugal . Any increase of the power of any one of these groups would alone have been sufficient to bring about a European war . This alignment constituted the balance of power . SOME OF THE PROBLEMS OF THE DREIBUND Each of the two great alliances now locked in the giant struggle for mastery presents some coherence and consistency and yet a good deal of diversity and internal antagonism . The two bureaucratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the continent , Germany and Austria , are dominated by German-speaking men . Their interests are largely similar . Even the problems of each arise chiefly out of the fact that their governments are more dynastic than national . The Hohenzollerns and Hapsburgs are faced by racial questions of a similar nature , although Austria has them more intensely and to a greater degree than Germany . Both find the Slav within their borders and on their boundaries their chief enemy . Germany has , in addition , British commercial and naval rivalry to the north and French desire for revenge on the west . Austria has the problem of Slays on the south as well as to the east and within her own borders . Meanwhile a suspicious , unfriendly Italian neighbor and assumed ally , hungering to reclaim Italia Irredenta , begrudges her an outlet on the Adriatic . The Austro-Italian question arises from the fact that Austria  | still possesses the only lands on the European continent inhabited by Italian-speaking people not under the Italian flag . All ancient Italy , from the Alps to the end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under one sceptre , except south Tyrol , Trieste , and the rest of that shore line of the northern Adriatic which Italians call Italia Irredenta ? Italy unredeemed . To the loss of Corsica to France and Malta to Great Britain the Italian seems reconciled . The government at Rome , however , and the Italian people can not forget that Austria holds all of continental Italy which is not subject to King Victor Emmanuel , and , moreover , that she has kept up a constant and vexatious campaign of Austrianization against those portions of Venetia and Lombardy which the Italians regard as their own . While Germany 's and Austria 's problems are acute largely within their own borders ( Germany 's colonies have never been regarded as profitable ) , Italy 's concern for her international position has been intensified during the past two years by the acquisition of Tripoli . Italians have been very thoughtfully weighing the advantages accruing to them from their alliance with Germany and Austria , such as military assistance , financial promotion , etc. , against their traditional friendship with England , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which British and French battleships , if unfriendly , might cut off Tripoli and close in the peninsula upon the political , economic , and social revolution which King Victor Emmanuel is reported to have recently said is likely to make Italy the next republic . All cf which goes towards explaining why Italy will try her best to remain neutral . befriends France both because she sympathizes with western liberalism and because she has long feared and suspected the German . Moreover , the German has been crowding her in the race for the world 's trade and has built a powerful navy to protect what German merchants have won . It is the German contention that one of the chief causes of the war is jealousy of the commercial success which the subjects of the Kaiser have achieved . DIVERGENCE IN THE ENTENTE There is more diversity than agreement in the Triple Entente . Hostility to the Dreibund and fear of its tremendous military power have been the main actuating motives . Government , institutions and traditions tend to unite the central European powers . But it is exactly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Triple Entente as far apart as the poles . Constitutional , republican England ( a monarchy only in name ) , with her widely extended empire and her unmilitary people , is practically allied to republican , highly centralized France , which has not yet lost her memory of the great Napoleon . France also has a colonial empire , and a navy which is claimed to be second only to that of England . Britain This friendship with the republic across the channel and a desire to protect her Asiatic dependencies bring Britain into a strange semi-partnership with the autocratic Russian Empire , with which she has naturally nothing in common , with which she is at enmity along many frontiers of the world , and with which she will inevitably have to dispute the prizes of the war , should the Triple Entente be victorious . But France wants back AlsaceLorraine from Germany , and French bankers hold almost all the huge Russian national debt . To protect her investments in Russia , and to consummate her revenge on Germany for the humiliation of 1870 , France can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her own protection against Germany . A Germany triumphant over France would mean a Germany within striking distance of English shores . France needs Britain for her national safety . Therefore , French and Russian armies have menaced the German frontiers , and British warships have for years been awaiting the orders , " Find and sink the Germans . " FORCES AND STAYING POWERS OF EACH CAMP In staying qualities the two great groups , if each maintains its strength undiminished , are about equal . The Dreibund commands better equipped , better trained and more easily handled armies . On the - water , however , the Entente has a great advantage . Naval experts are wont to measure sea strength by tonnage , number of guns , and weight of projectiles . Measured by this test , the central European powers are only half as powerful as the combination against them . The figures given for the Entente are , in round numbers , tonnage , 2,000,000 ; guns , 800 ; projectile weight , 550,000 ; those for the Dreibund are : tonnage , 600,000 ; guns , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Triple Alliance are more compact and will find it easier to supply and move their fighting forces . Both Germany and Austria , however , depend very largely for food supplies upon importation . The government at  | Berlin recently announced that it could hold out , with blockaded ports , for a year . The bulk of the land fighting forces of the Entente , ? the Russians , ? are less highly trained and less efficient than the Germans . Britain , moreover , it is said , can not live more than two months on the food she has within her borders at any one time . On the other hand , France produces surplus foodstuffs , chiefly wheat , and Russia is a limitless granary . England maintains her mighty fleet to keep her doors open for food . If her ships should destroy the German navy and blockade German ports , the Kaiser 's armies may be expected to take their attention from France and devote all their energies to seizing the grain lands of Russia . THE BLIGHT OF MILITARISM The blight of militarism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than 16,000,000 trained soldiers in the first lines and in the reserves have wasted the substance of the continent and lowered its productive capacity . The Triple Alliance in times of peace has a million and a half men under arms . In times of war this may be quickly increased to 8,000,000 . For purposes of calculation in the present war , Italy is uncertain . Her quarter million soldiers in peace and 1,500,000 in war can not therefore be surely placed with the Dreibund , which can , however , muster for war six million without her . On a peace footing , the Entente counts 2,000,000 men ; in war it can muster upwards of 10,000,000 . The very presence cf these armies in times of peace is an incitement to war . Officers look forward to a conflict as their chance of advancement , and the peoples are accustomed to the sight of the paraphernalia of battle . Besides the economic burden of supporting them , these armaments have bred jealousy and have fostered a spirit of caste and autocracy that has kept the peo- pies of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and political reforms of which they are in sore need . In every one of the six major powers , revolution of varying degrees of seriousness was the seeming alternative to war . In the aggressive powers , those that took the initiative , ? Austria , Russia , and Germany ; military oligarchies have for years been facing a social-democratic revolution . Russia is still struggling out of Asiatic barbarism . Germany , with all her civilization , remains a feudalistic autocracy , with a " debating society " for a parliament . Austria is a polyglot bureaucracy , which has held together mainly by desire for protection against Russia and personal loyalty to the Hapsburg family . In none of the three are franchise rights fully recognized . In all of them industry is taxed to the breaking point . Britain , France , and Italy also have their questions of land , and labor , and Britain has Ireland . Through all of them the " disintegrating ferment " of Socialism is preparing for the-fall of monarchy and special privilege . It was inevitable that militarism should force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moreover , militarism has expected this war for twenty years . During the past decade this expectation has been so widespread that one of the aims of taxation in Germany and Austria has been providing funds for the contest . THE STRUGGLE OF TEUTON AGAINST SLAV Pan-Germanism has baited Pan-Slavism , and Pan-Slavism has challenged Pan-Germanism for half a century . Pan-Germanism , represented by Germany , is a well-defined movement which seeks the common welfare of the Germanic peoples of Europe and the dvance of Teutonic culture . Pan-Slavism , championed by Russia , is less clearly formulated , but it , for its part , seeks a union of all Slavonic folk for common welfare . These two aims are irreconcilable and the two propaganda have become the incitement to war . There are in Europe approximately 80,000,000 German-speaking people , of whom 68,000,000 are in the German . Empire , and the other 12,000,000 in Austria and Hungary . But there are 140,000,000 Slays on European soil , ? in Russia , Bulgaria , Servia , Montenegro , and in the Polish provinces of Austria and Germany , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Monarchy . Russia has always regarded herself as the protectress of the Slav peoples and any attempt to bring Slays under Teutonic domination is looked upon as a direct challenge to her . From Lapland to the Black Sea the contact between these two virile races , the Teuton and the Slav , is always seething , and there has seemed to be no solution but an appeal to the sword . This bitterness has been intensified by the unnatural political geography which the Berlin Congress , ? maker of nations on the map , ? forced on Europe . The right of almost every small nation to rule itself has been ignored . A FIGHT FOR NEW MARKETS In the last analysis , Europe 's fight is a fight for markets . The German Kaiser has been called the best living drummer for German goods . The Teuton 's " Drang nach Osten " has been responsible for most of the Kaiser 's weltpolitik . In the Near East are the grain fields of Mesopotamia , where the race began , and in the Far East are the vast markets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe , the Jewish bankers and the immense industrial establishments , have been seeking the commercial conquest of Asia for a quarter of a century . This has been behind the Eastern question , with the elimination of the Turk as a factor . Whatever great power possesses Constantinople attains enormous advantages for the domination of Asia and holds the highways of trade to the Near and Middle East . Britain controls the Suez Canal . But German capital has built railroads through Asia Minor . Russia , by patient intrigue , has welded the little Balkan States until a Slavonic wedge from the Black Sea to the Adriatic now bars the German 's way to the Orient . Berlin and Vienna have replied by keeping the Balkans at war , by establishing the " open sore " of Albania , and preventing the Serbs , whether Servian or Montenegrin , from being Russia 's advance guard on the Adriatic . German finance must have more lands and people to exploit : England threatens the Kaiser 's expansion on the sea , while Russia , the largest military empire of Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Germans in on both land sides . Therefore , at any cost must the power of the Balkan league be broken . Therefore , the little Sanjak of Novibazar between Servia and Montenegro ( given to the latter at the end of the Balkan wars ) is frantically clung to by the Austrians as the gateway to Salonica and Asia . HOW THE CRISIS CAME ON The assassination of the Archduke Franz Ferdinand and his wife , in the last days of June , was the first link in the chain of HOW EUROPE 'S ARMIES TAKE THE FIELD 309 events which have brought on the great war play for which Europe has been preparing fearfully for a generation . Swiftly sketched , the drama moved this way . Austria claimed that Servia , as a nation , was responsible for the assassination . She sent an ultimatum to Belgrade , making demands that the Servians , as a people determined to main- , tain their independence , could not admit . She declared war on Servia and moved an army across the Danube . Austria 's attack on Servia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of power ; secondly , it meant the drawing of another people from the Slavonic into the Teutonic system ; third , it let loose the flood of militarism which the dikes of reason and civilization had found it so difficult to restrain ; fourth , it showed the continent that Germany and Austria still meant to keep open the way to the East , and that German and Austrian goods and German and Austrian capital were henceforth to dominate in the Near East rather than that of Britain , France , and Russia . Austria felt she must chastise the Serbs for assassinating the heir apparent to her throne ; Russia could not see one of her Slavonic wards crushed ; France , which holds the Russian national debt and regards the Muscovite as her only hope of recovering Alsace-Lorraine , prepared to support Russia . Germany , threatened on both sides , felt she must strike quickly . In so doing , the Kaiser 's strategy ignored the rights of small neutral states , and , invading Belgium , brought his armies within menacing distance of England . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the last great factor in the tremendous conflict . Whatever happens , ? whichever side or nations be victorious , ? it seems inevitable that , as a result , there will be a radical change in the whole social and economic , as well as political and geographical structure of Europe .                     