@@487124

After every one-sided national election , many start up with confident remarks about a " political revolution . " This year the temptation that way was obvious , and some are unable to resist it . Col. WatterSOn naturally leads the band of positive interpreters of the re-. sults , and , undismayed by his own sad record as a prophet , he undertakes to r - read the future TO his mind , the " revolution " is already an accomplished fact . The Republican party has fallen " into a heap of shapeless ruin . " " It will never rise again . " " The little that is left of it the Bull ; Moose will swallow . " Everybody is familiar with this kind of writing . It is easy and , picturesque , but is it not far too easy and too picturesque to be probably true ? We remember to have heard that sort of thing before . After the utter collapse of the Democratic party in 1872 , with Greeley as candidate , there were equally glib and , cocksure assertions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democratic party was forever done for . It was spoken of as a ' " putrescent corpse " But in two years ' time the corpse started into life vigorous enough to elect a majority of the House of Representatives , and again in 1876 to poll a greater popular vote for its Presidential candidate than the Republicans were able to muster . Great historic political parties are generally , like Fuzzy Wuzzy , shammin ' when they 're dead . A sword was , indeed , thrust into the vitals of the Whig party in the shape of the slavery question , which in like manner was presently to rend the country asunder . But will even the loudest-snorting Bull Moose pretend that there is any issue comparable to that one to-day dividing the Republican party and threatening it with destruction ? Those with a memory , recall that similar prophecies of speedy Republican dissolution were made after that party-was smitten hip and thigh in 1892 . In that year , too , WisdOnsin ' and Illinois and other supposedly rock-fast States were ' carried by Cleveland , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obberver felt justified in saying that the Republican ' party had -- all the marks of a dying party . " In fact , however , it ' was soon tb'enter upon a-long new lease of Power . The truth is that an established political party is a particularly tough organism , very hard to kill . The mortality rate Of third parties is , indeed , alarmingly high  --  close upon 100 per cent. , in fact . But the name and the banner to which millions of voters have been for generations in the habit of rallying , will not so easily disappear . The name , to be sure , may come to have new meanings On the banner the mottoes and inscriptions will vary from time to time . But the historic continuity is not , easily broken . off . Children will keep on being born Liberal or Conservative , Democratic or Republican , no matter whether those party names have ceased to signify exactly what they did in the days of their grandfathers It is obviously this almost infinite adaptability of parties that increases their chances of survival @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be worn-out , exhausted , and fit only to be discarded , new elements of life and popular strength may be infused into them . A terrible blow the Republican party has unquestionably suffered . But at present there is no convincing reason for asserting that it has met with more than a disaster , from which there may be recovery . The party has in other years shown too great a. power of recuperation to warrant these hasty conclusions that it has now been " annihilated . " It still has a hold upon the affections and loyalty of millions . It still numbers many able leaders and skilled politicians . We may be sure that they are not thinking of abandoning their party name , or of giving up hope . They will eagerly watch for opportunity to grasp the skirts of circumstance and to be carried back into power . Revolution for revolution , they will count upon one working in their favor it the course of years , and by the law of averages . If all else fails them , they will draw courage from their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from quarrelling and blundering . No , " revolution " is too portentous a word to apply to what has happened . Some more moderate expression , such as readjustment or realignment , would more closely fit the case . That great party changes are before us is plain to the dullest . The Democrats can not possibly hold the political strength which came to them through the nearly equal division of their opponents They are certain to lose some Stateiand many Congressmen ' in the elections of 1913 and 1914 . And the great political question is in what shape and by ' what means the party of opposition may be reconstructed . and made effective . To this problem , no man need have any doubt that the consummate politician at Oyster Bay is giving anxious thought . How if he should in time make approaches to the Republican leaders ? How if he should open confidential communications with the Republican bosses ? How if he should quietly prepare to " chuck " the Progressive party as such , and to carry over all of it that he could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made commander-in-chief of the allied forces in 1916 ? We are far from asserting that these things will occur . But they may occur . Various kinds of party rearrangement may be attempted ; and if any of them succeed , even partially , we shall soon see how premature and absurd it is to speak of the election as meaning a " revolution . " JUDGES DO MOVE . During the past few years the nature and functions of the judge have been discussed in this country with a freedom and even rudeness never known before . Extreme views on either side have been presented  --  too extreme to be credible ; but in one rather moderate opinion there has been acquiescence by many who yet would not agree that judges are either saints or devils . This common opinion is that the judge , from the character of his training and of his work , is a being who dwells apart from the currents of thought and the turmoil that deeply affect his fellow-citizens . He is often pictured as an official who lives , as it were , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making his decisions with an eye solely upon precedent , and totally unaware of what is going on in. the stirring world about him . Sometimes his sense of aloofness and of immunity from criticism is represented as a kind of selfish compla- ? cence ; so Walter Bagehot jocosely de ' - scribed the appointed judge as saying to himself : " Thank Heaven , I can be removed from this office only by vote of both Houses of Parliament ! " But the usual feeling is merely that the judges are - set too - far apart from the human interests of their time , and too indifterenttothem . This YieW was sharply challenged . - not long ago by a former judge , W. H. Taft , who affirmed that no set of men ' were more sensitive than judges to the opinions of their fellows and the demands of the public . In cOnfirmationef this , ' several recent actions by the Courts ' might , be cited . There is , for example , that sweeping revision of the rules of procedure in the Federal courts ; set forth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As explained by Chief Justice White , to whose initiative and patient labor the reform is largely due , the new regulations will greatly facilitate the administration of justice . This will be made more speedy and less costly , while many abuges , such as the issue of injunctions without notice to the persons adversely affected , and without provision for an early hearing , are done away with . It is not the details , however , that we would now dwell upon , but the main fact itself . Here is a great step forward in the reform of judicial procedure , the work of judges themselves . In this instance , at least , it is not true that they were wholly ignorant of popular complaints , or indifferent to the need of devising and apylying remedies for the things complained of . They went about the improvement cautiously , to be ? Sure , and not by the methods of hurri'cane reform , but the point is that they did go about it and achieved it . Even in the matter of judicial decisions there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of modifying old rules of law in order to make them better fit modern conditions . Just before the election , there was a somewhat heated controversy  --  on one side  --  between Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Root , with three or four other eminent lawyers . They alleged that in Mr. Roosevelt 's criticism of certain decisions of the New York Court of Appeals , the law had been misstated and the exact ground and effect of the decisions misapprehended . The disputants did not really address themselves to the same point ; but in his reply Mr. Roosevelt had the facts on his side when he asserted that , whatever may have been the case with the early decision regarding the assumption of risk by an employee , the latest decision by the Court of Appeals took a different and more humane view . ' The case in question was that of - Fitzwater v. Warren/ which was decided on October22 . The opinions were printed in. - the Law Journal of November 4 . The question of a master 's liability for injury to a servant was involved , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " public policy precludes an employee from assuming a risk created by his employer 's violation of a statute for safety , appliances ; etc. or from-waiving liability - of the latter for injuries caused thereby . " In his ' majority opinion  --  two judges dissented ? Chief Justice Cullen was very frank in admitting that the court had departed from its earlier doctrine . But he pointed out that the Federal courts had taken a different view of the law of employer 's liability , and also that " the doctrine of the Knisely case had been largely qualified , if not virtually overruled , " by a subsequent decision of the Couit of Appeals itself . After the argument from the law and from cases cited , the Chief Justice closed his opinion with some striking words bearing directly upon the general matter we are discussing . Judge Cullen said : The statute n Inch the defendants violated was enacted for the express purpose of safeguarding the persons of employees Where an employer deliberately fails to comply with the statute the courts should be loath , except in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the risk of his ? master 's violation of the law . Otherwise the beneficent results sought to be attained by the statute will fail to be realized There seems at the present day an effort by constitutional amendment to render a master liable to his employee for injury received in his - employment , though the master has been guilty of no fault whatever , and I feel that such effort is in no small measure due to the tendency evinced at times by the courts to relieve the master , though concededly at fault , from liability to his employee on the theory that the latter assumed the risk of the master 's fault . Such a manifest readiness of the Court of Appeals to take cognizance of a visibly rising public sentiment , and to make old rules bend to new conditions , is a good thing for the country and a good thing for the Judges . It shows them  --  what , of course , all people not blinded by passion knew them to be all along  --  to be as alive and humane as the next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decisions which appear to go against the feeling of instinctive natural rights , they are careful to point out that it is the law , not their own desires , which they are expounding , and to indicate the changes in legislation which ought to be had in order to make the statute square with human- , ity . It is certain that it will need only a few more.instances , such as those we have mentioned  --  and they could doubt-less be paralleled from the judicial records of many States  --  to make ant end ? of the absurd conception that a judge is not susceptible to the aspirations of the men and women about him , and lives  --  his llfe and does his , work apart , a sort of unnatural monster without either knowledge of his struggling fel- -A , : Cr , lows or a flicker of pity for them . I BALKAN DIPLOMACY . ? For the moment Austria is the , Centre of interest in the Balkan situation . It is generally.aSsuthed ! that it ' is for Austria to decide whether , - the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ? War or2peace - is in her making by ' the - attitude ' She assumes towards Servian claims in the reshaPing of the map of the Balkan peninsula . That such a process of reconstruction is at hand is taken for granted It le'to follow the final - defeat of tlid.Tunks before - Constantinople . I Astia - matter , , of fact , until the . final dollapse doescome , there is a large element of micertamtY in the gable of , terrytorialr , rearrongements that is now being vigorously played on paper . The Turk may notiibe stripped quite so bare of his European possessions as the allies have threatened . And , naturally , , the ; More - there , is left to the Porte , the less ? ther ? , willobe for the , allies and . other interested ; : parties to , divide . If Bulgaria , - for'instance , obtains satisfaction in Thrace , her-allies will have a free hand in , , their respective spheres . . If Bulgaria obtains less than she expected , , She.Imight be-inclined to seek compensation in Macedonia , where Bulgarian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But for the time being let us assume that Turkey is brought to her knees , that Constantinople , with , a surrounding strip of territory , is all the Porte can-save out of the ruin , and thatthe rest of her European possessions are to be carved out and distributed . How would this process be carried out if the matter rested entirely with the Balkan states , if Austrian ambitions , Russian ambitions , Italian ambitions , were left completely out of account ? European Turkey to-day has , a population of about 6,500,00 .. To Constantinople and its environs may be assigned a , million and a half . There would thus be a popula'lion of some five millions to be redistributed politically , including more than a million Mohammedans divided into two great groups , the Pomak mountaineers of Thrace and Macedonia and the Mussulmans of Albania . The Christian population , numbering something less than four millions , and omitting such minor groups as Armenians and Wallachians , would show about 1,500,000 of Bulgarian race , about 1,000,000 ' Servians , and about 800,000 Greeks . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exact reconstruction on ethnical lines impossible . But taking practical reasons into consideration , Bulgaria would receive her share of the profits on the Black Sea and the .. 2Egean , and Greece would spread northward into Epirus and the neighborhood of Salonica . When we come to Servia , we find that without outside interference her share would be the easiest one to define . The Serb population now under Turkish rule is concentrated in the Sanjak of Novibazar , which projects northward like a horn from the main line of the . Turkish frontier , and is bounded on the east by Servia , on the west by Montenegro , and on the north , for a distance of some thirty miles , by Austria-Hungary . Were Servia to occupy Novi-bazar and close up the gap between its frontiers and Montenegro , Austria would be cut off from all possibility of future access to the ZEgean , the accepted goal of traditional Austrian diplomacy . But even if Servia were to consent to Austrian sovereignty in Novi-bazar and seek compensation further to the south , in the direction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report , the difficulty with Austria is not avoided . Any Servian approach to the Adriatic draws a bar straight across the line of the Austrian advance . There are alternatives . Servia might yield to Austrian threats and abandon her hope of finding an outlet to the sea . But that is unimaginable . Of the four Balkan states , Servia alone has no outlet to the sea . Even tiny Montenegro has the two ports of Antivari and Dulcigno . In view of the tremendous sacrifices the Servian people have made , and their splendid victory , it is impossible to suppose that they will consent to remain a landlocked nation , dependent for their economic Well-being almost entirely upon the good-will of Austria . There is one possible way out . Servia might search for her harbors , not on the Adriatic , but on the .7Egean . Instead of putting herself square across Austria 's path , she might march parallel with Austria southward . Salonica is exactly the same distance from the Servian frontier as San Giovanni di Medua , the Adriatic port which the Servians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is true , presents many difficulties . It would produce a territorial gerrymander of extraordinary character . Instead of adding the compact natural territories to the southwest , with a predominant Serb population , it would be tying a thin , elongated tail to the Servian kite , presenting all kinds of difficulties of an administrative and military nature . Moreover , such a Servian advance to the ) Egean would be crowding both on Bulgaria and on Greece . Will , then , Austria consent to abandon her traditional policy ? Will she give up her hopes of Salonica ? That , likewise , is too much to expect . And yet it may be pointed out that Austria 's aspirations towards a port on the YEgean were based on a state of affairs which has now disappeared . The problem as it presented itself to Austrian statesmen under the old conditions was probably something as follows : The rule . of the Turk in Europe would recede , but gradually . Step by step Austria would move downward , from Bosnia into the Sanjak of Novibazar , from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As Austria moved southward , the humble Balkan people would be appeased with a bit of territory here and a bit there . But to-day that is out of the question . The Balkan states will not allow the outsider to run off with the lion 's share of the spoil . Servia will insist on a substantial slice of the Turk 's dominion So will Greece , coming north to meet the Servian expansion . Even if a narrow pathway should be left open for Austria to Salonica , what strategic value would it have with the Balkan states camped on either flank ? With the Balkan states united and flushed with victory , Austria 's approach to the , Egean would be very much like a runner with the ball dodging his way across a football field , always in danger of being tackled and thrown . first place in American affections . But this sort of stuff was soon perceived to be too ludicrous , and the attack was shifted to Mr. Bryce 's efficiency in his . official work . Charges of varying degrees of silliness have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House of Commons . They have been met by the most precise denials on the part of . Sir Edward Grey , and the confidence of the Ministry in Mr. Bryce has been unshaken ; but it is obvious that repetition of the accusations has tended to give them a certain weight with a portion of the British public . What has been alleged is that Ambassador Bryce has not stood up stoutly enough for the interests of his own country ; that he did not closely enough watch American machinations against - Canada ( we are giving the Tory point - of view ) ; and that he allowed himself to be overreached in diplomatic agreeinents . But to any one familiar with the facts , these charges fall of their otvn weight . Mr. Bryce is a keen man of : business . He is not so foolish as to imagine that a diplomat can win every .. point , but both Roosevelt and Taft , as well as Secretaries Root and Knox , would bear witness to the truth that Mr. Bryce has been as resolute as any Ambassador ought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government . The only instance in which there was the slightest color for the charge that Mr. Bryce had been neglectful , or had been deceived , was the  - -  case of the Canadian reciprocity agreement . But his Tory critics overlook the fact that he was not and could not be a party to that negotiation . Canada kept it jealously in her own hands . She would have brooked no English interference with her fiscal freedom . Mr. Bryce 's duty was limited to reporting what was being considered and what was finally done . He did not know , and no one was able to conceive , of Mr. Taft 's writing that fearfully indiscreet letter to Col. Roosevelt about making Canada an " adjunct " of the United States . If writing it was a huge blunder , publishing it later was well-nigh a ? diplomatic crime . Mr. Bryce , though wholly blameless , no doubt suffered from it in England . But in general it may safely be asserted that his official work . has been as successfully performed , in its own way , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delightfully he has played this last role , it is needless to argue in detail . No speaker on public occasions has been so much sought after as he . Before the American Bar Association , before historical and antiquarian societies , at chambers of commerce and at colleges , he has made addresses as a welcome and honored guest ; and throughout the land has made himself known to all sorts and conditions of men as a friend of this country , intelligent enough to admire her and brave enough to point out her shortcomings . In view of all this , it is simply laughable to read the Tory complaints that Mr. Bryce has not been a success in this country ! Ask his diplomatic colleagues , above all , ten years from now , ask his successor , who will be a lucky man if , after prolonged and arduous labor , he is able to attain one-tenth part of the influence which Mr. Bryce had from the beginning of his Ambassadorship , and has since constantly increased . Although we must make up our minds to part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for this nation will continue undimmed , and that his amazing knowledge of our affairs will induce him to follow our future attempts to solve the present democratic problem with intense and unfailing in-Retirement can mean for him change of mental activity . His eagerness for information , and his power of interpreting it philosophically , will go with him into his days of greater leisure , and will keep on making of his conversation and his writing that fine blending of instruction and charm which they long have been . Unbent by the weight of years , with a memory still wax to receive and marble to retain , so that all his vast stores of knowledge are readily at command , with hope for the world unquenched in his heart , the stoutest of convinced optimists , Mr. Bryce may go on giving us , when freed trom official cares , incisive studies and rich comments on the march of democracy . PRINTS IN BOSTON . The announcement made by the Boston Museum of Fine Arts relative to the reorganization of its Print Department , and to a plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value of the engraving arts , is sufficiently interesting and important . " The United States should possess a print collection worthy of comparison with the great collections abroad , and it is felt that the Boston collection offers the best field for development . " So speak the Museum authorities , and they an-nounce the appointment of a new cura-torof the department , Mr. FitzRoy Car-rington , of New York , to carry out this great undertaking . It has a national no less than a local significance . Indeed , this national aspect is already emphasiz-ed by the further statement that " the Department will be well equipped to co-operate with print collectors both here and elsewhere , and it is hoped that a i national society of print collectors in America may be the outcome of the organization . " So far , print collections in American public institutions have received their accessions for the most part through gifts by private individuals . The result has been that their growth has been more or less governed by considerations of personal taste , and that they are thus rarely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time has obviously now come for the museums to undertake constructive work on a more extended scale than ever before , and to bring their collections to a point of completeness where they will be of real service to the serious student . It will not be necessary in every instance to have the finest proof of any given etching or engraving ; but a good proof should so tar as possible be procured of every important plate . The student should have access to a full documentary record of every master mentioned in the standard textbooks . This is apparently the aim of the Boston Museum , which has already made a good beginning in this very direction , as was noted by Dr. Wilhelm Bode on the occasion of his recent visit to America . It is stated in the Bulletin that " the Print Department of this Museum has now more than sixty thousand prints , a collection which shows the history of the art from its beginning , and contains examples of the work of all the great masters . " Doubtless contributors to the large endowment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other cities , see in the excellent nucleus thus provided an advantage on the part of Boston ' to offset other advantages offered by cities like New York and Washington as centres far a great national collection of prints , and as radiating points for a nation-wide effort to foster their , appreciation . But Boston itself possesses still further advantages , not least among which are the position it holds historically as ' a leader in intellectual and cultural movements , and its proximity to Cambridge . There is no other American university whose fine arts department is so well organized as Harvard 's . In the combined treasures of the Boston Museum and the rich Gray collection at the Fogg Museum , the liar- vard student will have unparalleled facilities for the study of ' prints , , and in Mr. Carrington , : - , who will both lecture at the University and talk informally to students in , the galleries of the two museums , he will have an instructor thoroughly trained in the knowledge and . appreciation of his subject . For twenty years Mr. Carrington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while his experience has been mainly commercial , a business like that of print-selling involves so considerable and so constant an exercise of the - Critical faculty that it is difficult to see what ' training could better fit a man for academic duties . As for his more purely technical work at the Museum , Mr. Carrington has long been known as an expert authority on prints , and is undoubtedly well qualified to become curator of a great collection ; while the active part he has taken in the educational propaganda inaugurated by the late Fredeiack Keppel as part of his business policy , should he Of great assistance to him in conceiving and carrying out plans to . increase the number of print lovers in America , to organize them , and to direct their efforts . To help him in this , he will have the Print Collector 's Quarterly , which he started two years ago , and which , it is underStood ; will hereafter be published by the ' Museum with the guarantee of a friend : ' Under these aiihnces , this : magazine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , should greatly increase the scope of its usefulness . We see no reason why the Boston enterprise , to whatever proportions it may grow , should not rather encourage than discourage plans for similar eXtension and university cooperation elsewhere , in any city which is ' se ' fOrtunate as al-ready to possess a college ' and the nucleus of a print collection . Such , collec tions may be rendered of high advantage to a ' community by development along the right lines . This would entail no vast expenditure , as does the accumulation of a representative collection of paintings , or even of drawings by great masters . It does require , however , a certain moderate outlay , and one of the lessons of the new Boston venture is the need , on the part of museums and libraries , not only of gifts , as heretofore , of fine private collections of prints , however limited in range , but of endowments as well to permit custodians and curators to purchase prints in accordance with a fixed scheme shaped to meet the requirements of individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being raised by the friends of the Boston Museum to make it possible to add Mr. Carrington to its staff , is to become available for such uses , and it is to be hoped that the example will serve as an incentive to those who have the good of our other great galleries at heart . BERGSON AND ROUSSEAU . Perhaps the two men most talked and written about internationally of late have been Rousseau and M. Bergson . The world has , to be sure , just been celebrating the bicentenary of Rousseau 's birth ; but quite apart from the bicentenary there has been a constant stream of books and articles for years past , nearly all designed to show that Rousseau is , in Amiel 's phrase , an ancestor in all things . The Revue de Metaphystque et de : Morale recently devoted a special double number to a symposium on this very theme . To what extent does Rousseau embrace in his universal influence M. Bergson and his philosophy ? No one of the distinguished foreign and French contributors to the Paris symposium , nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ else , has spoken clearly on this point . Yet this relationship would seem worth establishing , even though M. Bergson may not prove to be , as one of his admirers recently asserted in the Revue des Deux Mondes , a more important philosophical figure than Kant , and probably as important as Socrates . Like other thinkers , M Bergson can be understood only with reference to his background , ? the previous ideas that he is continuing or from which he is reacting . In any case what he is reacting from is perfectly clear . The so-called anti-intellectualist movement ' of which he is Cf A Fouilike , La Penile it Its nouvelles ? boles antfrintellectuanstes Alcan , 1911 , the leader is a protest against the scientific dogmatism that reached ? its height during the second'half of the nineteenth century , a sign that the world is growing weary of a certain type of naturalistic positivism and its attempt to lock up reality in its formulas . The walls of that particular prison house of the spirit are plainly crumbling . Parts , of the edifice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ N. Berg-son 's attack has been directed mainly against the pretensions of pure ' science to impose its methods on the study of the living and the organic . But even in the field of inorganic science itself points of view are appearing that would , if accepted , be in some respects a menace to the whole structure , the foundation of which was laid by Kepler and Galileo , Newton and Descartes . The " relativists , " . for example ( of whom the chief is , perhaps , Mach of Vienna ) , have been arriving at novel conclusions regarding certain underlying conceptions of physics . What has been going on among the mathematicians may be inferred from the title of a recent volume ? " Mysticism in the Higher Mathematics . " The late Henri Poincar ? put his emphasis on intuition rather than on intellect even in geometry ( though the geometry was to be sure non-Euclidean ) . There can be no doubt as to the shrewdness of some of the blows that M. Bergson has delivered at what one may term scholastic science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men may argue from the abuse of the intellect by certain pseudo-scientists of the mid-nineteenth century , a Herbert Spencer , let us say , or a Taine , against its legitimate use in scientific inquiry . The scientific intellectualists , especially the Darwinians , are as a matter of fact rallying briskly to the defence of their position against M. Bergson . I have , however , neither space ' nor competency to discuss the bearings of the anti-intellectualist movement on science , whether organic or inorganic . My interest is in the contention that Bergsonism and similar tendencies are on their constructive side " humanistic " or " religtous " ; 4- for both epithets have been applied to them . For example ? a recent writer in the Deutsche Randschatt , entitles an article on the contemporary French philosophical movement ( he enumerates more than twenty leaders , of whom M. Bergson is only the best-known internationally ) " The Renascence of Idealism in France . " I am. , going to examine M. Bergson briefly from this point of view , admitting that he does not represent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as he himself would define it , has been to rid philosophy of , Cf C Coignet , De Kant a Be roson , ? - eeonellzation de la sctenee it de la r , e1tgeon dans an spoLtualzsMe nouveau Alcan , 1911.                     