@@486364

The fervid little colloquy between the Colonel and the railway worker in Gallup , N. M. , arose naturally out of the circumstances . No one can disagree with the Colonel unless there is something physically or spiritually the matter with him . Here in the East the opponents of Mr. Roosevelt are either Wall Street malefactors or second-story men . Since such vices do not exist in Rough Rider-land , the only possible explanation is that the Gallup man who disagreed with the Colonel must have been drunk , and he was quite properly told to go home and sober up . But the real significance of the incident at Gallup is in the proof it offers of the persistence of Mr. Roosevelt 's fighting quality , and the wonder it raises why the - Republican National Committee should be wasting that unparalleled energy on Arizona and New Mexico with a beggarly total of six electoral votes , when there is Ohio , for instance , with 24 votes , or Wisconsin with 13 , or Indiana with 15 . Now , if the Colonel were to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them to go home and sober up , or in Cleveland , or in Milwaukee , the effect on the campaign might easily be decisive . Or is that what the directors ' of the Republican campaign had in mind when they sent the Colonel to Arizona and New Mexico ? Col. Roosevelt might have forced a real analogy between Mexico and Cuba if he had referred to our second intervention in the affairs of the latter country , and postulated " what he would have done " to the former upon the assumption of our right to act upon the principles of the Platt amendment with regard to her . The Colonel tells us he would have substituted the big stick for the dish rag in Mexico , and so insisted upon courage and resolution that " if Carranza had said we must not use Mexican railways we would have used the Mexican railways and used them alone . " Why did he not point to the acts by which the United States made itself master of Cuba from 1906 to 1909 as the real illustration of his course with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between our war with Spain over a Spanish dominion , and our attitude towards an independent country torn by home factions ? Is it because , for all his big-stick courage , the Colonel is a little afraid to avow willingness to act on the Platt principle towards a country as free as the United States itself , and morally as exempt from undue interference ? Mr. Roosevelt might well be . He may feel that his cynical blusterings about our weak neighbor will win his party votes . But he must perceive that to define their implications and declare our right to invade brutally a neighboring republic whenever we pleased and settle by force its domestic difficulties , while " making it possible for American enterprise to carry railroads , irrigation works , and other benefits of civilization " there at its own will , would offend far more Americans than it would attract . The citizens of this nation would rather see Mexico helped to settle her problems than coerced into a position of vassalage . " You can not repeal a surrender " ? Mr. Hughes 's reply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much more than an effective epigram . What it put into five words is the essential truth of the matter , and hardly required the addition of any comment to make it , for an intelligent mind , a complete answer to the silly question asked by the heckler . It is one thing to say that the bill extorted from Congress by the Brotherhoods at the point of the pistol should not have been passed , and quite another to say that , having been passed , it ought to be repealed . For good or ill , Congress and the President gave the Brotherhoods what they demanded as the price of calling off the strike ; for good or ill , the country must stand by the bargain . Mr. Hughes patiently pointed out to his questioner that the duration of the arrangement as to wages instituted by the bill was such that by the time the next Congress assembles in regular session , it would have run its course ; and he added that if , nevertheless , the question of repeal should come up he would decide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and what justice would dictate ought to be done at that time . " Does any one pretend that there was even the faintest effort to do anything of the kind in the ' hold-up legislation of last month ? That Ohio should be in doubt is perhaps the most surprising development of the campaign . Nor is one 's interest in the mother of ( Republican ) Presidents decreased by a comparison of the election figures of four years ago with those of 1908 . Ohio 's total vote in 1912 was 90,000 less than it had been in 1908 . New York 's total was only 12,000 less , while Massachusetts increased hers by more than 50,000 . In New York , as in Illinois , however , it was the growth of the Socialist vote that kept up the total . The Republicans and Democrats lost , the combined decrease in each of these two States being about 36,000 . But Ohio was content with no such half-way apathy ? or disgust . The slump of 90,000 in her total vote took place despite a jump in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the combined old-party vote in Ohio was 147,000 less in 1912 than in 1908 . Wilson polled 80,000 fewer votes than Bryan , and Taft and Roosevelt together polled 67,000 fewer than the former had four years before . If one knew what these silent 147,000 were going to do  --  in addition to knowing what the Progressives and the Socialists of 1912 were going to do  --  one might be in a position to hazard a guess at which column will contain Ohio 's electoral vote . What light is thrown upon the probabilities by the election of 1914 ? Well , 70,000 of the 80,000 non-voting Democrats voted for the Democratic candidate for Governor . The Republican candidate got the Taft vote , 73 Per - cent. of the Roosevelt vote , the 67,000 stay-at-homes of 1908 , and 12,000 others , say , Socialists , for the Socialist vote declined . The vote for Senator , however , fell for the Democratic candidate to within a few hundred of the vote for Wilson . There are apparently 70,000 Democrats in Ohio who do not hesitate to stay at home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Republican prospects for winning Ohio this year should be rosy . The fact that they are not so regarded at Republican headquarters is sufficient commentary upon the pleasant game of playing with election figures . Victor Murdock 's climbing down on Mr. Wilson 's side of the fence is particularly impressive at this time . It has the appearance of decision after long and careful consideration of the alternatives , and there is no reason to suppose that this appearance does not reflect the reality . On the other hand , it comes rather late to affect many Progressive votes . The great hesitation came just after the Chicago conventions , and within a few weeks the bulk of the party had returned to its old allegiance and the remnant had made up its mind to vote for Wilson and Parker . The practical effect of the announcement , in Wilson 's favor , will be due to its influence upon voters of independent leanings who were still wavering or who needed one more push to land them irrevocably in the anti-Hughes camp . Upon such persons , Murdock 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of his evident deliberation in Making it , but because of the esteem in which he is held as a man of sincerity and freedom from narrow partisanship . The Kansas Congressman represented the leaven in the Progressive lump . There was only one person who could " deliver " was not the Colonel , but Vic-It would be hard to name a Progressive whose allegiance would be worth more to the President than his . Almost on the eve of the voting , Massachusetts Democrats are looking around for a candidate to oppose Lodge for the Senatorship . The rest of the country supposed that they had a fighting candidate in Boston 's former Mayor , John F. Fitzgerald . But it turns out that Fitzgerald took the nomination only because no other Democrat of prominence could be induced to make the run . In his own words , " I agreed to take the nomination as trustee for the party when Gov . Walsh and Sherman Whipple , the two most likely candidates , refused to run , rather than have Mr. Lodge unopposed . " Accordingly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it is to the advantage of President Wilson and the Democratic ticket . " This is the proper spirit , but all efforts to persuade ex-Gov . William L. Douglas to be the candidate have failed . The name of Matthew Hale has been mentioned for the place , but he does not seem to know whether he is wanted or not . The situation is piquant , not only in itself , but as a commentary upon the sacred finality of primaries . Whatever campaign managers or party newspapers may do or say , the good old cause of protection is supported in the good old way by the American Protective Tariff League . Here we have a terrific little leaflet , which warns us in gigantic black type that " American Wages Will Be Slaughtered by Oriental and European Competition if Woodrow Wilson , Free-Trader , Is Elected , " and immediately proceeds to prove it thus : American Wages More than Double the Wages Paid is Europe . American Wages More than Eight Times the Average in Oriental Countries . Of course the American workingman is expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible that , on recovering from the first shock of the shudder , the American workingman may sufficiently regain control of his mental faculties to notice that , according to this very statement , European wages are about four times as high as Oriental wages . Then he may even go on to recall the familiar fact that the highest of European wages are British wages , and the still more familiar fact that Great Britain is , and has been for seventy years , the home of thoroughgoing free trade . If European wages in general are four times Oriental wages , British wages must be something like five or six times Oriental wages ; how can that be , when there is no tariff barrier to keep out the flood from the Orient ? What prevents British wages from being " slaughtered by Oriental competition " ? If there is something about British conditions , British resources , and British workingmen that accounts for wages in free-trade England being decidedly higher than in protectionist Austria or France , and five or six times as high as in Japan or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , American resources , and American workingmen that makes wages in this country what they are , and has nothing to do with the tariff ? Professor Hocking 's reply to Professor Mimsterberg 's defence leaves the latter gentleman in an extremely bad position . The gravamen of the charge against him is that he has been secretly acting the part of an agent of the German Government  --  a charge that can not be met by any disquisitions either on the goodness of his own purposes or on the merits of the German cause . Professor Hocking asks Professor Miinsterberg to explain the nature of his relation to the German Government , and also to state what he means by certain dark suggestions of a truth that he is withholding because it would be painful for Americans to be told . While waiting for the answer to these inquiries , it is interesting to note a Washington dispatch to the Christian games Monitor which puts Professor Munsterberg 's assertion that his letter to the German Chancellor was mistranslated in a ridiculous light . The Professor has not produced the original @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Monitor 's possession it appears that the only two passages cited by him as mistranslated were translated quite correctly . You ca n't get a better translation for " berauscht " than " intoxicated , " nor for " gedrangt " than " pushed " ? and moreover little or nothing turned on the precise translation of these words . The most damaging feature of the whole thing , so far as Munsterberg personally is concerned , is the slipperiness which his proceedings betray at every turn . Expressions of good-will and confessions of error there were in plenty in the courseof the Irish debate in the House of Commons on Wednesday of last week . Asquith . Lloyd George , and the new Chief Secretary for Ireland admitted that there had been stupidities of policy in the matter of Irish recruiting , and though the Redmond resolution was voted down by something like three to one , there was no lack of tribute to the sincerity of Redmond 's motives or to his future usefulness in the pacification of Ireland . The debate showed , what had been known before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the speediest conciliation of Ireland through a voluntary arrangement between the Irish parties themselves . What is not- certain is that the smaller body of fanatics on . either side are less in a position to frustrate a pacific settlement now than they were a few months ago . So far as the Irish themselves are concerned , they were apparently ready to make peace then . Redmond and Carson were supposed to have come to terms . The scheme was wrecked by outsiders , by the Lansdowne and Selborne crowd , who were powerful enough , when it came to the final test , to make Lloyd George repudiate in substance the treaty of peace which he had been instrumental in drafting-With all expressions of good-will , the Government declared plainly against the suspension of martial law and the bold policy of introducing Home Rule at once as a sign of trust in the Irish people . Only now do we get an explicit statement of what the Allied motive has been in its dealings with the Greek Government . London reports that there was an interview between King @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his Majesty insisted on the groundlessness of the suspicion that Greece contemplated an attack on the forces of Gen. Sarrail . As proof of his good faith , the King is said to have declared his readiness to withdraw the Greek forces from Larissa . " That this has been the great fear in the Entente camp has been conjectured before this ; now we have the confirmation . Let it be recalled how vital a matter to an army is its line of communications , and the mere chance of a Greek attack on Salonica or the lines to the north would be enough to paralyze the activity of Sarrail 's army . It is true that the Greek army under present circumstances would be foolhardy to make such an attempt . But if we suppose the battle now under way in Macedonia to turn against the Allies and Sarrail compelled to retreat , even a small hostile force attacking from the rear could do enormous damage ; while a bold stroke by the Greek forces against Salonica or the rear of the Allied left in Macedonia might precipitate a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ s throughout his political career a representative of the conservative and land-owning interests . As such he was a leader in the fight against the introduction of universal suffrage in Austria in 1907 , in which the most prominent figure on the other side was Victor Adler , leader of the Socialist party and father of the assassin of Count Stuergkh . While the murderer 's action may thus be traced to old political enmities , the act in itself seems to be the expression only of a violent and apparently unbalanced personality . The Socialist party , under the direction of Adler , is distinct from the anarchist propaganda with which the younger Adler associated himself and which was combated by his own father . If it were not for the idiosyncrasies of the militant anarchist mentality which so often direct its acts of violence without cause or reason , one might read a political meaning in the assassination . There is certainly enough discontent in Austria to explain the act ; but in every country there is an amount of discontent which in ordinary times would seem ominous . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all Europe has been given over to violence no individual act of the kind should have intervened between the murder of Taures and the murder of the Austrian Premier . When Ambassador Morgenthau places at $5,000,000 the amount needed for destitute Christians in Turkey , the country can not look upon its gift of $1,250,000 in two days as more than a beginning . Thanks to our Government and the Red Cross , the funds can now be as effectively used as in Belgium . The 300,000 Armenian refugees in territory controlled by the Russians are relieved under the direction of a commission of Amer-leans , which has reinstated many in their old occupations . In Mesopotamia much relief work has to be done in deportation camps , and American Consuls and missionaries are cooperating with the Germans ; while in some localities , as Aleppo and Smyrna , Americans are the direct agents of distribution . It is just a year since Bishop Greer , ex-President Eliot , and others interested in the Armenian Relief Fund made public information establishing the full facts in the persecution and deportation of more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with means of relief perfected , before another Armenian winter the people should be out of danger of starvation . The excellent local agencies of solicitation should not be allowed to lapse till the whole sum is raised . Announcement that the National Negro Business League has started a nation-wide campaign to advertise negro business enterprises , with a view to their better support by colored people , comes at a time when negroes are awaking to a consciousness of increasing economic importance . Since the days of emancipation , the bulk of the race has remained in the South under economic and social conditions which have changed but slowly . The accepted basis of society has kept in the hands of the white man storekeeping and the professions , confining the negro to tenant farming and unskilled labor . Gradually , such schools as Tuskegee , Calhoun , and a host of others have built up an . ever-increasing body of men and women skilled in trades and trained to the use of initiative and independent thinking . Fully twenty years ago this force began breaking through the caste system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ League founded by the late Booker T. Washington some fifteen years ago . The policy has been twofold , encouraging the individual pioneers by organization and educating the race out of the tradition that only the white man was qualified to engage in trade . No Northern newspaper could express more complete condemnation of lynching than does the Louisville Courier-Journal concerning the lawlessness at Paducah . But it is less intent upon condemning finding a way to prevent such The method it advocates is an removal " law , by which a jailer , a sheriff , and his deputies would lose their places if they failed to offer due resistance to a mob . The Courier-Journal does not think that this would result in clashes between the representatives of the law and citizens bent upon violating it in the name of justice . On the contrary , with such a condition of " preparedness , " " the necessity for fighting would not have developed . " The sentiment in favor of a law of this kind is manifestly growing in the South . Setbacks such as the one that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Legislature may delay , but can hardly defeat it . The seriousness with which the Louisville newspaper views the matter is indicated by its suggestion that every city and town in Kentucky should have a representative to urge the enactment of a removal law at the next meeting of the Legislature : " Prevention of lynching is of such importance to the material interests of the State  --  to say nothing of the moral duty involved . " Lay reports of medical discoveries are as a rule apt to describe as certain what the investigator puts tentatively and with many reservations . But the reports from Johns Hopkins and also from the Mayo laboratories regarding the studies conducted in poliomyelitis are very positive in asserting that the Seat of paralysis has been found . This would simplify the problem of combating the disease . To be sure , even if the official report from Johns Hopkins should confirm the newspaper accounts , there is always the doubt which arises from the consideration whether the new theory has been derived from a sufficiently large number of cases , and whether its conclusions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries . It will be recalled that in Scandinavia , where the disease has been periodically epidemic , years of investigation have led to no fruitful result , and it seems almost too good to be true that right in the wake of our own visitation a remedy should come into sight . On the other hand , it has been our sorrowful privilege to supply the investigators in the course of a single summer with more cases than other countries have accumulated probably in a decade , so that the objection based on insufficient data has less bearing than usual . Yale celebrated on Saturday , not her very beginning in the collegiate school at Saybrook , but her budding forth into a college at New Haven and her assumption of the name of the man whose gifts made that growth possible . By the popular device of the pageant she endeavored to represent to the eye her triumphs of two centuries . But the thing for which Yale stands preeminently in the public mind it would not be easy to dramatize . Who will write a morality play centring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yet it is no derogation from the University 's scholastic attainments to recognize that it is not her learning so much as this human trait which has impressed the imagination of the country . Other colleges are democratic ; other colleges fight to the last ditch . But somehow none of them is regarded as embodying these rather diverse qualities in anything like the degree at which one finds them in the college started by Elihu Yale .                     