@@493100

The Temper of Jewry wHEN the First Jewish Congress convened in Philadelphia last week , after two years of hesitation , it did not know its own mind . It had , as a matter of fact , no vivid common consciousness . It hardly had a common purpose . It was a loose aggregation of mutually distrustful delegates and tiny , pugnacious factions , bent much more resolutely on suppressing and discrediting one another than on achieving any common end . Yet within a three days session the Congress achieved an incredibly difficult and supremely significant common task and from a distraught gathering of distrustful individuals transformed itself into an impressive unified whole . The Congress was confronted from the first by a parcel of knottier problems than had ever fallen to the lot of any similar assembly , but the basic difficulty of the greater part of them was that the Congress was utterly without effectual power to deal with them . It must address itself to the question of pogroms and boycotts in Poland , the unfulfilled treaty obligations of the Russian government to grant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the starving and homeless in Russia and Lithuania , the final disposition of Palestine . But these and many others are the business of government . And the First American Jewish Congress , democratically representative though it was , could in no sense be called a governmental body . On these its most vital concerns , it might make resolutions and recommendations , and trust to the j poig- nant ustice of its claims to have them adopted . But it had no power to enforce its will . More than one leader on the way to the meeting hall freely admitted that at its best the Congress would be no more than a solemn gesture . And at its worst ? at its worst it might end in an ignominious , disastrous row . No one who knew the strange composition of the assemblage would have been astonished if it had broken up in disorder . Certainly no more motley body had ever been brought together under the same roof . Former Russian rebels with a record in Siberia rubbed elbows with suave bankers who had just driven up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Patriarchal rabbis in yarmulkes , hailing from the Bronx , sat down beside dapper young advocates from Chicago . Every corner of Europe had had a share in the nursing and rearing of the delegations . There were lank , easy-going persons whose early schooling had been got in Manchester and London , frock-coated manufacturers with memories of the Main and the Rhine , polite Rumanians with the col. - rectest kind of mustaches , slouchy Galicians , squat , heavy-lipped , canny-eyed Lithuanians , a not inconsiderable sprinkling even of " Portuguese " from Macedonia and Hebrew-speaking Palestinians who scoffed at Yiddish , and , as if to harmonize this riot of color , a handful of elegant clubmen and straight-shouldered officers who had forgot when their ancestors had settled in the United States . And then there were factions and parties that criss-crossed one another in the most bewildering fashion , and whose political convictions constituted the least of their differences . What may appear , to outsiders an academic question , the definition 01 the term Jew , was , beyond doubt , the toughest bone of contention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing , except perhaps as it indirectly affected the really vital principles . The really vital principles were , in appearance anywaY ' religion , nationalism , Palestine . These , it was expected , would precipitate the heavy battles ; and it was along the lines of these that the parties had formed . It was a neatly balanced pattern ? I party-in-power and opposition ? Mizrachim ( Ord ' , " odox ) and Reformed ; Poale Zion ( Labor Party ) and Zionist organization , Socialist-Nationalists , conservative believers in the mission of the Diaspora ' : But as soon as the test came the neat pattern faded away into insignificance . No delegate fitted into any one of these divisions exclusively , and none 01- the groups was strong enough to carry the Congress alone . Resolutions could be put through only by combinations and coalitions , and blocs began t ? , build out of the strangest materials . Yidds Yehudim ? Ghetto Jews and Emancipated -- 'a ? hered together against freethinkers , only to clis ? solve their temporary bonds at the next crisis . Sic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemies the rabbis against the assimilationists , Forward affectionately embraced the Tageblatts orthodox Zionist stood solidly with Poale Zi ? 0 ' capitalist and proletarian made common cause'i according to the motion before the house . Radjea. , and reactionary had ceased to exist . This was an assembly brought together to answer the 101 standing Jewish question , and the members ha on entering the hall , left all their ordinary prefer ' ences and affiliations at the door . In a body constituted as this was , surprises - prised no one . The principal surprise was ' ( ) I course , that the Congress survived its opening seat sion . It did not look the least bit likely that to would , It took three meetings for the Congress find itself , and at the second of these dissolution seemed almost inevitable . Experienced politicians had come prepared to capture the Congress , hardly knowing what they were going to do with it when ( and if ) they got it . It was a big if . The usual convention tactics utterly failed to function . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and it soon became clear that jurists and professors ( of whom there were an astonishing lot ) were as completely in the dark about its spirit and wishes as the obscurest East Side shopkeeper , and that preconceived programmes were not worth the paper they had been drawn on . At the initial sitting , to be sure , harmony , complete and unendurably dull , prevailed . It was a superficial harmony , and no Jew was deceived by it . It was the calm before , the storm , as an occasional subdued rumble amply forewarned . The meeting was a formal and public one , and there were " strangers " present . A representative of the Mayor of Philadelphia had come to address it . This was no time to air family differences . Therefore the parliamentarians and the leaders of the major factions might flatter themselves that they had the assemblage in the hollow of their hands . There was , to be sure , a somewhat different demand from the left that one of the Socialist speakers should be heard along with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Presidency , too , was put forward in the person of the poet Yehoash , but it was evident enough that Judge Julian W. Mack , a leading Zionist , a liberal of the best tradition , and a prince of good fellows , would carry majorities in practically all factions . Lastly , a difference , which was speedily adjusted , arose over the manner in which the Congress should register its sorrow and horror over the late massacres in Poland . But all this was mere target practice . The real withering fire was being saved up for the great battle behind the scenes . On the evening of the same day the delegates retired to a smaller hall with diminutive galleries for real business . Outside of a few cops in the rear , it was a family crowd that felt comfortably at home . This time no stiff formalities and no restraining strangers . And the barrage began almost at once . The Socialists , balked in the afternoon , Were determined not to submit again . They insisted that Mr. Chayyim Zhitlowsky , a famous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Only for fifteen minutes . The Congress reluctantly voted him the modest space . He arose and for five minutes read from a paper , logically and effectively , about the new departure in the spirit of the Jewish people . It was a calm and well- thought-out paper , and he was listened to with 1 , " eathless attention ? for five minutes . Then the new departure " he had been referring to suddenly stood out in one sharp sentence . " The Jewish people , " he said , " had for many centuries been distinguished as a religious body ; now this will no longer hold . Religion is not the test . It is nationality that makes a Jew . " Immediately pandemonium broke loose . At first a subdued rumor from the benches of the Mizrachi , then in a moment the whole right was on its feet in a deafening uproar . A dancing dervish in a skull-cap rushed up in front of the platform , and screamed , and waved his fists in Zhitlowsky 's face , and finally succumbed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with his gavel to no purpose . Mr. Louis Marshall , a respected leader , succeeded for brief interval in making himself heard . He implored the rabbis to be calm , to learn to respect opponents , to prize freedom of expression . He assured them that he himself was against the speaker , that he stood with the rabbis on this point -- than all of which nothing could be truer ? but he had no sooner paused than the tumult recommenced . A motion was made to withdraw the speaker 's privilege , and was tabled . A judge from the West shouted that the speaker had outraged the feelings of all religious Jews , and that made the uproar more uproarious . Finally a Mr. Bublik told the Mizrachi that tolerance was their special gift and distinction , and that , besides , the rest of the address would meet with their approval . The significance and the humor of this amazing episode was that the disturbers , and nearly the entire Congress , agreed with Mr. Zhitlowsky . If a rabbi had read his paper it would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same thing at a later sitting , and was frantically applauded . The opposition was to the man 's record . He was a Socialist and a freethinker ; therefore his insistence on nationality was principally a subtle stab at religion . It was , moreover , a profoundly spiritual address , but it had questioned the supremacy of the theological test . And the most incredible part of it was that that heretical speech turned out to be the key utterance of the.Congress and cemented the loose aggregation into a solidly united body . When , on the next day , the great international questions began to come up , resolution after resolu. tion glided through as if on greased runners . The one final fight was to turn on the issue whether the rights to be demanded for the Jews in Poland and Rumania were to be national rights , and when the point arose the whole house after long debate almost solidly voted yes . And in the speeches that followed rabbis and judges and Socialists insisted that Jews were a nation and that their nationality and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ East European countries . Lastly the most inspiring scene in the whole remarkable session was the vast outburst of enthusiasm for the resolution on Palestine , which recommended to the Powers at Versailles that their ancient homeland be returned to the Jewish nation . The truth is that the vast majority of the delegates had from the first been intensely nationalist . Only they had not known that this , the position of Jewish minorities among the nations , was the one vital issue in the minds of all their fellows and would become the one dramatic feature of their Congress . They did not know this until they met and clashed and therefore they could not know that the achievement of their long-yearned for Congress would be the establishment of unity among the Jews of America . For that is the one certain thing the first American Jewish Congress has done . It has taught a faction-ridden people brought together from every end of the world , that beneath all their surface differences there is among them an essential common purpose and a deep-laid common hope . It has taught @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Talmudist to tolerate and respect one another . And it has taught a people that had never been allowed to share in government somethng of the ways of parliaments and the uses of common counsel . Perhaps to the non-Jew this will seem little and elementary . But it is of those elementary preliminaries without which the greater cause of Jews the world over could never be advanced . To that greater cause all friends of the Jew and all friends of justice will now wish god-speed.                     