@@466104

ICKERING 'S vocabu. lary of Americanisms has already been described as the pioneer undertaking of its kind . For certain reasons it demands a fullness of examination which The intrinsic value of its contents would hardly justify . This is not because of the influence which the work exerted upon the character of later compilations , though that is something distinctly appreciable . Nor is it for its occasional discussion of usages which were then making their appearance in the speech . Nor is it for the information it furnishes in regard to words and phrases then current exclusively on this side of the Atlantic . For us its main value lies in the picture it presents of the state of mind then prevailing in this country . The work will always have an abiding interest for the light it throws upon the way our forefathers thought and felt ? at least no small number of those of them who considered themselves the representatives of the highest culture to he found in America . Pickering was in the fullest sense an exemplar of the beliefs entertained by these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For us , accordingly , he is more than an individual . He serves distinctly as a type . He is the representative of a class then far from insignificant in numbers , and by no means limited in influence . At the time of the appearance , in 1816 , of his vocabulary there was in the matter of language a deference paid , especially in New England , by the best-informed American to the least-informed Englishman which it would be a compliment to term obsequiousness . It was , in fact , a servility which the most groveling prostration of actual servitude could hardly have surpassed . Political dependence had been over-thrown by the revolution . Its very success makes more marked the abject literary dependence that came to prevail . The minds of men varied between boastful national self - laudation and fairly cringing linguistic submissiveness . In the latter particular it was a repetition on an even lower scale of the attitude which had previously been assumed by Hume and his fellow-Scotchmen . Nowhere is the corresponding attitude here prevalent brought out with fuller distinctness than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preface and in the body of the work it is more than implied ; it is almost vehemently proclaimed . Pickering 's compilation , therefore , is even of more interest to us for the state of mind it reveals than for the information it contains . In its remarks upon words and phrases his work was , to a large extent , a lamentable failure . This was mainly due to the absolute inability of its compiler to comprehend the nature of the life and growth of language . In his own time his learning was celebrated not merely by those who knew him , but by those who knew him not . In certain ways he was assuredly a man of distinct scholarly attainment . This was at least true of him , so far as the possession of knowledge is concerned . But to being a linguistic scholar in the high sense of that word it is manifest that he had not the slightest pretension . Of language in general , of the movements which take place in it , of the influences which operate upon it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no conception whatever . Of the necessity and desirableness of new words , of the causes which lead to their creation , he exhibited in this work peculiar ignorance . It can be said in his behalf that nearly all his contemporaries were in the same state of blindness . Fortunately for his contemporaries , however , it did not fall to their lot to compile vocabularies of Americanisms . In the case of Pickering any chance there might have been of preserving even a slight portion of intellectual independence was utterly destroyed by the misfortune ? good fortune he doubtless deemed it ? of having spent two years of his early life in London . He never got over the effect of it Notions about language in general , and about the English language in particular , which were at that time current , at least throughout the English-speaking world , he accepted without reserve . These are indeed far from having died out now ; but their utterance at this late day is confined mainly to those ? no small number , indeed ? who continue to cherish the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough for Pickering to receive with fullest faith the views about language then prevalent . Unhappily , along with it went an equal faith in the utterances about it of every individual Englishman of education . Especially was he willing to accept without qualification the assertions of any one who acted as a contributor to the reviews then published in Great Britain . These men , in his opinion , were to be regarded as having uttered the last word that could be said on the subject of speech . In consequence , if some anonymous writer in some now forgotten periodical pronounced a word an Americanism , an Americanism it was . It made no difference how many Englishmen were employing it at the time and had been employing it for centuries before . It had been declared an Americanism ; as an Americanism it was to be avoided . To two , in particular , of his English friends resident in this country Pickering expressed himself as being under special obligation . Any statement ? they chose to make he received without question . So utterly subservient was he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have felt it necessary to repress the fervor of his faith in the finality of their utterances . They took the pains to caution him , he tells us , that though educated in England , they had , resided so long in America that " their car had lost much of the sensibility to deviation from the pure English idiom which once would have enabled them to pronounce with decision in cases where they now felt doubt . " It was fortunate for Pickering 's work that they occasionally felt doubt ; for whenever they pronounced with decision they made a particularly woeful exhibition of ignorance and incompetence . In most instances there is not the slightest evidence that the individuals consulted knew what they were talking about ; in several instances it is perfectly manifest that they did not know . But though Pickering relied much upon English friends , he relied still more upon English periodicals . The meekness with which he accepted the strictures on language by the most ignorant English reviewer displays the intellectual servitude which existed in America during the early part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It affected throughout the nature of his collection of examples . Do the best he could , however , he was not always able to succeed in being as uninformed as the men whom he regarded as authorities , or as he himself apparently desired to be . His vocabulary contained a number of words that had been accused of being Americanisms . Happy was he if in any case he could find that any of them occurred in an English book , or , in lieu of that , in an English review . Sometimes indeed he was able to show that the word denounced had not only been used by English writers , but by great English writers . This was as far , however , as he presumed to go . Even then he felt it venturesome to distrust the infallibility of the oracle he had consulted . So he would go on to remark that the word was used more frequently in America than in England . It was an assertion the truth of which he did not know . Still , as no one else @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make . It is proper to say , however , that Pickering did not rely exclusively upon English periodicals any more than he did upon English friends . In both cases he made use of what may be called home talent . If any ignoramus on either side of the Atlantic had succeeded in getting his crude notions of words and usages recorded in a periodical , he accepted nent , is become active . People of fashion say , He originated the measure . " To this Johnson is represented as replying : " Scholars will always say , The measure originated with him . " Had Landor taken the pains to consult Johnson 's own dictionary , he would have found originate put down there as both an active and a neuter verb . Now comes the New Historical Dictionary and shows that the transitive use of the verb was distinctly the earlier . If correctness of speech depends upon priority , the usage which Pickering and Landor favored would have to go by the board . In truth , it is not so much the linguistic ignorance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amazing as is his attitude . That a word should be used in America of which some English reviewer did not approve brought him inexpressible anguish . He informed us that corruptions had crept into the language as spoken here , sufficient in number " to have become the subject of much animadversion and regret with the learned of Great Britain . " Much nearer the truth he would have been had he said " with the unlearned of Great Britain . " In proof of this sad state of affairs he quoted an extract from the periodical which he regarded as a fountain of linguistic wisdom . The British Critic deplored our deviation from the purity of the English idiom . It told us that it was the duty of scholars on this side of the Atlantic to stem " that torrent of barbarous phraseology with which the American writers threaten to destroy the purity of the English language . Our men of letters , we were further informed , must relinquish , however reluctantly , certain words and phrases before they can hope to rank with good writers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restore the language as used here to its first purity and to prevent future corruption . To the few who are familiar with the English reviews of that time , remarks like those just given will seem neither novel nor startling . If there was one fact about which the average British critic was then perfectly satisfied , it was that he himself used the language in its primeval purity and splendor ? very much , indeed , as Adam did his before thefall . Any deviation from the practice which he followed or approved he was wont to speak of as a violation of decorum if not an offense against morals . If he learned , or more usually merely fancied , that these expressions , so offensive to him , had their origin in America , he had the further gratification of believing that his feelings were not only right , but patriotic . Cackle of the kind just cited Pickering . accepted as gospel . With it he sympathized fully . He witnessed with pain , he tells us , the corruptions which were gradually creeping into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of grief . For three centuries at least a certain class of people have been witnessing this sort of thing with pain ; for centuries to come they will continue to witness it with pain . The particular matter deplored will be different ; the feeling will be the same . Two special dangers there were in Pickering 's opinion which beset us in America . One was the survival with us of words and forms which in his opinion , frequently mistaken , the English had abandoned . The occurrence of stricken , for instance , caused him profound grief . " This antiquated participle , " he told us , " is much used in Congress and our other legislative assemblies . " Even the occasional employment of it by English authors did not suffice to relieve his sufferings , " Our own critics , " he said , " have all condemned the use of it . " This , if true , does not convey a high idea of the intelligence of " our own critics . " In truth , the example he gave was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is really the proper past participle of strike . Struck is merely a corrupt intrusion into its place of the preterite , just as shook was once frequently employed even by good authors for shaken . This fact Pickering manifestly did not know . Furthermore , it never occurred to him that the increasing employment of stricken on both sides of the Atlantic was nothing but a part of a general unconscious movement , still in progress , On the part of the language to return to its earlier etymological forms . Few are the writers now who would venture to follow the example of Milton and speak of The immortal mind that bath forsook Her mansion in this fleshly nook . Milton in treating forsook , strictly a preterite , as a past participle , was employing a fully authorized usage of his time . Others then did the same . We do not so employ it now , because , as a consequence of the silent revolution slowly but steadily going on in the speech , it has ceased to be an authorized usage . The second danger Pickering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which are still used in England in their original sense . All words should be discountenanced with which British authors of reputation ? by whom he meant the writers in the reviews professed themselves unacquainted . That very ignorance showed that they were not employed in the mother country . In such a case they " of course ought not to be used elsewhere by those who would speak correct English . " Pickering 's faith , in truth , in the familiarity of every English critic with all the words in the language was never shaken in the slightest . He was , however , a little distrustful of the Scotch . Hence his attitude toward the Edinburgh Review was not that of perfect trust . Its great editor was a Scotchman born and bred . Its language was consequently tainted by its Northern surroundings and by its Northern contributors . But in the Quarterly Pickering felt that he could put absolute confidence . In his eyes that review was a well of English undefiled . Whenever it censured what he had previously been disposed to consider correct his faith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out noticeably in his comments on the verb narrate . This word had been long in use ; but it was in little use in South as compared with North Britain . Hence it had come to be considered a Scotticism . Only there was it heard at all , according to the dictionary of Dr. Johnson . Pickering accordingly was in a good deal of doubt as to its propriety . Phis verb , " he said , " is noticed by being printed in Italics in some English works where extracts have been made from American publications . " On this point he consulted one of his two English friends . As might be expected , he VOL . CXXIX. ? No. 700. - 14got from them the usual misinformation . He himself observed that it was often found in the Edinburgh Review . He cited two instances in the second volume where it occurred twice in the same page . He failed to note , however , that this same periodical had later atoned in a measure for its own lapse from linguistic purity by printing this word in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the three regicides , Whalley , Gaffe , and Dixwell ? an American work . But though the Scotch might fail him in this particular case , " the English reviewers , " Pickering was able to say , " rarely employ it . " He quoted a censure of it from the Quarterly of the year 1813 contained in an article on McCrie 's Life of John Knox . The critic had praised highly the style of that work . He liked it better for the very Scotticism with which it abounded . But he drew a line at the " modern affectation " shown in using " the abominable verb narrate , " which , he remarked , " must be absolutely proscribed in all good writing . " It is from reading remarks like these upon words and their uses that the man of pessimistic temperament gets perhaps his gloomiest views of the nature and extent of the immense abysses of asininity in human nature which still lurk unexplored . Pickering had furthermore a childlike faith in the English dictionaries of that time . They are known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as being scandalously imperfect . If , however , a word was not in them , it was very hard for him to believe that it was in the language at all . At any rate , it lacked their certificate to its being there rightfully . No more frequent remark is there in his work than that some particular word under discussion is " not in the English dictionaries . " If , however , he found the word in question contained in some periodical published in Great Britain , his mind was sensibly relieved . But if the strange term was unsupported by either one of the two authorities of dictionaries or reviews , he looked upon it with doubtful or disapproving eyes . In i8o6 Noah Webster had brought out a small English dictionary . It was the first of his ventures in that particular field . As Pickering looked at the matter , it was an audacious proceeding for The immortal mind that hath forsook Her mansion in this fleshly nook . Milton in treating forsook , strictly a preterite , as a past participle , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Others then did the same . We do not so employ it now , because , as a consequence of the silent revolution slowly but steadily going on in the speech , it has ceased to be an authorized usage . The second danger Pickering pointed out was our affixing a new signification to words which are still used in England in their original sense . All words should be discountenanced with which British authors of reputation ? by whom he meant the writers in the reviews ? professed themselves unacquainted . That very ignorance showed that they were not employed in the mother country . In such a case they " of course ought not to be used elsewhere by those who would speak correct English . " Pickering 's faith , in truth , in the familiarity of every English critic with all the words in the language was never shaken in the slightest . He was , however , a little distrustful of the Scotch . Hence his attitude toward the Edinburgh Review was not that of perfect trust . Its great editor was a Scotchman born and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surroundings and by its Northern contributors . But in the Quarterly Pickering felt that he could put absolute confidence . In his eyes that review was a well of English undefiled . Whenever it censured what he had previously been disposed to consider correct his faith was at once shaken , This state of mind comes out noticeably in his comments on the verb narrate . This word had been long in use ; but it was in little use in South as compared with North Britain . Hence it had come to be considered a Scotticism . Only there was it heard at all , according to the dictionary of Dr. Johnson . Pickering accordingly was in a good deal of doubt as to its propriety . " This verb , " he said , " is noticed by being printed in Italics in some English works where extracts have been made from American publications . " On this point he consulted one of his two English friends . As might be expected , he vol . CXXIK ? No. 769. - 14got from them the usual misinformation . He himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He cited two instances in the second volume where it occurred twice in the same page . He failed to note , however , that this same periodical had later atoned in a measure For its own lapse from linguistic purity by printing this word in italics in a quotation it took from Stiles 's history of the three regicides , Whalley , Golfe , and Dixwell ? an American work . But though the Scotch might fail him in this particular case , " the English reviewers , " Pickering was able to say , " rarely employ it . " He quoted a censure of it from the Quarterly of the year IB13 contained in an article on McCrie 's Life of John Knox . The critic had praised highly the style of that work . He liked it better for the very Scotticisms with which it abounded . But he drew a line at the " modern affectation " shown in using " the abominable verb narrate , " which , he remarked , " must be absolutely proscribed in all good writing . " It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the man of pessimistic temperament gets perhaps his gloomiest views of the nature and extent of the immense abysses of asininity in human nature which still lurk unexplored . Pickering had furthermore a childlike faith in the English dictionaries of that time . They are known now , and must have been known to scholars then , as being scandalously imperfect . lf , how-ever , a word was not in them , it was very hard for him to believe that it was in the language at all . At any rate , it lacked their certificate to its being there rightfully . No more frequent remark is there in his work than that some particular word under discussion is " not in the English dictionaries . " If , however , he found the word in question contained in some periodical published in Great Britain , his mind was sensibly relieved . But if the strange term was unsupported by either one of the two authorities of dictionaries or reviews , he looked upon it with doubtful or disapproving eyes . In ISo6 Noah Webster had brought out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his ventures in that particular field . As Pickering looked at the matter , it was an audacious proceeding for an American under any circumstances to bring out a dictionary of his own tongue ; though it was perhaps the example of this daring procedure that led him a half-score years later to bring out a Greek lexicon . In his work Webster had included the adjective noticeable . Such action proceeding from this side of the Atlantic struck Pickering as an act of temerity . One of his correspondents had remarked to him that the word was an Americanism . Pickering himself did not venture to take such extreme ground . i " Mr. Webster , " he said , tt " has admitted it into his dictionary ; but it is not in the English ones . " Had he been as familiar with literature as he was with lexicons , he might have saved himself from any solicitude on the point by recalling the " noticeable man with large gray eyes , " of whom years before Wordsworth had spoken in a famous passage . It is worth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which were furnished Pickering by his English and American friends . At no period has the knowledge which has been brought to bear upon the consideration of words and their uses been embarrassing by its quantity or its accuracy . This vocabulary is assuredly a marked specimen of the lack of both . The illustrations it furnished are , however , interesting for the sort of intelligence which is still frequently displayed in discussions of this nature . Accordingly , the few examples given are taken designedly from words belonging to the literary rather than the colloquial speech . One of the pernicious English friends whom Pickering consulted assured him that " influential was clearly an American word . " So down it went at once into his glossary , though the compiler himself remarked that it had been admitted by Dr. Johnson and other English lexicographers into their dictionaries . But his faith in his friend was unshaken . " It does not appear , " he wrote , " to be used now in England . " it may be mentioned in passing that Lady Holland , a somewhat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speech , took pains to assure Macaulay that influential and constituency were two particularly " odious " words . Provincialism was also included in Pickering 's list , apparently because it had been censured by some writers as unauthorized . Whether it originated in England or America has not been decisively settled . Nor is it a matter of much moment . Never was a word more imperatively needed . Had it not existed , it would have been necessary to invent it in order to designate Pickering 's own state of mind . Fortunately for his happiness , he discovered that though the word was not in the dictionaries , it was frequently employed by English reviewers . This was enough for him . He felt fully justified in consequence in rejecting the protest of the American friend who had objected to its recognition . Presidential too was , according to the Monthly dizthology , " one of the barbarisms in constant use among us . " This view of it Pickering accepted with qualifications . He found that English writers sometimes employed it . Hence it could hardly be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough to add that they used it " only in speaking of American affairs . " It is hard to see how any other adjective could have been formed from the noun ; and an adjective was imperatively needed . Hence if it had not already had a being , it would have been necessary to create it . As a matter of fact it had existed for about two centuries . It was probably never common , for presidents themselves had not been very common , or at least historically important . Naturally it could not have been applied to the President of the United States until such an office was in existence . After that was created , its frequent appearance in this country was inevitable . Nationality again , Pickering tells us , is a new word used by some wretched American writers . It was a new word in his eyes because it was not found in the then existing English dictionaries . Still , though lacking this introduction into polite linguistic society , he was not disposed to censure it unreservedly . He had come across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was there printed in italics . For him , in consequence , complete happiness was denied . A somewhat striking illustration there is of the methods which Pickering followed and the resulting havoc which was wrought to English lexicography . One of the words he included in his collection was anxietude . He had picked it up in some unnamed newspaper . " I never saw the word but once , " he remarked . Still , on the strength of this single occurrence , it was duly enrolled in his vocabulary . It is hard to comprehend how even at that period an educated man could have been unintelligent enough to consider it as having the least claim to be considered an Americanism . For that its size and character were altogether too imposing . The word itself is regularly formed . It comes directly from the Latin anxietudo . But neither in this country , nor , for that matter , in any English-speaking country , do men go about speaking of themselves as filled with anxietude . Still , on the strength of having been found once by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ word has continued to cumber , for a generation or more , the pages of our largest dictionaries . But while carefully including without criticisrn anxietude , which had behind it no respectable authority , he also entered , but with denunciation , a verb which he had no business to consider an Amer-icanism , even had it been first employed here . This was companion . Linn , a forgotten American author , had written a narrative poem entitled " Valerian , " which was published after his death by his brother - in - law , Charles Brockden Brown . In it he had used the present participle companioning . This of course is merely an example of the facility with which our language turns nouns into verbs . It excited , however , the wrath of the reviewer in the Monthly Anthology . He spoke of it as " a word invented without taste , low and unpoetical . " Pickering joined heartily in this condemnation . " The word , " he said , " was never used in this country , I presume , by anybody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom the American of our day has heard ; and the same remark is probably true of most Americans of his own day . Still , he knew that the credit or discredit of inventing the word did not belong to him . This is clearly more than can be said for his critics . The " low " and " unpoetical " verb companion had been used for centuries by English poets and prose-writers . Among them is one whom even the Monthly Anthology might not have looked upon with absolute disapproval . " Companion me to my mistress , " says Charmian to the soothsayer in Shakespeare 's " Antony and Cleopatra . " Besides the conscious influence exerted over Pickering by English friends and English reviews was the unconscious influence of his political opinions . He was manifestly a Federalist of the most pronounced type . As such he had little sympathy with anything coming from or belonging to France . He really looked upon whatever was in any way a result of the French Revolution as the direct offspring of the devil . This hostility extended not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its words . Consequently he was much concerned , as many have been before and since , at the disposition to introduce Gallicisms into our tongue . Constituted authorities , demoralize , and demoralization are a few of the deplorable terms he mentioned as having crept into the speech from that insidious quarter . Considering that as far back as the fourteenth century about one-half of our older and more common words came to us from the French , it was rather late in the day to become excited about Gallicisms merely as such . But anything proceeding from or connected with France Pickering regarded with suspicion if not with aversion . The feeling , indeed , extended to persons who had dwelt in it . Joel Barlow had spent much of his life in that country . There he had been in full sympathy with many of the men who had taken part in the Revolution . Of necessity he fell under the ban . Consequently while Pickering embodied in his collection of Americanisms any new term he chanced to come across in the most unimportant of newspapers , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ character , which Barlow had perpetrated in his ponderous epic The Columbiad . Accordingly , in his observations upon Gallicisms , real or supposed , Pickering 's political prejudices came constantly into play . He seemed to regard such words as an objectionable element in the speech , not only in themselves , but on account of the party in the nation which in his opinion had introduced them . The verb base , meaning " to found , to build upon as a basis , " he considered worthy of special reprobation . " A few of our writers , " he remarked , " have adopted this Gallicism " ; but he felt justified in adding , complacently , that " it is not in common use . " Not unnaturally his hostility to the leader of the Democratic party ? or Republican , as it was then more usually called ? extended to the words found in his writings . This feeling is singularly manifested in his comments upon the verb belittle . This may in its origin have been a quasi-Americanism . Its first appearance , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Virginia . This work was originally published at . Paris with the date of 1782 on its title-page . In 1814 the Quarterly Review , in the course of one of its regularly recurring exposures of American disreputability , observed that President Jefferson talks " of belittling the productions of nature . " This was enough for Pickering . " The word , " he wrote , " is sometimes heard here in conversation ; but in writing it is , I believe , peculiar to that gentleman . " 