@@486141

SIR : In his reply to Mr. Galsworthy , printed in your correspondence columns of December 3 , Mr. Schuetze calls attentibn to some brutal drawings in the British Graphic and asks , " Is it possible that a cause which seeks the inspiration of such an orgy of malice is righteous ? " In the Sunday Magazine of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch of December 6 I find an interesting cartoon . It is evidently a street massacre , and contains all the traditional details , not omitting the naked infant in various stages of annihilation . It is reprinted from the War Supplement of Simplictssimus and bears the following legend : " For such heroic deeds as these the similarly minded French have bestowed the Cross of the Legion of Honor upon the Belgian people . " Now , I do not presume to pass upon the relative merits of Szniplicissimus and the Graphic . I would merely point out the futility of trying to judge any nation by what some of its citizens may do during the emotional strain of an unspeakable war . The memory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is in England , as in all countries , a reactionary party that is certain to become more bigoted and odious as the war progresses . In Germany the far more complete and drastic governmental organization will probably make for a more uniform level of decency . But these things are obviously superficial ; they do not go to the heart of the matter . The unpardonable crime , whatever the remoter causes mayhave been , was setting the first match to this conflagration ; and unless the German apologists can make out a stronger case than any one of them has yet done , no amount of unjust vituperation of them by their enraged enemies will serve to tip the balance in their favor . R. D. MILLER . Columbia , Mo , December 9 - THE SILENCE OF NEUTRALS . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : Six : In yolk ' issue of December 17 there appears , signed by Professor Peabody , of Harvard , a letter on our duty as neutrals which I hope will be answered by many persons , I wish to speak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the horrors of war , the devastation of towns , the brutality of troops , the invasion of neutral territory , " but he says : " To hold our tongues just now when the facts reach us with such distortion may be to hold in our hands before long the fate of the world . " He looks forward to the mediation of America . Does Dr. Peabody doubt the ruin of Belgium , where seven million persons are starving ? Does he deny that from these poor creatures , whom we are trying to feed , the Germans are trying to squeeze the uttermost farthing of the enormous indemnities imposed upon them for daring to defend their country against an invasion admitted by the German Chancellor to be a wrongful act ? Is it our duty to hold our tongues about this ? I say that Americans should not cease to denounce such sordid and infamous cruelty . The danger is not that we shall become too partisan , but that our righteous indignation may become weary . Americans are not slothful in business , but are not always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are somewhat too eager to tell or to hear some new thing , and most of our newspapers are anxious to give us novelty and above all things not to bore us . Against an outrage such as this , which is notorious , undisputed , and expressly forbidden by Article XLIX of the Hague Convention of 1907 , signed by all the belligerents , our Administration should protest and every American of common humanity should protest . To the injured party our continued silence will seem so unjust that any offer of our services as mediators would be rejected , but let us now consider only what is becoming to ourselves and to our country . GEORGE HARRISON FISHER . Philadelphia , December 21 THE BLESSINGS OF PEACE . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : Reading to-day the Nation 's comment on the coming centenary of the Treaty of Ghent , that " on the 24th of this month the feeling that peace is the greatest of public blessings can not but be uppermost in every heart , " I hasten to assure you that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - day , will not think peace a greater blessing than liberty . It seems hardly possible that there should not be others of the same way of thinking , for among our forefathers the feeling that peace is the greatest public blessing was so far from general that in 1775 they deliberately chose the horrors of a war with the mother country rather than undergo so slight an abridgment of their liberty as was implied in a tax laid on themwithout their consent . Among other peoples there may be other minds ; yet the answer of the Athenians to the Persian demand of earth and water still stands as an example ; and one is ready to believe that the Belgians , if the question were put again , would choose their suffering , their untarnished honor , and the liberty that stands entrenched in one corner of their devastated land , rather than the blessings of peace and submission to tyranny . GEORGE DE C. CURTIS . Foster , Cal , December 10 . A BRITISH PATRIOTIC FUND . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sympathizers " of the country , is issuing circulars in the interest of a British Patriotic Fund . The Fund is intended , not for the relief of sickness and destitution , but to enable " British ex-non-commissioned officers , reservists , and army men . . . to return to England add serve their country in its hour of stress . " Will not all who hope to preserve the United States from international quarrel  --  after as well as during ' the present war  --  oppose as effectually as they can such a dangerous , though well-meaning , attack upon our adopted stand of neutrality ? ROBERT F. FOERSTER , Cambridge , Mass , December 12 MR . BECK REPLIES . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : My attention has been called to a letter which Mr. A. R. Hohlfeld , of Madison , Wis , has contributed to the Nation in your issue of December 17 . Either Mr. Hohlfeld did not read my article on the Dual Alliance vs. the Triple Entente very carefully , or else , to make a point against a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state what I said . It is true that , owing to an apparent misprint of the German White Paper , I did comment upon the absence of a date to the confidential communication which the German Chancellor sent to the constituent states of Germany . This was apparently an error , as it is now stated  --  and I do not question it  --  that the original document did contain July 28 as the date . I say this , although different reprints of this same document , which have come from German sources , contain different dates , one dated July 26 and another July 28 . I assume , however , that July 28 is the true date , and I therefore omitted this reference to the supposed undated document in any reprints over which I had control . It is , however , untrue that my argument with respect to the moral responsibility for the war was largely based upon the supposition that this document was undated . As a matter of fact , the reference to the undated document was a minor feature and , far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reply to the Austrian ultimatum , I said : " Nevertheless , the document itself would indicate that it was written after Servia 's reply on the 25th , " although I suggested that in view of its want of date " it is still possible , although not probable , that this confidential warning was written either on the 23d or the 24th . " There has been a persistent effort on the Part of my critics  --  and in this Mr. Hohlfeld joins  --  to give the impression that I contended as a positive fact that the document was written before the issuance of the Austrian ultimatum on July 23 . It remains a very curious fact that , while the exhibits of the German White Paper are in all other respects arranged in chronological order , this document , which it is now maintained was dated July 28 , is placed between a document dated July 23 and one dated July 24 . Perhaps some day the very systematic clerks of the German Foreign Office will explain the reason As the date when this document was pie-pared can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no convincing conclusion can be deduced therefrom , I have omitted in the reprints of my original article , and also in my book , " The Evidence in the Case , " into which the article has grown , all reference to this question of dates , for I preferred that my analysis of the evidence should rest upon sound conclusions , rather than upon plausible conjecture . Now that Mr. Hohlfeld has joined with other critics in calling attention to this matter , I may take occasion to say that , although my analysis of the-diplomatic documents has been printed in a number of countries and in several languages and has given rise to widespread comment , and deals with hundreds of documents and many transactions , the only error that has yet been found in any statement that I made was in this reference to the fact that one document lacked a date JAMES M BECK New York , Decembei 24 ENGLAND AND PORTUGUESE NEU-TRALITY . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : You will , I am sure , allow me to sustain the contrast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German aggression on Belgium and the English treatment of Portugal in the Boer War . I wrote that , " had we chosen to violate Portugal 's neutrality and advanced through the harbor of Lorenzo Marques , we could have struck direct at Pretoria and have ended the campaign in a few weeks " Your correspondent , Mr. Martin . Schuetze , comments thus in your issue of November 5 : " It is a matter of record that just as soon as the British had landed enough troops in Capetown to keep the Boer armies and agents out of Cape Colony and relieve Ladysmith and Kimberley , they did move upon the flank of the Boers through Lorenzo Marques . The Boers protested to the civilized world , and especially to America , against this breach of neutrality . . . . The Portuguese were too much cowed or too partisan to speak " Now it is a matter of common notoriety that the Boers immediately after they declared war on England  --  for it was they who declared war on us , not we on them  --  swept down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we ourselves  --  wholly unprepared as usual  --  were only just able to keep them out of the seaport of Durban , which I venture to think Mr. Schuetze imagines to be one with Lorenzo Marques 350 miles north of it He can easily assure himself , if he turns to any history of that war , that if the neutrality of Lorenzo Marques was violated at all , it was by the Boers and not by the English . Thus Sir L S Amery , in the " Times History of the War in South Africa " ( vol. ni , p. 102 ) , writes as follows : Far more important was the position of the Portuguese Colony of Mozambique , whose port of Delagoa Bay provided the only gateway between the Transvaal and the outer world It was through Delagoa Bay that the Transvaal received such supplies as still passed through , as well as its reinforcements of foreign volunteers . there can be no doubt that , during the earlier part of the war , the neutrality of Lorenzo Marques was , in some respects , distinctly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Lorenzo Marques possessed for the Boers all the advantages of a seaport without any of the risk of blockade or capture by the Power which had command of the sea Gradually , however , the representations of the British authorities - had their effect . The passage of intending combatants , indeed , was not materially interfered with , but only turned into a source of revenue by the elaborate passport system devised by the Portuguese . But some check was put on the passage of goods obviously intended for military purposes It has often been asked whether the British Government would not have done well deliberately to have violated Portuguese neutrality , . . but there is no sufficient reason for quarrelling with their decision to abstain from such a course Apart from any question of political morality and of the old ties of friendship and alliance which connect England and Portugal , the international situation was not one in which England could afford to increase her general un-popularity . The official English History of the war lends equally little support to Mr. Schuetze 's statement ; nor is there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the History published for the German War Office . I take little exception to Mr. Schuetze 's description of the Jameson raid as " an enterprise of pure piracy , " but , when he describes it as an " act of the British , " he insinuates an untruth The British nation and Government were in no way privy to it , and were as much taken aback by it , and , for the most part , as much shocked by it , as the Emperor William , who made it the occasion of his famous telegram to President Kruger . I regarded that telegram , and still regard it , as the ebullition , undiplomatic indeed , of a generous nature . Had the raid been the act of the British Government in London or of its official representatives in South Africa , I feel assured that the German Emperor would never have sent it I admit that many Englishmen resented it as an unpardonable act of interference , but I think they were wrong to do so It was not meant as such In representing the raid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation , Mr. Schuetze allows himself to be blinded by anti-English animus . It was the deed of a few shortsighted members of the South African communities , provoked by the long-continued and studied affronts committed by the Boers upon the British who had settled in their midst , bringing capital to work their mines with and enriching them by the handsome prices paid for mining rights One of the chief ringleaders of the raid was an American citizen . I turn next to Mr Preserved Smith , who , challenging my statement in regard to Lorenzo Marques , writes that , " as a matter of fact , England did violate Portuguese territory by moving troops through it at that tune " And he proceeds to quote Sir Thomas Barclay 's article on " Neutrality " in the new Encyclopaedia Britannica But here the reference is not to Lorenzo Marques , but tothe Beira-Umtali Railway , constructed with English capital from the coast up to Rhodesia . The Boers were on the warpath in Rhodesia , and in April , 1900 , we moved 5,000 men and munitions of war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calls " an unfortunate precedent of taking advantage of the practical powerlessness of neighboring states to commit a violation of the law of nations . " He only writes thus because he interprets the Anglo-Portuguese Treaty of June 11 , 1891 , differently from the way in which English and Portuguese diplomats treated it at the time , in March , 1900 That treaty , which defined the frontiers of Portuguese Mozambique and English Mashonaland or Rhodesia , admitted a " servitude " on the part of Portugal , in the sense that it gave England free rights of access to Rhodesia over roads or railways to he constructed across Portuguese territory . Sir Thomas argues that the right of way claimed by England was a mere right of transit for merchandise , and that it could not in any way be construed as diminishing the neutral obligation to a belligerent who was no party to the treaty . Whether or not this be so , there is no truth in Sir Thomas 's innuendo to the effect that England on this occasion took advantage of the weakness of Portugal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Portuguese Foreign Minister at the time is inconsistent with any such charge . I repeat it verbatim from the Times of April 5 , 1900 , so that your readers may judge for themselves whether England took advantage of her strength to put pressure upon a weaker nation Here then is the Portuguese account of the matter : ListoN , April 3 ? In the Portuguese Chamber , to-day , the Minister of Foreign Affairs declared that the transport of British troops by the Beira-Umtali Railway was demanded by Great Britain and consented to by Portugal because Great Britain was merely exercising rights secured to her under existing treaties The present state of war did not abrogate these treaties , which had been concluded before the war . Portugal , in a spirit of loyalty , communicated this resolution to the Transvaal Government Portugal had loyally maintained her duties of neutrality , and all interested parties had been informed of her course of action . The Minister added that before resuming his seat he must declare in the most emphatic manner that the relations maintained by the British Cabinet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He rejoiced that this was the case , and trusted that , with God 's help , these relations would be maintained for ever . - From the Times of April 5 , 1900 , we further learn that on April 4 the National Zettung ( the National Liberal organ in Germany ) admits that the Portuguese Government has not given any special permission for the passage of British troops , but has only publicly ratified its recognition of the right of way long ago secured by treaty . At the same time , it is recognized that the matter is one which concerns Great Britain and Portugal alone , and no other Power . The Yossische Zettung , it is true , took a less impartial view , but intelligent liberal opinion in Germany was at any rate not all against us . The Transvaal Government had been notified by Portugal on March 8 " that in accordance with the mutual explanations exchanged in the treaty of 1891 with regard to the right of moving troops and material of war through the Portuguese territory in South Africa into English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British Government has just made-a formal demand for all troops and material of war to be sent through Beira to the English-hinterland The Portuguese Government can not refuse this demand and must fulfil a convention depending on reciprocity , a convention which was settled long before the present state of war had been foreseen . This agreement can not be regarded as a superfluous support of one of the belligerent parties or as a violation of the duties imposed by neutrality " The Transvaal Government , in its answer of the same day , " protested that the treaty of 1891 had not been made public , and that notice of it was received by the Transvaal at the outbreak of the war . . . The action of Portugal would put her in the position of an enemy instead of a neutral ally , ' wherefore the Transvaal protested strongly against the measure " ( from Amery 's History , iv , p. 367 ) . I hope the above data are enough to prove that Portugal cheerfully and unconstrained admitted England 's right to use the Beira Railway in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violation by England of her neutrality and to talk in connection therewith of " the mote and the beam , " to pretend that it was an outrage on Portugal comparable to that which the Germans are guilty of against Belgium , is absurd , and I am sure that on reflection Mr. Smith must acknowledge it to he so If there was any real violation of neutrality on that occasion it was committed by Portugal , but I should like to know how other international jurists interpret the Anglo-Portuguese instrument of June , 1891 , before , I adopt the view of Sir Thomas Barclay . FRED . C. CONYBEARE Oxford , November 30 MARTIN LUTHER AND THE ANGLICAN ARTICLES . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : In your issue of December 17 1 notice that Professor Smith says ! : it . is not generally known , and would hardly be agreeable for the ' Catholic ' party in the Episconal Church to learn , that Luther had a finger in the Thirty-nine Articles . " He then refers to the Thirteen Articles which resulted from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is doubtless not " agreeable " for the " Catholic " party to learn of this connection , but it is certainly Ina , curate to say that the fact " is not generally known " I have before me as I write the - well- known " History of the Articles of Religion , " by Hardwick , and my edition is dated 1859 . On pp. 60-66 the whole subject of the relation of the Anglican Articles to the Thirteen Articles is carefully stated It is now nearly sixty years since Dr Jenkyns , in looking for remains of Cranmer , discovered a manuscript containing the Articles agreed upon at the Conference by the German and the English uthorities in 1538 . Hardwick goes on to point out that while , up to the discovery by Jenkyns , the compilers of the Anglican Articles of 1553 were thought to have drawn directly from the Confession of Augsburg , the discovery of the Thirteen Articles made it probable , if not certain , that such derivation took place entirely through the medium of the Anglo-German channel W. H GRIFFITH THOMAS . Toronto @ @ @ @ @ 