@@487051

Mr. " Taft 's action in the matter of the Russian treaty is characteristic . The terms in which he gave notice of our intention to do away with the agreement of 1882 yield no excuse for ill-feeling on the part of the Czar 's Government . In stating that this country has completely outgrown the conditions prevailing at the time the treaty was framed , he gives temperate statement to an undeniable fact . To the man in the street , of course , there ' is a distinction without a difference in the method of the treaty 's abrogation . But in diplomacy it is to be presumed that manner still counts . This does not mean that the observance of all the proper forms will leave the Russian Government quite content . In the spirit of its communications with our own Government , as in the utterances attributed to M. Sazonoff , Russia 's Minister of Foreign Affairs , and other high officials , it is quite apparent that irritation does exist at St. Petersburg . And it is as well that it should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the feelings of another Government ; it is another thing to make it quite clear that we have a grievance , and that we are bound to have it rectified . As a matter of fact , results are in sight . M. Sazonoff is already credited with admitting that , while the present passport regulations can not be changed , perhaps there has been injudicious application of those regulations on the part of Russian consuls abroad , who have refused their vise to " a large number of persons who in. reality were acceptable . " The action of the House in passing the " dollar-a-day " pension bill , by a vote of 229 to 92 , was a great folly , the chief responsibility and reproach for which must fall upon the Democratic majority . True , all the Republicans but eight voted for the bill , and eighty-four Democrats , including their leader , Mr. Underwood , against it , but the party in - control of the House has the blame , as well as the praise , for what the House does . And this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this breaking away of frightened or scheming members from the advice and example of the party leaders , this act so full of insincerity and recklessness and the lowest kind of politics , can not fail to shake the belief in the sanity and firmness of the new Democratic control and injure the standing of the party with the country . It will be set down as the first great Democratic blunder , on a national scale , since the election of 1910 . Mr. Underwood may well be disquieted by the signs that the Democrats in the House are getting out of hand in the matter of extravagant appropriations . He has expressed his fear that , unless some check be put to present tendencies , this Congress will prove to be the most lavish on record . After $75,000 , - 000 for pensions , it is now proposed to vote $40,000,000 or $50,000,000 for public buildings . Mr. Underwood 's protest against this , when he appeared in person before the House committee , resulted in getting just two members on his side . The rest went with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flag and a big appropriation . Yet there is no doubt that all these Democrats would be ready , at a moment 's notice , to make glowing speeches in the House in praise of economy in the abstract . This makes a difficult situation for a leader like Mr. Underwood . It also points unmistakably once more to the viciousness of our system of financial control in Congress . There is no man or committee with power to say what money-bill shall be passed and what shall not . It was a fatal mistake to take away years ago from the Appropriations Committee the general control of the spending by the House . The Vice-President 's flag is gayly flung to the breeze in Tuesday morning 's Washington dispatch to the New York Tribune , setting forth the Hon. James Schooleraft Sherman 's desire and determination to be the Republican candidate for Governor of New York in 1912 . His reasons for such desire , we must - acknowledge , are ample and convincing . He is tired of merely presiding over the Senate 's sessions , he is anxious to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his executive ability , he is seeking a vindication for the humiliation he received at Saratoga a year ago . The announcement , however , would have been more interesting if the reasons why the party should give him the nomination had been set forth , instead of the reasons why he wishes to get it . If parties were given to the practice of romantic magnanimity , a motive might be found in the circumstance that Mr. Sherman is one of the few men whose nomination would give Gov . Dix a fighting chance for a second term . The Secretary of the Treasury 's - annual report , submitted to Congress on Monday , gives the first place of consideration to currency reform and the forthcoming Monetary Commission plan . Mr. MacVeagh is sanguine as to the prospects of early enactment of the pending reform proposals into law ; he believes that the Commission 's report will be so complete in suggestion and - material that , " whether Congress shall adopt the recommendations of the Commission as a whole or not , there need be no further postponement of legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now largely and mainly agreed " on the direction of reform ; " the nation has eradicated partisanship from this great business and social question , " and " the persistent difficulties of monetary reform have almost entirely disappeared . " In this statement of the case there is very much truth , and even people who doubt the probability of the enactment of such a law on the eve of a Presidential election , and who think that thorough and prolonged debate of any such measure is not only inevitable but most advisable , are aware that never since the Specie Resumption Act of 1875 has the outlook been so favorable for the judicious solution of this great problem within a reasonable time . On one aspect of the contemplated legislation the Secretary has a weighty comment . " It is indispensable , " he writes , " that the new law shall deny with great precision to any bank included within its provisions , whether national or State , the right to own stock in any other independent bank . " He adds : ? There is no immediate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the time to protect for the future the independence and individuality of the banks , and to forestall in their case the general tendency to the formation of undue combinations and Trusts . Mr. MacVeagh might have gone so much further as to say that , unless a clearly prohibitory provision of this na-ture is inserted , the enactment of any law for the centralization of the bank-ing resources of the country would be extremely doubtful . It is the imag-ined possibility of control , by a few strong banks or financiers , of the new system 's extensive credit machinery , which has been the most formidable ob-stacle all along in the path of successful banking and currency reform . Such misgiving has found a voice not only among the people at large but among the interior banks , and the recent controversy over the holding-company device , whereby some of our powerful metropolitan banks held virtual controlling interest in a group of other banking institutions , was not calculated to allay it . Secretary Meyer 's advocacy of the sale or abandonment of nearly all the navy yards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institution on Narragansett Bay can be readily defended on the ground of economy and efficiency . But already there is the greatest outcry against it on purely selfish grounds . The New York and Brooklyn Congressmen are " up in arms . " The city of New York would like to get the navy yard out of the way , to use its valuable lands and docks for the purposes of peaceful commerce . The city badly needs more and better facilities for its ever-growing steamship traffic , and the navy yard as a yard has many disadvantages . But the Congressmen fear the political results of the move . Thousands of workmen might emigrate to Rhode Island , and think of the loss to Brooklyn trade which would result ! It is a perfect illustration of the widespread popular attitude towards the Government so carefully fostered by the pension system and the protective tariff . It is refreshing and decidedly wholesome to have the alleged economies of production by gigantic Trusts sharply and aggressively challenged , as by Mr. BrandeiS last week before the Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the subject , and the air of superiority with which the assertions are usually put forward makes , them go down with great numbers , of people without any thinking at all . It is seldom that any attempt is made to furnish particulars which would substantiate the claim ; and serious quantitative statements  --  anything that would even tend to show how great this alleged gain is , or whether the tendencies making for the gain were not already in full operation before the monopolizing process set in -- are virtually never attempted . Moreover , there is an habitual confusion of thought  --  whether accidental or designed  --  between the issue of large-scale production as against small-scale production and the issue of monopoly against competition ; to hear some of the Trust people talk , one would almost think that those who are skeptical about the necessity of the Steel Trust aim to abolish everything larger than the little old-time forge . Mr. Brandeis has plenty of competent economic opinion behind him when he asserts the underlying and permanent advantages of competition in spite of its admitted drawbacks , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure illusory , and also as in large measure transitory  --  calculated to be more than wiped out in the long run by the loss of that vitality which is an accompaniment of competition . The stimulating atmosphere of Arizona is manifest not only in the enthusiasm with which the people of that nascent State embraced the idea of the recall of judges , but even in their way of eliminating that provision from their proposed Constitution . The vote to that effect , in the election just held , was almost unanimous ; a result which , if it had taken place in the phlegmatic , if not effete , East , would be regarded as either a merely formal matter or as indicating a diminished devotion to the idea . Not so in Arizona . " The people of Arizona , " says the Democratic State Chairman , " simply refused to endorse Taft 's decision as to what kind of a Constitution Arizona should have , and while they voted to eliminate the recall from the Constitution , as they were obliged to do - in order to gain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back in the Constitution as soon as it possibly could be done . " Just how this determination was shown does not appear ; but presumably the unanimity with which the recall was cut out of the Constitution was a sign of the eagerness with which they look forward to Statehood as a means of getting the recall . So much may be quite true ; but is it not drawing it a little strong to say that the people " refuged to submit to Taft 's dictation " ? The President did his exact duty , and no more , in refusing his assent to a Constitution which contained among its fundamental features a provision which he regaraed as pernicious ; but he explicitly recognized the fact that the people of Arizona could do as they pleased about it after they had become a full-fledged State . In other words , he was not , in any obnoxious sense , " dictating " to them at all ; and in so far as he was dictating to them , they did not refuse to submit , but on the contrary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lake shore long held by the Illinois Central Railroad is an event of more than local interest . A fair and amicable agreement between the city and the company will make possible the construction of a boulevard from Jackson Park north to Grant Park , the erection of the Field Columbian Museum in the latter area , and in general the development of a part of the city long neglected . Especially will the lake front , after land has been made by filling and waterways opened , be made as attractive as nature seemed to intend . The arrange . ment now arrived at is in pursuance of the plans long urged to beautify Chicago . The situation seemed hopeless , but the railway finally had the grace and business sense to surrender its riparian rights for the whole distance of between four and five miles south of Twelfth Street . Mayor Harrison is well within the truth in describing the event as the biggest thing that has happened in or for Chicago since the World 's Fair , of which , indeed , it is in a large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's long life with sleep is in the order of nature , but nevertheless brings its shock . So many had come to think of him as an invincible figure , flinging a dart at Death itself ! His cheerful and buoyant bearing at a great age seemed to promise many confident to-morrows . Intellectually active to the last , hopeful , inquiring , far from being shut up to live solely in the memory of past days , still warming both hands at the fire of life , he showed us an old age with scarcely any of the melancholy and depressing features that often go with it . Living in the active present though Mr. Bigelow always appeared to be , he yet could not avoid being regarded as a venerable and representative type of another time . His distinguished though simple bearing , his scrupulous politeness , his somewhat formal modes of speech and writing , all had the stamp of an elder day upon them . At any time these past thirty years he would have sprung to the general mind as a specimen as fine as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , too , he was wonderfully identified with his city , of all of whose modern growth he had been an eye-witness . He was eminently a New Yorker . To have stood for no more than all this would have been a great achievement . But when we remember how Mr. Bigelow carried his grand manne ' into intellectual pursuits and public services which alone would have marked him off from common men , and when we recall the indomitable vivacity and high spirit with which he carried the burden of years , as gallant at ninety-four as another Dandolo , we begin to perceive how the loss of him takes on national proportions . When Webster died it was said that to think of America ' without him would he like thinking of it without Niagara . There was none of this titanic force about Mr. Bigelow , but there was a loftiness and even majesty in his character which will make his disappearance seem like the fading from a familiar landscape of a snow-crowned mountain-peak . In the programme of a meeting short-l- , to be held by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a paper on Nietzsche : The eternal value of some of his over 260 poems and the well-nigh inimitable excellence of his prose , added to his broad acquaintance with , and his original ideas on , art and history and philosophy lend to his criticisms an unnegligible if not indisputable authority . Yet Nietzsche 's relation to philology in the uncothmonally ( sic ) inclusive sense in which he used the term is a practically unworked mine . There may be a deeper meaning in these words than first appears . Some of Shakespeare 's most exalted if also most incoherent passages have inspired language like this , and " Sordello , " along with other literary puzzles , has gene somewhat awkwardly to people 's heads But the present instance has avowedly to do with nothing more exciting than philology . Still , much can be wrought by patience , and already we begin to share the enthusiasm for the coming picture of a thousand times ten thousand scholars focussing their spectacles upon the magic of " Also sprach Zarathustra " The more one dwells upon the thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the time intended for philologists . The House of Lords , in passing so promptly , without amendment and virtually without debate , the workmen 's insurance bill , has not helped its standing with the English people . Just after the long and bitter fight for a Second Chamber with full revising powers over general legislation , we see the Lords incontinently refusing to exercise those powers . The opportunity was tempting and one might even say that the duty was plain . Lloyd George 's bill , as it passed the Commons , was an infinitely complex measure , not all the provisions of which were clearly understood , and many of them ? had not been discussed . There was naturally a feeling among sober Englishmen that the Lords ought to go slow with so grave a piece of legislation . There is still a suspensive veto left to the Upper House , and men like Professor Dicey openly , appealed for its use at this juncture . But all was in vain ; and the Lords meekly did what they had previously done with the old-age @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old taunt that they really have no intention of being a genuine revising body at all , but simply throw out what Liberal legislation they dare , and when a bill comes along which they fear is immensely popular , pass it without a murmur . The coronation of George V as Em -- peror of India was signalized by the nouncement of two highly important mihistrative changes , the virtual ' re-consolidation of Bengal under one Governor , and the transfer of the capital of-India from Calcutta to - Delhi . Something more than geography enters into both moves , although there are plenty of geographical reasons for the selection of Delhi . That city is situated almost exactly at the middle point of the base line of the inverted triangle which the Hindustan peninsula forms . It is a healthier city than Calcutta in the low-lying estuary of the Ganges , and much Learer to the summer capital , Simla , from which the government of India is carried on during a large part of the year . Historical associations also speak for Delhi , though the city did not come under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 1686 . Delhi has the greater native prestige . It was the capital of the Mogul emperors under whom India attained its most brilliant development At the height of its prosperity , Delhi contained to o million inhabitants and was the most magnificent capital city in the world But it is the political aspect of the Durbar changes that is most important . The division of the old province of Bengal into the two provinces of Bengal and Eastern Bengal and Assam , effected six years ago under Lord Curzon 's administration , was the definite cause of the outbreak of political unrest with which India has since then been troubled . The Hindu population was exasperated by the partition of what it regarded as its fatherland , and resentment against the British was accompanied by an upfiare of racial animosity againgt the Mohammedans , who are numerically strong in Eastern Bengal . Indian agitation has centred among the Hindus , because this race supplies almost the entire educated native class from whom the professions and the native civil service are recruited . Consequently , it has been a part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its support , and so to establish a counterbalance to Hindu disloyalty . The changes announced at the Durbar seek to placate both classes . In bringing the two Bengali provinces under a single head , an important concession has been made to Hindu sentiment . But in the removal of the capital to Delhi , the chief centre of Mohammedan influence , the non-Hindu element has been recognized . 