@@466633

UNTIL recently most Americans had rather vague ideas about chemists ; the words chemist , druggist , pharmacist w e re current as popular synonyms . Then , almost overnight , as a by-product of the war , came the discovery that chemists are indispensable to a nation , whether for the needs of war or peace . Were there chemists in America , chemists who could accomplish things like the chemists of Germany ? What of the famine in dye-stuffs ? What had our colleges , universities , and technical schools been doing ? These questions were raised with a panicky nervousness . There are chemists in America , though few people seem aware of the fact . The American Chemical Society has a membership of much over eight thousand , equal to the combined membership of the English Chemical Society , the Deutsche Chemische Gesellschaft , and the Societe Chimique de Paris . Without governmental aid or philanthropic subsidy , the American Chemical Society pays its own way and spends about $ioo , oco a year on no less than three separate publications , which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . During the past fifteen years our engineering schools and universities have been turning out chemists quite as competent as the graduates of European institutions ; in fact , discerning American manufacturers have come to prefer them . It is true that there was a time when Americans felt it essential to go to Germany for their chemical training , just as in his day Liebig found it necessary to go from Germany to Paris to round out his chemical education ; butduring recent years facilities for instruction in America have developed so rapidly that there 4 no longer any necessity for going abroad , and chemical students have become as numerous in our American schools as students of electrical engineering . Indeed , the balance has turned in our favor , and an increasing number of foreign students are coming from all parts of the world to seek their chemical training with us . But if there are so many American chemists , what then is the matter with them ? What have they accomplished ? How are we to account for the sudden famine in dyes when the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in other practical matters , Americans have had the wisdom to direct their energies to the special needs and opportunities of their country . For instance , they have built up the greatest sulphuric-acid industry in the world . And they have ' given so much attention to sulphuric acid simply because it is a prime requisite for our superphosphate fertilizers , our petroleum refining , our explosives for blasting , and the numerous other substances of which the United States is the leading producer . Similarly , American chemists originated and developed the largest aluminum industry in the world , which supplies us with that lightest of all metals in ever-increasing quantities . They built up , from its very inception , the largest calcium - carbide industry , which furnishes us that new chemical for producing acetylene light , and which , mixed with oxygen , permits us to weld and cut metals by means of a burning jet of oxyacetylene ? an entirely new way of cutting steel ? melting it like butter , instead of slowly cutting or sawing it by mechanical devices . They built up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electrolytic current decomposes common kitchen salt and sets free that green gas chlorine , as well as caustic soda . The public hardly knew this chlorine gas before its horrible use in compressed , liquefied condition for trench warfare in the asphyxiating gas-bombs ; its splendid uses for peace , as a purifier of our drinking-water supplies , as an antiseptic , and as a bleaching agent , were hardly ever spoken of . As to caustic soda , it is the base of soap-making , of mercerized cotton goods , of soda-pulp for our met supplies , and it has endless other uses in chemical industries . Our chemists were instrumental in providing us with the largest sulphite-cellulose industry , whereby wood is changed into the raw material from which paper is made , and with our immense petroleum refining industry ? a succession of chemical treatments and chemical processes . Another American chemical industry is the manufacture of synthetic abrasives , like carborundum and alundum ? striking improvements over the grinding materials found in nature . We owe to an American chemist the production of artificial graphite , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States is a pioneer as well as a pacemaker ; for graphite " electrodes " and graphite " leaders " are the very entrance doors through which the electric current flows into to electric furnaces or elecrrolyzers whenever the use of metals is impossible ; so that " Acheson artificial graphite , " made in Niagara Falls , has come to be a trade term in every country in the world where huge electrochemical works are in operation . And as our chemists developed methods of utilizing our great natural supply of petroleum , and our enormous Niagara water-power , so they have built up a succession of enterprises which group themselves around the better utilization of corn and cotton-seed . For our chemists are co-operating with our farmers , and are deriving corn oil and cottonseed oil , cattle feed , starch , glucose , and many other things as by-products of agriculture . They also invented and developed celluloid and the photographic film , the very base of that new prodigy , the motion-picture industry . They developed processes for the rapid tanning of leather which revolutionized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process to as many days as it formerly took weeks or months ; in this way they have built up one of the very largest leather industries in the world , with an output amounting to between $aoo , 000,000 and $300,000 , - 000 a year . In the mean time , their activities kept on ramifying through the endless network of other industries , most of which seem far removed from the field of chemistry . They improved and cheapened the manufacture of paints and varnishes , introduced system into our rubber industry , and modernized our immense cement industry . which under their stimulation has grown like a giant . Without entering into a too elaborate enumeration of the processes which they have either invented or developed , we can say that the most varied groups of American industries owe their origin or modernization to the energy and genius of American chemists . And the point of this incomplete record will be missed unless the reader understands that it refers entirely to the period before the war . What has been accomplished under pressure of the war 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ describe . Old chemical plants have been doubled , tripled , quadrupled in size and output . New plants , entirely new chemical industries , have been built up with feverish speed to supply the demands for chemicals formerly imported , or whose domestic consumption has increased beyond anything formerly dreamed of . The clear fact is that the American chemist is at last being recognized as one of the essential factors in the dawning economic independence of the United States . But why , then , have our chemists not supplied us with the artificial dyes which we need so badly ? It must he remembered that the dye problem is not primarily a technical problem at all . Given the economic inducement , any competent chemist can produce these dyes . Our real humiliation in this WHAT IS THE MATTER WITH THE AMERICAN CHEMIST ? 709 matter is merely another example of frenzied and short-sighted tariff jugglery , and ought to convince any who are still in doubt as to the absolute necessity of taking the tariff out of the hands of political amateurs and intrust-mg it to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ i American industries in their right relation and larger perspective , and equally capable of placing the interests of the nation as a whole above the avarice of any particular section or group . Our American chemists would have been in a position to supply all our re-quirements many times over if their activities had not been violently interfered with in 1883 . Up to ' that time certain enterprising enthusiasts were , by the same patient methods pursued by the ' Germans , building up a coal-tar dye industry which might gradually have overtaken that of Germany , although the latter had a much earlier start . At that time , as now , the principal users of dyes were our textile manufacturers ? rich , powerful concerns , all clamoring for increased tariff protection which they got and prospered mightily . But what they won for themselves they denied the dye manufacturers . To equalize competition with Germany , the dye producers asked for a tariff that would have meant an average increase in cost of five cents on the hundred dollars ' worth of colored fabrics . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dependent upon Germany . Some of the very concerns that in 1915 were clamoring loudest for dyes and plaintively asking , " What is the matter with our American chemists ? " are the ones that destroyed our aniline-dye industry in its infancy . For at best the making of dyes is a subsidiary industry , and the rewards of the dye manufacturer are not great as compared with scores of other enterprises . The value of dyes imported in 1914 was about $8,000,000 ? about $4 , - 000,000 less than the value of chewing-gum annually manufactured in the United States , which yields a larger margin of profit . In an address before the United States Chamber of Commerce at Washington , February 5 , 1915 , Mr. Arthur D. Little said : The gross business of a single chain of fiveand-ten-cent stores in 1913 exceeded the entire export business of the whole German coal-tar color industry by $11,0oo,000 . The sales of one mail-order house , in the same year , were far greater than the total output of all these German color-plants , and its last special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ payment in 5913 . A camera company with about twice the capital of the largest German color company , the Badische , and with a government suit on its hands , earned during 1953 net profits of over $14,0oo,000 , or two hundred and thirty per cent . on its preferred stock and over seventy per cent . on its common , while the Badische , with " the benevolent and appreciative support " of the German government , earned forty-five per cent . In that year the entire German industry paid $11 , - 000,000 in dividends . A motor company , with one standardized product , does a greater annual business than all the German color-plants with their twelve hundred products , and earns four times their combined dividend while paying three times their wages . But quite apart from its immediate financial importance or its effect upon our textile industries , the failure of American chemists to produce dyes is commonly referred to as a striking example of our wasteful national habits . For instance , in every school text-book . on chemistry frequent reference is made to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because we produce so little aniline dye . The fact is overlooked that for many years we had practically no coal-tar , that being a byproduct of the older method of making illuminating gas by the distillation of coal , which , though still widely used in Europe , was long ago replaced in this country by the more direct and cheaper water-gas process . But coal-tar is also a by-product of coke , and it is true that there have lately been erected an increasing number of so-called by-product coke ovens which reclaim the gas and coal-tar . In 1916 the production of these ovens amounted to twenty million tons of coke ; this year it will be almost doubled . But this was not always so . Coke is mainly used in steel manufacture , and the steel industry formerly got its coke from the " beehive ovens , " which are considerably cheaper to build , easier to care for , and better adapted to a fluctuating demand . The change to the newer type , while it had begun before the war , was immensely stimulated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufacture of explosives . When men set out to kill one another , nothing is too expensive . One of these by-products , carbolic acid , for instance , when used as an antiseptic in times of peace , is a drug on the market at seven to eight cents a pound , but fortunes have lately been made in selling it at from $1.50 to $1.75 a pound for use in the production of the eagerly sought explosive picric acid . Before the war our steel manufacturers got their coke in the cheapest and most direct way ? from the old beehive ovens . Had they attempted to conserve the by-products at their former market value , they would have been guilty of economic waste . It is not generally known that a few years ago one of the largest German banks , seconded by a staff of the ablest German engineers , tried to show us how to be less wasteful by putting modern German coke-ovens into operation here , In trying to teach us , they themselves learned a lesson at the cost of several million dollars ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not necessarily advantageous to another where market conditions are different . Under our normal American conditions , the only economic solution of this problem of waste lay in the field of invention . And here our American chemists succeeded better than the Germans . If you distil coal-tar you do not get coal-tar dyes directly ; these have to be made by various steps and complicated int2rmediate processes , but you obtain several chemical substances which form the starting-point of the whole coal-tar industry . From these original products more than a thousand different dyes and chemical compounds can be produced by torturing the chemical molecules in various ways ? by building them up , by splitting them , or again by dovetailing them , so to speak , one into another , as a skilful cabinet-maker , with a few varieties of wood and metal , can work wonders ; or as a clever architect , by the use of bricks , stones , and mortar , can raise anv variety of buildings , in which the brick and stone represent the atoms ofthe chemist 's molecule ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keeps them together . and in which the shape and nature of the building represent the special kind of molecules which characterizes every one of the chemicals or artificial dyes now in existence . For instance , for every ton of coal you distil while making gas and coke you get a certain amount of ammonia , which is used for operating refrigerating machines , or finds a market as a fertilizer or for the manufacture of other chemical derivatives ; you also obtain black coal-tar , which by redistillation gives varying proportions of a colorless liquid called benzoi or benzene , another liquid called toluol or toluene , and xylol , and some others , also creosote , which is mainly used for impregnating railroad ties so as to make them proof against rotting . In the distillate there is also a certain proportion of that white , crystalline , strong-smelling substance naphthaline ; and , as a sister product , another crystalline substance called anthracene , used in the manufacture of so-called alizarine dyes . Alongside of all these products the distillation of tar gives some carbolic acid , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of pitch in the still . A coal-tar distiller who wants to run his industry profitably must find ways to dispose of each and all of his secondary by-products at remunerative prices . This is not always an easy thing to do . For instance , in Germany in 1909 there was an over-production of pitch , nap hthaline , and benzol . The price of pitch dropped so low that the distillers did not know what to do with it . They tried to develop the market for pitch as a substitute for coal , but the cost of transportation made this impracticable . Benzol and naphthaline were also difficult to dispose of in the ordinary ways In their desperation , the German coal-tar distillers resorted to the device of mixing cheap benzol and naphthaline with costly alcohol so as to produce a . mixture that could be used as a fuel in motor-cars instead of gasolene , which is a more efficient and cheaper fuel ? a striking example of waste through inferior use . Now compare the manner in which our American chemists handled the same WHAT IS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They had been practically excluded from the dye market by the successful lobbying of our textile manufact-urers ; to use coal-tar economically they had to create new products and new markets . With pitch they created and developed an important and flourishing new industry , which is scarcely beginning to be known in Europe ? the manufacture of tar roofing and tar paper , of incalculable value for barns and other cheaper construction . With naphthaline they invented , under the poetic name of ' moth-balls , an excellent substitute for the incomparably more expensive Japanese camphor , known to every housewife . As for benzol and its associate toluol , our chemists discovered that these liquids could be adapted with great profit to the manufacture of paints and varnishes in place of more expensive turpentine , which the Germans kept importing while they wasted alcohol in converting their surplus benzol and toluol into an extravagant motor fuel . Of course , tar roofing , moth-balls , and varnish have not the alluring sound of beautiful aniline dyes ; but their invention at least clearly shows that our dyestuff famine was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But it would be short sightedness to belittle the fact so incontrovertibly established by the war that it is dangerous for our country to be dependent upon others for any of its essential supplies . The lack of that $8,000,000 worth of coal-tar dyes which we used to import and from which the war suddenly cut us off has played havoc i with many of our most important industries to which dyes , even where used in relatively small quantities , are as indispensable as bats in a baseball game . It is the strategic character of the dye industry that makes it so very important ; this is so well understood abroad that prof . C. H. Herty , president of the American Chemical Society , was recently able to show that after the war Germany intends to use every conceivable means , not only to maintain her dyestuff supremacy , but also to use it as a powerful weapon to paralyze the textile industries of other countries that compete with her own . From an article of February 1 , 1916 , in the FarberZeitung , of Berlin , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry ought , after the conclusion of peace , to be permitted to sell dyestuffs only in Germany and Austria , in Turkey and Bulgaria , until the German textile factories arc again fully occupied and all warehouses and stores and all consumers are again supplied with good white , dyed , and printed goods . Only then should it be permissible to furnish German coal-tar dyestuffs to neutral or hostile foreign countries . If foreign countries begin again too soon to receive good German coal-tar dyestuffs , they might easily ruin the business of the German export trade in finished products . For the German coal-tar dyestuff industry there are probably two other points to be considered : first , this industry and the German industry in coal-tar products would for the present have no right to sell raw material and by-products to foreign countries , in order not to create unnecessary competition ; and , besides , it would be permissible to furnish dyestuffs to America only if the American government should promise to bury for a Icing time the unjustifiable so-called antitrust question in connection with aniline-dye interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of depend-ence upon foreign competitors for their essential supply of dyestuffs to make some slight sacrifices in behalf of American dye manufacturers who , with their co-operation , can forever assure them an adequate home supply . of dyes ? And , quite apart from these questions , other considerations of such great national moment enter into the dye problem that the development of the industry should not be left to the sole arbitrament of the dyestuff consumers . Much is made of Germany 's pre-eminent preparedness at the opening of the war , which is frequently cited in criticism of our American chemists . But in the manufacture of explosives , for example , Germany had an immense advantage over other countries because her dye-works could instantly be adapted to the production of explosives and other war materials . Not only the equipment , but also many of the operations required in the manufacture of synthetic dyes , are readily adaptable to the manufacture of explosives . For this reason a well-established dye industry would be a powerful asset for our country in time of war . With such an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but we should also have the necessary staff of experts and skilled workers which the large-scale production of explosives requires . An American dye industry must be considered not only as an adjunct to the manufacture of textiles , but as an essential part of any programme of preparedness for national defense . This dual aspect attaches to many other products whose manufacture in America has been started or immensely stimulated by the war . In order to be prepared at the moment of national danger we shall have to devise ways of conserving the industries we have recently built up by making them interchangeable instruments of peaceful commerce and national defense . The case of nitric acid produced from the air is another one in point . A plant established solely for the production of nitric acid , and capable of providing us with the immense amounts of this chemical required in times of war , would be a white elephant in times of peace , when the demand for nitric acid is trifling compared with the present demand . But by developing a great industry for producing nitrogen fertilizer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we should not only make ourselves independent of Chilean saltpeter , but at the first sign of war we could promptly adapt the whole industry to the production of nitric acid for explosives . Any one visiting Niagara Falls these days will pass through a group of the greatest electrochemical industries in the world , brought there by the vast supply of electric power . It is here that what arc called " ferro alloys " are made by chemical reactions produced under the powerful agency of the electric current . These electrochemical processes have increased our metal-working industries threefold . For instance , the electrochemical products ferro - tungsten and ferro-vanadium , used in so-called high-speed tools , which are made from steel alloys , are so hard and so little fusible that they still have a cutting edge at temperatures where ordinary tools soften and begin to melt on account of the friction if run at unusually high speed . In fact , drills made of such alloys can be used so fast that they get red-hot and still perform their work . Most of the better grades of steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the way , is the largest steel producer of the world ? are obtained by the aid of ferro-silicon produced from Niagara electric power by special chemical processes . Ferro-chrome , another electrochemical alloy , is the hardening material of armor-plate and armor-piercing shells . Every modern battle-ship carries many tons of it . Up to a few years ago we were dependent on foreign countries for half of our requirements . but now , notwithstanding the enormously increased consumption , we are producing every bit of it at Niagara Falls . And it is these electrochemical products themselves which make the further development of electrochemistry possible . By refining copper through the electrochemical process ? converting it into what is called electrolytic copper ? its electric conductivity is greatly increased , and it becomes the most important raw material used in the construction of the mammoth electric generators . Silicon-steel , another product of our electrochemical industries , is used in our electric transformers , a very essential part of all our electric lighting and electric power plants . In the same way , artificial graphite , born from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is paying back its debts to its parents by furnishing one of the most essential materials for the further development of electrochemical processes . What does this mean to our industries ? I can do no better than quote the words of Mr. F. J. Tone , a leading electrochemist of Niagara Falls : One of the big Western automobile manufacturers plans during 1916 to put out i , 000 cars per day . In the factories of that company grinding-machines form about 25 per cent . of the tool equipment . The crank shafts are roughed'and finished with grinding-wheels , the cylinders are bored with grinding-wheels . It takes soo wheels per month to grind forgings alone . If we could conceive that these works were forced to go back to the grindstone and were at the same time deprived of high-speed tool steel , aluminum , oxyacetylene welding , and other products WHAT IS THE MATTER WITH THE AMERICAN CHEMIST ? 713 produced by Niagara power , it is not an exaggeration to say that their output would drop from r , 000 to roo cars a day with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The cost of the car would he multiplied by ten , which simply means that there would be no automobile industry . Aluminum and calcium carbide , the largest of the electrochemical industries from the point of the power consumed and value of the products , were first made possible by Niagara power , and on these products , as well as other Niagara products , such as bleaching-powder , alkali , chlorine , phosphorus , graphite , sodium , and cyanides , depends a whole line of America 's basic industries . Again , the problem is not one of the alertness or capacity of our American chemists , but of economic inducement . The growth in number and size of our chemical industries during the past year in response to the European demand has been nothing short of marvelous . For instance , in 1916 , in one single concern , which a year before did not exist except in the minds of the chemical engineers who planned it , eight hundred tons of nitrate of sodium were used every day for making nitric acid . Imagine a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with their brick furnaces and condensers , of which every one receives a charge of two tons of sodium nitrate and a corresponding amount of sulphuric acid three times a day ? probably the largest single nitric-acid works in the world . Again , a million pounds of nitro-cellulose , or gun-cotton , were being produced daily in a plant erected in a place where the year before there were only pine woods . In 1916 the United States produced half a million barrels of crude benzole from our coke-ovens , and this year will produce about one million barrels ; afterward still more . Products which before the war were not manufactured in the United States ? as , for instance , synthetic phenol ( carbolic acid ) ? are being turned out in record-break-ing quantities ; and , indeed , the same thing is measurably true of certain artificial dyes which , under fair business protection , are destined to be the forerunners of many others as soon as plants and equipment can be provided . Never has a country had such excel-lent opportunities for developing its CXXXIV. ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such an abundance of the raw materials required : sulphur deposits in Louisiana so rich that they practically dictate the price of sulphur throughout the world ; salt-mines distributed right and left throughout the States ; immense coal-deposits , petroleum , natural gas ? all sources of fuel much cheaper than anything existing in Europe ? to say nothing of our reserves of even cheaper fuel , such as peat and lignite , which are still awaiting utilization ; minerals of every kind from which the greatest diversity of chemical raw materials can be extracted ; water-powers widely distributed , undeveloped , or thus far inefficiently developed , but only awaiting a little more system in our laws and a little more co-operation between owners and users to revolutionize the cost of production . Beyond all this we have a home market without an equal ; and we have enough able chemists and engineers eager to do their share in the building up of our chemical industries . Shall we live up to our opportunity ? It depends even more upon the kind of men who are at the business end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I look with considerable apprehension to the future of some of the ventures that have been started by meta who consider their chemists merely as temporarily useful speculative tools , and who stand ready to sacrifice the enterprises and everything connected with them as soon as they have been able to " cash in " their profits . If some of these enterprises are to be transformed from quick-money speculations to permanent national assets , it is of the first importance that they should have among their directors chemists as well as business men , bankers , and lawyers . The great chemical enterprises of the world which stand as models have always had prominent chemists among their directors , but I have known too many instances where serious technical difficulties were not estimated at their proper value , and where loss , and even complete failure , have resulted because of the technical ignorance of the directors . Of course it would be equally foolish to expect that every director in a chemical enterprise should be a full-fledged chemist , but the directorate as a whole should be in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members , to appraise and overcome the difficulties latent in the technical problems with which all such enterprises are inevitably confronted . It is also necessary that new chemical enterprises be properly financed . The most successful chemical enterprises of the world have been started in a small way . At first sight this would seem an unequivocal advantage ; in reality it often proves a serious disadvantage to the conscientious man looking for financial support . Our banks are usually prompt to back what promise to be vast enterprises , but they look with skepticism upon small-scale projects . One of the reasons for this is that they lack the organization that would enable them promptly and inexpensively to investigate the potential merits of such small scientific undertakings , with the result that , when a chemist has a good idea , he has to look for private financial backers . It is in this direction especially that Germany has set us an example in industrial preparedness , for her large banks long ago mastered the art of nursing new chemical inchutries . A number of the German banking institutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about any new scientific projects that come before them for support . To these experts the chemist or inventor can talk freely in his own scientific language and can explain his ideas without fear of having his appeal blocked by the hopeless technical or scientific ignorance of the bank directors , and also without having to resort to the trick of playing upon their imaginations with fairy stories and exaggerated promises . Imagine what it would mean to the American chemist if he knew that respectable banks would back him in any legitimate enterprise , however small , provided he could demonstrate to their experts that what he proposed had a reasonable prospect of success . Theprestige of the bank alone would give him confidence in his work and safeguard him against the destructive competition to which his established competitors might subject him . Our American banks know how to float railroad projects , loans , real-estate deals , and they are accustomed to deal with great established enterprises ; but they have not yet begun to learn how to encourage and support those beginning enterprises , based on new scientific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if permitted to start on a small scale . The German dye industry furnishes an example of the kind of support needed . It has been built up through long years of practical experience and patient development , and maintained by a group of solidly organized and harmonized factories , all working hand in hand , interlocking in their various lines of manufacture , and interlocking as well in their methods of distribution both at home and abroad . They have been built up not alone by chemists , but by painstaking business men and bankers . And in this way they have been supported by a clearly conceived and rather centralized governmental policy , which has identified their prosperity with the prosperity of the nation . German dye manufacturers have not been hampered in their struggle for the control of the world 's market by a Sherman Law , nor by any fear of transgressing laws against " Kartels , " restraint of trade , or selling agreements , freezing - out processes , dumping , or any other devices to meet and overcome foreign competition . As in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respect to the whole range of our chemical enterprises , there are national considerations that make it imperative that their conservation and development should not be left to the determination of isolated groups or special interests fighting each other relentlessly . Toward the future the American chemist is ready and competent to contribute his full share ; but he alone can not meet the demands of the situation . 