@@487178

Sin : I have read with a great deal of interest the letter by Mr. McCormick in your issue of December 2 , entitled " Nagging Remonstrances . " Since Mr McCormick lives in a suffering nation , and feels , perhaps , with great anguish of soul the awfulness of this bloody conflict , I am not surprised that he should write as he does Perhaps he voices the sentiments of the greater portion of the English people But to us Americans , a good many of his assertions and contentions seem very much overdrawn . Mr. McCormick does not deny that England has resorted to illegal methods to enforce her control of the seas ; he does not deny that his country has long ago thrown aside the Declaration of London as a scrap of paper , and has refused to abide by various stipulations of the Hague Convention He does not deny that England has resorted to illegal means to cripple our foreign trade He does not deny the essential truth of President Wilson 's " nagging remonstrances " What ' s his justification ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubtful legality at the time of the Civil War , prevented the Confederate States from exporting their cotton to England . While we recognize the value of precedent . the parallel cited by Mr. McCormick does not seem to us very applicable . The right of a sovereign state to control its commerce is an inalienable right . The blockade of the Confederacy was aimed at insurrection within our own borders . We never admitted that the Government of the Confederate States was a legal Government , nor was it recognized as such by Great Britain . We held that the rebellious States were legally and rightfully a Part of the Union . If Ulster were in rthellion. no American would have cause to complain if by drastic measures aimed at the pacification of her rebellious subjects England should forbid them to export to us their usual quota of pure Irish linen . But as to the Central Powers , the case is different . They are well-recognized Governments , and England , we contend , has no legal right to cripple our non-contraband trade with them , or to revise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , asie from the fact that Mr. McCormick 's precedent will not hold , it remains true that two wrongs do not make a right . Even if we had used illegal methods in dealing with the Confederate States , that would be no justification for England 's use of them to-day . Mr. McCormick would hardly try to justify a wrong done by himself by citing one done by me Mr McCormick reminds us that we have remonstrated against England 's illegal interference with our trade , in spite of the fact that England is condescending enough to buy immense quantities of ammunition from our manufacturers 0 temporal 0 mores ! There was a time when we enjoyed only such privileges at sea as England was kind el , ough to grant us . But we have refused to acknowledge such suzerainty for a little over a century . We had been laboring under the pleasing delusion that the seas were free . Even yet we Americans are provincial enough to believe the seas ought to be free , and we are not yet ready to compromise what enjoying a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his inference , so sneeringly stated , that President Wilson has been contending for something infinitely higher than a mere matter of trade . It was not so much because a few American lives were lost on the Lusitania that President Wilson raised his protesting voice , but because the eternal rights of our country and of humanity had been outraged As the head of the greatest of neutral nations , President Wilson is keenly aware that he is bearing a solemn responsibility and has a high duty to perform As he said in one of his recent speeches : " We are not trying to keep out of trouble . We are trying to preserve the foundations upon which peace can be rebuilt Peace can be rebuilt only upon the ancient and accepted principles of international law , only upon those things which remind nations of their duties to each other , and , deeper than that , of their duties to mar kind and to humanity America has a great cause , which is not confined to the American continent It is the cause of humanity itself " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last man in America to accuse President Wilson of catering to the pro-German vote . President Wilson has striven to do his duty as he sees it . Mr McCormick upbraids us for hypocrisy because we did not protest when the neutrality of Belgium was violated . Have we not protested ? Not formally , of course , but there is scarcely a man among us whose soul has not been stirred to anguish at this outrage It has made more pro-Ally sympathizers in this country , perhaps , than all other causes combined The Germans know this . It may be that we should have given them official notice of our indignation But what good would a mere formal notice have done ? We are well aware , in spite of all her altruistic pretensions , that England never entered this war primarily on account of her love for poor . stricken Belgium That played some part . but we know , and England knows , that her main purpose was to conserve her place in the sun It is all very well for England , now that she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ championing the cause of human rights . international law , eta But this furnishes little reason why she herself should violate those very rights which she pretends to champion Mr. McCormick evidently believes that if we Americans reprobate the rape of Belgium , the place for us is in the trenches in Flanders This would no doubt be pleasant for the English aristocrat who prefers the luxury of London life . Maybe then England will be willing to concede to us certain rights on the high seas ! But we are not disposed to do any fighting in Flanders while England prates of German illegalities and at the same time tries to usurp the control of the seas , and while she answers our protests with denial or silent contempt , or , perchance , reminds us that she is favoring some of our rich people with orders for munitions in unprecedented quantities . C. L. SNIaniR . Chapel N C. , December 2 . The possession by the Confederacy of bel ? ligerent rights was granted almost from the outset of the war ; indeed , it was implied in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rules of the war are concerned , in. eluding those relating to blockade , the status of the Confederacy was the same as that of any belligerent nation ; nor did the United States Government pretend to base any of its claims in regard to the blockade upon " the right of a sovereign state to control its commerce . " As for our correspondent 's sneer at the " English aristocrat , " we think it only right to point out that It is rendered futile by the facts. ? En . THE NATION . AMERICAN AMBULANCE CORPS To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : I read with interest and pleasure the tribute paid by your discriminating London correspondent , Mr James F Muirhead , to the American Volunteer Ambulance Corps and Mr Richard Norton In the hospital service in northern France , one hears often of this corps , and nothing but what is good . May I say , however , that Mr Muirhead is mistaken in saying that the American Volunteer Ambulance Corps is the only American organization that has succeeded In eacbing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American Ambulance at Neuilly have not only reached the front , but , like those of the Volunteer Corps , have remained there for long periods of activeservice . Thus the Dunkirk section of the American Ambulance was for a busy month stationed at Elverdinghe ( to name one station out of many ) ? which is perhaps as near the front as ambulances have a right to be , and these cars , too , served a field ambulance which was constantly under fire , and they , too , ran down to the Poster de secours by the trenches every night T should dislike very much to seem to detract in the smallest degree from the deserved honors of the Volunteer Ambulance Corps . But I feel that the men and women whose generosity supports the American Ambulance are entitled to know that their cars , too , are doing their duty . HENRY SYDNOR HARRISON . Charleston , W Ya , December 20 . CHILDREN 'S BOOKS . To THE Earroe OF THE NATION : SIR : I read with interest , profit , and entire approval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " As a teacher of rhetoric , and as a student of self-expression and literature , I found myself applauding all of Mr. More 's commendations and condemnations . The common-sense and sound principles in every line are refreshing in this day of demand that the child receive only the life and speech that will be real to him because they are so familiar As pointed out by Mr. More , have we not in our enthusiasm for this kind of realism become fictitious ? And have we not in this fiction reached something wholly unworthy and undesirable ? In the light of such an achievement , Mr. More 's statements are most significant Our only disappointment comes when we discover that he has not given us more on the positive side of the question . The list of books for children Is not so meagre , surely , as Mr. More has left it We are anxious for more of such good doctrine from the same pen . The matter of books for children presents many phases . There are the motives for reading fiction , winch Bliss Perry has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Willa these motives we must reckon before the child is very old There is also the matter of the vicarious existence and experiences offered in fiction How much of morals and manners we acquire in this way we can never guess For this reason , the satisfying and creating of desires , and the proper guidance of speech and actions , and formation of ideals , must not be overlooked in the selection of reading . Then there is that most important feature , the matter of choosing works that stimulate the imagination Here we so often run afoul of the will of parents and the opinions of the prude They confuse imagination and its products with untruthfulness , and accuse fiction of all the crimes that many just now are wont to lay at the door of the moving picture They do this , not knowing that the imagination is a most valuable asset , that the imagination implies the ability to go outside the narrow sphere of one 's own personal affairs and take on the conditions of others ; that through the stimulation of the imagination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ourselves and more tolerant of others ; and that the greatest thinkers of all ages have , when they found accurate knowledge inadequate for the solution of their problems , drawn upon the imagination for the accomplishment of those great things left for us by them . And finally , there are for consideration two other matters : that of the language of the author and of his characters , and that of the kind of characters and acts to be put before the reader . On one or two of these points I should like to say a word . On the matter of the language of the Characters , the actions of the characters , the motives for reading fiction , and the value of works of literature that stimulate the imagination , Mr. More , Professor Perry , and Mr. Santyana have left nothing to be said So here I wish to attack the question of the characters and their acts , and to make further inquiries concerning suitable books for children . There is in the make-up of most normal , active boys , for instance , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggested outlet for the surgings of a restless nature craving activity . In others it is likely to be a love for the adventurous , the dangerous , and the heroic , and a loathing for the monotony of perfect peace and security and the every-day round of usual events . Now , books of the Jesse James type do not incite the thirst for adventure They only show the boy a method of satisfying the thirst . What we need , then , is direction and a proper kind of satisfaction Books of the right kind will do one or all of three things for the boy . They will satisfy vicariously , and without harmful results , the boy 's desire for adventure , will , to my notion , bring a satisfaction or an experience that will stay the deed rather than incite it . Next , these books will change the boy 's ideals and temper his deeds and speech . And finally , they will provide most profitable employment and entertainment that will occupy the time that otherwise might be employed in pursuits almost criminal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selected . So here arises the question as to the choice of books . May I then here point out some books and their virtues ? First , there are the simple adventures of fairy stories . Ambitions and far-fetched day dreams , it is true , they may foster . But who would deny the harmless pleasure , and even benefit , of these ? And from fairy stories will come no harmful imitations , no suggested programme of bad deeds . A boy may indulge in all the day dreams he pleases ; but he can not rise to the imitation of supernatural beings His acts are barred by the one word " if " Next would come stories of animals . Of these we have a goodly quantity . Here the youth is predisposed to nature study and the outdoor things in general Following these , the most suitable would be history primers , Bible stories , etc But soon the boy outgrows these , and we must turn to other things Then do I think it is necessary to take ap some of the old stand-bys  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them interesting to the adult . " I point first to " Robinson Crusoe " I need not comment much or long on this perennial work What accusations can be brought against the wholesomeness of the commendable and enviable plan of this castaway 's life as he works out the problem of his own existence ? The language of the author , as well as the language and deeds of the character in the book , is above reproach . The book belongs in that small group which one never tires of reading . Next , let us turn to " Pilgrim 's Progress " Here , if we conceal from the child the selfishness of the Pilgrim , who forsook wife and children to save his own skin a scorching , we have a story entirely commendable . In it are the romance and adventure of ordinary fiction , the realistic touch of actual experience , and the portrayal of real character in spite of the allegory of personification . And finally , I come to something nearer home and reality . I refer to Cooper 's " Leather Stocking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stirring action and description The past of our country lives before our eyes . To the forest , the Indian , the prairie , the trapper , life is given . The story seizes and holds the imagination of the reader ; if it does this , it is art And behind it all is the author , strong , benevolent , sincere , and just . A most wholesome pleasure results from a contact with him , his characters , and his scenes These stories satisfy and give the experience of adventure craved by the boy But above this in importance is another result . What must be the effect on the boy who follows Natty Bumpo from his early life to his noble death ? The question is not hard to answer . Here is a hero whose every action is tempered with justice and moderation ; a man who loathes to take human life or to commit a single dishonorable act ; a man who risks all that a woman 's honor may not be violated ; a man who scorns to betray , and who never hesitates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter what the sacrifice may be How can any boy help coming out of such reading satisfied , subdued , and bettered ? No deeds of a wrong kind can result . The setting has passed . And I might add , almost parenthetically , that those who object to having love stories of the falsely sentimental kind come into the hands of children will find Cooper to their liking . The love affairs in his books are the tamest on record To these books may be added many of the same sort Last , I must say that I can not leave the subject without referring to such noble productions as Hale 's " Man Without a Country " Words of comment belittle the noble sentiments , the gentle persuasion , the amiable style , and the poise and dignity of the author as revealed by this little story . Patriotism has no stronger guardian ; its equal is to be found only in such tales as the Bible stories of David and Jonathan and Ruth and Naomi H. L SENSEMANN . Ann Arbor , Mich , December 6 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : President Foster , of Reed College , in his article on " Intercollegiate Athletics " in the current number of the Atlantic Monthly , has brought to an issue a subject of vital importance to the American college . It is not a mere statement of opinion , it is an arraignment to the charges of which sooner or later the system of intercollegiate athletics must satisfactorily answer before it can fully justify its further right to exist as an element in American college life President Foster has spoken clearly and forcibly what many a college president has long felt , but not dared to express . The time has come when serious action should be consrldprerl A thlatira hoe long , ? gine-4z , rmi-o , ? rncvn the narrow confines of the college curriculum , and has become a power over which faculties no longer actually rule , but exercise simply a kind of control to a greater or less extent , as the case may be . That control which the faculty does manage to exercise is looked upon by the students , and I am sorry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largely as an unjust interference with their rights . When we consider the true meaning of an American college and the important place which athletics should have in its curriculum , we can not help but regard the interference as being all on the other side . As President Foster has pointed out , intercollegiate athletics " jeopardizes the main function of athletics " It emphasizes the training of a few at the expense of the many ; and this training is expended on the very ones who need it the least . This is a direct perversion of the part athletics should play in a college course . Every student should receive the benefit of the coach 's training . Those shivering individuals on the side lines should be on the field instead of puffing away at their cigarettes There should be as many teams as there are students to form them . The real business of college athletics is to further the physical development and maintain a normal state of health in every individual connected with the institution . Intramural games furnish real recreation , truly exciting , stimulating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which come from watching one 's team defeat or lose to another college team . When for two or three days or even a week before and perhaps the same length of time after a " big game " students are good for very little so far as work in the classroom is concerned , truly such a form of athletics is receiving undue emphasis Indeed , it is not only jeopardizing the main purpose of athletics , but also that of the college , as an institution of learning . The argument that intercollegiate athletics is necessary as an advertising agency for the institution is not - Justified The expense of this kind of advertising is out of all proportion to the returns No business man would consider such unprofitable advertising for a moment . Equally unsupportable is the argument that this highly specialized form of athletics is necessary in order to create and sustain that intangible thing called " college spirit , " which might mean anything , from the action of a freshman in taking off his cap to a senior to the action of a sophomore in never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the odds may be , or even to a drunken carousal after a " big game . " Whatever it may be , the unity which is brought about by specialized athletics is not the kind of unity which best solidifies and promotes the true spirit of college life . I do not wish to hold up intercollegiate athletics as some terrible evil which has nothing good in it . My contention is that intercollegiate athletics has grown to such an extent that it has raised college athletics to an importance altogether out of proportion to its value as an aid in college work . It is not the business of a college to train specialized athletes , although one would think so from the present status of affairs . As President Foster rightly puts it , we want " athletics for education , not for business . " The business side of college athletics . and all thehypocrisy usually concomitant with it , is something which should be entirely foreign to the predominating atmosphere of any American college . R. A SIGSBEE . Frinceton , N. J. , November 11 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SIR : May I venture to suggest that Professor Firkins has scarcely done justice to Madame Cammaerts in his review of " Belgian Poems , " printed in your issue of December 2 " Surely her versions of her husband 's work are not all equally happy , but possibly one may take exception to some of Professor Firkins 's criticism His cleverness seems to have got away with him Exactness and rhythm have been immolated to each other , he says , and cites : " Ma lyre tinte d'une corde , mon vers cloche d'un pled , " translated thus : " My harp is weak and faintly sings . " Truly the rhythm of the original is not kept , but does the sense come off so badly ? And did not Professor Firkins forget to glance at the original when he remarks ? " She Mme. C. adds , with involuntary point , ' My verse is uninspired ' " ? The next line in the French reads . " Et je n'ai guere d'inspiration . " For my part , 1 believe Du Bellay 's advice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but since , in this year of enlightenment , translated they must be to get any hearing out of their own country , I submit that Madame Cammaerts deserves a warmer welcome than the Nation has extended to her . BENJ . M WOODBRIDGE Austin , Tex , December 6 . THE MILKY WAY . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION Sul : Apropos of Wycherley 's quatrain , Your Beauty 's Light is evident , Though where or how , we can not say : Thus unseen stars th ' Element United , make the Milky Way , Professor Hart asks , in the Nation of November 4 , " Would a poet of the early Stuarts , 1630-1650 , have known that the Milky Way is ccmposed of single stars and assumed that the knowledge was current with his readers ? " The opinion that the Milky Way is composed of single stars goes back to Democritus ( see Pauly-Wissowa , under raNglas ) . Its first sponsor in modern Europe is , I believe , Albertus Magnus , who devotes to the Galaxy the whole second Tractate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ erroneous theories and expounding his own at length . His definition is : " Nihil aliud autem est galaxia , nisi multm stelim parvEe quasi contigum in illo loco orbis " From Albertus Magnus Dante derives his interesting discussion of the Galaxy in the " Convivio , " II 15 And Dante like Wycherley finds a comparison : " Wherefore , inasmuch as the Milky Way is an effect of those stars which we can not see save in so far as we apprehend them by their effect , and metaphysics treats of the primal existences , which in like manner we may not apprehend save by their effects , it is manifest that the Starry Heaven hath great similitude to Metaphysics . " ERNEST H. WILKINS . T7n1varnIto of VhIraan Nnvinnbnr 10.                     