@@465783

WE have all become accustomed to seeing great changes taking place about us ? automobiles supplanting the horse , wireless messages flashed over great distances , aeroplanes and other wonderful inventions ; but because the public does not come into contact with the astronomer , it is not generally known what great strides have been taken in astronomy within a comparatively few years , especially in matters relating to the cosmos . It was a very simple solution offered by the ancients , who commonly supposed the earth to be a fixed body , while the sun , moon , and stars revolved about it . But when accurate measurements were finally taken we had to change our ideas in a revolutionary manner , for the earth was found to revolve around the sun , the moon around the earth ; and the stars , supposedly fixed , showed signs of a motion with reference to one another which , when verified , was called proper-motion . It developed that our sun itself was only one of the many stars , that we were moving through space at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question naturally proposed itself , where are we going , and what relation do we bear to the great mass of stars surrounding us ? Are we all drifting toward some point in space , are we all revolving about some central spot or sun , or what is our destiny ? To solve such questions we really should have centuries of further study of the stars in order to accumulate more data , and more accurate data . But as a beginning , a few of the astronomers of to-day have been eagerly delving into the material at hand , to unravel some of the mysteries heretofore unsolved , or , at best , subject only to conjecture . In the visible universe there are many interesting phenomena . Among them are the nebulm , vast tracts of gaseous matter , extended over millions of miles . In these nebula ; small areas seem to be forming into knots by the condensation of the surrounding gases , suggesting the birth of new stars . ? Then there are systems composed of two or more stars revolving about one another in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sun . Going a step further , we find groups of stars with a common motion in the same direction , moving through space in parallel lines , with the same speed . Illustrations of such groups are given in the stars of the Great Dipper , five of which , together with some other stars , have a common motion of nineteen kilometers per second . Then there is the Taurus group , a much larger group of stars , with a common motion of forty kilometers a second , and the writer has recently discovered a new group of stars moving at the rate of ninety-five kilometers per second . The paths of these stars , as traced on the sky , seem to be coming together at some definite point , just as parallel railroad tracks seem , as you look along them , to converge . The well - known Dutch astronomer Professor J. C. Kapteyn , as the result ofa study of the motions of the stars , came forward with a statement that the stars of the universe could be divided into two streams moving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ study , and though their ideas as to the cause of the phenomenon differ , they agree that the stars evince a preference for motion in two directions opposite each other . This does not mean that every star in the sky seems to be moving in one of the two favored directions , but that , taken as a whole , the stars show a decided preference to move in the general direction of these two points . Unfortunately , the sun 's own motion through space complicates matters , for the effect of the sun 's motion upon the stars is to make them seem to be moving backward as the sun moves forward , just as from a train window the landscape seems to be moving backward as the train moves forward . As the proper-motions of the stars , as seen on the sky , are very small , it is essential to use the very best determinations available in a study of their motions . For some years Professor Lewis Boss , Director of the Department of Meridian Astrometry of the Carnegie Institution of Washington , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ w York , has had in preparation an extensive and exhaustive treatment of the observations of all the reliable star catalogues , for the purpose of determining as accurate proper-motions of the stars as can be obtained with existing material . As there were many urgent reasons why a part of the work should be completed before the entire undertaking was finished , Professor Boss published his Preliminary General Catalogue . The proper - motions of these stars formed a splendid basis on which to found an investigation of the problem in hand . A line of investigation that seemed very promising to yield results was the study of the motions of the stars arranged according to their spectra . In the rainbow , and in sunlight passing through a triangular piece of glass , we are all accustomed to see the spectrum of the sun . By means of a specially devised instrument the astronomer and physicist obtains the spectrum of a star , or of any given substance . Each substance has a distinctive spectrum . Thus by comparing the spectrum of a star with that of iron we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ star , if there be any ; and in the same way we can detect the presence of any other substance . The study of the spectra of the stars showed that there apparently were distinctive types , under the heads of which all the stars in the heavens could be classified . For instance , some stars show strong evidence of helium , others of hydrogen , etc. , depending upon the chemical structure of the star . It was only reasonable to suppose that the motions of the stars of different types might throw some light on the question of the structure of our stellar system , for according to our conceptions , the change of type indicates the change of age in a star . Therefore the study of the motions of the stars according to type corresponds to a study of the motions of the stars according to age . Consequently the 6,188 stars of the Preliminary General Catalogue were grouped according to type . The youngest type of star , the Orion or helium type , showed marked peculiarities at once . To begin with , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Then their distribution is peculiar , the bulk of them lying in a belt very nearly that of the Milky Way . Again they seem to be at a greater average distance from us than the other types of stars , and are very bright . They show no appreCXXV ? No. 747. ? 5 7 ciable systematic motion such as is shown in the later types . When we pass to the earlier types , we observe radical changes . There are decided changes of proper-motion in the star with change of spectral type . That is , the older the star , the greater its motion seems to be , so that the older stars as a class seem to be moving almost three times as fast as the younger stars as a class . The acceleration in the motion of a star with change in type , or age , was confirmed by Professor Campbell , of Lick Observatory , and Professor Frost , of Yerkes Observatory , from motion in the line of sight . By motion in the line of sight is meant that portion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward or away from the observer ? proper-motion being the portion of the star 's motion directed across the vision of the observer . The classification of stars by type also showed that whereas the younger stars seem to be closely packed in and near the Milky Way , the stars of later types , or the older stars , are more evenly distributed over the whole sky . This , combined with the discovery of increase of velocity with change in type , would seem to indicate that the stars originate in the Milky Way , starting from the Milky Way at low velocities . Then as the star passes into another type ? that is , increases in age ? its velocity increases . Apparently the velocity of a young star is not great enough to carry it far from the Milky Way before the star changes into another type , whereas the stars of later types are movng with sufficient velocity to distribute them pretty thoroughly over the whole sky . The fact that the stars in general show a tendency to move in one of two opposite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon this problem , came to the conclusion that if all the stars in the sky could be brought to a single point and then could be released so as to move with their present velocities in the same directions in which they are now moving , they would form into a football-shaped figure . This is the confirmation of an idea advanced by Professor Schwarzschild . Now comes the problem of bringing into correlation the various phenomena observed . To go back to the beginning of things , it is generally supposed that large tracts of sky , now dotted with stars , were occupied by immense gaseous bodies extending over millions upon millions of miles . These bodies are termed nebula ; . It is also supposed that , under the action of the force of gravitation , these nebulae diminish in size , growing denser as they contract , until they finally form into one or more stars . An extended nebula would perhaps form into a group of stars . The hypothesis advanced by the writer supposes that the friction caused by the collision of gas particles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shrinkage of the nebula , generates electrical charges in the nebula . It does not require much imagination to grasp this idea , when on our own earth we are accustomed to the phenomenon of lightning generated in the earth 's atmosphere , which must be caused by some similar action . These electrical charges within the nebula , when sufficiently strong , will disrupt it , throwing off portions of the nebula ; and these portions drifting away from the parent nebula form into stars . Thus from a state of rest we have our new-born star started on its journey with a low speed . As the direction in which the portion of the nebula discharged from the main body of the nebula moves is merely a matter of chance , the motions of the stars as a whole would be purely at random . Apparently this is the very state of affairs which observation shows to exist among the early stars . But as the stars grow older they increase in speed , and they seem to be pulled out in two opposite directions . We can account @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or some such similar force , exists throughout the universe , and that the stars are electrically charged bodies . Supposing this to be true , it can be easily seen that the two poles of the electromagnetic field will tend to pull the stars in the directions of those poles . The constant pull on the stars will increase their velocities with advancing age , just as is found to be the case according to observation . Observation also shows us that the velocity increases rapidly with the age of a star up to a certain point , when the increase in velocity becomes very gradual . This could only be accounted for by the weakening of the electromagnetic action upon the star , due to the change in the chemical constitution with its advancing age . Again , the stars , which if left to themselves , with a purely random motion , would form into a sphere , under the influence of an electromagnetic field would be pulled out into a football shape , with the greatest motion in the direction of the poles . This is another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allows of an explanation of the star groups which have been found to exist ? groups where the individual members are moving in parallel lines and with the same velocity . In order to account for them the force which generates the individual velocities of the stars must be nearly constant over large volumes of space . A brief inspection of a few facts would seem to render these ideas more natural than startling . It has been a long-established fact that magnetic forces are at work upon our earth , and more lately it has become known that with the appearance of sun-spots on the sun 's surface we experience magnetic storms upon the earth , the more numerous the sun-spots the more numerous and the more violent do these magnetic storms become . As the electromagnetic nature of the sunspot activity has been shown to exist , the connection between the two should be obvious . Also a brilliant exhibition of the aurora borealis in many cases has been seen to follow immediately upon violent disturbances on the sun 's surface . If electromagnetic influences then are seen to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is reasonable to suppose that they might exist between star and star . And finally it is significant that the equation of the force between two electrified bodies is precisely analogous to that which expresses the law of gravitation between two particles of matter in space , and the formula for the attraction or repulsion between two magnetic poles , indicating that they may all be manifestations of one and the same law .                     