@@430514

 | Charles Brantley Aycock was born in Wayne County , near Fremont , N. C. , November 1 , 1859 . There were no high school facilities in his neighborhood at that time and he was sent away from home to receive his college preparatory training , first at Fremont , then at Wilson and finally at Kinston . He felt keenly this lack of school facilities for other boys of his acquaintance who were not able to attend a boarding school with him , and , when he became the champion of universal education , it was the memory of those early days that gave him the subject and material for his brilliant appeal to the conscience of the state . In 1876 he entered the University of North Carolina and in his junior year he made his first public address in the interest of education . After graduating in 1880 he read law and the following year he received his license and settled in Goldsboro . Although he had chosen the legal profession , destiny had decided that his greatest work was to be in promoting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Goldsboro he was elected Superintendent of Public Instruction of Wayne County . It was then that he began to study at first hand the educational opportunities of his native county . At that time the rural schools were running barely three months ; the school houses were rough one-room buildings , frequently made of logs ; there were as a rule no desks whatever , only rough seats frequently without backs , and the professional qualification of the teachers was about on a plane with the building and equipment . In his own home town there was no public school save the two and a half or three months annual session that met in an airy , dilapidated building . The young lawyersuperintendent began his campaign then and there . He canvassed his county but concentrated his energies at Goldsboro , where he talked and wrote until the community was stirred , and the following year Goldsboro established a system of schools . The young lawyer became chairman of the board of trustees , a service he continued to render for nearly twenty years . His political career began in 1888 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the democratic ticket . It was in this capacity that he canvassed the state and won much fame as a political debater . In 1892 he was chosen one of the electors at large . His brilliant campaign made him the leader of the young men and won for him the distinction of being the most brilliant orator of the state . This was a great democratic year in national politics . Grover Cleveland was elected for a second term and in the following year Charles B. Aycock was appointed United States District Attorney for the Eastern District of North Carolina . The period from 1893 to 1900 was one of great political discontent . The old line parties became very much broken up ; a third party arose , and the democratic party that had had control of the state since 1876 lost its power . For four years a new party was in control ; but in 1900 Charles Brantley Aycock was the recognized spokesman of a new declaration of rights , the right of intelligence , not ignorance , to rule , and the right of every child @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This declaration marked a new era in North Carolina . Aycock was nominated unanimously for governor of the state . The constitution , providing an educational qualification for voting , was adopted , and the eloquent champion of universal education was elected governor with the largest majority ever given a gubernatorial candidate . Universal education was the theme of his addresses during his memorable campaign , and it was likewise the subject of his inaugural address , and before the first year of his administration had passed he organized in his office a systematic educational campaign that has continued for over ten years . When Governor Aycock began his administration there were not fifty public schools out of a total of nearly ten thousand in the whole state of North Carolina running four months in the year . Not over thirty of the largest and wealthiest towns or cities in the state had provided any schools for the children . But today there are more than twelve hundred such districts running from eight to ten months . Several counties have terms ranging from seven to eight months , while the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The value of the city school property alone is double the value of the total school property in 1900 , and rural schools today have equipments better than the best city schools possessed in 1900.  | At the close of his administration Governor Aycock returned to Goldsboro a private citizen . However , he was immediately elected a member of the trustees of the Goldsboro Public Schools , the last public office that he ever held . In 1908 he moved to Raleigh to enlarge his legal practice . But he continued to respond to invitations to speak at teachers ' assemblies and other public gatherings in the interest of universal education . In fact his last words were those delivered before the Alabama Teachers ' Assembly in Birmingham , April 5th , 1912 . He was speaking to a tremendous audience when the final summons came . He stopped and fell to the floor . But he was dead before medical aid could be secured . This sketch tells briefly the stages by which Charles Brantley Aycock , North Carolina 's " Educational Governor , " rose to immortality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the man can relate fully , the passion of his soul when discussing a political issue or pleading for universal education . His greatest addresses are unpublished , and will never be published because he was greatest when speaking to an audience of country people . Being himself a farmer 's son , and realizing the poor educational advantages of the rural districts , since he had to be sent away from home to receive his high school education , he felt keenly the lack of opportunities to the country boy and girl , and his life was devoted to the task of increasing these opportunities . It was appropriate , therefore , that the last words uttered by him should be on universal education . " Oh , my friends , I thank God Almighty , who is no respecter of persons , that you can not get the best for your boy and your girl until you are ready to give the best to my boy and to my girl . You can take that boy of yours and send him through the schools , send him through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him abroad , bring him back home , head and shoulders above his friends and neighbors , but he wo n't be very high when he is head and shoulders above his neighbors , if his friends and neighbors are ignorant and untaught and weak . You can not get the best out of your boy unless other people 's boys are educated nearly or quite as well as your boy . " * As Bishop Kilgo said of him in his funeral oration ? " Charles Brantley Aycock was no common man . " He chose the law for  | page deleted                     