@@487047

Senator La Follette 's speaking tour in Ohio is preceded by a flat repudiation , on the part of his friends in that State , of the Chairman of the Republican State Committee , Mr. Brown , This seems queer , for Mr. Brown had announced himself as a progressive of the progressives . He ardently desires a Presidential primary , which is good La Follette doctrine . The difficulty arises , apparently , from the fact that Chairman Brown declares himself for Roosevelt , and gives it as his opinion that the Colonel would sweep the primaries in Ohio . It-is for this that he is disowned and denounced by the La Follette partisans , who point out that Brown is playing into the hands of the reactionaries by dividing the opposition to Taft . If the Ohio Progressives are lured into splitting up their votes for delegates between the Wisconsin Senator and the New York Colonel , the result might easily be to give a plurality to those favoring Taft . Hence Chairman Brown 's open reading out of the progressive fold . On the subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high wages , the Tariff Board 's report on Schedule K presents some interesting data and conclusions . The highly significant statement is made that the careful determinations of productive efficiency made by the Board " show wide differences in efficiency and cost , but indicate in general that the lowest labor costs per pound were in mills paying the highest wages . " But it should be clearly understood that this statement refers to comparisons within our own country , the mills there under consideration being all American . While there can be no doubt that a similar relation holds over a wide field of comparison between American and foreign production , and that- the efficiency of American labor and machinery is a dominant cause of the high rate of American wages , yet it should lie mentioned that in the woollen manufacture , for reasons set forth in detail , the Board does not find this to be the case . It appears that 87 per cent . of the machinery used is imported ; and of thelabor a considerable portion consists of " unskilled immigrants with no previous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a very fluctuating kind , so that the manufacturer is " obliged continually to break in a new set of inexperienced operatives . " If , however , an this is so after fifty years of high protection for this infant industry , it does not look as though the American people ought to be compelled any longer to forego the privilege of buying woollen wearing apparel and blankets at reasonable prices . Whenever the Senate makes a Wegglike drop into art , there is apt to be trouble brewing for culture . Last week Senator Root introduced an innocent-looking bill authorizing the American Academy at Rome to enlarge its scope and to increase its holdings of property up to $3,000,000 . He made a brief explanation of its purposes , and requested immediate consideration , but the eagle eye of- Senator Bailey perceived the lurking danger to American ideals . Tne Texas Senator had , first of all , grave Constitutional doubts about any action taken by this Government " looking to the promotion of art or science outside of the United States . " Even granting that these scruples @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " until every hill in America is crowned with a public school , " he could not conscientiously endorse the outlay of millions to " educate our countrymen in a foreign land . " Senator Bailey 's simple eloquence was rudely broken off by another Senator from the South , Mr. Reed of Missouri , who desired to be and promptly was " shown . " We quote the frigid account from the Congremonal Record : Mr Reed ? Mr. President , I desire to get a little information from the Senator from New York . As I understand , this bill only authorizes a corporation to increase its holdings , and does not take any money from the Public Treasury ? Mr Root ? The Senator is correct . The bill merely authorizes the corporation to hold more property given to it by others . Mr. Reed ? And am I correct in further understanding that the institution is not run for profit , but purely for the promotion of education in the lines of art ? Mr. Root ? Precisely . Mr Reed ? That is all I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate without amendment , ordered to be engrossed for a third reading , read the third time . and passed . The purpose of Senator Kenyon 's bill forbidding interstate common carriers to transport liquor the shipment of which would be in violation of the laws of the State , Territory , or district into which it was shipped , is one that should command the approval of right-minded persons , whatever their views on the question of prohibition . Nobody denies the Constitutional right of a State to enact prohibitory laws on the subject of liquor ; and it ought to be the desire of honest men , if they admit this , to let the States have a fair chance to carry out such policy as they may deliberately adopt . If , as many opponents of prohibition are convinced , the rigorous execution of the law , without such mitigation of it as comes from the facilities which interstate commerce affords for its nullification , would demonstrate the intolerableness of the State 's policy , this would be sure to lead to repeal ; if , on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are entitled to have their way . In the annual report of the Interstate Commerce Commission , the action of the new Commerce Court in enjoining the Commission 's so-called " inter-mountain rate order " is sharply criticised . The Commission , it will be recalled , had given a hearing to complaints against the practice whereby transcontinental railways would charge , for shipments from Eastern points to inland markets along the Pacific Coast , the full rate to the Western ocean plus the return rate from the Pacific to the interior destination . It had decided last July that the Commission 's supervisory powers under the " long and short haul clause " ought to be applied , and had therefore ordered revocation of the discriminatory rates . The order stipulated that no higher charge should be exacted for shipment to any intermediate point than for shipment to the coast , and made some more or less arbitrary rulings as to maximum differences . The railways argued that the rates to intermediate points were remunerative but that rates to the coast were not ; the latter having been forced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a further Constitutional argument , the Commerce Court- on November 9 enjoined temporarily the Commission 's order , which was to go in force November 15 , and on November 11 it made the injunction permanent . Appeal was forthwith taken to the United States Supreme Court , in whose hands the matter now rests . The Interstate Commerce Commission 's annual report speaks resentfully of the Commerce Court 's action . It repeats the arguments for its own decision ; of which the main point was that since the Commission may by law fix maximum but not minimum rates , there was no other way of guarding shippers from gross discrimination . We have held all along that there is great force in this contention , but we can not follow the Commission 's report in its further declaration , that since " the fixing of reasonable rates is a legislative function , " delegated by Congress to the Commission , it is " not subject to review by the courts . " Counsel for the railways , in their appeal to the Commerce Court , had not merely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but had alleged that the order , in its specific provisions , was confiscatory and equivalent to taking property without due process of law . It is quite possible that neither contention will hold when reviewed by the Supreme Court ; but the Interstate Commerce Commission 's argument against the jurisdiction of the court in such matters seems to us ill-founded . In a brief circular letter , the American Association for Labor Legislation puts with unanswerable force the case of the pending bill to prohibit the use of poisonous phosphorus in the manufacture of matches . Two circumstances make the inaction of Congress in this matter nothing less than disgraceful . ' The first is that the fearful , and absolutely preventable , disease of " phossy jaw " is , as the Association says " now an American disease , " other civilized countries having prohibited the use of white phosphorous " while we have been talking . " The second is that  --  as was widely noted at the time  --  the Diamond Match Company , commonly spoken of as the Match Trust , generously and promptly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it should cancel its patent , do that other manufacturers might have the opportunity to use the harmless form of phosphorus of which it had exclusive control . Gov . Hooper of Tennessee appears to be going about the business of improving prison conditions in a spirit of intelligence and firmness , as well as of humanity . So far as we have observed , he gives no countenance whatever to sentimental notions undermining responsibility on the part of the convicts , or confusing the mind of the public in regard to the foundations of the system of criminal justice . His endeavor to introduce methods which would offer an incentive to good conduct and genuine endeavor on the part of convicts is in sharp contrast with the preposterous distribution of pardons that marked the career of his predecessor in the Governorship . Some form of the indeterminate sentence and of the parole system , and the devotion of part of the value of the prisoners ' work to the support of then families , are among the improvements the Governor seeks to obtain by new laws ; but he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practice , under the law as it stands . An adaptation of the Wisconsin Leg , islative Bureau has been planned for Chicago . At its head is to be an expert statistician , whose duty will be to establish a library of books relating to municipal affairs , to arrange for supplying the Mayor , the Aldermen , the department heads , and even inquiring nonresidents , with information on city problems , and to promote the prestige of the city in all proper ways . This last purpose savors more of local patriotism than of efficiency , but need not interfere with the primary objects of the project . The plan has apparently aroused no opposition , but its adoption has been seriously delayed by the attempt of the spoils-loving section of the City Council to make the new organization a " department , " instead of a " bureau , " department heads being appointed by the Mayor , while bureau heads are under the civil service law . Moreover , department heads , being " officers , " must live in Chicago , and consequently no expert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the benefit of his experience . It can hardly be more than a question of time before the Bureau of Publicity and Information is added to Chicago 's system of government . But no one will hope for much effect from its activities upon the relics of the boodle Councilmen of a decade or so ago . Just what the heavy figures of outgoing steerage passengers , and the light figures of incoming ones , for the year now closing , signify , may be difficult to judge ; but the publication of the figures may well serve to draw attention to the fact that the tide of immigration , with which we are sometimes represented as being submerged in these latter years , has been by no means as formidable for a number of years back as most people imagine . During the year 1911 , the net immigration  --  excess of arrivals over departures  --  will be less than 300,000 ; and the average for the four preceding years , 1907-10 , was about 525,000 This is very different from the million that is usually spoken of ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large measure to be ascribed to the check which American enterprise received through the panic of 1907 , it should , on the other hand , be remembered that at the height of the boom before that panic  --  namely , in the calendar year 1906 ? the net immigration did not exceed a million , the exact figure given by the returns being 996 , - 084 . Half a million  --  the average for the past five years  --  it should be remembered , too , is only half of one per cent . of the present population of the country . DI-1/CA.G0 , , December 20 ? The ten packers charged with violating the Sherman law sprung a surprise on the prosecution this afternoon Motion to strike out counts 2 and 3 of the indictment , charging the packers With criminal violation of the law , and to set aside certain other allegations , as not coming within the three years covered by the indictment , forced a sudden postponement of the trial . These particular motions were promptly disposed of last week , but the mere offering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken place , is a pointed illustration of an intolerable evil . This everlasting lawyers ' game of springing surprises , and discovering pitfalls , and making mountains out of molehills , causes the business of enforcing ordinary common-sense law to be carried on under such handicaps as almost to paralyze the nation in any endeavor to institute far-reaching reforms . " I have talked of the necessity of improving the criminal procedure before every bar association that gave me a chance , " said President Taft the other night , in his speech at the Young Men 's Republican Club ; and , to his honor be it said , he has more than once used words as strong as the English language affords to express his conviction of the enormity of existing conditions and practices . By the highly dramatic manner in which he acknowledges defeat , Gen. Reyes has more than undone the harm he brought upon his country . For the sutrender of Reyes means not only the collapse of the ? movement with which he was personally identified , but the collapse of the . various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a decisive turn of fortune against Madero . Reyes was the only man upon whom an insurrection could centre that- did not on . the face of it bear the most sinister motives ; now that he is gone , there is no one for Madero to deal with but petty local chieftains obviously out for plunder . It is to be regretted that the assurance of peace in Mexico should come only after the total discrediting of one who for many years was regarded as the rising hope of the republic . Certainly , the conduct of Reyes has latterly been quite away from the role of a popular saviour . Towards Diaz , when the latter was still in power , Reyes showed only timidity . When the revolution broke out , he refused to take sides , and gave himself to the enjoyment of a leisurely vacation in Europe , while the fate of the country was under decision . When Madero had won , Reyes came back to make trouble . The half-hearted way he went at the ' business suggests the possibility that in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Madero , and not a very willing tool at that . If the Irish get Home Rule , what will they do with it ? This old and taunting question is answered by Mr. Redmond in the first number of " Home Rule Notes , " to be issued periodically by the Home Rule Council . One of the first things to which an Irish Parliament would give attention , declares Mr. Redmond , is the reform of the Poor Law . In it certain changes were strongly urged in a report by a commission appointed by the Vicerby , six years ago . but the Parliament at Westminster was too busy to take the matter up , and it was dropped . This by itself was an argument for putting the Irish in charge of Irish affairs . Then , there is the whole question of - Irish railways and waterways and drainage which is pressing for consideration , while agricultural problems of capital importance are , waiting for Irish:legislators and administrators to solve . It is an ambitious programme of economic and social reform which Mr. Redmond - sketches  --  certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a long time to come . There will doubtless be squabbles in the new governing body ? Ireland would not be Ireland if there were not ? but there seems to be , with the prospect of Home Rule , a  --  settling down of the people to its serious tasks . The debates in the French Chamber confirm the impression resulting from official declarations in the Reichstag and the House of Commons , to the effect that Germany 's attitude in her negotiations with the French Government was by no Means so provocative as it was generally supposed to be at the height of the crisis . There was some hard bargaining over the Congo , but that is legitimate enough ; actually it seems to be established that Germany 's demands in the beginning were not much above what she finally obtained . This only brings out once more the unfortunate manner of German diplomacy . The dispatch of a warship to Agadir was apparently done for the purpose of protecting German interests in south Morocco . But the world at large , and the German people as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a challenge . The imperialistic spirit in Germany was immediately inflamed , and the Government found itself forced into an attitude of menace it had never planned . So , too , in Great Britain , public opinion forced Sir Edward Grey 's hand and led to the famous speech of Lloyd George , for which , as it now appears , the direct occasion did not absolutely exist . And thus is once more exemplified the danger of playing with fire and how the diplomats ' " game " may assume very bitter - reality : The submission of Persia to Russia 's demand for the dismissal of W. Morgan Shuster from his post-as Treasurer-General closes an episode , but not an epoch . For the time being , Persia is beaten to her knees ; but the young American 's bold stand against the two " protecting " Powers who have now protected Persian independence out of existence has served its purpose in a three-fold way . It has forced both the Russian and British Governments out of the jungle of diplomacy into an open avowal of their unhallowed motives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not excluding Britain herself , where a powerful minority has raised its voice in protest against the co-partnership of robbery with Russia . Finally , it has brought forth the latent resources of the Persian people , whose attitude , as voiced in the Parliament at Teheran , has been altogether admirable , even to the point of venturing the trial of battle with Russia 's armed millions . For the time being the people of Persia must yield to force majeure ; but the stirring of the subject races the world over is warrant for the belief that Mr. Shuster 's fight for the preservation of the rights of an ancient people will have its results in the future . Another Russian statesman utters the refrain , " We can not change our internal legislation to please the United States . " But Russia has not been asked ? to change her laws of domicile or any other regulation affecting the status of various races within the Empire . The claim has not been put forward that Jewish-American citizens shall be allowed to enter Russia for the purpose of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made that any legitimate purpose which sends a man travelling abroad under the protection of an American passport shall receive recognition at the hands of the Russian Government . At the present moment Russia admits foreign Jews who come in the capacity of commercial travellers , and it is not on record that Jewish anarchists , revolutionists , and other enemies of society have taken advantage of this loophole to force their way into Russia ; or , if they have , why does the privilege remain ? If a Russian-born Jew has emigrated to this country and prospered , and is Moved by sentiment to revisit the country of his birth , to revive old scenes and old friendshiPs , how does the question of his admission into Russia become a domestic problem and a menace ?                     