@@493148

Making Minorities Count THE old problem of representative govern- ment is to secure a deliberative body through which the majority of the electorate may control , and at the same time ensure representation to the substantial minority groups of public opinion . Has the little city of Ashtabula , Ohio , solved this problem , and incidentally shown the way to the ultimate type of city government in the United States ? There is more than a fair chance that it has . Early in 1914 . Ashtabula chose a commission to frame a new city charter , as permitted by the home rule provisions of the Ohio constitution . This body was favorable to the commission-manager plan of government with a council elected at large . The objection was at once made that a council so elected would probably represent only one party , and that this was not desirable if the council was to choose the manager , who was expected to be a permanent , expert , non-political official . One quiet , unassuming member of the commission saw a way out . This was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Railroad , who proposed that the council be chosen by proportional representation . Most members of the commission had never before heard of proportional representation . When it was explained to them , several accepted the idea as sound in theory , but in the end it was rejected as too novel and radical . The charter submitted to the voters in November , 1914 , provided for a council of seven , to be nominated by a five per cent petition , and elected at large upon a non-partisan ballot . The charter was adopted , and Mr. Boynton at once set about to initiate a proportional representation amendment . This amendment was voted on last August , and though the vote was light , proportional representation carried in all but five of the fifteen precincts ofthe city . Ashtabula elected its first council under the amended charter on November 2 , 1915 . The theory of proportional representation is that each considerable party or group of opinion should be represented in the council or legislative body in the proportion of its voting strength . Thus if in an election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrats cast four-sevenths , the Republicans two-sevenths , and the Socialists one-seventh of the vote , those parties should be represented in the council by four , two , and one representative respectively . If the division of opinion is not along party lines , the actual divisions should nevertheless be represented in proportion to the number of voters in each . In Ashtabula the lines of division in the recent election had little to do with national parties , except that there was a Socialist group . There was first the question of local representation . The harbor district lies at some distance from the city proper , and under the old ward plan had always been represented by one member of the council . Under the usual plan of election at large it would probably not have been represented at all . There is also the question of nationalities . The city has a large foreign element , the chief groups being the Irish , Italians , Swedes , and Finns . The voters are also sharply divided on the liquor issue , the city swaying first to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the question of adequate representation for the substantial business element of the community . It is interesting to note the extent to which these various groups and interests secured representation at the election just past . The plan of proportional representation adopted in Ashtabula is the Hare system . There are seven members of the council . Candidates get their November 27 , ' 915 THE NEW names on the ballot by filing a petition signed by two per cent of the voters . The ballot has no party marks , and the names are rotated . At the left of each name is a square in which the voter marks his preference by placing the figurer opposite the name of his first choice , 2 opposite the name of his second choice , and so on . He may mark as many preferences as he pleases , but a ballot can count for only one candidate . To determine the number of votes necessary for election to the council the total number of valid ballots is divided by eight , and the whole number next higher than this quotient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This number is chosen because it is the smallest that can be taken seven , but not eight , times from the total . In Ashtabula the total number of valid ballots cast was 2972 . This number divided by 8 gives a quotient of 371 1-2 . The next highest whole number is therefore 372 , the number of votes required for election . The number so established is known as the " quota . " In counting the votes the procedure is as follows : If upon counting the first-choice votes any candidate is found to have received the full quota or more , he is at once declared elected . Any votes which such a candidate has above the quota are then transferred , according to the highest available choice marked on such ballots , to candidates not already elected . It may happen that several candidates receive more than the necessary quota . In that case the surplus votes are transferred to other candidates in the order of size of the surplus . Whenever during the transfer of votes the number of ballots for any candidate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further votes are transferred to him . When all surplus votes are transferred , if enough candidates to fill all the places have not reached the quota , the lowest on the list is dropped and his votes are transferred in like manner . This process continues until the required number of candidates have received the quota , or until , by dropping the low men , only seven remain . At Ashtabula there were fourteen candidates . Classified according to nationality , two were Swedes , two Finns , one was Irish , one Italian , and eight might be classed as plain Americans . There were seven business men , one clerk and paymaster , one saloonkeeper , one baggageman , one railway engineer , one attorney , one newspaperman , and one Physician . While there were Republicans and Democrats on the ballot , there was no intimation of party division except that one candidate was a Socialist . The harbor district had at least three candidates . Seven candidates were members of the present Council . The election went off quietly . There being no important issues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 3600 would have been large . The total number of ballots cast was 3314 , and of this number 362 were either blank or invalid . It was generally prophesied that the Board of Elections would have difficulty in counting the ballots . Even the ardent advocates of the system feared this , yet when it came to the actual work of the count there was no trouble whatever . Although the Board of Elections was inexperienced and without proper office equipment for handling such a count , the transfer and tabulation of the vote was accomplished in about three hours . At no time were the election officials in serious doubt concerning the steps to be taken . The result of the election is its most interesting feature . The first eight candidates arranged in the order of their first choice votes were : McClure , 393 , Hogan , 322 , McCune , 309 , Gudmundson , 292 , Earlywine , 289 , Rinto , 237 , Briggs , 211 , Corrado , 196 . Only McClure had votes above the required quota , and he had twenty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on first count . He is a young , clean , aggressive business man , never before in politics . The transfer of McClure 's surplus votes elected no one , and the count proceeded by dropping the low man , and distributing his votes to the remaining candidates . By this process Hogan and McCune were raised to the full quota and declared elected . The remainder of the vote was so distributed that the last four members were chosen by the gradual elimination of the low men . In this process Briggs moved up from seventh to sixth place , and Corrado , representing the Italians , nosed out Rinto , a young Finnish attorney . Corrado has been a member of the city council for many years , and is well known . He is a saloonkeeper , and represents the wet interests as well as the Italian vote . Rinto is not well known except in his own section . His election over Corrado would have improved the quality of the council , but would have made it less representative . With one exception the seven candidates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hogan and Corrado are members of the present city council . How well do the men chosen represent the city ? McClure is manager of a department in one of the large stores , Hogan is one of the leading physicians of Ashtabula , McCune is a greenhouse man , Gudmundson is assistant cashier of a bank in the harbor district , Earlywine is clerk and paymaster of a large ore company , Briggs is a newspaperman , and Corrado is a saloonkeeper . The business element may be said to have three representatives . The Irish , Swedes and Italians each elected a member of the council . The Socialists elected one member . The harbor district is represented . On the liquor issue three of the successful candidates are pronounced drys , three are classed as liberal , and one as very wet . The opinion in Ashtabula seems to be that , taking both quality and representative character into consideration , a better choice could hardly have been made from the candidates ; that the new council will contain more ability than the present one elected on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representative of the entire body of voters . Before the election the two daily papers were inclined to look askance at the new system . The day after the count one of them declared : " The drys and wets are represented . The Protestants and Catholics , the business , professional and laboring men , the Republicans , Democrats and Socialists , the English , Swedes and Italians , all are represented . It would be hard to select a more representative council in any other way . " The other paper stated : " It is generally conceded that it has given Ashtabula a broadly representative council , probably the most representative body in the city 's history , and that is the real aim of the Hare system . " Yes , I think it may be said that Ashtabula has shown other cities how to elect a council in such a manner as to provide suitable representation for all parties and interests . Under the plan which this city has adopted the majority will control , but the minority or minorities will have representation in proportion to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be expected steadily to improve . When groups of opinion come to understand that if they have a little more than one-eighth of the votes they can not be denied representation in the council , their ablest representatives will be willing to become candidates . Men of high professional and business training will stand for election to the council , because they will be sure that if they really represent their element they will win . Gerrymandering and a portion of the other political wire-pulling will disappear . Parties will tend to find a basis on principle rather than largely on patronage as at the present time . With a council chosen by proportional representation the last serious objection to the city manager idea disappears , and the way . is opened for permanent expert service in city administration and for the elimination of politics from that part of our city governments . Proportional representation will provide a council which may properly be allowed to choose a city manager ? a council whose members stand for policies and the fundamental interests of the community , rather than for a more or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the manager-plan , and a council chosen by proportional representation . But the Ashtabula experiment with proportional representation has promise beyond the domain of city government . The cities are now the only place in this country where any considerable amount ofpolitical experimentation is possible . They are making the largest contributions to our knowledge of new governmental devices . This is especially true of the cities in those states which , like Ohio , have granted their municipalities a large measure of freedom . Far from the cities modeling their governments after the state plan , there is now a noticeable tendency for the states to draw their inspiration from the cities . It is possible that Ashtabula has started a movement which will end in the reform of the present inequitable and demoralizing method of choosing the members of state legislatures and the lower house of Congress .                     