@@466738

NEW YORK witnessed , during the spring of the present year , an experiment in " soul-saving " which , viewed retrospectively , appears more interesting and more remarkable than it seemed when viewed actually . Approximately one million people gathered , during the course of ten weeks , to listen to the exhortations of a man who had established a national reputation for both sanctity and grotesqueness , and who makes no apology for realizing that even in religion " it pays to advertise . " His spOnsors claim that during that period he succeeded in leading upward of seventy thousand of those who forgathered in the tabernacle from sin to righteousness and " to hit the trail that leads to God . " The thoughtful man , whether he be student of human affairs , interpreter of psychological phenomena , or well-wisher and advocate of religion as a dominant power , can not fail to be impressed by this spectacle . It is natural that he should attempt to interpret its significance and seek to evaluate its social and moral results . To do this , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of past experience and of human nature , what the probable results of such a carefully manipulated effort are likely to be . It needs no argument , no marshalling of facts , to convince either the most devout or the most skeptical that religion has been losing the sort of hold upon people that it had in past generations . Although the loss in this country is scarcely comparable to what has occurred in other countries , current literature is replete with the testimony of clergymen to its effect ; churches with empty spaces testify to it on the Sabbath ; the conduct of men and women corroborates it on both week-day and Sunday . Many attempts have been made to explain a condition profoundly regretted by countless sincere , devout persons , who keep alive the conviction that the life of the spirit is the one un-portant thing in this world , and who get inspiration from what measure of this Christianity gives . Some attribute our unspirituality to the sudden accession of great wealth by hosts of individuals who have neither inherited nor acquired the capacity to handle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are filled with the desire for the power that such possession gives them , and the inclination to use it to win or compel the admiration and excite the envy of their fellows . Others point out that the influx of peoples of all nations , recruited largely from the lower strata of society , the ignorant and the undisciplined , which reached its high tide nearly a generation ago before the advent of wiser immigration laws , is responsible in a great measure for our present-day irreligiousness . The universal dissemination of education , and particularly of the kind of education which exalts exact knowledge , teaches reverence for facts , emphasizes the importance of the i sci-ences , and suggests directly and ndi-rectly that a statement must be proved before it can be believed , affords an adequate explanation for others . Just in proportion as facts have been established and a knowledge of them disseminated among the masses , dogma , and dogmatic statement unaccompanied by evidence , have become unacceptable . All that which is spoken of as social unrest ; the political progress of the working-classes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dissemination of a knowledge of hygiene among the masses ; the astounding ascendancy of sports and all forms of activity done in the name of pleasure ; the unparalleled and almost fabulous prosperity of the country and of the people ? are sufficient demonstrations of a current setting strongly toward materialism . Furthermore , the " plain people " are " sizing up " the church and finding out that men and women in what are called superior walks of life ? superior socially , financially , possibly intellectually ? are not always presented with the choice of displaying the conduct which is compatible with membership in the Kingdom of God on earth as a necessary alternative for withdrawing from its fellowship . Lately , in the view of not a few , a new rival to godliness has appeared , to which the name Efficiency is given . This new worship seduces men , women , and children from their devotions . It teaches that man was put into the world to be an efficient partner of an efficient deity ? not to live just so as to escape @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but to display buoyancy , courage , and initiative in saving a world for himself and others by striving to the limit of human capacity for the realization of a higher self . Against all this is set the simplicity , the humanity , and the joy of a primitive Christian faith , and to it we are summoned to return as the only safe and sane program for spiritual beings . Now in all this there is nothing new . From the early days of the Christian religion there have been periods when the sap seemed to be drying up in the fruitful vine , and the flower of life , of faith to be fading . In these periods the progress of the soul seems to be at a standstill . But always these periods of religious stagnation have been followed by new propaganda for the regeneration of faith , and expression of it in profession , in good deeds , in sacrifice and self-renunciation . When these quickenings of movement in the spiritual life take a definite form , and a number of persons living in original or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ congregate to listen to an individual who tells them of their wickedness , and to be exhorted to accept God , to profess Him , and renounce by VOL. cxxxv ? No , word of mouth their evil ways , this experience is called a revival . Always the major characteristic of the revival has been an access of emotion . Its psychological level of movement has been that of the crowd , and its actuating motive that of escape from a deliberately awakened fear of the consequence of wrong doing and living . The leader of the crowd flashes a spark into it , and the current which engenders " feeling " and subordinates reason is liberated . Fear of hell , fear of the wrath of God , fear of free trade , fearof protection ? such are the sure sparks that are used by preacher or politician to call forth the current , to vivify or revive , the mass of inert souls . We , the people of these United States , have always been peculiarly susceptible to this sort of appeal . By and large we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe anything if it is told us often enough . We are also an emotional people . We display this at one time in unpremeditated advocacy of free silver , at another in birth control . We make no preparation for instituting changes that are so radical , fundamental , and far-reaching that no imagination can forecast their effect . We start in " to do the job " without counting the cost or estimating the result . With a one-time favorite prophet we believe that we can lie down at night a peaceful people and arise in the morning a nation of soldiers . We remain emotional , even though we are less uniformly so than in the eighteenth century , and though we express our emotions in different terms . In Georgia and Tennessee , and even Illinois , we can still muster as much emotionalism for a lynching or an " experience meeting " as Salem did for a witch-burning , or Northampton for the Great Awakening . It is not strange then that revivals persist and have a good deal of popularity in spite of occasional periods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jonathan Edwards and to about the year i 73 ; . Once in fifty years or thereabouts since then they have had a more or less brief popularity . One of these revivals resembles another in all essential characteristics , the variations being particularly in the tone of the revival , which is an index of what may be called the temper of the times . They rarely last longer than the active period of the chief revivalist 's lifetime , ten to twenty years . They have been invariably followed by what may properly be called religious lethargy . Their occurrence constitutes a cycle made up of the revival ; the apathy or emotional bluntness that follows it , characterized by the ascendancy of materialistic display ; then a period of crass neglect of religion , apparent deafness to the exhortation of its sane , temperate , earnest advocates , and , finally , the revival again . In fact , revivals runa course almost parallel to a mental dis-order that is usually known as maniac depressive insanity . It has its period of quiescence , its period of boundless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period of coinparative normality , and its period of indifference and neglect of what has transpired in the past and of comfortable assurance that the future will take care of itself , and then the deluge again . In countries where people are less emotional and less heterogenous than ours , wars often take the place of revivals , and it is a well-established fact that they display themselves in a similar cyclical way . Jonathan Edwards was mu id , i man of mature and comprehensive id , of com-manding presence and imperious personality , of great faith and true piety , possessed of boundless confidence and self-belief . He took it upon himself to redeem the lost estate of religion . The scene of his activity was Northampton , and the result was the Great Awakening of 1740-175o which , under George Whitefield , spread throughout Massachusetts and New England . Edwards frightened his auditors into abject terror . The strong fainted ; the valiant wept ; the indifferent became anxious ; the weak were prostrated , convulsed , or lost their reason , and all probably visualized hell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have died heretofore have gone , " and to which " some persons that now sit here in this meeting-house may go before to-morrow morning . " About 1800 the second great revival occurred in this country in a section far remote from New England , but among an equally interesting people , the Scotch-Irish of Kentucky . We need not here sound their praises nor recount their **25;302;TOOLONG has done them adequate justice . Theodore i Roosevelt in the Winning of the West writes : there was a large influx of people drawn from the worst immigrants that were perhaps ever brought to America , the mass of convict servants , redemptioners , and the like , who formed such an excessively undesirable substratum to the otherwise excellent popu-lation of the tidewater regions in Virginia and the Carolinas . Many of the Southern crackers , or poor whites , sprang from this class , which also in the backwoods gave birth to generations of violent and hardened criminals and to an even greater number of shiftless , lazy , cowardly cumberers of the earth 's surface . It was these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cartwright exhorted . The third great revival in this . country occurred about r850 , and the dominant figure was Charles G. Finney , the most potent and most intellectual of all the revivalists after Edwards . The widespread dissatisfaction with the pragmatic efficacy of the Christian religion as then practised , and the suggestibility and emotionalism of the people in certain sections of the country which were responsible for Mormonism and other forms of crass immorality masquerading under the cloak of religion , were apparently its sponsors and progenitors . The latter part of the nineteenth century witnessed a new kind of evangelism , and a new type of revivalist in the person of Dwight L. Moody . He was not censorious and uncompromising like Ed-wards ; not implacable and terrorizing like McGready , who " could so array hell before the wicked that they trembled and quaked , seeing before them a lake of fire and brimstone yawning to overwhelm them while the hand of the Almighty is visible thrusting them down to the horrible abyss " ; not so vituperative , mandatory , and imperious as Finney . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vineyard of the Lord , who had a remarkable genius for organization , and who preached the boundlessness of God 's love and not the limitlessness of his hatred . He showed his remarkable capacity for effective organization in the institute which he developed at Northfield ; his knowledge of human character in the men whom he gathered around him there to carry out his work and the broad-mindedness of his purpose in the development of institutions for the advancement of Christianity now connected with various organizations throughout this country . The revival which is now at its zenith differs in many of its aspects from preceding ones , without differing in kind . In the first place , it is accomplished by a definite organization , conducted on strictly business principles , and including for the first time in the history of revivals a definite provision for the entertainment of the audience . In the second place , there is a definite attempt to substitute familiarity for fear ; and in the third place , there is a very modern effort to offset the neurotic worry that is bred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dose of cheerful and robust commonplaceness . The evangelist is the Rev. William A. Sunday , or , as he prefers to be called . " Billy . " The poivers behind the pulpit , a re Mrs. Sunday and seventeen directors of departments , secretaries , and advance agents . They work in conjunction with employers of labor , the pious rich , and countless serious-minded persons who , dissatisfied with the spirituality of their fellows , believe they can be exhorted into being good , and with the evangelistic clergy . To . a certain extent the movement is backed by the so-called liberal branch of the " Church . " No one will deny that the time is opportune to take stock of our religious assets and to invite mankind , in every walk of life , whether in the workshop or at the round table , to the profession and practise of a life of light and love , of peace and good will . Probably nothing has more perturbed the faith of the average man than the critical state in which the world is to-day . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The question that one naturally asks is this Have the sponsors of such desired revival chosen their chief performer wisely ? We pride ourselves on our culture . We admit that our manners are not so polished , our civility not so universal , our address not so courtly as that of some nations , but we solace ourselves by saying that we are more sincere . We speak reverently of good form ; we put a premium on breeding ; we recognize and claim intimacy with comme it fact . Our children are carefully brought up ; our youths are meticulously taught to think straight and play fair , and we recognize the importance of moral and intellectual growth , of the cultivation of a social consciousness . We frown upon familiarity . We shiver at arrogant display of possession . We believe that a certain amount or degree of formality is essential for the proper conduct of any relationship in life , social , religious , or political , and we practise it ? more or less . We despise vulgarity . We are a self-possessed , self-contained , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our cheeks while admitting it ? or maintaining it . We concern ourselves a great deal with heaven , and have confidence that we will attain it if our life is directed by love and illumined by light ; we are concerned not at all with hell , which most of us do not believe to exist , save hell on earth . But " we " are not " the people , " whereas the million individuals who looked up reverendl to Mr. Sunday were the people . It has often been charged against Mr. Sunday that he is intemperate of speech , irreverent , profane , vulgar , undignified . Juries determine guilt and judges pass sentence . Mr. Sunday has been tried by a large jury throughout the country and they contend that , though technically he may be guilty , he has more than atoned for the offense . I do not discuss the qu9-tion of his sincerity , his honesty , his spiritual genuineness , nor am I concerned with Mr. Sunday so much as I am with what he accomplished , and it is generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successful evangelist , they are by no means essential . As a matter of fact , Mr. Sunday lacks much in the accurate statement of facts , at least as far asone can judge from his " sermons . " If he knows the value of logical reasoning it is still his secret . If he is able to evaluate testimony and weigh evidence , he refrains from making a display of it . His success is not to be wholly accounted for by any individual possession , but a very considerable part of it is dependent upon his talent asa platform entertainer , his unusual vituperative capacity , his skill in denunciation , and his understanding of applied psychology . Unlike his great predecessors , Whitefield , McGready , and others , he can not picture hell so as to make man shrink from it , or describe heaven so as to make one long for it . He has a faculty for winning the crowd while apparently disdaining to appeal for popularity . Like Bernard Shaw he has persuaded himself that it is necessary to hurt in order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to discourage them , and that it is necessary to be thoroughly disagreeable in order to persuade them to agree . He impresses his audience as being genuine , and he maintains it ; he appears to be fearless , and . he admits it . There is nothing in the world so uniformly approved and applauded as fearlessness . Fearlessness is courage , bravery , valor , confidence , trust , equanimity all com-bined . Mr. Sunday s congregation sees in him the embodiment of this possession . They know that his campaign is supported by the rich and by the evangelistic churches , and yet Mr. Sunday assails these very classes and tells them of their shortcomings , and generally holds them up to scorn for their own good . They know that in each audience there is a large number of men and women who play cards , go to the theater , and to plays that are not of " The Old Homestead " type , and yet Mr. Sunday does n't fear to alienate their support by telling them frankly that they are doomed to hell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , those in it who are guilty convince themselves that he is referring to their neighbors and they exalt the accuser , admire his courage , applaud his effort , and regret that they also can not be articulate . Not to applaud would be to accept guilt and stand convicted . They know that he has beenaccused of being mercenary , but he tells them of his benefactions , recounts them for their admiration , and his " " congrega-tion " i congrega- on " takes up the cudgels in his defense , refutes the charge , and apparently confuses his accusers . Mr. Sunday has a comprehensive understanding of the workings of the average human mind , especially its working en masse . He realizes that the great i motive powers in man , the forces that sway him and condition his conduct , often his destiny , are desire and fear . Whether or not he appreciates that the third great motive in reasoning man , especially in man whose life is a pursuit of knowledge , is spirituality , or what is commonly spoken of as service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen only the smallest indications of this kind of spir-ituality i in Mr. Sunday or evidence of his feeling it . The desires of man are bound up with his instincts ? with self-preservation and the preservation of his kind , and with obtaining for himself and for them every-thing that will contribute to their pleas-lire , welfare , and esteem . Mr. Sunday does not preach suppression of physiological desires . He yearns for their regulation by law and by convention , and , as the vast majority of people agree with i him , he rails against infraction of them to the manifest satisfaction of his audience . Indulgences that are pleasurable to him are proper for others . He likes golf , but tennis is " too sissified . " He enjoys motoring , and baseball is a noble sport , but horse-racing is anathema . Dancing is kindergartenmg for hell . Card-playing and theater-going are but a prelude to permanent perdition . Those of his congregation who play cards or who go to the theater solace themselves i with the assurance that he is mistaken about this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and probably in any event he does not include an innocent game of hearts , or playing auction without a stake , and he ca n't include all actors and theaters in his denunciation , for he admits that a few of his personal acquaintances among stage people are , or were , " all right . " This admission is sufficient refutation of the idea that Mr. Sunday is bigoted or narrow-minded , for " every one " agrees that some plays are immoral and that the intimate life of some actors would not hear close scrutiny . Hence the broadsides of Mr. Sunday do not seriously offend , or , if they do , only a negligible few are moved to hostility by them . Mr. Sunday is himself an actor . Indeed , it may truthfully be said that he is a great actor . He has a technique founded in original adaptability and perfected probably before the mirror . He is a natural mimic and he has cultivated this accomplishment assiduously . It always amuses a crowd to see such pantomime , just as it amuses them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and frailties ? intoxication , for instance . Mr. Sunday amuses his audiences . They like to see him crouch on the platform , knock on the floor and shout out an invitation to the devil to come up and take the medicine the evangelist has ready for him . When the invitation is not accepted the audience shares with Mr. Sunday the delight and satisfaction that is manifest in his victorious smile and his conquering ' pose . Undoubtedly , many of the audience are convinced that the devil enhances his reputation for wiliness and cunning by not accepting the invitation . So many know in their hearts that they have essayed such encounter and have been vanquished . They cheer the pillar of . physical strength and tower of spiritual righteousness who solicits the combat . In addition to being a psychologist and remarkable actor , he is a versatile anecdotist . He is also an opportunist He watches out for the " psychological moment " to say something that will ingratiate himself with his audience and testify to his patriotism , to his mission , to his morality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desire to stimulate interest in the Liberty Loan by such appeal as this in a sermon to " women only " : " Now get down into your old socks , and drag out the money to buy a Liberty Bond and help Uncle Sam along . " When a burst of laughter greeted this intellectual output , he remarked , " Oh , I know where the savings-banks are . " He is versatile and quick-witted . He shows it in innumerable ways . Theevening of the day when the young men of this country were required . to register for the draft , he suggested that every one who had registered that day should stand up . So few stood that no impression was made upon the audience , but he converted defeat into instant victory by saying , " Every one who would like to have registered but could n't , stand up ! " and the audience rose to its feet as one man . Mr. Sunday shows himself a practical master psychologist most convincingly by the manner in which he hooks and lands his recruits . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pulpit are always occupied by reserve ushers , and others connected with the revival . When Mr. Sunday has finished his sermon and concluded with a prayer , he invites those of the audience who feel kindly disposed toward him and toward the cause to come forward and shake hands with him . The occupants of the first rows initiate the movement and communicate to others , and especially to those near them , the most potent of all psychological forces ? namely , suggestion and imitation . After they have grasped the evangelist 's hand , or , rather , after he has grasped theirs ? for he knows also the power of engendering the feeling of fellowship and comradeship through the virile hand-grip ? ushers standing beside and immediately beneath him direct the steady stream of " trailers " into the seats that have been vacated by the reserves . There they wait until the handshaking is over and Mr. Sunday obtains from them in very general terms a profession of faith . The scoffer calls all this hokuspokus , but 1 can not see that it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recruiting souls , except that which excites by education and example a boundless love of God because of His radiation toward animate beings and His unutterable Presence in all inanimate nature , and engenders an immeasurable confidence in His wisdom and mercy , which are manifest in a world of constantly diminishing misery , disease , and sin and correspondingly increasing health , happiness , and sanity . Whether Mr. Sunday is a theologian or not I do not feel myself competent to decide . He announces frankly that there is much in the Bible which he does not understand . He professes , however , to teach that Christ died to save mankind and that His life and conduct were models after which the man or woman seeking salvation should fashion his or her own . In his appeals to the Lord , however , we see little that convinces us that he considers Christ the Fountain of Love , Light , Sympathy , and Forgiveness . In his prayer of May 3oth , speaking of Germany , he said : " Oh , Lord , damn a country like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sooner we damn them the better off we are . Prayer could n't stop this war . Gosh ! we 've got to use bullets now . " It is quite conceivable that the Saviour of mankind might have said , " Father , forgive them , for they know not what they do . " The most striking features of Mr. Sunday 's make-up intellectually , emotionally , and spiritually spell what is technically called infantilism . He is boastful of his strength , of his prowess , of his possessions , and while boasting disparages the possessions of others . He is extremely distractible . The slightest noise in the audience disturbs him . He is timorous and fearful of beginning a campaign in the enemy 's country , but as soon as he finds the enemy is not critical or cruel he becomes as brave as a lion and he roars loudly . He is emotionally very unstable , and goes quickly from tears to laughter without indications of the ordinary affective accompaniments of either . He is irritable , petulant , vindictive , and strenuous or relaxed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ false witness , but without malice or forethought . He assumes to speak authoritatively about matters of which he has no real knowledge . He makes statements which are not founded in fact and which are readily susceptible of disproof . He is submissive to discipline when it is administered by Mrs. Sunday . He is credulous and readily believes what he is told , providing it is pleasing to him and he wants to believe it . He is at the same time predatory and generous . His reactions are all of the simplest character . He is incapable of mental or emotional elaboration . He plays and works until he is exhausted and then he lets nature restore him . Mr. Sunday is the archetype of the modern promoter , plus morality . He believes himself ; he professes to be indifferent to what any one else thinks ; he radiates self-belief ; he is redolent of complacency . No comment on Mr. Sunday and his revivals should omit to consider his audience in relation to him . One can not fail to be impressed with the fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ edified . They break into loud laughter or hearty applause when the presence of delegation so-and-so is indicated by the jingle of a sheep-bell , deeply symbolic of return to the fold , or the chanting of a doggerel in praise of the revivalist which has been put together laboriously on some suburban Parnassus . Others go to be instructed . A few go out of curiosity . Some havegiven thought to the futility of their life , its obvious aimlessness ; and many are depressed and overwhelmed by their sheer inability to formulate any satisfactory plan of living . The majority of these , I fancy , return from the tabernacle in the same dissatisfied yearning frame of mind as when they went . If they are persons of education and culture who have accustomed themselves to the psychological processes known as mental elaboration , it is likely that Mr. Sunday leaves their emotions untouched , their reasons unstimulated ; indeed , he may have excited a decided antipathy . Those who find God through taking thought , after saturation with the anodyne of humility , are not benefited by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Him while alone in the darkness , or after some illuminating experience which testifies that there is a power helping us to combat the evil within and without us , and which gives us a peace of mind , a serenity , and a courage that surpasses anything ever before experienced or imagined , than by listening to recitations of the qualities of God the Punisher and God the Avenger . It must , however , be admitted that persons of this type make up a small part of Mr. Sunday 's audiences and are a negligible quantity in his propaganda . The vast majority of his audience have little knowledge of the way in which . the Christian religion developed , and if they were told in simple , comprehensible language of the formilation of the Council of Nicea , and of the birth and development of dogma , they would not believe it . Religion does not influence their daily life , which , to the overwhelming majority , is a monotonous grind , an eternal contention with desires that are considered sinful if externalized in other than channels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they live under the necessity of discharging humanitarian , social , and political obligations imposed upon them or assumed without recognition of their entailment . They realize if they do not discharge them they are brought.up with a sharp turn , by public opinion , by the laws , by disease . They do not kick against the pricks any more than the horse on the treadmill who , if his bodily wants are satisfied , makes no protest . Their philosophy is " what ca n't be cured must he endured . " The majority of them were taught in their infancy and youth that they were God 's special care and that He would provide for them . While they were provided for by their parents they did n't question it , but as soon as it was borne in upon them that they must not only provide for themselves , but for those that were the result of satisfaction of one of their most dominant instincts , they realized that the promise was symbolism , not literalism . They were taught rules known as Commandments , but for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saw these Commandments - broken apparently with impunity , save when the law said " Thou shalt not , " and the most flagrant violators of them frequently singled out for approbation and often exaltation . They see life estimated in materialistic terms in practically every walk of.life and they have rarely been made to realize that , although it is stated that all men are born free and equal , the statement does not mean anything . The few are born with the endowment of efficiency , the many with the endowment of inefficiency . The former and their descendants administer the affairsof the world . They are the powers behind the real and figurative thrones . They do not need to be told who shall inherit the earth . The plain people are dealing with a concrete problem ; how to satisfy their desires and not give offense to their fellows , how to fulfil their obligations and still have time and means to indulge their desires , how to keep fear out of their lives and to cope with it should it come . They have found , perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hoped with this concrete problem , therefore they have forsaken it in large numbers , not brazenly with clash of drums , but by merely withdrawing their presence and their support . It is to these people that Mr. Sunday makes appeal . It is for many of them that he has a message which he delivers effectively . No one can deny it . Whether the end justifies the means is another matter . He is himself the type of individual to whom he appeals . He tells them if they stop drinking . they will find favor with God . Many try it . Immediately they feel better and the promise is fulfilled . They are told to open their hearts to God and to profess Him and they will experience a peace and serenity from which they have long been separated . And that , through God , wecan inhibitthe passions and weaknesses that get the better of us , distress us , injure our self-respect , there is no manner of doubt , and the experience is subject to adequate psychological explanation . Assertion and reassertion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statements transcend understanding or not , are always successful with the sane mind , and especially when aided by the desire to believe . To the insane mind they make no appeal . The thoughtful man inquires who it is that makes the dogmatic statement , what right he has to do so , and why he should be believed ? But the history of all teachers and prophets is to show that they do not have to justify themselves or their assertions . A very considerable proportion of Mr. Sunday 's audience is what may be called potentially religious . They have a lukewarm , rather arid faith , which they like to have freshened up , and they get a feeling of life and reality from Mr. Sunday and particularly from his ingenuity and vivacity . He is a genuine " revivalist " in the sense that he has both the skill and the talent to give new life to old ideas . He is not so foolish as to put new wine into old bottles , and he spares no pains to warn his hearers that the old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bottom of Mr. Sunday 's success is that there are a great many people who are so constituted that they want to believe in a religion that tells them how to live , and who have no curiosity to find out the secrets of this good life for themselves . To many of them the only difficulty with the religion of their fathers is that it is embedded in language and ideas that seem to them antiquated . They do not want to replace the old faith with one that can never lose its freshness ; they merely want the flavor of the old one restored , and meanwhile to have it given a more modern formulation . The first thing that strikes one on entering Sunday 's tabernacle is that there is an extraordinary homogeneity of the audience ; without there are long rows of private automobiles indicative of the pilgrimage of the luxurious and the richly clad ; the ' buses , the streetcars , the Subway , have been pouring hundreds of what seem.to be individuals through the portals of the tabernacle . Bur when they are gathered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ platform , they seem to lose their distinctive facial and emotional expressions . Scrutinize them as carefully as one may , they display a like-facedness that never ceases to be a source of wonder to the perspicacious , sympathetic onlooker , and the more their conduct is observed the more one becomes convinced of their like-mindedness . I have watched the tabernacle fill up as one watches the rise of the water in a modern coffee-percolator when the spirit-lamp is applied to the reservoir . As the people come in they seem to display their individuality in face and form and feature , but when once they ger together , side by side , row upon row , their faces turned upward , and especially when Mr. Rodeheaver , the official chorister , but the de facto optimist and professional welcomer , appears and begins his inquiry for delegations , then some mysterious power effaces individual personality , and molds it into a plastic homogeneity . The most distinctive characteristic of Mr Sunday 's audiences , next to their like-mindedness , is their amiability . They are amiably disposed to good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's amiability . Amiability is the saving grace of mediocrity . Much of the stability of any free community is dependent upon the prevalence of natural good will among the people . Mr. Sunday has had his greatest successes in big cities like New York and Boston because the number of amiable , like-minded people is propor- , tionately larger in large cities . It may well be that the quality which we call goodness is increasing and becoming more widely disseminated with the distribution of wealth and knowledge and the increase of health . But the number of souls who are able to find God by their own search is perhaps not increasing so rapidly . Mr. Sunday regards it as a case of " A free field and a fair count , " to reach this constituency of religiously disposed people , and psychologically speaking he is correct in the identification of his constituency and more correct in his method than most of those with whom he competes for the enrollment of those who are , on the whole , eager for enlistment . His congregations forgive him his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his intemperate characterizations because of his " sincerity " and the " good " that he does . Just as we overlook vagaries of conduct in a prima donna , condone the ethical infractions of the great artist , so do we make allowances for this modern evangelist because he is unlike any other . But granting him an artist 's license , one should expect statement of fact from him when he discusses concrete matters , especially those susceptible of proof . When Mr. Sunday 's statements do not seem to have versimilitude , he is prone to say : " I do n't care whether you believe it or not . I tell you it 's so . " Whether he accepts his statements at REVIVALS PAST their face value or not it is difficult to say . In reality he probably does n't give them a second thought . The entertainment which is provided to get the audience into a condition of emotional receptivity favorable to grace is furnished largely by Mr. Rodeheaver and " the choir . " Mr. Rodeheaver himself deserves more than a paragraph . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He is the personification of equanimity and self-possession . Good-fellowship and good cheer fall From him as the petals fall from a full-blown rose without detracting from its indescribable beauty until it finally falls apart . His cheery " Glad to see you fellows ! " " What hymn do you like ? " " Ah , yes , that 's a good one ; we will sing it for you soon , " please and cheer the particular delegation . It does n't detract in any way from their happiness that fifty other delegations are welcomed in exactly the same way , nor do they seem to feel they have been misled when Mr. Rodeheaver does not have the choir sing the hymn which they testified they liked best . Mr. Rodeheaver would be a force for good in any sphere , but I like to think of him as director of a large institution to which the mentally unfortunate are taken , that his winning smile and rugged health and boisterous optimism might lift one after the other of them from the slough of despondency . But he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ success of Mr. Sunday 's revivals . Now that we have had Mr. Sunday " in our midst " for some years , it would be worth while for a properly constituted committee to attempt a statement of the results of his activity ? that is , to estimate the quality of the good that lie has done , and its permanency . Employers of labor testify that their workmen are more industrious and more efficient after Mr. Sunday has conducted a revival because they consume less spirits . It is of course important , espe. cially to their employers , that they are more sober for a week or for a month . The question is , what is their attitude toward drink six months or a year after their redemption ? Were I , as a physician , to report the cure of a disease , commonly held to be incurable or very rebellious to treatment , after a few weeks ' or months ' cessation of symptoms , I should deserve the epithet of charlatan . The Fourteenth Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology sets forth that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all revivalists , make vigorous onslaught against the two great Indian vices of drinking and gambling , and possibly Mr. Sunday does not accomplish more . It should not be difficult for the evangelistic clergy of Philadelphia , Boston , Pittsburg , Paterson , or other cities in which Mr. Sunday has conducted revivals , to state the evidence of his activities as it shows itself in their churches . Has he enhanced the vitality of Christianity , and if so , is it manifest in religious practice or in religious ideas ? There should be no difficulty in obtaining data on these points . How many of those who " hit the trail " experience an awakening of the fuller and keener self-consciousness and are cognizant that there has been horn within them a social instinct which leads them to reach out and feel their lives one with that of the larger social , political , and spiritual worlds ? What are the evidences of growth after conversion and what are the manifestations of sanctification ? The phenomena attending both of these are susceptible to accurate psychological study , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its efforts to revive Christianity , and honest in its statements of the results which they obtain , they can easily call to their aid this branch of science , which will furnish them with Facts , if facts can be fashioned from the material they submit . 