@@430778

 | To the northwest of Greece and southeast of Italy , close to the coast of restless Albania , lies Corfu , chameleon of the Ionian Sea , bright and particular jewel of its islands , called by Napoleon , " the most beautiful situation in the world . " Nature has endowed it with all the splendors of her Mediterranean treasury , tradition with the classic shades of Homer , and history with the ancient glories of Greece and Rome , as well as the mediaeval romanticism of the Crusades . Today it has undergone a gigantic transformation . The happy isle ? ordinarily an idyll of olive groves and gardens , riding peacefully upon the blue Adriatic ? is changed indeed . The vast harbor , habitually sheltering but a few stray steamers , has become a great French arsenal . Majestic battleships , spacious transports , and black , ' devilish-looking destroyers lie quietly at anchor , the while dozens of little launches puff and snort and wind in and out among the trains of barges which carry the supplies of France and England alongside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , this spot has been spared the drastic and devastating changes which so constantly have followed in the ruthless wake of battle during the past twenty-five months ; whatever may be its future place in this world-wide conflict , present conditions do not mar materially the charm of a picture presenting a perfect riot of color . After one has left Brindisi and spent some hours at sea , a change is noticed . Approaching Corfu , say at nine or ten of a morning , the traveller finds that the soft haze , peculiar to Italy , has entirely disappeared . All is wonderfully clear and transparent . The ocean assumes a deep blue tinge , interspersed with curious little foamy sprays , white as snow ; and then , looking from a forward deck , a mountainous landscape , which would challenge the brush of a Turner , meets the view . Cliffs of a violet-pansy rise sheer from the water , while above and around is the dense , grove-like vegetation , reflecting successively , in the rays of the sun , lilac , rose deepening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and cinnamon brown ,  | all intensified by the blue of the sea . As if to make the scene yet more vivid , creamy-hued houses peep out here and there from amidst this wealth of tints . Fishing boats with bright sails cross the foreground . Pervading everything is a glittering golden atmosphere like that of sunset in other lands , though the sky , at the same time , has the purity of early morning . Looming up in the background behind the end of the island are the snow-capped peaks of Albania . When it becomes possible to withdraw oneself from the enchantment of this wonderful vision , and turn attention to the more prosy details of local geography , Corfu appears like the sickle to which it was compared by the ancients , the hollow side , with the town and harbor in the centre , being turned towards the mainland . A strait varying in width from less than two to about fifteen miles separates it from Albanian Epirus . Its extreme length is about forty miles and its greatest breadth perhaps half as much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Two mountain ranges divide the little land into three districts ; the northern mountainous , the central undulating , and the southern low . Corfu , picturesque capital of Corfu , is located in the central district , and , like so many of the older towns of east Europe and the Levant , is compact of tall structures crowded together on the hillside above the sea wall , with an occasional bell tower shooting up into the blue . A light shade of stone has been used for building , and a few of the edifices still bear traces of old Venetian architecture . Others have the low , masked entrance belonging to the East . Color is everywhere , white walls with roofs of red , gray , yellow , and pink tiles cooperating brilliantly with the glories of nature . At least three hundred feet above all this , stands the grim double fortress or citadel , erected , in part , during the mid-sixteenth century . In times gone by , the fortifications of the island were on so large a scale as to require from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since been dismantled ; Corfu , at present , is in no least sense a Heligoland or a Gibraltar . A handsome and interesting esplanade , the " Spainada , " lies between town and citadel , and by the shore , towards the suburb of Castrades , is an attractive promenade .  | Narrow , precipitous streets run up and down the slopes , and branchng out from them a net work of ill-paved lanes leading down to the water . By one of these , to the right of the square as one faces the harbor , he can reach the Strada Sulla Mura where stands the house celebrated as the home of the Greek poet Dionysius Solomos , author of the national " Hymn to Liberty . " Below , stretching across the water side of the esplanade and cutting off the view of the harbor , is the stiff , huge , entirely uninteresting palace of Maltese stone built for Sir Thomas Maitland , one of the governors during English occupation , ? called King Tom because of his arbitrary rule ; it was here the Serb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buildings formerly occupied by the University of the Ionian Islands , founded early in the nineteenth century by Frederick North , fifth Earl of Guilford ; they now accommodate a library and museum . Along the esplanade are various monuments and statues , chief among them being an imitation Greek temple erected to the memory of Maitland , and a memorial set up by the Corfiotes , thirty years ago , to Capo d'Istria , that native son who guided the politics of Greece when she broke her Turkish fetters back in the eighteen-twenties . The imposing ceremonies of the Greek church prevail in Corfu , with some three dozen edifices , of more or less pretension , scattered through the city and suburbs as witnesses to the fact . The isle 's oldest place of worship , St. Jason 's , is in Castrades , but the most interesting is in the town proper , the Church of St. Spiridion , or Spiro , so called from a bishop of Cyprus , canonized because tortured to death during the persecution of the Christians under Diocletian , in the fourth century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but long afterwards , in 1489 , brought to Corfu , where they now repose in a superb silver coffin , above which hangs a lamp ever burning . Three times a year the body is removed from its dim little chapel and borne around the esplanade , followed by a train of clergy and public officials , while the sick are carried forth and laid where the shadow of the passing relic may fall upon them . The country folk believe the departed bishop visits their fields annually to bless the grain and olives , and the Corfu sailors are positive that he comes to them , walking on  | the sea in the darkness , when a storm is approaching . It is affirmed by the devout , indeed , that seaweed is frequently found about the carven legs of the revered prelate , in fullest proof of these maritime excursions . A short distance from St. Jason 's is the tomb of Menekrates , one of the most venerable of the world 's antiquities , discovered about the middle of the nineteenth century , while one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foundations had brought to light various vases of ancient pattern , and the workmen being thereby inspired to dig deeper , came upon an entire Greek cemetery twenty-five hundred years old , containing this among other graves . Within hailing distance of the tomb of this long departed Greek , is the deep bay which revives eloquent memories and still older , ? of Homer , for be it recalled that Corfu is the " Scheria " of the Odyssey and the home of King Alcinous and the mythic Phaeacians . Into this placid sheet of water , on the opposite shore , enters the river to which the King 's daughter , Nausica , was moved by Athene to go , ostensibly in the cause of cleanliness , but really to rescue Ulysses . Very near the mouth it was that the beautiful girl washed her dainty raiment and , after the task was finished , sought recreation in a game of ball with her attendant women . How the ball missed throw and struck the half-submerged body of Ithaca 's king ( experiencing one of his usual misadventures on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; how he was restored to consciousness and taken by the princess to her father ; how Alcinous sent him to his kingdom on one of his royal ships ; how the lovely maid , who had ( of course ) fallen deep in love , mourned his departure ; ? here is written a well-thumbed page in our half-forgotten classics . To leave the age of fable for the present day , one has but to follow the San Rocco road for a couple of miles to find the pretty village of Benizze , and on the height overlooking it , the Villa Achilleion . All the world must know how this was built in 1890 for the beautiful and luckless Elizabeth , Empress of Austria . Eight years later , she was killed in Geneva by an Italian anarchist , and the palace remained unoccupied until 1907 when it was purchased by the German Emperor . With  | its gardens and terraces and statuary , and its superbly magnificent views in all directions , it has long been the one show place of Corfu . Now , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ennobled in a way far different , for it has till lately been serving as a hospital to soothe and care for those wounded by the armies of its founder and of its subsequent owner . In this intrusion of Mars in most modern guise upon the exquisitely beautiful stage , where through so many centuries have lingered memories of his fellow gods and goddesses of high Olympus , lies our chief interest in the place today . U-boat bases are being searched for where Nausica lost her ball . Serb regiments were reorganized where the Phaeacian cohorts exercised . Corfu under allied occupation conveyed the impression of a busy international city . The labyrinth of narrow , twisting streets which lead from the port up to the Spainada was perpetually alive with the varied uniforms of the soldiers of five nations , while the taverns , restaurants and cafes remained crowded with clients until well into the night . The spirit of camaraderie was abroad , and many and strange were the sights which arrested the attention of the passer-by . There were merchants who , in a few weeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the visitors ( at handsome profits ) ; Greek bootblacks still in their teens , whose innate financial genius had permitted them to make miniature fortunes on the Serbian currency and establish themselves as money changers ; and , perhaps most interesting of all , groups of British , French and Serbian soldiers , all speaking their mother tongue and yet , by gesture and emphasis , conducting apparently intelligible conversation with one another . But despite the conglomeration , and the freedom from restraint enjoyed by these warriors in the prime of manhood , it will stand ever to the credit of Servia that 150,000 of her soldiers , dumped down into comparative ease and comfort , after months of hardship and fatigue , conducted themselves like gentlemen and earned the sincere affection of the very people who had anticipated their arrival with anything but pleasurable feelings .                     