@@493038

A COMMUNICdTION To an End with Prussia SIR : I have received for some time past and read with great interest THE NEW REPUBLIC , and I think it is only right in view of the opinions expressed in it by subjects of belligerent governments , or with regard to the subjects of belligerent governments , to enter a certain protest . Mr. Hobson , for instance ? who deserves our respect in this country , and fully has it as a most conscientious and able student of economics ? has put a certain view before the readers of your paper with regard to the mind of the English upon the present war . A lady of the name of Doty has suggested something similar with regard to the mind of the French , the wounded of which nation she has observed in the hospitals . In common with other of your readers in this country I have regretted to see the point of view put before you by such writers , the subjects of belligerent countries or writing with regard to the subjects of belligerent countries ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ By this phrase I do not mean that these writers fail to express their own conviction , but I do mean that they are utterly wrong in their guesses at the general mind of the public either in England or in France . I think I have , from my experience , my birth , my tradi , tions and my acquaintance , some right to speak upon opinion in both countries . The opinion , the general or public opinion , of the English differs of course very widely from that of the French in this matter , for the two nations differ in religion ( the root of all differences ) and in experience . But what the public opinion of both countries has in common is these two points : First , the determination to reduce the enemy to impotence ; secondly , a conviction that short of this , no matter what their achievement , their action against Prussia will have failed . The expression " the determination to reduce the enemy to impotence " will sound to many academic people at once harsh and illusionary . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one 's judgment of Prussia . But the conception of reducing an enemy to impotence only seems illusionary to academic people because they are not academic enough . Anyone with a sound grasp of history knows that if you win a war the issues of which are fundamental , your enemy after that war can , and in history usually does , decline either for centuries or to extinction . He may remain as a political organism . But his particular power to do you that hurt which provoked you to arms you mayvery well eliminate for centuries or forever . If it be further contended that there are no wars of this fundamental character , that even this war has not this fundamental character , all history is there again to disprove such a thesis . Nearly all great wars have risen upon questions which the victor thought vital , and in nearly all of them the victor has achieved his end . To take a brief list of a few such issues at random : The question of national unity in your own country a lifetime ago ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Protestants of north Germany and Holland and the Catholic empire : the quarrel between the Revolution and the old regime : the quarrel between mediaeval civilization and the Mohammedan invasion of the West ? I might extend the list indefinitely . The victory of the North resulted in the maintenance of your national unity . Carthage disappeared and Rome supplanted her . The Protestants of north Germany and Holland under the protection of the French beat off the Catholic empire with results which have increasingly gone in their favor until quite recently in the history of Europe ? in other words , with results that lived and even grew in power for three hundred years . The Revolution destroyed the old regime in Europe . Mediaeval civilization turned the Mohammedan out of the West and he will not return . Now the thing for the great neutrals , of whom the chief is the United States , to get clearly into their minds is that this present quarrel in Europe is of that type . If the Prussian tradition now controlling the fighting men of from 140 to 150 millions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rooted civilization of Europe is doomed . All of us in the older nations feel this instinctively in our blood , and many of us can give a reason for that instinct and are whole-heartedly supported by our fellow citizens when we formulate that reason in the terms of history and of Christian morals . It is open to a neutral to dispute our position . It is open to him to say that we can not make it good in the field . But it is folly for any neutral to accept the view that we have some other less historical , vaguer or less certain position . What one of your correspondents says , that the French soldiers in the hospitals desire the war to come to an end without a complete victory , is simply false . You might just as well say that the United States were Catholic in religion or Greek in speech . What another of your correspondents says , that the mind of the English is turning in favor of an inconclusive peace , or that this term means nothing to them and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is as false as if you were to say that the United States were a small mountain republic in the Balkans . Both statements are utterly divorced from reality . And I think it is the duty of one who has some experience of what real opinion is upon this side in the present stage of the war , to emphasize the gulf that separates such statements from the truth . Let me repeat that it is open to any neutral not only to doubt our moral right , but to doubt the possibility of our success . What would be fatal for the future understanding of Europe by instructed opinion in your country would be to doubt that we upon this side are occupied in a task not of mere wrestling , but of execution . If the matter were not very urgent and very practical I would not occupy your space with this letter . But it is most urgent and most practical . It is urgent because atany moment the breaking down of the enemy 's far too widely extended front may bring American opinion rapidly face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only force they will have to reckon with in Europe . And it is practical because a misunderstanding on the part of educated opinion often runs through a whole nation . I should think it of little purpose to write such a letter as this to the press , that is read by millions , because that press publishes nothing but silly fairy tales about the war , or reproduces the opinion of men over here ( professional politicians and others ) whose ideas are ephemeral and carry no weight . But a misstatement of fact in an organ soberly read by the instructed few is a much more serious matter . It may go very deep indeed , and it is in order to correct such misstatements that I have written this letter .                     