@@487085

With the formal announcement of the principal terms in the settlement between France and Germany concerning Morocco and the Congo , a momentous chapter has been closed in the history of European international relations and colonial expansion . There can be very little doubt that the agreement will stand in its present form . The action of the German Government in the matter of foreign affairs is final . The French Parliament has still to speak , but France has so patently come out ahead in the negotiations that an upset of the treaty is unimaginable . The effects of the settlement are far-reaching . It makes radical changes in the map of Africa . Taken in conjunction with Italy 's adventure in Tripoli , it indicates a notable step forward in the Latin reconquest of the southern shore of the Mediterranean . It puts a new face on the international situation in Europe . The relations between France and Germany , between France and Great Britain , between Great Britain and Germany , between the Triple Alliance and the Triple Entente that binds England , France , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six months ago . German public opinion loses no time in admitting that the Imperial Government emerges with little prestige from the long controversy . The Morocco question has always had two phases . Ever since William IFs dramatic speech at Tangier half a dozen years ago , it has been pretty generally recognized that the German Government has been using Morocco either as a test of Anglo-French friendship or as a wedge for splitting up that friendship . On that count , Germany has been completely defeated . In 1911 , as in. 1905 , the British Government has shown that it would back up France to the utmost . In 1905 , France did not feel strong enough , even with the assurance of British aid , to face the test of war . That was why Th0ophile Delcasse , the Foreign Minister , who for years had been spinning a web of alliances and ententes with a view ' to an ultimate trial of strength with Germany , was forced to resign at the demand of the Kaiser . Time , which brings its revenges , has brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cabinet he is Minister of the Navy , and not Minister of Foreign Affairs ; but there is no reason for doubting that his hand has been felt in the late negotiations with Germany . What made this diplomatic victory possible was a significant change in the morale of the French nation . In some degree this was due to the feeling that the country was in a much better military position than it was six years ago . But the great reason for the remarkable stiffening of the French backbone consisted in the gen .. eral recognition of the fact that if France yielded now , she might as well abdicate all pretensions to a place among the Powers , and accept a German hegemony . On the purely colonial phase of the controversy , Germany has likewise been beaten . She receives 150,000 square miles of French territory in Central Africa adjoining her colony of the Cameroons , with an outlet on the Congo River . She consents in return to a French protectorate over Morocco , with its larger area , larger population , and much greater natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of giving France the solid north coast of Africa from beyond the Straits of Gibraltar to Tripoli . To France the question of proximity is an important factor in colonial policy . The French are a colonial but not a colonizing Power . The Frenchman will not emigrate too far over-seas . He will go to Algeria and Tunis , which are only across the Mediterranean , and he will go to Morocco . From this point of view , as well as from the administrative , military , and commercial point of view , it is evident that distance from the metropolis constitutes a highly important factor . It is true that France cedes absolute sovereignty in the Congo and consents to certain limitations upon her authority in Morocco , where a number of special rights are guaranteed to German subjects . The possibility of future controversy has not been totally eliminated . Nevertheless , this main source of contention having been removed , there is no reason to suppose that matters of detail will be allowed to bring up the problem in dangerous form again . Diplomatic prestige @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ receives more attention than it deserves . But tracing out the problem in broader lines , we find to-day a serious decline . in German prestige from what it was three years ago , when Aus tria took to herself Bosnia and Herzegovina , while the Kaiser stood by to repel intruders . Now the friendship between England and France is an alliance in fact , and Russian diplomacy is in close relations with the two . The Triple Alliance , on the other hand , is at the present moment put very roughly to the test . Italy is outraged by the attitude of her allies toward the raid upon Tripoli . Italian hatred for Austria has never disappeared , and what Rome regards as the provocative behavior of the Vienna Government might very well prove the deciding factor in Italy 's long vacillation between the Triple Alliance and the advantages of an understanding with France . German prestige has suffered also at Constantinople , where the Kaiser has been regarded as a friend ; this is the second occasion on which the Kaiser 's friendship has failed to Stand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Triple Alliance may survive the present crisis as it has done before , but plainly it is not the picture of a happy family which it offers to-day . In this peaceful end bitter controversy , the rope have reason to congratulate themselves on something more than their immediate escape from a devastating war . Every time that Governments avoid a resort to arms , we have a permanent gain for the growing habit of peace . It was not military hesitations or financial hesitations alone that kept Germany from going to war with France . In both countries , there was unmistakable evidence that the masses had no desire to take up arms over a question of colonies or diplomatic prestige . Even the splendid German army is not the absolute automaton it has been represented to be ; it consists of men to whom it makes a difference whether they are fighting for a cause they have at heart , or are fighting only at the behest of their officers . Italy 's raid upon Turkey prevents us from entertaining excessive illusions with regard to the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But that the growth is there is undeniable . We need only recall that great mass meetings in protest against war have become a regular feature of international crises . BIG-NAVY LOGIC . . Col. Roosevelt has made a distinguished convert to his doctrine that a powerful navy is the great guarantor of peace and righteousness . Mr. Oscar Straus , our former Ambassador to Turkey , confessed in a speech the other night that the seizure of Tripoli by Italy has led him sorrowfully to change his mind and to go over to Mr. Roosevelt 's view . Ardent advocate as Mr. Straus is of all-inclusive arbitration treaties , he declared that the " highhanded buccaneering methods " of the Italian Government had shaken his faith . His words were , as reported : I decided that Mr Roosevelt was right ; that there are certain lines beyond which we should not go in our efforts to maintain peace , and that the surest means of guaranteeing peace is to have as strong a navy as possible to maintain it Italy would never have dared to strike as she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name This is wholly in line wi th what Mr. Roosevelt himself writes in the current Outlook . The " ethical justification " of the attack upon Turkey by Italy he does hot undertake . There are , it appears , some matters in which even he hesitates to set himself against the moral consensus of the civilized world . The press and people of Europe , as of the United States , have been almost unanimous in condemning Italy 's course , and Col. Roosevelt does not venture to defend it , though he thinks , " personally , " that it will be for " the interest of humanity " if Tripoli falls under " European control . " But it is not this " civilizade , " as John Stuart Mill called what could not be justified , that at present concerns Mr. Roosevelt . He desires to point out the fact that the plight of Turkey proves how futile treaties are compared with guns . " If Turkey had had a fleet which , relatively to other fleets , was even approximately as strong as her army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever have occurred . " Such an argument has a very neat and compact look . It appears as clear as arithmetic . It is the favorite big-navy logic . But will it bear examination ? " Relatively to other fleets , " writes Mr. Roosevelt guardedly . Yes ; but what other ? Presumably the Italian , in this instance . Turkey has a fleet , but it is old and feeble and the Italian navy far outclasses it , But Italy was not Turkey 's only possible enemy . She has The possession ' of an is not a national de-It may be merely an international provocation . It is known that Moltke watched with jealous eye the strengthening of the French army in 1874 and 1875 , and actually declared it to be the true German policy , as a question of stark militarism , to strike again before France got too strong This margin of strength which one nation may have over another is the constant study of military strategists . The idea is as old as the Bible . " What king go-ing to make war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether he be able with ten thousand to meet him that cometh against him with - twenty thousand ? " The more closely we look at the problem , as one purely of military might , the more clearly we see that Mr. Roosevelt 's " rela-tively " has all the uncertainties and difficulties covered up in it . Navies that have to be continuously " relative " must be continuously growing all round , and there is no logical end in sight except the whole world thinking of nothing but guns and armor and going bankrupt - in the insane shipbuilding competition . The time has come for a fuller recognition of international good faith and " conscience ; and when we are compelled to face such a wanton act as Italy 's attack upon Turkey , the inference should not be the hasty one of saying that all nations must arm themselves to the teeth , but rather that everything possible should be done to strengthen the moral and peaceful forces in the modern world . CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE . In two trials now conspicuous in the public eye , the question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circumstantial evidence is destined to play an important part , and in the Beattie case in Virginia the prisoner was convicted Of the murder of his wife upon circumstantial evidence . In the long process of obtaining a jury to try J. B. McNamara at Los Angeles , one of the tests of eligibility applied to talesmen by the prosecution refers to their having or not having conscientious objections to conviction on such evidence in cases in which the punishment is death . And whenever the- young minister Richeson , charged with the murder of Miss Linnell , is brought to trial , he will , if convicted at all , be convicted upon circumstantial evidence , nor can there be any doubt that in this case and in the McNamara case alike the resources of able counsel will be directed , with all possible energy , to discrediting the authority of such evidence , and exploiting to the utmost every , scruple or prejudice against it that may lurk in the mind of any juror . That the great majority of intelligent persons are superior to such prejudice , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minority over whom it has sway . And - the great difficulty in clearing their minds lies in the fact that it is almost impossible to fastenon anything tangible at the basis of their error . The only clear reason they can offer is the mere truism that cases have occurred in which a - tion has been obtained upon circumstantial evidence and in which the innocence of the man convicted has afterwards been established . But precisely the same thing has happened , again and again , IL cases where the evidence was not at all what is called circumstantial , but was from direct witnesses . If the fact that circumstantial evidence has sometimes led to unjust convictions was accepted as proving its insufficiency , we should have to drop all attempts to convict of capital offences by any kind of evidence whatsoever . Alleged eye-witnesses have sworn , either through error or intentionally , to the commission of murder b ; persons whose innocence was afterwards absolutely demonstrated ; are we , then , to conclude that no person should ever be convicted of murder upon the testimony of eye-witnesses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to refuse to convict upon circumstantial evidence . Of course , the true test of conclusiveness is of a wholly different nature . The real question is not what kind of evidence has been adduced , but how strong the evidence is of its kind . And that is the test which the common tense of any competent jury , as well as the rule of law laid down by the courts , actually does apply . The question that the jury must answer is one , and only one  --  is there reasonable doubt of the guilt of the accused ? If there is , he must be acquitted ; if there is not , he must be convicted . Evidence that is called circumstantial may remove all reasonable doubt , and evidence that is called direct may fail to do so A large part of what fakes the outward form of scruples concerning circumstantial evidence has , we are sure , in reality nothing to do with the question of circumstantial evidence at all . It is not based on any estimate , however crude , of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but is merely an uncritical application of the doctrine that it is better for ninety and nine guilty men to escape than for one innocent man to suffer With the spirit underlying that doctrine no one will quarrel ; but if it were to be understood as demanding absolute certainty as the indispensable condition of conviction , society might'as well throw overboard the whole machinery of criminal justice . There is no way known to man for avoiding possibility of error in any of the affairs of life . If society is to be protected against murder and arson and burglary and kidnapping , it must hold forth to those who think of committing these crimes a real and adequate peril . Were it to become an accepted doctrine that circumstantial evidence can not establish their THE LOE , B CLASSICAL LIBRARY . The rumor of a great library of the classics , to be published by the munificence of Mr. James Loeb , has now been authoritatively confirmed . The editors are Mr. T. E. Page of Charterhouse and Dr. W. H. D. Rouse , headmaster of the Perse Grammar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an advisory board composed of eminent American and European scholars . The following statement from a printed circular ' gives , the main features of the plan : Mr. Heinemann and the Macmillan Company , New York , have pleasure in announ - ing the publication of a new series of Greek and Latin texts , with English translations upon the opposite page . Each volume will have a brief biographical and bibliographical preface and an index . The volumes will be issued at intervals  --  twenty in the first year  --  and will range from the time of Homer to the fall of Constantinople . This we do not hesitate to pronounce a publication of magnificent promise for the higher things of the mind . Mr. Loeb will have raised to his name a monument more memorable than any pile of stone . The very importance of the project leads us to scan it narrowly . Now , for use in the classroom such editions may not be of much service ; the authors studied there are already printed in abundance and with every sort of editorial help . Nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wide circle of readers who have no knowledge of the languages . For such readers the Greek or Latin text on alternate pages will simply be a bother , and most if not all of the authors they will care to look at are already available in translations . That Latin and Hebrew , Chaldaic and Greek , To the shades of oblivion must certainly sneak , Too much of our time is employed on such trash When we ought to be taught to accumulate cash . We have been well taught in that lesson . It is said that the classics are a lost cause , that Greek is dead and Latin is dying . But they are not dead and will not die . Attention may be asked to an aspect of the classics which is too often overlooked . They may rouse us from the baser forms of materialism and teach us , as Marcus Aurelius says , to look on beauty with a chaste eye ; but they are needed also to protect us against the very excess of our own virtues , and in this office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same way . They may open our minds to the difference between humanism and humanitarian . Tibuilus , fair-minded critic of my Satires that you are , tell me what you are doing now at your country seat near Pedum ? Are you writing things which will surpass the small works of Cassius ? Or sauntering quietly among your peaceful groves , intent on whatever pleases a wise and upright man ? You were never one who lacked a soul . The gods have given you beauty , wealth . and the skill to enjoy it . What more could a kind nurse ask for her dear child than that he have wisdom , that he be able to speak what he feels ; that a good name and good health be his , together with a good table and no lack of money ? Amid hopes and cares , amid fears and keen regrets , think that each new day which dawns will be your last ; then the hour for which we do not hope will come as a glad surprise . The letter finds its complement in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Sed sates est orare Jocem qum donat et aufert , Det vitam , det opes , mquum mi animum ipse parabo . THE VANITY OF EDUCATION : It is impossible not to admire the courage of Mr. R. T. Crane of Chicago in bringing a railing accusation against all our higher education . He makes thorough work of it . First he disposed of the universities Next he exposed higher schooling in general , His " Demoralization of College Life " followed , but this was only a side-investigation , a by-product , as it were , of his factory . Now , he returns to the imam line of his attack , and issues in pamphlet form an address on " The Futility of Technical Schools . " This is plainly to assault higher education in its last bastion . Doubts about the value of high schools and colleges and universities have crept into the minds of many " practical " Americans , but most of them have been ready until now to swear by technical education . It is , indeed , the growing zeal for that which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought in all the new ideas about " vocational " training of our boys and girls , and broken down the classical curriculum by the forcing in of so much science . In fact , the way of salvation for the modern world has been said by many authorities to lie in the development of technical education . German superiority in that line has affrighted England and led her to bestir herself . American efforts in the same direction have been notable in recent years . We have had many new foundations for technical education and seen old ones greatly enlarged . But now comes Mr. Crane to tell us that all this is vanity and vexation of spirit . His specifications are advanced with great confidence and with what he admits to be " harshness . " The popularity of technical schools is due to the fact that they " afford educators opportunity to humbug you and the public , . . . all of which is a part of the whole higher educational scheme to fleece you and the public . " Boys in such schools are there " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " heads of these institutions " to show " any substantial results of such training . " Indeed , he went to headquarters , and wrote to a dozen institutes of technology to demand the names and addresses of firms that employed their graduates . Most of them " either refused to give the information or dodged the question . " Naturally , Mr. Crane 's worst fears were confirmed . After that it was hardly necessary for him to press home the argument that " this country was immensely successful before the technical schools were established . " Let it not be thought that Mr. Crane is simply a destructive critic . He has his alternative to propose . It is " experience . " Instead of wasting six or eight years in technical schools , let the bright boys of sixteen or seventeen be put at once into the shop . Shift them about from one machine to another , let the employers and foremen keep a sharp eye upon them and help and advance them as occasion offers , and then , with an attendance on night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the reading of useful books , you would turn out engineers " likely to make their mark . " At most , they would need only about six months in a technical school to get " further information . " Thus it appears that Mr. Crane would not entirely abolish institutes of technology . He would preserve them for the purpose of giving six-month courses to young fellows from the factories . It would be easy to ridicule this address of the Chicago manufacturer , of which we have sought to give a fair summary , but to us it seems more pathetic than amusing . Seldom can the fallacy of " experience " have been exhibited more glaringly . Yet Mr. Crane argues with great sincerity straight from his own life ; " For the past fifty-seven years , " he says , " I have been engaged actively in the Manufacturin ! g business " ; and if success such as his could be won without ever having seen the inside of a technical school , what possible need is there of that kind of training ? He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the inference runs all through his pamphlet . It is one long glorification of the rule of thumb . We have had great engineers who were largely self-educated , so why not insist that everybody shall educate himself in the dear school of experi-ence ? Now , it is pretty obvious that Mr. Crane has very little first-hand and accurate knowledge of the work of the technical schools upon whose " futility " he descants . He fails by his own test of " experience " ; he would have scant patience with anybody who should submit a business proposal about which he knew as little directly as Mr. Crane knows about the institutions he so rudely assails . He can not be aware how intensely practical is the discipline of these schools ; how in their laboratories and shops they seek to give their students a vivid sense of scientific truth in actual application , thus affording them a controlled and concentrated " experience " certainly worth as much as anything to be gained in the routine of a factory . Nor can Mr. Crane be familiar with the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the great engineering and manufacturing plants , so that their knowledge of modern processes may be kept up to date Severe mathematical and mechanical studies are , of course , made compulsory , but the aim is throughout to show how they impinge on practice At bottom , there is no such antithesis between experience and education as Mr. Crane imagines . A sound technical education gives the student the garnered experience of the whole world . It saves him from wasting time and strength in lines of inquiry or invention that have again and again been shown to lead nowhither . Futility for futility , what can be greater than that of the untrained man , even if of marked natural ability , blundering painfully along for lack of the special knowledge which the schools exist to give him ?                     