@@466554

N the revulsion of horror from this , the greatest and most terrible of all wars , men 's minds turn toward the possibilities of a world-wide and enduring peace with redoubled eagerness . The dream that has tormented the hopes of man-kind since the peace of the Antonines was irrevocably broken rises again with a more compelling urgency and seduc-tiveness . This , say all the belligerents , must be the last war , the war that will make an end of all wars . They are fighting , they unanimously proclaim , that neither they nor their children nor their children 's children may ever be called upon to fight again . Busy brains and ardent natures are every-where concerning themselves with the ways and means of attaining this supreme end ? with Leagues of Peace , the prohibition of private dealings in armaments , the redrawing of the map of Europe along the lines of racial sympathies , the aboli-tion of secret diplomacy , and many other devices . But none of these expedients gets anywhere near the heart of the problem , which can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in two ways : either by the emergence of some great Power that incredibly will bestride the known world like an ncredibly vaster Roman Empire , or by such a change in the dominant motives and emotions of man-kind as will stamp upon armed conflict the moral obloquy that now attaches to slavery . Universal peace means either universal despotism or a transformed humanity . It was one of the faults of the old Peace Movement that it never took the true measure of its undertaking . A year before the war broke out the Twentieth ( and for many years to come the last ) International Peace Congress assembled i at The Hague to illustrate once more the stale truism that the advocates of a cause are often its worst enemies . The thousand or so delegates who met in the Dutch capital claimed to represent and to be working for a movement that , more perhaps than any other movement of the times , aimed at a complete readjustment of the moral values of mankind and a radical change in the politica ! arrangements and instincts of nations and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could only make any headway against the well-nigh immeasurable obstacles in its path by taking i frankly into account the world as it is and human nature as we know it . But this is precisely what its supporters at The Hague in those August days of 1913 declined to do.Their method of over-coming difficulties was to ignore them , and their notion of recommending their propaganda to the judgment of the average man was to evolve from some inner consciousness a series of perfect schemes for regulating a world inhabited by perfect beings . The average man , I fear , remained profoundly unimpressed by all such futilities . It did not in the least interest him to hear that a German professor had elaborated a treaty of fifty-five articles for limiting naval and military expenditure . He could do as much himself , and do it more briefly , with half a sheet of note-paper and the necessary lack of any sense of humor . When he read that the Peace Congress was deep in the discussion of all the advantages that would flow from the creation of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Admirals , " he turned not only in exasperation , but with a sort of relief from these beatific visions to the mad , jostling , uncomfortable but invigorating realities or the world around him . That , of course , is not the way to advance the cause of peace , and the delegates at The Hague had only themselves to thank if men of common sense and with any eye for essentials passed by their deliberations with something like derision . Mankind must indeed be irreclaimable if it does not emerge from this war somewhat saner than it was before . But nowhere are balance and perspective more needed than among those deluded Pacifists who imagined they were doing anything to abolish war with their incredible Utopias , their annihilating solutions , and their imperviousness to the passions that move the common run of men . There was another ceremony at The Hague which some Macaulay of the future will use to point the contrast between the swelling hopes of August , 1913 , and their sequel less than a year later . I mean the dedication , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Palace of Peace . It was an occasion that would have delighted no one more than those generous and aspiring spirits who in- the middle of the nineteenth century dreamed of " The Parliament of Man , the Federation of the World . " It was almost the fashion in the ' fifties and ' sixties for statesmen , in France particularly , to " proclaim " the United States of Europe . Victor Hugo embraced the ideal with an enthusiasm that had a ready response among the republicans of the Continent . Men spoke openly , joyously , of a time when the frontiers of Europe would be abolished and the peoples of all nations would fraternize and co-operate in unity . Nor had the vision wholly departed even up to the very outbreak of the war . Only a few years ago the Emperor William held up the " Yellow Peril " as a danger that would one day force the various nations of Europe to combine for self-protection . Count Goluchowski , in the opening year of the present century , pointed to the agricultural and industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that could only be successfully resisted if the Powers of the Old World agreed upon a common fiscal policy ; and , more recently still , M. Leroy Beaulieu insisted on the economic necessity of some such development . I am by no means persuaded that these eminent authorities were right in their diagnoses , or that the " Yellow Peril " was , or is , or ever will be , either as a military or an economic force , quite so formidable as the Emperor imagined , or that the Austro-Hungarian Foreign Minister did not exaggerate when he pictured Europe as " ruined " by the United States . But the point to note is that in each case the prescription was the same ? some sort of union or federation or compact among the Powers of Europe in the presence of an emergency affecting them all alike . The idealists of the ' fifties , had they lived to take note of these and similar phenomena , and to assist at such a ceremony as beguiled The Hague in August , 1913 , might easily have been misled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their dream . There would indeed have been abundant excuse for their miscalculation . The profound changes which , within the past half-century , have transformed society and our daily routine of life and our habits of mind have all tended to promote , if not international union , at any rate international uniformity . In all the principal nations of Europe the mass of the people receive to-day an almost identical education , have a similar faith or lack of it , enjoy more or less equal access to knowledge and political power , read the same kinds of papers , and think and feel practically alike . Before the war one might have said there was hardly such a thing as a foreigner nowadays . The citizens of one country visit the citizens of other countries , read about them , and come to know them far more intimately and intelligently than was possible even a generation ago . Daily , and without any sense of marvel , we eat in one hemisphere what has been grown in another , and watch laborers year after year crossing and re-crossing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in America or the Argentine enough to maintain them for the rest of the year in their Italian homes . Every writer or thinker of real note may be sure to-day , whatever his nationality , of an international audience . An impartial flood of publicity has swept over the world . The economists of Socialism address millions where formerly they could only reach hundreds . Labor every year becomes a little more organized , not only within the boundaries of each nation , but as between country and country . Science has always despised boundaries , but it is only now that the means exist of bringing its discoveries to the instant knowledge of mankind . There never was a time , again , when the leading peoples of the world so readily exchanged not only their arts and letters and inventions , but their social habits , their sports and amusements . The international flavor permeates pretty nearly everything we do and think and enjoy ; we have come naturally to look for it , and we miss it when it is absent . International congresses of all kinds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the study of foreign literatures and foreign conditions , and the ever-expanding machinery for making the researches and experience of each individual country universally available , all testify to interests and instincts that stretch far beyond frontiers . And while thebonds that link nations and peoples have grown , and keep on growing , both in numbers and in strength , many of the influences that used to separate them have as steadily dwindled . The questions , in particular , of religious faith and observance that once divided men divide them no longer with the old sharpness . It is only in the southeast of Europe , where the Greek and the Roman churches still pursue their archaic feud , that the theologian is now able to sow strife between kingdom and kingdom . Even Islam has been touched by the Zeitgeist ; and the Sultan 's proclamation of a Holy War is seen by now to have raised barely a ripple in the once tumultuous waters of Mohammedan fanaticism . In nearly every capital , moreover , the Jew , a cosmopolitan by heredity , instinct , interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the theaters , and is an increasing power in politics . That great resurrection of women as an economic and political force , which is , perhaps , the most remarkable movement of our age , has induced a sex consciousness which likewise overrides the limits of nationality . Democracy , too , is doing more than level classes ; it is leveling boundaries . It has started a sympathetic current that penetrateseverywhere . There is hardly a political problem in any country that is not reproduced in another ; and there are a dozen problems ? all those , for instance , that we compendiously group together under the name of " The Labor Question " ? which , with whatever local differences , are equally insistent in all countries and betray a common restlessness and a common sympathy under the pressure of common burdens . Political ideas , nowadays , rush through the nations like measles through a school ; and the bonds of commerce and especially of finance and credit have been so infinitely interwoven , and vibrate so speedily to the slightest disturbance , that nothing can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so one might go on , showing by instance after instance how vastly more interdependent , physically , intellectually , politically , and economically is the world to-day than was the world of a few decades ago . Gazing on these portents , an enthusiast of the middle of the nineteenth century , could he but have seen them , might well have exclaimed , in the early months of 1914 , that his work was accomplished , and that Europe stood on the verge of becoming a united commonwealth . That he would have been wrong we are all now but too bitterly aware . But the question why he would have been wrong is at once more important and more difficult to answer . Where was the error in the calculation ? With all these variegated and powerful influences pulling , as it seemed , in one direction toward one broad mark , what was the counter tendency , mightier than them all put together , that checked , defeated , dispersed them in blood and flame ? What was it at bottom that , at a time of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an-other 's throats ? Some will say it was Germany or Russia or Great Britain or some other government ; that it was dynastic ambitions or armaments or bungling diplomacy . But T think for the root cause of this appalling convulsion we shall have to look deeper if we wish to find the comprehensive source which it must be the business of Pacifists in the future to dam . This root-cause , this comprehensive source , I take to be nothing less than the fact and sentiment of nationality . It is one of the paradoxes of our times that as the world of science and literature , finance and philosophy , grows smaller and more uniform , each unit or group of nations seems to grow more self-conscious and more eager to maintain and assert its own individuality . Patriotism or nationality ? it does not matter which you call it ? was never a more stubborn or more jealous fact than it is to-day when all the old landmarks , thanks to the upthrust of the forces I have roughly enumerated , might ? seem onithe very point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the flood of science , reason , invention , intercourse , and knowledge . All international politics reduce themselves to the proposition that I am a Frenchman or a German or an American , and that you are some-thing else . That difference remains , unaltered and perhaps unalterable . It colors everything and diversifies everything ; and it receives its political consummation in the principle of nationality . ' Whether it is in conformity with or in opposition to the spirit of the age and the ultimate trend of things , it endures . Men think and speak of themselves as the subjects or citizens of such and such a Power , and not at all as units in a great brotherhood . They are born and reared in a certain atmosphere , acquire a consciousness limited to their frontiers , accumulate various ideals , modes of life , customs and characteristics , distinctive ways of looking at things , and so on ; and all these acquisitions become intensely dear to them , become , indeed , apart of themselves and intertwined with their highest emotions and their most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and their unity , and the material interests which are the symbol and the product of that unity , against all assailants . It leaves the ordinary man quite unmoved to reflect that he is a member of the human race . It passionately stirs him to know that he is a fraction of some narrower and more tangible community to which whatever he has of pride and love and self-sacrifice irresistibly goes out . Thus far , but no further , have men in the bulk developed through the centuries that corporate sense which manifested itself in the now VOL . CXXX111. ? No. 798. - 109 outworn loyalties of the group , the tribe , and the clan . It is this arrangement of mankind in nations , this spirit of patriotism that no merely intellectual solvent seems able to disintegrate , which accounts for armaments . Men will always take the most effective means at their disposal to defend what they regard as their highest good ; and to most of them the highest good they know is that restricted totality which they call their country , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . That is why , although the peoples of Europe for the past four decades have been steadily declaiming against war and the accumulating expenditure needed both to wage and avert it , no nation has dreamed of disbanding its naval and military forces , no statesman has pointed to any real possibility of limiting them by agreement , no publicist who did not blind himself to the facts was ever able to hold a valid hope of escape from the vicious circle . By common consent the nations of Europe seemed resolved to bleed themselves white rather than back out of the game , believing , and no doubt rightly , that the first one to throw up the sponge would blot itself from the roll of the Great Powers and expose its territory and national life to the predatory ambitions of wealthier or less scrupulous or more steadfast neighbors . What nerved them to endure in time of peace an expenditure on naval and military preparations that for the six leading Powers of Europe amounted to $5,0oo , - coo a day , and is now not far short @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to guard the treasure of their nationality . Everything at last comes back to that . Armaments were the life-insurance policies taken out by each nation for the protection of its highest possession . It was useless to point out that armaments merely bred armaments ; that no Power really believed that other Powers were equipping themselves for defense alone ; that each suspected itself to be particularly menaced ; and that the spectacle of these gigantic preparations , while unquestionably it acted as a deterrent , did much also to foster apprehensions and and mutual recriminations until an atmosphere was propagated of such heated antagonisms and detonating fears that even war came to seem preferable as a relief to the excruciating tension . It was useless , too , to argue that by accumulating the means of strength in a world from which faith had vanished , the nations were accustoming themselves to worship strength and to use it with a more than medieval disregard for right or wrong ; that the conscience of mankind was being rapidly blunted by the idolatry of force ; that international politics had drifted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law and morality , and resembled nothing so much as a series of floating mines . All this might be admitted and deplored , but still from country after country came the passionate , despairing response : " We must be ready to defend and preserve our national life . Nothing else matters so long as we do that . " To those , therefore , who believe in and dream of and work for a coming time of universal peace I would say , " Nationality , there is the enemy . " From what I have seen of their labors I do not imagine that many of them have yet looked at it in that light . They seem to think that some purely mechanical device can insure peace without disturbance to the human background and motive of all wars . They have never realized the fundamental antinomy between peace and patriotism . They have never , in consequence , taken the true measure of their enterprise or mastered that first principle of strategy which counsels a concentration of forces at the decisive point . The essential problem before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is by its very nature a partial and a bellicose appeal , by setting before the world and drilling into its consciousness some higher and more embracing ideal . There is , indeed , a conceivably shorter road to their goal , but it is one they are debarred from recommending . lf , as I have said , some one Power were to dominate the modern world as Rome dominated the ancient , it might for perhaps a century or two impose by sheer force an absolute cessa-tion of strife . But Pacifists in general , I apprehend , are not prepared to welcome or to further any such solution . There remains for them , then , the slow , endless , heart-breaking effort to substi- tute for this instinct or tradition of patriotism the bond of a wider union ; to set up against the claim of nationality the superior claim of humanity ; to enlarge and broaden the vision of men till they see in frontiers and boundaries nothing but hampering restrictions that obscure the view of the vaster brotherhood beyond . When men cease to think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but simply and naturally as citizens of the world , and when they rise into the clearer atmosphere that is unvitiated by prejudices of race or speech or national bias , then the impulse to wars will have spent itself . Some men , a great many men , in part at any rate , do this already . A British scientist learns of the achievement of a brother-scientist in Germany without in the least feeling that his own country has suffered an intolerable humiliation . He gladly and impersonally adds the new discovery or the new invention to his sum of knowledge and counts it as one more gain to be utilized for the service of mankind . Artists and authors and scholars never allow a frontier to come between them and their appreciation of good work wherever done . They partake of it , benefit by it , and enjoy it with a most unpatriotic frankness . It never occurs to them to take up a niggardly national attitude and clamor for a war on German metaphysics , Italian painting , Russian novels , and French philosophy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pacifists is to make this large habit of mind universal , and to inoculate with it in particular those who concern themselves with political and governmental affairs . For these are the fields in which mankind so far has most hideously blundered . Politics and government remain to-day as they always have been , the most lagging and impervious of the " sciences , " the most empirical and at the same time the most reactionary , the least illumined by the glow of big aims and comprehensive ideas . And it is in their political capacity , of course , that men find the sharpest expression of their sentiment of nationality , and the freest and most mischievous exercise of all those qualities and emotions , at once noble and debasing , that the confused prepossessions , the baseless suspicions and the volcanic attachments and repulsions induced by the purely national conception of society , implant in them . To raise the statesman and the voter to the serene air of the chemist and the scholar , where boundaries are a meaningless irrelevance , is no small part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judged from the fate that has overtaken the " Internationalism " of the Socialists . For half a century and more the " workers " of Europe have been adjured by their leaders , prompted thereto by a class spirit that nevertheless was con. scious of wider obligations , to discard patriotism in their own interests and in those of mankind . What happened ? At the first blast from the war trumpet the old Adam of nationality proved too strong and the " comrades " in all the belligerent nations set out with enthusiasm to prove on one another 's bodies the perfection of their brotherhood . This education of the generality of men in the precepts of a patriotism transcending seas and frontiers and embracing the whole universe impresses one as likely to prove a well-nigh interminable process . It is only , indeed , with the eye of opttilism that one can detect the first faint beginnings of it in the rough understanding that Great Britain and the United States have arrived at that war between them is impossible and unthinkable . While nothing changes so rapidly as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this understanding that , such as it is and for what it is worth , it does seem to point to the dawn of an international consciousness But to reproduce the essence of the very special relationship that exists between these two countries and to make it the common form of intercourse among all nations is an undertaking to be measured not by decades or centuries , but by millennials . Yet that alone , as I see it , is likely to herald an age of universal peace . But while nothing less than a complete transformation of man 's outlook and ambitions will in the long run suffice , a Pacifist movement that really knew its business and never lost its sense of history and perspective might in the mean time work with some effect along humbler , but not contradictory , lines . It would start with the encouraging feeling that after this war , and for some time to come , the world will have had its fill of fighting and that a sober campaign against war may be assured of a cordial response . It would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and isolated units . It would dwell upon and strive to reinforce all the factors that are tending toward a cosmopolitanism of mind and vision and interests . It would install in its proper place the tremendous importance , as a stepping-stone to the restoration of international confidence , of the scrupulous observance of treaties and their obligations . And , above all , it would address itself to the task of resolving the perplexities of the average man when he tries to evolve a philosophy of war , to determine what he really thinks of it , and to settle its place and functions and prerogatives as a force in human history . Every one for years past has declared , and declared sincerely , and when the present convulsion has subsided will reiterate with a passionate conviction , that peace is " the greatest of blessings " ; and every one has been , is , and will I suspect continue to be , ready to fight to prove it . Humanity is in a muddle on the subject . Its cultured sensibilities are at odds with its primal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wasteful , and a crime against civilization , yet it has a more or less sneaking admiration for it as a healthy and purging exercise . In the abstract , war is always wrong ; in every specific case it is always right . Appeals to his reason , and even the clearest demonstration that most of the supposed advantages to be gained by a victory over a modern Power of the front rank are illusory , do not affect the average man . Something that has nothing to do with reason or self-interest , and is more powerful than either , keeps him a militarist . He likes to indulge in visions of universal peace , and he likes to have his statesmen negotiate arbitration treaties ; but the peace he declaims about must be a peace accompanied by justice to himself and his nation , and , if justice is not forthcoming , out whips his sword ; and he never really intends to arbitrate any absolutely vital question . Would a world without strife be a world not only without strength , but predestined to anemia and decay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modern industrialism ? That war braces character , evokes fortifying qualities of the utmost utility , and bequeaths heroic memories is admitted , I should hope , by every Pacifist . Could anything else , could a diversion and concentration of men 's thoughts and energies in some other direction , produce the same qualities ? What , if war is to disappear , is to take its place as a moral equivalent ? War is an evil , but is it the worst of evils ? Peace is a blessing , but is it the greatest of blessings ? Armaments are a burden , but are they the least tolerable and the most injurious of the many afflictions that beset all modern societies ? How close is the sequence of cause and effect between armies and navies and social poverty and industrial unrest ? The spokesmen of labor see these vast sums withdrawn year after year from the service of social reform , and squandered on guns and ships that are obsolete almost as soon as finished , and they raise a strident protest . But does that quite cover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " cry out the workers in every land . " If you have this money , which , after all , is largely money of our making , to spend , spend it on us . Make the lives of the nine hundred and ninety-nine a little more spacious and comfortable . Give us some of the leisure and the amenities that have hitherto been reserved only for an insignificant fraction of mankind . " But is that demand quite conclusive ? Does not the argument on which it rests omit as much as , if not more than , it contains ? On these and a score of similar points the average man is in a quandary , and a peace movement which understood the nature of its mission would endeavor to examine and answer them for him . By far the most interesting , and in some ways the most effective , attack that has been made on war during recent years is the attempt to show that its benefits are imaginary . Mr. Norman Angell has won a deservedly wide name for himself by the sincerity and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this home . More than any other man he has succeeded in putting Pacificism on an economic and convincing basis . He demonstrates that the prosperity of nations does not depend upon their political power or upon their armaments ; that most of our present vocabulary of international politics is a survival of an order of things that has long since passed away ; that nations can not now " own " countries in the old sense ? the sense of extracting an exclusive profit from them ; that it is an economic impossibility for one nation to seize or destroy the wealth of another , or for one nation to enrich itself by ? subjugating another ; that an addition of territory is not an addition to the wealth of the nation owning it ; that international finance and commerce form so complex a web of mutual interests that confiscations , indemnities , and the seizure of property are economically futile , being in reality as injurious to the conqueror as to the conquered , and of no benefit to either ; and that a war undertaken with the idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tangible advantage is simply an optical illusion . Moreover , he strongly insists that human nature does change , and that , just as mankind has got rid of cannibalism , slavery , religious persecution , and dueling , and has , indeed , ceased very largely to rely upon physical force in private life , so there is nothing to prevent such a modification of its old instincts and emotions as will make an end of war . By showing that aggression defeats itself in our modern world of credit and universal trading , and by elucidating the real principles of international relationship , he has undoubtedly done a great deal to set men 's minds in a new and saner direction . But I confess to a doubt as to how far a propaganda that plays so largely on the single string of self-interest will avail in abolishing a habit which rests on something far deeper and wider than the pursuit of material advantages . Slavery , as we can all see to-day , whatever it may have been for the slave , was disastrous for the slave-owner ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amplest proof that it did not pay , and that every one who owned slaves was economically the poorer ? It is the vulgarest of errors to suppose that self-interest is the decisive and determinant factor in human life , and that men will desist from a course of action merely because it is demonstrated to be unprofitable . War is the collapse not alone of the reason , but of the higher nature of humanity . It is sound work to show how completely it denies and departs from reason , but it would be infinitely sounder and more excellent to show , if that be possible , that it is a violation of what is best in mankind . When there is a great reform to be accomplished it is not the minds of men , but their hearts and consciences that will carry it through ; and the Pacifists who rely mainly on the economic argument and the appeal to reason merely convict themselves of ignorance of the deeper sources of human action . To what he calls " this great modern gospel that war does not pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I am convinced , the predominant sympathies of mankind , has aptly enough retorted that " that is indeed the only decent and attractive thing that can still be said for war . " Nor do I believe that much ground is gained by dwelling on the brutalities and horribleness of war or by rousing the finer sensitiveness of the age to the more obvious forms of suffering . You might as well hold up a painter 's palette to the unjudging public gaze and tell them " This is Art ! " as attempt to pass off the bestialities of the battle-field as a true representation of war . There is an obstinate suspicion that there must be more in it than that ; there is a not less obstinate conviction that , mean as the world may be , it would be meaner still if the notion once obtained that the flesh was not made for sacrifice . As for arbitration treaties and schemes for limiting armaments and those ingenious and ingenuous proposals for Leagues of Peace , with which so many American journals appear just now to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history had written a flatter condemnation of failure than this ? all one can say of these untutored expedients is that they betray a grotesque misapprehension of the real problem to be faced . Universal peace may come as the result of a world-wide despotism , through the undermining and destruction of the sentiment of nationality and the substitution therefor of a patriotism co-extensive with humanity , or by means of a transformation in the moral values , judgments , and instincts of mankind ; but in no other way .                     