@@430606

SOCIETY consists of a middle , an upper and a lower class . The wary reader who is sure that comment on this commonplace fact can be nothing more than one more " unprofitable elaboration of the obvious " is given due warning . Before commenting on this analysis , let us change it somewhat . The terms middle , upper and lower imply merely a static condition , but social groups are dynamic . Let us use terms which involve not only the status of the three groups but also their active relations . Society consists of a freedom group , a governing group and a subjection group . Economic freedom means ability to live respectably and to make a real choice in the matter of a vocation . The group characterized by economic freedom is therefore large and diverse . As distinguished from the governing group , which also , of course , has economic freedom , it includes the skilled and semi-professional employees and many of those that are unskilled ; small and competitive employers ; independents ( farmers , free artisans , shopkeepers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the professional classes . The freedom group exercises some measure of control of industry , but the chief source of control is the governing or directing group . Control is chiefly in the hands of the more powerful employers and financiers and the men of exceptional ability subsidized by them from other classes . The natural leaders of the freedom group leave their own group because they can find larger economic opportunities with the governing group . Unity of action in directing industry and in controlling the sources of power is for this group comparatively easy . Subjection is a modern equivalent for slavery and serfdom . The subjection of the slave to his master and the serf to his lord is replaced by the subjection of the members of the lower classes to their employers , to sharpers of various types , and  | to the pitiless forces of a highly organized industry . There is a gain , it is true , in the theory of freedom . The freedom group , in maintaining its own interests , incidentally guarantees legal freedom for all . Each man is free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to make choice of his life work . But there is a large group characterized by economic subjection almpst as complete as that of serfdom or even of slavery . With its members , the edge of initiative is dulled , the tonic of ambition is diluted , and the path of advancement is impassable because of the shackles of circumstance . America has witnessed remarkable phenomena ? the social flux , the rapid economic development , the extension of the fron tier to the western coast , and the recoil of the frontier advance upon the great cities of the continent . As a result , ordinary group lines have been indistinct and without special social im portance . But the governing , the freedom , and the subjection groups , while by no means organized or unitary , are character ized by significant differences in economic relations and interests . The peculiar importance of each of these groups may best be discerned from the point of view of the freedom group . The ordinary American of the freedom group purchases as a pearl of great price a condition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children vocational freedom of choice ; and he detests arbitrary power . The group , large and diverse , has nevertheless a fundamental common interest in maintaining these characteristics by opposing the encroachments of the governing group and by resisting the pressure of forces tending toward the subjection group . These terms , , " opposing the encroachments " and " resist ing the pressure " of the other groups , imply group conflicts . There are some who try to see the rise of " socialized capital ists , " whose altruism is to be regarded as an antidote for the alleged virus of group antagonism . But the most conspicuous philanthropy is based on exploitation of the lower classes . Its benevolences are expended mainly in the upper region of the freedom group , for art , literature and higher education . In effect , whether or not in the conscious aim , it is a subsidizing  | of the most powerful element of the freedom group , along the boundary between the freedom and the governing groups . Run over the list of our most noted philanthropists : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And that , let it not be forgotten , is the essential issue : Shall the governing group continue to dominate industry for its own enrichment , or shall fundamental control pass to the freedom group , the governing group becoming representative , industri ally as well as politically ? " Socialized capital " can not reasonably be expected to avert or even seriously to modify this conflict of group interests . The clash of class interests to-day is a continuation of agelong class struggles . The struggles of the past have resulted in free labor , equality before the law , religious toleration , legal freedom of speech and of the press , and personal rather than property suffrage . These principles of liberty have been ac quired by the struggles of diverse elements , but these elements have made up essentially an enlarging economic freedom group . This group has enlarged and strengthened itself by means of a condition which no longer exists . That condition has been the unprecedented economic opportunity opened up to the com mon people of Europe by the discovery of new worlds and by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is nearing an end . There are no more worlds to discover ; and it is hardly con ceivable that science will as rapidly as in the past open up new fields of economic opportunity . Even America has experienced the rebound of the frontier advance . Colorado and California as well as New York and Pennsylvania have their insistent problems of labor and capital , domination and subjection , para sitic leisure and unemployment . The government land policy in encouraging development is revealed in a series of acts cul minating as early as 1862 in the act providing for free homesteads . Since that time there has been a rapid decrease of opportunity till during recent land openings scores of applicants have been disappointed where one has been successful . A few generations ago the States in their eagerness to promote develop ment squandered their resources , and are now attempting a costly  | reconstruction of their policies in accord with the urgent need for public utilization rather than private exploitation . Former reckless policies , both State and national , temporarily opened up opportunities for all , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political as well as industrial control . With the westward expansion there has gone a cen tralization of industry , and a conscienceless grabbing of mineral and timber and water-power-resources and of public land for speculation . The period of pioneer opportunity is ended . A small gov erning group holds legal title to a large part of our natural wealth . It is preponderantly rich and immensely powerful , and its method is not representative directing of industry in the interest of those represented , but despotic private control for private interests . And yet , since the old type of economic oppor tunity available to those without capital is rarely to be found , the only recourse of the freedom group for the maintenance of economic freedom and opportunity is representative control of industry to the end that our resources and great industries may be publicly utilized and conserved rather than privately exploited . It is more than a question of degrees of economic freedom . If the governing group is allowed to maintain its policy of denying to the other groups any effective share in the control of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cen tralization of wealth under monopolistic private control , and economic subjection will confront a larger and larger number of the freedom group . Thus the interests of the various elements of the freedom group in opposition to the interests of the governing group as now constituted are at bottom the same . The common aim of the freedom group should be to wrest from the governing group the fundamental control of industry , making the members of this group its own responsible representatives , industrially as well as politically ; to eliminate from the present governing group the parasitic element ; and to make personal worth and ability rather than inherited wealth and position the conditions of membership in the group .  | Let us now inquire as to the relation of the freedom group to the subjection group . This group is in opposition to the interests of the freedom group in three ways . It is the subjection group that furnishes a large part of the paupers , criminals , and degenerates , entailing burdens of taxation and charity and dangers of social contamination and dissolution . Again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the normal wage earners of the freedom group . Wage earners of the subjection group are accustomed to the lowest standard of living , and are often partly supported by charity . Hence , along the border between the two groups there is a deadly competition , with the advantages ( if such they may be called ) of charity and a low standard of living on the side of the subjection group . Hence there is a tendency on the part of the border members of the freedom group to gravitate toward the subjection group . In the United States , these un healthy conditions might be counterbalanced by other forces were it not for the constant enlargement of the subjection group by immigrants accustomed to a standard of living below that of our lowest classes , and to subjection more abject than that of the humblest of our people . But with immigration of this type , the struggle for economic freedom along the boundary of the groups is extremely severe and perilous for the lower ranks of the freedom group . In the third place , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group in its struggle with the free dom group . This is illustrated by the usual relation between labor and capital during a strike . The ordinary strike is preceded by efforts on the part of the employees to secure a con ference between their representatives and representatives of their employers , in order to discuss and if possible to adjust the terms of employment . This seems to be a simple , peaceable and just method of settling the differences involved . But the employers usually count on another factor . They find at hand or they import docile foreigners and subservient native strikebreakers . They employ these men , and by placing a temporary premium on subserviency , they set the laborer against his fel- lows , and repress the demand for representation in determining the labor policies of the industry . The exploitation of the subjection group by such means as despotic labor policies , child labor , excessive immigration , and the corrupt control of ignorant voters , is a menace and a positive injury to both the freedom and the subjection groups . The freedom group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are three ways of carrying out such a policy : the restriction of immigration ; the absorption of assimilable elements into the freedom group ; and a process of social selection to prevent the hereditary increase of such classes as paupers , criminals and degenerates . Complete elimination can probably never be accomplished , but restriction to the smallest possible number must be the ideal . Let us restate the ideal attitude of the freedom group toward the adjoining groups . At the head of our elaborate industries there must naturally be a governing or directing group . But fundamental economic control ought to pass from the governing group to the freedom group , the former becoming a representative group , similar to and in part identical with the political representatives of to-day . The freedom group should attract to itself or force into the subjection group such elements of the present governing group as are not needed in the actual work of organizing , directing and supervising social activities . The present large element adhering to the governing group and commonly called the leisure class or " the idle rich @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become effective members of the governing group , or of the freedom group , or else sink to the place for which according to their present manner of life they seem to have been designed ? the subjection group . On the other extreme , the freedom group should seek to restrict the subjection group to , those who are naturally inferior and dependent , being sure that those now kept in that group by industrial injustice , social stratification , and the various other artificial restraints on personal worth , have opportunity to rise out of subjection and to strengthen the freedom group . The ideal policies of the freedom group are thus clearly defined , but this ideal is far from ' realization . The funda- mental common interest within the group is obscured by diverse occupations , conditions of life , and non-economic activities . But there are two definite , organized movements , mainly within the freedom group , whose aims are essentially the ideal aims of the group . One of these is the movement for public ownership of the principal industries . Such a method @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control of these indus tries . The supervisors and directors of the great industries would automatically become public officials and employees instead of private capitalists and agents of private corporations . It would also do away with one of the vital sources of weakness within the freedom group . Its natural leaders , the men of ex ceptional ability within its ranks , usually find it to their interest to affiliate with the governing group because this group owns the industries which offer the larger economic opportunities . Under public ownership , these men , instead of becoming alienated from their group , would serve as its representatives . The other organized effort to bring about representative control of industry is more immediate and more directly prac tical in its methods . The centre of this effort is the labor movement . The significance of the awakening consciousness of the workingman was discerned years ago by Gladstone in Eng land , when he referred to it as " the bulwark of modern democ racies , " and by Wendell Phillips in our own country when he " hailed the labor movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the labor movement has been chiefly worked out in the form of arbitration and the trade agreement . Disinterested parties , or preferably , wherever feasi ble , direct representatives of the employers and of their workmen , meet and discuss the labor policies of the industry , make necessary compromises , reach a common understanding , and enter into an agreement touching the terms of employment . In this way the meagre bargaining power of the workmen in selling their only commodity , their labor , is multiplied , and they are able to meet the immense organized resources of their employers on terms of approximate equality . The wage-earners are realizing that the democratic principle in a purely political sense is of little avail . Its roots must run  | deep into economic soil ; it must get down into every-day con cerns ; it must become an instrument as well as an ideal . The trade agreement is the most effective instrument yet devised . " The new freedom " can not be made to order in legislative factories . The life of a people does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are expressions of the life of the people . Much is heard of efforts of public officials to write the democratic principle as applied to industry into codes of law and court decisions , and to enforce it with administrative machinery . But the essential work of making the principle an expression of the life of the people is being done by the people themselves in the factories , the workshops , and the mines . Important social changes do not come about by means of laws ; neither do they come from the influence of the upper classes . These classes , prosperous and self-satisfied , hold to the established order . Elemental reforms , history instructs us , have usually been due to pressure from below . It is not surprising , therefore , that in the most important social change of the pres ent , the application of representative democracy to industry , the labor movement is the chief factor and the employing class is the chief source of opposition . In opposing this change , the controlling element of the gov erning group is seeking the support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In seeking this support , it is aided by certain factors in the freedom group itself . Among farmers and shopkeepers there is often an ex treme individualism and a smug self-sufficiency which blinds them to their real class affiliations and interests . Many have a false pride which causes them to sympathize with the upper class , even though they can never be affiliated with it . The more competent and influential members of the wage-earning as well as of the independent and professional classes are subsidized by the capitalistic class to organize and direct its enterprises . One of the chief factors tending to alienate many among . even the wage-earners from their proper group affiliations is the control of the press and other channels of public information and opinion by the capitalistic class , so that upper-class interests are falsely  | identified with common interests . This is the usual source of opposition to " class consciousness . " But since the essential common interest of the freedom group is representative control of the great industries for the main tenance of economic freedom and opportunity , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utilized by the entire freedom group in attaining this common end . The relative increase of commerce and manufacturing and the centralization of industry in great corporations mean an increase in the propor tion of wage-earners . According to the census authorities , about eighty per cent . of males in the United States ten years old and over are among the wage-earning classes . The American peo ple are preponderantly and increasingly a nation of wage-earn ers . There is , in addition , no rigid distinction between the wage-earning classes , the salaried , and the independent classes . The average salary of public-school teachers is about fifty dol lars a month . There are more than two million hired farm laborers in the United States . About forty per cent . of the farms of the country are operated by tenants . Tenantry , mort gages , and the size of farms are increasing . Free artisans are becoming parts of contract systems . Small enterprises of vari ous kinds , even in the towns and villages , are being absorbed by centralized corporations . The struggle of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organiza tion for a voice in determining the labor policies of industrial corporations is in effect a struggle for the entire freedom group . The strength of the labor movement can not be measured by definite organization . Labor unions are merely the nucleus . The movement in the larger sense , modified by various social influences , and undergoing necessary compromises , represents the largest element of common interest . Its principles , viz. , rep resentative control of industry and public utilization as opposed to private exploitation of our economic resources , involve the essential interests of the group . The triumph of its principles is essentially a triumph of the entire group . In a far more vital sense than the alternative triumph of the governing group , it is a social rather than a group triumph . But the outcome of the struggle seems uncertain . Our capi- talists , our financial and industrial corporations , have such pre ponderant resources and immense power and such united and facile command of their resources and power as seemingly to make them permanent masters . Historical precedents also favor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the course of the nations of the past ? restriction of the freedom group , enlargement of the subjection group , and top-heavy cen tralization of wealth and control in a despotic governing group . And yet there are certain unique forces in our modern world which indicate a different outcome : Physical freedom . No more can the master or even the Government command the body of the humblest citizen unless he has forfeited freedom by crime or degeneracy . Spiritual freedom . The power of the State , formerly used to torture , imprison and kill the persons and to confiscate the property of those who dared to think or to believe contrary to the established order , is now used to guarantee freedom of thought and religion . A larger altruism . Philanthropy is often based upon eco nomic oppression , and altruism can be no more than a supplemental force in any permanent advance even of the subjection group . But the altruism of the age includes more than the conventional philanthropy . Group conflicts continue , but they involve larger groups , and within the groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an enlarging spirit of cooperation . Personal suffrage . In spite of the tendency of the propertyowner to gain extra-legal and illegal control , the principle of personal as opposed to property suffrage is for the freedom group a powerful lever . Universal education . Public education is still in some re spects a blundering experiment , and the majority are prevented by economic pressure from utilizing its advantages fully . But it is a unique and profound force . With increasing emphasis upon the elementary schools , beyond which relatively few are able to go , and with ideals in harmony with the economic needs of the working classes , there is no limit to its power . It is the  | most propitious of the forces which favor the democratization of industry . As was stated in a previous paragraph , these various modern forces developed during the period of geographical and scientific expansion beginning about four centuries ago ; they resulted from , the economic opportunities thus opened up to the common people . The waves of expansion and opportunity that have traversed that long period are now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , having thus because of unusual economic opportunities acquired physical and spiritual freedom , personal suffrage , and public education , may now utilize them as instruments to acquire new kinds of economic opportunity based upon representative control of the great industries . But let them do this speedily . For when a people submit to economic subjection , their legal and spiritual freedom will not long tarry.  |                     