@@493028

Five Weeks of War in the East FOR Americans the best parallel for the second German offensive operation in Poland is the Battle of Chancellorsville . In that Civil War combat , it will be recalled that Lee , hopelessly outnumbered by Hooker , won a triumph of considerable proportions by sending Jackson from his own right flank straight across the whole front of the Union Army and throwing him against the right and rear of Hooker , crumpling up the Federal force , and ultimately compelling its retirement beyond the Rapidan and the collapse of the second great offensive toward Richmond . On a tremendously magnified scale this was the operation undertaken by Von Hindenburg in Poland , which is still continuing when this review is written . When the German movement began , one Russian army was inside the German frontier in East Prussia moving toward Koenigsberg . Two more were approaching Cracow far to the south , one moving west through Galicia , the other south through Poland . In addition Cossacks were again in Hungary , and so threatening had this invasion become that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presently made possible the great Servian victory of December . The fourth Russian army , that against which Von Hindenburg directed his attack , was advancing along a broad front from the Vistula to Lodz in Poland , but its mass was due west of Lodz alongthe Warsaw-Frankfurt railroad , which crosses the Silesian frontier just west of Kalisz . To the north a small detachment of Cossacks had already penetrated into Posen , which for the first time in the great war was now invaded . In this situation it was impossible for the Germans and their Austrian allies to meet all four Russian armies with equal numbers . It was impossible for them to meet the fourth or Polish army , advancing on the Frankfurt line with equal strength , but it was conceivable that by some combination Von Hindenburg might , as Lee did in Virginia , bring a superior number to a decisive point . It was vitally necessary that he should do this , because the onrush of all four Russian armies was now becoming exceedingly perilous to German fortunes in the east . But if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ east , it was probable that the Russians would withdraw troops from Galicia and East Prussia to reinforce their defeated Polish army , and thus relieve pressure north and south and rescue Cracow , now on the point of investment . What Von Hindenburg did was just this . His main army stood on the Silesian frontier facing Kalisz , with the Russian Polish army in front of it . Leaving a small force here , he put his masses on trains and transported them due north on the German strategic lines which follow the frontier , and // detrained them on a front just south of the Vistula and Thorn . Thence he marched them rapidly into Poland , striking southeast along the Thorn-Warsaw railroad . Precisely in the same way Jackson had moved across the whole front of Hooker 's army . Unlike the Union army in Virginia , the Russians were not surprised , but they had no immediate remedy . Railroads were lacking to them , the Germans at Thorn were nearer Warsaw than they were at Kalisz , and it was inevitable , therefore , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Warsaw , cut their line of communications with the Polish capital , and threaten them on flank and rear . Still they retreated as swiftly as possible , followed by the German troops left in their front . When they had reached Lodz , half way between Warsaw and Kalisz , the inevitable had happened , and the Germans were swirling round their flank and in their rear , having broken through the thin line that defended the Russian flank between the Vistula and Lodz . Substantially the same thing that happened to the Federal right at Chancellorsville now happened to the Russian right and centre about Lodz . They were threatened with destruction , swept back in a half circle away from Warsaw , and at the same time attacked in the front by the German troops advancing from Kalisz . But once more the enormous resources of Russia in numbers saved her from disaster . Gathering up all the garrison and reserve troops in Warsaw and the nearby fortresses , the Russians pushed a new army out from Warsaw which took the Germans in the rear . Thus by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half surrounded the Russians at Lodz , found themselves caught between the Russian troops in Lodz , and those coming along the Warsaw railroad and operating south of Lowicz and Skiorniewicz A few days before , Berlin had claimed a decisive victory . Petrograd now began to talk of a German Sedan . But German military skill met the crisis , the gravest for Germany in the war . While the troops in the Russian net cut their way out to the north and west , new troops were hastily brought from Flanders and France to the danger point and covered the broken corps as they emerged from the Russian vise . Some of the most desperate and costly fighting of the war took place at this stage . But when it had terminated , Russians and Germans faced each other in a double line across Poland from the Vistula to Galicia , and the campaign resolved itself into a deadlock . The Russians , straightening out their line , evacuated Lodz and stood just west of the Warsaw-Cracow railroad . The German offensive had thus failed to relieve pressure upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ won no decisive victory . So far the offensive had been a frightfully expensive and relatively unprofitable effort , for the conquest of Polish fields and cities was without military value . It was necessary to continue and to devise some new plan of campaign . This Von Hindenburg did , but not until he had called still more troops from the Western field , and thus compelled the surrender of the offensive in France and Flanders and the abandonment of the drive to Calais and the Channel . The second plan was really a development of the first . The Russian troops drawn from Warsaw to save the Russians at Lodz were not very numerous . When the lines straightened out they became the right wing and stretched from the Vistula to Lowicz north of Lodz . By massing his new troops against this right Von Hindenburg might hope by sheer weight of numbers to force it back upon Warsaw , through Warsaw , and give his Emperor the Polish capital for a Christmas present . His success or failure would depend upon whether the Russians could concentrate enough troops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were incomparably less than the Germans ' . Accordingly the German drive along the south bank of the Vistula continued , pushed the Russians back , until on December 20 they stood at the Bzura River , about twenty miles from Warsaw , in the last defensive position west of the city . This river coming north enters the Vistula a little west of Socharew , which is on the Warsaw-Lodz railroad . In addition to the river the marshes in this region make the position strong for a defensive fight . Meanwhile from all available points reinforcements were being poured through Warsaw to the battle line , and it seemed unmistakable that if the Russians could hold on a day or two longer the second invasion of Poland , like the first , would fail almost within sight of the suburbs of the capital . Warsaw captured , the Germans could expect the Russians to draw back along the front from the Carpathians to the Baltic , abandon the siege of Przemysl for the second time , retreat from Cracow . Already Berlin was celebrating the official announcement that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be feared . Warsaw in German hands might be the eastern outpost of the empire which had now made Antwerp a western bulwark . Russian retreat assured , troops might be sent back to the west to resume the offensive . But if Warsaw did not fall , if Von Hindenburg had a second time to retreat , to go back over the wasted Polish lands now beaten upon by a northern winter , followed by fresh Russian masses , if a new invasion of Posen and Silesia were presently threatened and all the expenditure of life and material in this great invasion proved in vain , the German people would then have to face the grim prospect of a defensive fight on both frontiers , on the east inside their own frontier . New troops might have to be drawn from the west , the allied offensive in France and Belgium might prevail by sheer force of numbers . Such , briefly , was the general character of the last six weeks of the Eastern campaign . In detail it resembled the Chancellorsville fight , in conception it was Napoleonic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when he took his army over the Alps , and , coming down on the Austrian rear , won Marengo . But actually the problem was one of transportation , more to be compared with the task of the operating department of a railroad than with the popular notion of military maneuver . The locomotive had replaced the war horse .                     