@@487057

Now that the Republican National Committee has met in Washington , there has been much talk about ways and means of getting an expression of " Presidential preference " from the voters of the party . This has been caused partly by the fact that the machinery for a Presidential primary has been set up by law in five or six States . And in Congress Senator Cummins has introduced a bill to bring about the election of all delegates to National Conventions by a direct primary . His measure fixes the date of such primary as August 1 in each Presidential year . This alone would make it certain that the proposal of the Iowa Senator is not intended to go into effect in 1912 , since the Conventions will undoubtedly be called for a day in June or July . It is doubtful if Senator Cummins will even press the matter at this session . Indeed , the whole subject is thus far treated in a tentative manner only . As six-sevenths of the States have made no legal provision whatever for any such test of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not include the device in its " call " for next year 's Convention . In Ohio it has been proposed to try the matter out by voluntary agreement , and the President 's friends are said not to be averse to doing so ; but even there the plan is enveloped in doubt , and except in the handful of States where the statutes have provided for a Presidential primary , we shall doubtless hear little of it as a practical matter . Nevertheless , the movement has a genuine interest . It indicates an honest and growing dissatisfaction with the methods at present employed to elect Presidential delegates . And with the coming all over the country of direct-primary laws for the nomination of State and city officials , as well as Representatives and Senators , what more natural than that the nomination of a President , too , should be thought of as something about which it would be well to give the members of the party a more direct voice ? The National Convention , as a means of placing candidates for the Presidency before the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congressional Caucus . But the Convention , in its turn , has come to appear to many to have gone stale and to be losing authority , so that plans for freshening it up and restoring its prestige stand a good chance of getting a hearing . Of these , the suggestion of a Presidential primary appears to be most in favor . A scheme for carrying it out was embodied in the reform legislation of New Jersey , enacted last winter . Section III of the Geran law provides that " all delegates and alternates to the National Convention of the political parties in this State shall be chosen at primary elections " The Secretary of State is to be notified by the chairman of the State Committee , " on or before the fifteenth day of April in the year in which a President of the United States is to be elected , " of the number of delegates to be chosen , which number shall then be certified by the Secretary of State , before April 20 , to county clerks . The latter are then to put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position of delegate may be grouped together , and " may also have the name of the candidate for President whom they favor placed opposite their individual names , or opposite such groups , if they so request in their petitions , under the caption , Choice for President . ' " Moreover , the Geran law provides that in the Presidential primary , as freely as in that of the State , citizens can by petition get placed upon the primary ballot the names of independent or rival party nominees for delegates . How this plan will work in New Jersey , remains to be seen , but ita intent is obviously'to give the voters the opportunity to make their Presidential preferences known with more clearness and effect than ever before . Some are confidently predicting that , by the time four years more have rolled round , the Presidential primary will have become universal . A good deal will depend , however , upon the success or failure of the method in the half-dozen States which resort to it this year . Perhaps even more will depend upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If they are suspected of being boss-ridden , or are plainly manipulated , the impetus given towards an entirely new order of things will be marked . But , on the other hand , if the Conventions bear genuine marks of free conferring together and unforced voting , it will be generally thought that there- is life in the old institution yet . One report which came from Washington bears on the proposal to have Presidential primaries , in a way that may be malicious , but it is at least interesting . It is said that Mr. Roosevelt 's friends are against the idea of primaries . This is not because they " distrust the people " ? perish the thought ! But if the Colonel 's name were to be put forward in a primary as early as May or June , it would compel him to say explicitly whether he wanted it done o His friends feel that this would be awkward  --  for them . What they are figuring upon is a stampede to Roosevelt in the Convention . That could be much more easily engineered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give the rumor for what it is worth , and will only remark that , if there is any truth in it , the result will be to make the Taft managers even more careful than they were in 1908 to see that their delegates can be guaranteed , not only to " stand hitched , " but to be proof against a half hour 's yelling for Teddy . THE RAILWAY SECURITIES REPORT . Much was expected from the very able commission which President Taft appointed to inquire into governmental regulation of the issue of railway securities , and its report meets the hopes inspired by the men . President Hadley and his associates , Messrs . Judson , Strauss , Fisher , and Meyer , have shown not merely that they know how to dig into a complicated matter , but that they can present the results of their investigation in an orderly , lucid , and convincing manner . The very style of the report is interesting . Seldom in an official publication does one meet with such pungent phrasing . There are many crisp expressions that tempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it was possible to standardize food by a Pure Food law , it ought to be possible to standardize railroad securities by a securities law It is possible ? to the same extent and no more The Pure Food law enables a man to know what he is buying It does not certify that the thing he buys is good for him That is left to his intelligence The Government can not protect the investors against the consequences of their unwisdom in buying unprofitable bonds , any more than it can protect the consumers against the consequences of their unwisdom in eating indigestible food It is , however , the substance of the report that is the main thing , and this is of great value . It goes deeply and with expert knowledge into the whole question of railway financing and the relations to it of both Federal and State Government . With patience and close scrutiny it takes up one after another of the " happy-thought " solutions of the problem which have been offered , and shows in detail how they would be either unworkable or mischievous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done by the report . It disposes of many nostrums . What it recommends is done cautiously . It clearly sees evils and earnestly seeks remedies , but nowhere is it under the delusion that a vast complex of established interests , in which the future of the country is bound up , can safely be cut through by an improvised legislative sword . One thing that stands out in it is its strong appeal to the States to do their duty hi the matter of regulating the issue of railway securities . With only one important exception , all American railways are State-chartered . In reference to corporations of their own creating , the States may make any kind of laws they choose . If they desire stringent regulation of railways they can haVe it . They can , if they please , allow the issue of stock for less than par . They can dictate the bookkeeping of the companies , can compel them to the most absolute publicity . In all these ways and others , the States have powers which they have not exercised , and obligations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report is , in its way , as stirring a summons to the States as was Mr. Root 's famous speech . In our opinion , it is made thereby the more wholesome . The Commission , however , is not averse to an exercise of the power of Congress over interstate commerce . The diversity of State legislation being what it is , and the bringing of State railway charters and the methods of State railway control into something like uniformity being necessarily a slow labor , the report favors the invoking of loederal authority . Only , it would be very careful to draw the line between what can be done by statute and what can not , between reasonable expectations . of reducing the amount of outstanding securities or preventing new issues simply because the total " exceeds the physical value of their properties . " The Commission declares that any attempt in this way to " scale down old securities " would be both illegal and inexpedient , would tend to great direct loss , and , by its destruction of confidence in American railway investments , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Moreover , it adds , " such a readjustment would become archaic almost from the outset , because an adjustment of securities based upon the values of to-day might be totally erroneous to-morrow . " What , then , would the Commission nave Congress do ? In a word , make all the stock and bond transactions of railways as open as day . It would not favor Government authorization of securities , because that would tend to create the impression of a Government guarantee of values , and this , as the report asserts , " no administrative authority can safely give . " But every scrap of information relating to securities the railways can be compelled to turn over to the Interstate Commerce Commission , and this is the main recommendation of the report . It would have complete publicity given to actual facts regarding every share of stock and every bond  --  how they were issued , what was the consideration for them , the amount of the proceeds , and how they were used , the names of the parties concerned . Many other details and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as respects all the financial transactions of railways , including the disposition of surplus , the aim of the whole being to put an intending investor and the public in possession of the fullest possible knowledge . It is to this kind of systematized information that the Commission pins more hope than to any scheme of Government " standardizing " or guaranteeing of railway securities . We have but hinted at the broad scope of the report . It should be read entire by any who wish to see trained intelligence and perfect candor applied to a great governmental problem . of education in the notable speech he made at the press dinner in this city . spoke of Canada being at " the parting of the ways , " the idea of firing the hearts of the people of the United States with the prospect of the absorption of their neighbor to the north was as far as possible from his thoughts . But with that want of sensitive imagination which lias on so many occasions involved him in almost fatal embarrassments , he made use of a phrase eminently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wished to impress upon the people of this country was that the opportunity-for tariff reciprocity , if not seized at this time , might not again appear , owing to the possible or probable growth of the system of Imperial preference . But the speech was one that he had deliberately written and read ; and httera scripts menet . When the time came for an appeal to Canadians to rally round their flag and reject the overtures of Yankeedom , Mr. Taft 's unlucky phrase did yeoman service for the anti-reciprocity men . Fortunately for them , what the President 's innocent words merely permitted them to infer by con ; struction had been grossly bellowed out by the Speaker-designate of the House of Representatives ; and the Canadian alarmists would have been either more or less than human if they had not taken the utmost advantage of these real or supposed evidences of the annexation spirit . Nor can there be any doubt that the appeal to the sentiment of Canadian individuality , as well as of Canadian loyalty to the mother country , was a decisive influence in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarded by any considerable number of Canadians as a practical danger , as in any sense imminent in case reciprocity was adopted , it would be difficult to say . Probably many of those who made the greatest outcry about it would answer , if closely questioned , as one distinguished Canadian did who visited this country after the election . " Do you think there was really anything in the annexation cry ? " he was asked . " There was nothing in it , " was the reply , " but it was very useful . " And yet the matter can not be disposed of in an epigram . The case is not very different from that of the Channel tunnel question , which has been coming up in England , at intervals , for something like half a century . It would be a notable convenience , it would be a considerable economy , and a great many people have demonstrated to their own entire satisfaction that it would not constitute any danger to England , as " compassed by the inviolate sea " ; but so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  and in the opinion of some very able judges there is  --  that the tunnel would , under conceivable circumstances , make invasion possible , Englishmen will have none of it . What the reciprocity campaign has really brought out is the unsuspected presence of this same kind of intensity in Canadian sentiment . Probably com paratively few Canadians really feared that reciprocity would bring annexation in its train ; but hundreds of thousands Showed their intense attachment to Canadian independence and individuality by rejecting a proposal which , rightly Or wrongly , they felt would weaken its defences . In an article in the Nineteenth Century and Alter , under the title " The Defeat of Contin.entalism ' in Canada , from a Canadian Standpoint , " this sentiment of Canadian patriotism is represented largely in the light of an extreme distrust and dislike of the United States , or rather of certain traits which are regarded as peculiarly characteristic of this country . According to the writer of this article , Rudyard Kipling 's message to the people of Canada was the real keynote of the campaign . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Mr. Kipling declared . And he went on to speak of our enormous number of murders , of our " haste and waste " in dissipating our resources , of the inevitable result which must follow if Canada pawned her soul to us , in the shape of conformity to " the commercial , legal , financial , social , and ethical standards which will be imposed upon her by the sheer admitted weight of the United States . " This message , says the Nineteenth-Century writer , " was printed not as a paragraph , not as a column , but filled an entire page in many of the leading Canadian newspapers , " and he ranks it as one of the most notable public utterances of recent years . What the writer himself thinks of Yankeeland , he makes no effort to conceal ; it is quite plain that he regards us as eaten up with corruption , as wholly devoid of sentiment or idealism , and as given to lawlessness in degrr - alniost inconceivable in a civilized people . This state of mind diminishes , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actually took place in Canada ; but , after all allowance is made for this , one finds in the article only an extreme manifestation of what , in more reasonable fashion , must have been operative in the minds of a great number of Canadians . How sensible Americans should feel about all this , and how they do feel about it , is an interesting question . For our own part , we strongly suspect that , take the whole population  --  even though it includes some few who are not sensible  --  the result of a campaign in which annexation of Canada was the issue would be very different from what the sapient Champ , in a recent utterance , confidently declared . He unhesitatingly asserted that in such a campaign the annexationist would beat the anti-annexationist ten to one . Our confidence in the sober sense of the American people forbids such a conclusion . We believe that every day of discussion would strengthen the hands of those who hold to letting well enough alone ; who feel that we have enough to do to work out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ territory ; who are conscious that , along with the qualities of which the nation is justly proud , there are others in regard to which it has ample reason for serious misgivings ; who see no reason why a free , prosperous , contented , and progressive nation alongside our border should be asked to merge its individuality with ours , adapt its institutions and customs to our system , and throw overboard its own traditions and preferences . It is not necessary to subscribe to the indictment made by a prejudiced Britisher in order to recognize that we are not the model of perfection ; and even if we were vastly nearer perfection than we are , the idea of recasting into our mould another people , having their own excellences , their own distinctive qualities , good , bad , and indifferent , would offer no attraction to a well-balanced mind . On'the contrary , we have reason to rejoice that some variety of political and social development , some difference in the tone and temper of individual life , has been supplied by the accidents of history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ An all-absorbing Continentalism is as:little to be desired by the United States as by Canada . THE REAL AWKWARD AGE . Who nowadays has a kind word for the middle-aged man ? In Chicago they have just organized a league to war against the cruel practice which makes it - difficult for the man of forty-five to procure employment . Such a practice , if generally accepted , would be enough to condemn any economic system which made it necessary . And yet there is in it negative recognition at least of the fact that the man of middle age does exist . No such hint meets us in the general run of daily news , in science , in literature , or on the stage . In the famous controversy precipitated by Professor Osier , it was the armies of the Young and the old that engaged in fierce combat . Dr. Osier having said that the world would be just where it is to-day if all the achievements of men above forty were wiped out , people immediately began to draw up lists of men who did great things when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unnoticed gap . The quarrel between youth and old age is constantly breaking out anew . One day youth scores with a Cabinet Minister of thirty-two . The next day old age comes back with a golf champion of seventy . The Sunday supplements alternate between women who are grandmothers at thirty and men who grow a new set of teeth at ' seventy-five . The romances of January and May are never-failing in the news . But the humdrum experiences of the middle-aged attract no one 's attention . Thus in the debates between crabbed age and youth the middle period has been virtually abolished . It is assumed that when a man ceases to be young he is old ; when he ceases to be sprightly he becomes automatically venerable ; when he ceases to be fiery and ambitious , he sits by the fire and bores people with his reminiscences . So , the modern stage and the modern novel know only two kinds of lovers , the young lover who is.romantic , and the aged lover who is tragic . The middle-aged lover needs only to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life when the hair begins to grow thin without assuming the prestige of gray locks or a fine bald forehead ; when a man no longer expects to become president of the company and has not yet laid up ' a secure investment in stocks and bonds ; when a man has lost his taste ' for musical comedy and has not yetlearned to read Carlyle 's " French Revolution " by the family lamp . The middle-aged man to-day is in the awkward age . ? - And yet one need not go to the census figures to realize that there must be ' Many men between the ages of forty and ? sixty living at the present time . The middle-aged man , like those other uninspired figures , the plain citizen and the man in the street , is the main burden-bearer of our civilization . He is the father of sons and daughters just old enough to make him worry over college fees and boarding-school bills . He is just old enough to have his sons and daughters scoff at his views as quite old-fashioned , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his youngsters without resorting to argument . He is the keystone of modern suburban development , being in a noticeable majority on the commuters ' trains and at taxpayers ' meetings . He is the man to whom the influence of gold production on prices is not an academic question . He is , in fact , at that age when few questions are academic . Youth can solve the Trust question with a beautifully comprehensive theory . Old age can discuss the question from the standpoint of history . But this common , middle-aged citizen envisages the problem under the concrete aspect of rent , grocers ' accounts , telephone rates , and life insurance . Naturally , he is not a romantic figure . In an age where the grandfathers and the grandchildren divide the attention of the world between themselves , he is just the undistinguished , routine , bill-paying father . If society takes so little notice of the middle-aged man , it must be because society to-day has little patience with anything that is not extremely one thing or another . To-day Conservatism is respectable and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a man 's feelings you call him a Moderate ; Mr. Shaw calls him a snivelling Liberal . In business , Mr. George W. Perkins has abolished the middleman . In the broader social field , Mr. Debs has abolished the middle classes . In society they have abolished the middle initial , writing H. Jerome Jones where we used to write Henry J. Jones . It takes a man of real courage nowadays to say a good word for the once popular golden mean . FORMING PRIVATE LIBRARIES . The number and variety of books found in the shops at this season must be the wonder of all beholders . Much might be said of the handsome editionS , with their elaborate illustrations , some of them in color , - many real gems , if oth : ers are tawdry  --  stretches of river and farmstead , glimpses into lovely old gardens , splendid ruins , some highly successful interpretations of symbolic poems , and new ways of looking at things all about us , such as Mr. Hornby 's etchings of Broadway . But what particularly strikes us is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seem to many , and the doubt will be what to do with so many books . Taken together with those issued in recent years , they include , in convenient form , over and above a host of novelties and superannuated nothings , virtually every important work that survives since the world began ; not only all the masterpieces of European literature , in the broad sense of the word , but a great many lesser books which are useful for sketching in the background of the various periods . The last few years have seen a brave attempt to reclaim the best thought of the Orient as well ; in fact , it would be hard to mention a country some of whose works the bookmakers have not been concerned to bring out in English translations . Much has been heard of the demoralizing effect of too many books , and we do not deny it . The deal of trash for every good book that appears can not fail to do harm , mainly in diverting people from what is excellent . Yet there are rare possibilities in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ libraries was never so great as to-day . Generally it is thought that no library is a thing of pride which does not boast a rare first edition or so , a few curious old miscellanies , and , let us say , a volume of Horace 's odes wherein an eighteenth-century ancestor has written , his own translation of " Integer vibe . " On the other hand , many prized . collections have had great gaps in them which would seem scandalous to-day . The fad of bibliophiles has put an undeserved cheapness upon modern reprints . True bookishness , in point of fact , is not always antiquarian ; for the majority of mankind it ought to be enough that for moderate expense they can have beside them what the great minds of all ages have thought and felt . This , rather than any desire for the old or merely curious , was what spurred on Petrarch in his perilous journeys in quest of classical writings . To-day the labor of book-hunting is not what it was then , and yet there is often weariness of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and in our surfeit we let slip the chance to surround ourselves with what is truly good . We suspect that many readers lack a library because they do not know how to make a beginning of it . The desire for it is often there , and plenty of pathetic cases still exist of men , like the brothers " in " What Every Woman Knows , " purchasing five yards of the world 's best literature . Publishers are willing  --  somewhat too willing  --  to give advice . Strange to say , the masses have been better directed in this matter than those with thicker purses . But it remains for scholars to draw up longer- lists of inexpensive but good editions of works , ranging from ancient to modern times , to which the library-builder may turn with confidence . A single public lecture has been known to start men reading . Yet too often the impulse is short-lived for lack of sufficient understanding of the implements . There are , of course , such inclusive series as Everyman 's Library , but each year sees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confusion grows . With expert assistance one ought to be able in a few years , at a very moderate expense , to assemble a general library of literature , philosophy , and history , and with a few science books to boot . But would men read , once they had the proper books ? Love of good books may be inborn , but in no small measure it can be acquired . Like one 's fondness for pictures , it may grow from a habit into a very active enjoyment . Many will recall their puzzlement , even boredom , upon first visiting a gallery in Europe , and then from an increasing familiarity with the pictures the feel- . ing of friendliness that came as if from old acquaintances . It- would be hard td determine how much in the appreciation of art is genuine , or truly understanding , and how much rests upon manifold associations with the objects viewed . But the initial rapprochement is the main thing , and that is a mechanical process . Travel-worn business men are known to have thanked God Vociferously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and yet to the galleries they do go , and willy-nilly carry away some knowledge . It is true , we believe , that this particular class knows more about pictures than about literature . Yet the book habit should be the easiest of all to form . We have no illusion that by artificial means people can be turned of a sudden into a clerk of Oxford who would rather have at his beddes heed Twenty bookes clad in black or reed , than a comic supplement . There are nevertheless plenty of families whose capacity for good literature is not ' extinct , and who with the proper kind of help would take pride in having a library . And who shall say that with the knowledge that they had directly at hand the main ideas which have made their present existence what it is , they would not browse a bit , until from the habit there came a wholesome curiosity ?                     