@@487109

Conferences about the future of political parties in this country are already being held , and more are to come The Progressive leaders are to have a formal meeting in Chicago on December 10 . But the Republicans will not be behindhand . They are busy putting their heads together and planning . President Taft has let it be known that he means to throw himself into the work of reviving and strengthening his party He makes it a condition that he himself is not to be thought of as again a candidate . His appeal to Republicans is plainly meeting with response . Ex-Gov . Durbin of Indiana writes to the New York Tribune an expression of what is obviously a widespread and rising sentiment : " We shall be reinforced , not dispersed ; our party will fight and win again  --  it will not die . " In all this matter , it is important to keep attention fixed upon the first step that is necessary . This is to form speedily an Opposition party that shall be as effective as possible . Let those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ millenniums . What we need at once , under our system of government by party , is , to vary the English phrase , Uncle Sam 's Opposition . A new Administration will shortly be in power . But it is in its true interest , as well as in that of the country , that there should be a strong party to debate its measures , to scrutinize its policies , and to check any dangerous tendencies which it may display . In the House of Representatives the Democrats will be in strength not only overwhelming but embarrassing . Every cool student of politics is convinced that President Wilson could get on better with a smaller majority . All the more urgent the duty laid upon the minority to be vigilant and aggressive , and to put itself into the position of offering to the people , sooner or later , ah alternative party , which they may use , if they desire , to punish or replace the party in power . Starting with this early and specific need , what party bids fair best to supply it ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position and of opportunity is entirely with the Republicans . They have , to begin with , a great superiority in the numbers of men stationed where they can begin the fight . The popular electoral vote must be put aside for the moment . What we have to ask is where lies the great bulk of the Opposition strength in Legislatures and in Congress . It is in those bodies that the Opposition must be rallied . But the men on the ground , to be rallied , are nine-tenths Republicans In the United States Senate , as it will be constituted after March 4 , only a single Senator desires to be labelled " Progressive . " In the House , the new party will have but a handful If there is to he any effective Opposition at all , it will necessarily , for the next two years at least , be composed of Republicans . These are the palpable facts , but what about the underlying principles ? A party should not be thought of merely as an organization for carrying elections . The Opposition ought to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the party in power over the head . As a great organ of popular expression , as well as of government , a party should have some definite convictions for which it stands , and should present a programme capable of being realized in legislation Precisely , say the Progressives , and just there is where we come in strong . If it is a question of Party principles , where are there any comparable with ours ? And if the decisive thing is a definitive legislative undertaking , what other party can hold its own with ours ? But in this there is something overlooked . A distinct Party has to have something distinctive . To justify and maintain a separate life , it must mark itself off sharply from other parties It may be for free trade , for example , or for protection , but must be so in a way to make it impossible to confuse it with another party . But can this be said of the Progressive party ? Are not most of its principles already embodied in other parties ? Is not its programme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need of a new party ? May it not prove that the Progressive movement of 1912 ? so far as it can be detached from motives of political vengeance or personal ambition  --  really had its lasting significance in quickening and leavening the old parties , rather than in beginning a new one ? We ask these questions in good faith . Upon the answer to them it will depend whether the Progressive party has any promise of long life as an organization by itself . It surely is not yet able to stand as a real party of Opposition . In time , it may push the Republican party aside , or may be assimilated with it ; but at present it is not entitled to be reckoned as the second , or alternative , party , in either the nation or the more important of the States . THE UNION PACIFIC DECISION . Monday 's decision of the Supreme Court , declaring illegal the holding by the Union Pacific of a controlling interest in the Southern Pacific stock , is of importance not only as part of a singularly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the present railway situation The Southern Pacific purchase belonged to what may be called the second period of the late E. H. Harriman 's career . The first , which covered the years from the Union Pacific reorganization in 1897 to 1900 , was marked by notable achievements on his part in building up that recently bankrupt property to a sound and profitable physical condition . The second embraced his efforts to acquire a direct connection westward from the main line Union Pacific terminus in Utah to the Pacific Coast . It was then that Harriman 's negotiations for the Central Pacific property , owned by the Southern Pacific , came to a head . His purpose was absolutely legitimate ; it was the general purpose of the Congress which chartered both Union and Southern Pacific during the Civil War . The two lines were indeed constructed and owned by different groups of capitalists , but the belief of the day was that they would eventually be united into one great through line from the Missouri River to the Pacific . That logical union had never been effected . Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before it was able to contemplate a merger , C P. Huntington , then building his own transcontinental line from southern California to the East , had , through lease and part ownership of stock , tied the Central Pacific hard and fast to the Southern Pacific system . Harriman 's offer to buy the Central Pacific alone was refused It was only after Hunting-ton 's death in 1900 that Harriman finally succeeded in his purpose , through the bold stroke of buying control of the whole Southern Pacific system , where , by , of course , the Union Pacific got its coveted through connection from Ogden to San Francisco . This sequence of events is important to remember ; for the Supreme Court is careful to intimate , in its decision , that while ownership by Union Pacific of the parallel and competing Southern Pacific Railroad is illegal restraint of trade , its ownership of Central Pacific alone is open to no such charge . The holdings of Southern Pacific must be surrendered , but the defendant company is invited to formulate a plan for separating Central Pacific from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Central Pacific negotiation as belonging to Mr Harriman 's second period . It is probable that the manner in which he succeeded in getting possession of that property , through buying the far more important company which owned it , prompted his active brain to conceive the daring exploits which made up the third , the most spectacular , and by all odds the most objectionable , chapter of his railway career . Very soon after the Southern Pacific incident came his failure to get for his company a partial control of the Burlington &; Quincy , followed by his attempt to capture the Northern Pacific itself , which had acquired the Burlington . In the one case , as in the other , Harriman discovered what seemed to be unlimited possibilities of raising money on Union Pacific 's credit , for use in buying up other railways . Like other great capitalists of the day , he completely lost his head in the glamour of such achievements . The disastrous result of the Northern Pacific corner taught him nothing . He went on buying through Union Pacific 's credit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stock in railways all over the United States . He boasted publicly at an Interstate Commerce Commission hearing that he should go on doing so as long as he lived . His death put an end to the process , if indeed it had not already received its quietus from the panic of 1907 , in causing which his exploits had no inconsiderable share . All of these purchases of stock in other railways had been attacked in the Government 's suit as action in restraint of trade , equally with the purchase of Southern Pacific . The Circuit Court decided in favor of . the company as legards all the purchases , but on different grounds . The purchase of South-ern Pacific was not in restraint of trade , because the essential purpose of the merger was to get Central Pacific , which was not a competing line . The purchase of stocks in other railways was not such restraint , because they represented in no case a controlling interest . The Supreme Court now upholds the lower court 's decision as regards these minor acquisitions , but reverses it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facts , the court declares that Southern Pacific and Union Pacific are parallel and competing lines , and that their union under a single management involves restraint of trade . It will thus be seen that the decision does not touch the most dangerous part of Harriman 's idea  --  the conception of a railway as a corporate machine whose credit may be used to buy stocks in other railways not in any way needed for operating connections . The Anti-Trust law was apparently powerless to touch this practice , so long as actual control of competing lines was not acquired . Nothing is more certain , however , than that if Harriman 's plan had been generally imitated , the practice would have been successfully attacked under other laws . Meantime , so far as concerns the Southern Pacific , it is plain that a highly interesting operation in company finance is at hand in the Union Pacific 's disposition of its holdings of that stock in compliance with the Court 's decree BALKAN COMPLEXITIES . Sir Edward Grey 's proposal that the ambassadors of the Powers at any designated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arising from the Balkan war , is unmistakably an indication of the desire for peace that animates at least two partners in the Triple Entente , namely , Great Brit . ain and France . That the Czar also is averse to precipitating a conflict with Austria is made clear in the latest authoritative dispatches from St. Petersburg In the rival camp , Germany , it has been admitted , has been cooperating with Great Britain to find a way out of an extraordinarily tangled situation . Apparently , therefore , there is no reason why the severe crisis of nerves that Europe has been experiencing these last three weeks should continue much longer . It has been a period of exaggerated fears and exaggeratedsuspicions . But such fears and suspicions have arisen less from the existence of irreconcilable conflict of interests among the Powers than from the difficulty of arriving at an understanding on a problem that involves so many contingencies and readjustments . To put it bluntly , the diplomats are badly mixed up . Sir Edward Grey virtually says so when he argues that an ambassadorial conference such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interchanging dispatches among so ' many chancelleries . Take ' nearly a dozen Foreign Offices , imagine how every question brought up in any one of these must be communicated and re-communicated to every other Foreign Office , and only a mathematician can figure out the number of permutations and combinations involved . To cut loose from the telegraph wires and get a half-dozen men around a table would greatly clarify the situation . The British proposal , it should be noted , avoids raising any question that might wound national susceptibilities in any quarter . It does not go into the issues at stake between Turkey and the Balkan states . It proposes to discuss the questions of the Dardanelles , the Bosphorus , and the . ZEgean islands , phases of the Near Eastern question in which Europe as a whole has a legitimate interest . It is true that Albania , too , is included , and it is in Albania that Austrian and Servian interests have clashed . But , strictly speaking , the issue between Austria and SerVia is not an Albanian problem , but an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Adriatic may be reconciled with Austria 's insistence upon an independent Albania . At any rate , for Sir Edward Grey to include Albania in the programme of the conference is to admit that the status of that region can not be left to be settled between the Balkan states and Turkey , and is thus a concession to the Austrian point of view . Undoubtedly , it is in the British Foreign Minister 's mind that when once the ambassadors of the Powers take up the discussion of Europe 's " general interests " in the Near East , their proceedings will react on the specific problems which will lie outside the scope of the conference . The terms that Bulgaria may exact from Turkey , the terms that Austria and Servia may arrive at , are not to come under consideration . But inevitably the negotiations between Sofia and Constantinople , or between Vienna and Belgrade , will be affected by any approach to an agreement that may be attained at the proposed conference . If such a conference does meet , it naturally brings up the question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation in the Near East under its new aspect is probable . The temper of the parties most concerned is unquestionably hostile to such a Congress . The Balkan states remember the Congress of Berlin Even if they are admitted to the Congress on a basis of equality with the Powers , there is no assurance for Bulgaria , Servia , and Greece that they will not be deprived of a goodly share of the prize which has cost them so heavily . With so many " honest brokers " in the field , the outcome becomes highly speculative . Nor is Austria willing to submit what she regards as her rights to general European arbitrament . She took this position four years ago when Great Britain and France brought forward the suggestion of a European Congress for sealing with the situation arising out of tue annexation of Bosnia and Herzegovina . Only on the understanding that a Congress of the Powers will limit itself to ratifying agreements privately arrived at among the interested parties , is Austria reported to be willing to entertain the idea Merely to summon together an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially as the obvious need of the moment is the removal of difficulties that press for an immediate solution . But whether the British proposal bears fruit or not , its effect must be to reassure public opinion . It would be bad enough if a general European , war should come about as the result of iri econcilable differences among the Powers . But that Europe should be allowed to " drift " into war , as the phrase now runs , is an inconceivable thing . The diplomats have not gone about their business skilfully . They have given way to panic at a time when that most sensitive of instruments for registering the course of the future , the stock market namely , has shown no tendency to take fright . Neither at London , Paris , nor Berlin has the Bourse given any indication of taking the prospect of a European war seriously . And Euro pean editors who are so thoroughly used to approaching questions of international politics from the angle of finance are much beset to explain why their news columns should be so excited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ KIPLING 'S SCATTERED VERSE . Mr. Kipling has collected virtually all the verses and chapter-headings scattered through his prose works , with the exception of the " Jungle Books " and the " Just So Stories . " They make a full-sized volume , which he calls " SongS from Books . " A cynic might remind him of Dr. Johnson 's dictum : " He who makes a hook out of books may be useful but can scarcely be great " But it is convenient to have these snatches of song collected , and , in a certain sense , they are more significant than the volumes of his poetry published as such ; since as originally designed they represented , as it were , the poetic pith of his prose , and in prose his main success was achieved . It has required a few years of thinking of other things for most of us to realize how much Mr. Kipling was in accord with the age he heralded . His perfect and immediate adjustment to the times seemed , indeed , almost uncanny . For his message is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way : it invariably has the positive manner of an oracle speaking . His philosophy came to him in a flash , and has remained quite distinct and unchangeable . To sum up his outlook in a word , many have called it vision of empire . Yet if that were his chief concern his words would have lost most of their weight in these days when large portions of the British Empire are keeping much by themselves . Kipling 's hope of a mighty Britannia serves rather as a concrete structure for his ideas in somewhat the same way that Dante gained sharpness of vision by adopting the mechanical notion of Hell , Purgatory , and Heaven . And though the ideas of succeeding days have in each case altered the framework , much of what is attached to it remains intact . Thought of the sun never setting upon British rule helped Kipling , we may be sure , to his extraordinary feeling for the sweep of space and time . In this he is romantic , though romantic in a peculiar sense . Whereas the usual Ro manticist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has little use for experiences which time and space do not record , to the complete understanding of the average man . A lover sent by his lady in search of blue roses , returns with the conviction : Mine was but an idle quest ? Roses white and red are best Yet Kipling- is much absorbed in out-of-the-way places and in the deeds of ancient days , for in one way or another these can be brought into touch with his own interests . His fancy runs easily to the South Pacific , Where the cuttles rest Moored o'er the darker deeps that hide The blind white sea-snake and his bride Who , drowsing , nose the long-lost ships Let down through darkness to their lips Nor has any one felt a greater thrill than Kipling over the foresight of Rom-ulus : But when his brother leaped the wall And mocked its height and make , He guessed the future of it all And slew him for its sake Foreseeing Time 's imperilled hopes Of Glory , Grace , and Love All singers , Caesars , artists , Popes ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which we still conjure . The works of Neolithic man  --  of whom , indeed , Kipling sings  --  catch the fancy when shown to be definite stepping-stones to our own brave selves . Admit a material meaning for the world , and Kipling 's reading of the present age enlightens all ages . Says the Bricklayer : I tell this tale , which is strictly true , Just by way of convincing you How very little , since things were made , Things have altered in the building trade . Sense of fact , of positive achievement , is the breath of Kipling 's creation . Even in his most indulgent moments he has no sympathy with men of different conviction . What though his own kind should be wrong ( the supposition is wholly rhetorical ) , at least they tell the lies I am wonted to , They are used to the lies I tell . Nor has he any doubt as to what constitutes a fact , In this volume of songs there is precious little use of the pretty details of flowers and birds and stars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at ease when he touches them and is always glad to get back to such a manly matter as " the sting of the rowelled steel . " Nowhere in the book is there a sentiment which a man may not enjoy in the presence of his manly fellows . There are no halcyon days , or dreaming for the sheer beauty of the dream . What this all means has been made clearer since the views of NI . Bergson have become so much the order of the day . It has been said that M. Bergson has arranged a series of impressions got from fleeting outward facts , yet no less impressions on that account ; and hence is a counterpart of the Romanticists , whose fleeting inner feelings also yielded sacred impressions . In either case impressions are made the court of final appeal . Since Mr Kipling first began to write , what he labelled " facts " have had more and more to submit to inspection before being permitted to pass as such , at least to the exclusion of other writers ' facts The doubters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is just great enough to make one suspect that most of this poet 's message , though not yet outworn , is on the very point of passing . Some of it , of course , will always remain , as the work of one who could handle a style , in verse or prose , and who saw with amazing clearness what he saw . ROBERT COLLYER . Robert Collyer 's great span . of years made him a survivor of his own active fame . This fact will cause many who did not know the manner of man he was to be moved by his death to dwell mainly upon the romance of his career . In it there certainly was enough to stir wonder and quicken the imagination . For a self-taught boy to have passed from his Yorkshire forge to become a spiritual leader and a public force in the two chief cities of the United States , and to acquire a name throughout his adopted country which stood for years as the symbol of religious freedom and humane aspiration , would alone have made him appear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about by chance . In his case , too , it was personality that swayed circumstance . The " blacksmith-preacher " was as far as possible-from the robustious type of ex-baseball players and college athletes tinged with religiosity who nowadays get a brief hearing in churches and elsewhere simply because they seek to sensationalize Christianity . In these modern curiosities of the pulpit there is no root , and they soon wither away . Dr. Collyer could not have held on his inspiring course for full fifty years if he had not had in him deep wells of thought and feeling which were continually renewed . His nature was , indeed , a rare combination of manly qualities and delicate perceptions . Out of the strong came forth sweetness . It must have been that flowers grew near the young man 's smithy . From the beginning of his public-work he displayed , with every proof of vigorous thinking and positive convictions , poetic sensitiveness and a sympathy as wide as humanity . It was this happy union in Robert Collyer of gifts and traits seldom found together that gave him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a thing by itself . He had brought with him from youth a fondness for the swift and sure words of homely English , and it abided with him . This racy language which he used might have seemed affectation in another ; from Dr. Collyer 's tongue it fell trippingly like the native means of expression that it was . The dress of his thoughts went perfectly with his physical appearance . Virile yet tender , a doughty champion but always overflowing with the milk of human kindness , he was , in his prime , a great figure in the pulpit or on the platform , and even when well-stricken in years he was a benignant presence . In the long sweep of his life he saw many changes in the attitude of Americans towards religion and churches . In one of these at least Dr. Collyer had good reason to rejoice , for it was in the line of that breadth of tolerance for which he always stoutly contended He lived to see the- old bitterness among different Christian denominations largely disappear . The Unitarian ' church , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by many hotly denied the title Christian , at the time that he began his ministry . But that is all gone . It represented a sentiment which to-day seems as dead as the last of the ichthyosaurians . Theological differences may still remain real and be fought for honestly , but before such a life as Robert Collyer 's the most bigoted intolerance grounds arms . Emerson was a Unitarian , and his friend , the seamen 's preacher , " Father " Taylor , was severely orthodox ; but when Emerson died and some one intimated a doubt of his eternal fate , Taylor gallantly remarked : " Well , if Emerson has gone to hell , all I can say is that the climate will speedily change and immigration will rapidly set in. " - For organized Christianity and the value of public worship , it should seem that Robert Collyer came to have a stronger regard as his experience grew riper . In his early years at Chicago , he used sometimes to appear to hold lightly the place of the church in modern life . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Christianity out of doors and under the open sky , in the spirit of Longfellow 's lines , inviting the devout to go into the woods to learn that " there may be worship without words . " But it was noted , at the time that Di . Collyer came to New York , that he took for the text of an early sermon : " I was glad when they said unto ine , let us go into the house of the Lord . " He preached then , and often later , of the indispensable functions of the church , both in meeting the longings of pious souls and standing as a visible witness to religious truth . This was no narrow ecclesiasticism , but simply a frank recognition of the enduring power of the church that is praying yet , a thousand years the same , though kings and empires have come and gone . It was in line , too , with all those ideas about the " institutional church " which have become so pervasive and so fruitful in recent years . Dr. Collyer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the great preachers . It is sometimes said that organized Christianity has become so formal and church activities so extended that there is no longer a place or demand for high and moving preaching . Let Robert Collyer 's life answer that . The pulpit still offers room and verge enough to a great personality . Emerson has somewhere a passage about a man of true native force being able to make his way and do his work even under the oldest and mouldiest conventions . Those who despair too quickly of the future of the pulpit because , as they think , it has become hopelessly formalized , should ponder upon what happens when a sturdy child of nature , with the love of God in his heart and a pulse that beats with every human-wrong or misery , gets up to preach .                     