@@430653

 | THE proposed Constitution for New York State should be adopted because it makes changes for the better wherever it is. essential that changes be made . A growth in New York State 's annual expenditure in twenty years from twelve millions to forty-two millions called for a more scientific method of appropriating money . The proposed Constitution accordingly provides for a budget to be prepared by the Governor , whose subordinates spend the money , know the needs , and can be made by him to estimate closely what is needed . Now the appropriation bills are prepared by legislative committees and passed in the closing days of the legislative session with substantially no scrutiny from the Legislature and with not more than half a dozen members knowing what they contain . The same period of time has witnessed an abnormal growth in departments , boards , bureaus and commissions ? so many in number and so disconnected that the Governor as the executive head can not secure effective work thru them . Hereafter there will be seventeen civil departments , and all functions , old and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is given the absolute power of appointment and removal of the heads of most of them , following the provision of the Charter of the City of New York which has done so much to bring about responsible government in this city . Only four instead of seven state officials will be elected , making selection easier for the electors , and fixing responsibility more definitely . To avoid the necessity of carrying huge sinking funds and paying large interest charges , the state hereafter will issue serial bonds . Bonds will not be payable at a later date than the probable life of the improvement for which they are issued . The emergency message , of the Governor , which made possible the passage of bills without the legislators knowing their contents , will be abolished , and no bill can pass until it has been printed in its final form for three days . The salaries of legislators will be increased so that wage-earners can become law makers without the danger of going to the poorhouse or the temptation to become grafters . It will be possible to deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitutional provision that will give the Legislature power to prohibit manufacturing in tenements ? a power which has been On September 13 The Independent published an article by Frederick M. Davenport , entitled " Elihu Root ? Progressive , " which outlined some of the innovations which the New York Constitutional Convention , then just finishing its work , had decided upon . The complete draft of the Constitution will be voted on at this November election , and we asked Mr. Parsons to give his reasons for believing that it should be adopted in spite of the opposition to it . Mr. Parsons is a thorogoing Republican . He has been a congressman and served as a delegate-at=large to the Constitutional Convention. ? THE EDITOR . in doubt ever since the decision of the Jacobs case by the Court of Appeals and a power which is essential if legislation already passed unanimously is to be held constitutional . Hereafter , we will be able to say that a person can not be deprived of his life any more than of his property without just compensation , for the Legislature may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's compensation . In taxation it will be possible for the state to evolve a modern system as other states have done , thru the provisions which , outside of the City of New York , will make possible a county system for the assessment of real estate and give the State board power over the assessment of personal property . The state every ten years will be saved $500,000 thru the provision in the apportionment article by which future apportionments of Senators and Assemblymen are to be based upon the Federal census , thus eliminating the need of a state census . In connection with the apportionment article , it should be understood that it is not true that the proposed article or the present Constitution provides that Greater New York may never have a majority of the Senators . It may . The limitation which for political purposes is talked about and which is continued is the limitation for which the people of New York City voted twenty-one years ago , and by which Kings , New York and the Bronx ( excepting the annexed district ) can never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less than forty-two per cent of the citizen population now , is accordingly not entitled to half the Senators , and so far as man can see never will be entitled to half . Real home rule will be possible , for to every city is given the " exclusive power to regulate , manage and control its property , affairs and municipal government , " and the Legislature is forbidden to interfere , the state of course retaining the power to have the Legislature pass general laws such as the Property , Penal and Corporation Laws , and also the power to pass laws which apply to all cities of the state without classification or distinction . The home rule power specifically includes the right " to organize and manage all departments , bureaus or other divisions of its municipal government , and to regulate the powers , duties , qualifications , mode of selection , number , terms of office , compensation and method of removal " of city officers and employees . Every city may also amend its charter and make a new charter , the Legislature only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " of city government , and , until the Legislature acts otherwise , a city may even legislate as to matters of state concern , and in cases where a city is concerned with matters outside its territory but relating to its government , action by the Legislature will still be subject to the present suspensory veto power of the mayor . In the limits of this article it is impossible to give all details , but is it not clear that where it was essential that changes should be made improvements are proposed ? Should not the people embrace the opportunity to accomplish these improvements ? By contrast the objections are puerile . Despite his eminence , that is the only way that one can characterize the claim of an ex-judge that because the proposed Constitution does not contain something which for 138 years it never has contained and which it is not essential that it should contain , it should be defeated . A prominent local federal official makes the criticism that the Governor is given too much power , which students of government deny , some claiming that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official may claim that the grant of home rule is even more liberal than was advisable , and another that it is not as extensive as his theory calls for . In the face of all these criticisms remains the fact that the proposed Constitution , the result of five months ' labor of men from all parts of the state who had had experience in government and earnestly sought to make changes where changes were necessary , contains far-reaching and essential improvements and advances . Wherefore it should be adopted .                     