@@430630

 | With the eyes of the nation fastened upon the world 's tragedy enacted in Europe during the recent months , congressional legislation which would ordinarily be held up to the country 's closest scrutiny and criticism has been passed with so far but the scantest public notice . For , social concentration on a given problem under distracting influences is as difficult and unlikely as is individual concentration under like influences . Whatever be the verdict of future historians and critics passing upon the work of the present Congress in the perspective that later events will afford , many thoughtful men of today are persuaded that a legislative program along constructive lines involving commerce and industry is being carried out that will be as searching and far-reaching in its outcome , for good or ill , as the organization of our national banking system or the creation of the Interestate Commerce Commission . As an integral part of this program , trust legislation was of necessity to take an important place . For , the control of Congress elected two years ago rested in one of two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , holding the theory that monopoly is the inevitable outcome of industrial evolution , to be harnessed to social ends through public regulation ; the other , the theory that private monopoly in industry is not an economic necessity , but is due to an unguided competition , results in a social loss , and , even though regulated , restricts unnecessarily individual initiative and action . The latter school , which by the election came into its own , is the exponent , therefore , of the regulation of competition and the overthrow of private monopoly . Both schools stand for regulation ? one , of legalized monopoly , the other , of enforced competition . Both favor a trade commission as the instrument of regulation , but a commission with functions in the two cases as unlike as the theories of the schools . It was to be expected , then , that with the school advocating regulated competition in power , the laws against unlawful  | restraints and monopolies would be supplemented rather than amended , and that a trade commission would be organized . Tho organization of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Interstate Commerce Commission has been under consideration in the Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce for several years . Under Senate resolution No. 98 , Sixty-second Congress , this Committee held exhaustive hearings on every phase of the trust question . In its report of February 26 , 1913 , made through Senator Cummins , a member of the Committee , it declares of the trade commission " that through the intervention of such a body of men the legislative policy with respect to combinations and monopolies could be vastly more effectual than through the courts alone , which in most cases will take no cognizance of violations of the law for months or years after the violations ocurred , and when the difficulty of awarding reparation for the wrong is almost insurmountable . " In his message to Congress of January 20 , 1914 , President Wilson set forth the need of such a Commission and outlined the functions which it should perform . Of its need he says : " And the business men of the country desire something more than that the menace of legal process in these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advice , the definite guidance and information which can be supplied by an administrative body , an interstate trade commission . The opinion of the country would instantly approve of such a commission . " As evidence that such legislation does come in response to a considerable sentiment even of the business public , the Chamber of Commerce of the United States , by a recent poll of its members , declared overwhelmingly for such a commission . A bill embodying the trade commission idea was first introduced in the Senate July 5 , 1911 , by Senator Newlands of the Committee , and numerous bills looking to the same end have since been introduced in both Houses . The bill which was finally enacted and approved by the President , September 26 , 1914 , was the Newlands bill , and is now known as the Federal Trade Commission Act . The Federal Trade Commission authorized by this Act is to be composed of five commissioners , appointed by the Presi- dent , by and with the advice and consent of the Senate . The Commission chooses its chairman from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commissioners may be of the same political party . Ultimately the term of office is to be seven years . Provision is made for the removal of a commissioner by the President for inefficiency , neglect of duty , or malfeasance in office . The salary of each commissioner is fixed at $10,000 a year . Full provision is made for the appointment by the Commission , and for the compensation of , a secretary to the Commission and such attorneys , special experts , examiners , clerks and other employees as the Commission finds necessary . The Bureau of Corporations and the offices of Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner of Corporations will cease to exist upon the organization of the Commission , and all pending investigations and proceedings of this Bureau will be continued by the Commission . The Commission will at once thus have a well adjusted and smoothly running organization at its command , since all clerks and employees of the Bureau and all its records , papers , property , and unexpended funds and appropriations are transferred to the Commission . The general powers of the Commission are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , is , under conditions laid down in the Act , obligatory rather than discretionary . I have classified these powers as follows : Those involving ( 1 ) investigation , ( 2 ) publicity , ( 3 ) the formulation of a decree under direction of the Court , ( 4 ) the regulation of competition , and ( 5 ) the enforcement , under the Clayton Act , of certain provisions therein . The latter class will be included in the consideration of the Clayton Act under which they are granted . The Commission 's general powers respecting investigation and publicity as defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act relate only to corporations , while its powers to regulate competition and to investigate a given business with that special end in view relate to persons and partnerships as well as to corporations . In both cases banks and common carriers are excluded . The term " corporations , " however , is comprehensive  | including " any company or association incorporated or unincorporated , which is organized to carry on business for profit and has shares of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , incorporated or unincorporated , without shares of capital or capital stock , except partnerships , which is organized to carry on business for its own profit or that of its members . " The discretionary powers of investigation permit the Commission to compile information from time to time concerning any corporation subject to the Act which it may designate , and to investigate its organization , business , conduct , practices , and management and its relation to other corporations , individuals , associations and partnerships . As an aid to this investigation it may require the production of any statements , records , correspondence or contracts relating to the business of such corporation . It may require either by general or special orders from any such corporation , or corporations , or classes of corporations , as it may designate , annual or special reports , made in such form as it may prescribe and under oath or otherwise as it may deem wise . Should the Commission require annual reports from any corporations or class of corporations it would be possible under this grant of power to require @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Interstate Commerce Commission has found so valuable with reference to the railroads , and without which , annual reports for comparative purposes have little value . Corroborative of this view we find as long ago as 1900 in the preliminary report of the Industrial Commission the following significant words : " The larger corporations ? the so-called trusts ? should be required to publish annually a properly audited report showing in reasonable detail their assets and liabilities , with profit and loss ; such reports and audit under oath to be subject to Government inspection . The purpose of such publicity is to encourage competition when profits become excessive , thus protecting consumers against too high prices and to guard the interest of employees by a knowledge of the financial condition of the business in which they are employed . " The objection may be raised that these general discretionary powers of investigation are too extensive but they are not  | largely in excess of those already held and exercised by the Bureau of Corporations . A considerable proportion of the 350,000 corporations in the United States no doubt are discretionally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directly affected by this legislation for some time to come will not exceed in the estimate of the Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce 1,000 corporations . It would surely be unwise to limit the powers of the Commission to corporations of a certain capital or volume of business , as has been proposed , since the significance of a given size varies sharply with the industry . Moreover , a corporation of small capital may become the means of monopolistic control of a vast aggregate of capital through the holding company device . It has also been suggested that the character of the corporation 's business should determine the Commission 's jurisdiction , that only corporations engaged in the production and distribution of certain staple commodities should be included . But such a test would be too uncertain to be feasible . It would be difficult in many cases to say whether a corporation was engaged in a given industry or not . The Commission is authorized to investigate trade conditions in and with foreign countries , to determine how such conditions are affecting our foreign trade , and the extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or abroad , and to report to Congress thereon with such recommendations as it deems advisable . Among the obligatory powers of investigation are the following : Upon the application of the Attorney General it becomes the duty of the Commission to investigate the manner in which a decree entered against a corporation in any suit brought by the United States for violation of the anti-trust acts is being carried out and to report its findings and recommendations to the Attorney General . Such investigation may also be made on the Commission 's own initiative . The Commission will find work already cut out for it , in the Standard Oil and Tobacco cases , for few there are who believe real dissolution has been effected in these instances , whether the reason lies in the nature of the decree or in the fact of its violation.  | Secondly , it is the duty of the Commission upon the direction of the President , or either House of Congress , to investigate and report the facts relating to any alleged violation of the anti-trust acts by any corporation . And finally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is required to investigate and make recommendations for the readjustment of the business of any corporation alleged to be violating the anti-trust acts in order that the corporation may thereafter maintain its organization , management and conduct of business in accordance with the law . Such a provision makes it possible for any company charged by the Attorney General with the violation of the federal antitrust law , and which is really desirous of obeying it , to be put into line with its mandates through the advice of experienced and business-trained men without a long drawn-out and expensive suit in the courts . Yet the way to the courts will not be closed by action under this section of the law to either government or corporation . The Commission 's power in the matter of publicity is wholly discretionary excepting that it may not expose trade secrets and names of customers . It may make public its findings and recommendations pursuant to its investigation as to how the decree of a court is being carried out by a defendant corporation . It may make annual and special reports to Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the publication of its reports , decisions , and the results of its investigations in the form and manner it deems best . It may reasonably be expected that the Commission following the example of the Bureau of Corporations in this respect will make considerable use of this power . If the Sherman anti-trust law is to remain upon the books and is to be effectively administered , actual dissolution of monopolistic organizations must be accomplished and competitive conditions secured . In some measure ? to what extent is not yet known ? the courts have failed at this point . They may be depended upon to elicit the facts concerning alleged violation of law and to construe the law with reference to any set of facts . This is their proper judicial function . They have not failed in this particular .  | But neither the Department of Justice nor the courts are themselves constituted or properly equipped to formulate a decree that will gain the two ends at once , unqualified obedience to law and minimum disturbance to business . This is an administrative function secured only through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this Commission is expected to be . It therefore seems a wise provision of this law that the court may , upon the conclusion of the taking of testimony in any suit in equity under the anti-trust acts , refer the suit to this Commission , as a master in chancery , to ascertain under the general direction of the court and report an appropriate form of decree , as is customary for a master in chancery to do in other equity cases , such report being adopted or rejected , in whole or in part , as the court may deem best . Probably the feature of the Federal Trade Commission Act , as it now stands , most discussed before the final enactment is that seeking to eliminate unfair methods of competition . The act without defining unfair competition declares it to be unlawful , empowering the commission both to determine what are unfair methods and to prevent persons , partnerships , or corporations subject to this Act from using them . In the method of procedure whereby the Commission shall determine the exact nature of the methods of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most explicit and detailed , giving the Commission the quasi-judicial power now held by the Interstate Commerce Commission , to hold hearings , subpoena witnesses , and to require the production before it of any documentary evidence relating to the investigation . Should the Commission upon such hearing be of the opinion that the methods of competition in question are prohibited by the Act it becomes its duty to issue an order restraining the party from the use of such methods , said order being enforcible in the United States Circuit Court of Appeals and reviewable in the United States Supreme Court . The findings of the Commission as to the facts , if supported by testimony , are conclusive , and are not reviewable by the courts , but the restraining order of the Commission may be set aside by the court , if in its judgment the methods of competition employed are not prohibited  | by this Act . No order of the Commission or judgment of the court to enforce the same absolves the party concerned from liability under the antitrust acts . It is needless to dilate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole study of the modern movement towards combination , that unregulated competition has been the chief means used to acquire partial or complete control in industry . Monopoly resting on superior efficiency alone is relatively unstable , socially innocuous . It must maintain its lead in efficiency , if it retains its control in industry . Monopoly in name though it be , it dare not charge monopoly prices , lest competition appear , which would surely occur if it were not shielded by legal authority , by limitations imposed by nature , or by business practices which are peculiarly open to large concerns and which are acquisitive rather than productive . There are strong arguments for the legal monopoly exemplified in the franchise when such monopoly is controlled in the general interests . There may be good and sufficient reasons for a monopoly , state or private , which arises from the niggardliness of nature . But a monopoly which owes its existence to power exercised in the crushing of competitors by predatory practices is indefensible . Its continuance though under regulation will serve no useful purpose in lessened costs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; it lowers the ethical standards of society , rendering the individual less observant of the rights of others and the small producer less scrupulous in his relations with both competitor and customer . The investigations which the Bureau of Corporations has made of the business practices of several large industrial concerns have disclosed in practically every case the employment of unfair methods of competition and have laid stress on these as the highway to monopolistic position . The following judicially stated verdict with respect to the Standard Oil Company is a fair example of the Bureau 's explanation of the great industrial combination : " The commercial efficiency of the Standard , while very great , has been consistently directed , not at reducing prices to the public , and thus maintaining its predominant position through superior service , but rather at crippling existing rivals and preventing the rise of new ones  | by vexatious and oppressive attacks upon them , and by securing for itself most unfair and wide-reaching discriminations in transportation facilities and rates , both by railroad and by pipe line , while refusing such facilities so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Commissioner of Corporations on the Petroleum Industry . Part I , May 20 , 1907 , p . XXI ) . And again : " The Standard 's domination in refining and marketing is largely due to this control of pipe lines , to the many illegitimate advantages in rail transportation of crude oil and its products which it has enjoyed , and to the unfair methods of competition which it employs . That the Standard is a highly efficient concern there can be no doubt , but efficiency alone can give monopoly power only by putting prices so low as to undersell competitors , and this is far from being the method of the Standard . " ( Ibid , p. 9 ) . Manufacturers ' associations themselves have in many cases been in favor of prohibiting unfair practices in trade . Representatives of the National Implement and Vehicle Manufacturers ' Association , the Ohio Manufacturers ' Association , and the Illinois Manufacturers ' Association all took action in approval of such a provision before the passage of the law . But while there is general condemnation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the wisdom of a law which prohibits these methods in such general terms that the law must be construed by the Commission before it is known whether any specific method falls under the class prohibited . Will not the business man be left in a position of uncertainty ? But on the other hand it must be remembered that unfair methods , like frauds , could never be effectually prohibited by naming them . Others than those mentioned in the law would be quickly invented . Lawyers believe that the term " unfair competition " has a legal significance which may be construed and enforced by commissioners and courts as readily and as lawfully as may be an unreasonable railroad rate or an unjust railroad discrimination . Thus , Bruce Wyman , Professor of Law in Harvard University , in his Control of the Market , p. 36 , speaks of fair and unfair competition under the common law in these terms :  | " That is held fair which the community regards as consistent with its safety ; that is held unfair which the State considers dangerous to its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hardly be more exactly defined without hampering us too much in dealing with new conditions . The predatory tactics of the modern trusts have shown us that there are new wrongs which our law must be prepared to meet . " And again ( pp. 55-56 ) " to compete as one wills is not an absolute right in our law . On the contrary , competition is only a thing permitted by the State when its operation is for the best interests of established society , forbidden if it is carried on under circumstances prejudicial to the social order . " Thus it is seen that while unfair competition may not be defined in the law in express terms , commissions and courts must adopt and follow some guiding principle if confusion does not follow . Wyman expresses it in the prase , " circumstances prejudicial to the social order . " I have ventured to put this principle in the following economic terms : Unfair competition involves the loss of capital inefficiently worked which can not be withdrawn or shifted to other industries without waste , a loss exactly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ competition ; but the two types of competition are unlike in this respect , that in fair competition a rival is forced to withdraw only when his costs of production are higher than those of his successful competitor , whereas in unfair competition a competitor may be forced to withdraw when his costs of production are as low as or lower than those of his successful rival , a premium being placed not upon efficient production as in fair competition , but upon mere acquisition . Finally , the objection to the prohibition of unfair competition in these general terms can not be grounded upon the fact that property interests are imperiled because of the performance of some act which is not specifically prohibited in law and upon which the Commission has not yet passed . Punishment can be meted out for the performance of such an act only as it is committed in non-compliance to the order of the Commission to desist and then only through the courts . Before concluding the discussion of this Act and the powers it confers upon the Commission it should be noted that  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good faith to meet competition . And any seller is allowed to select his own customers so long as there is no restraint of trade . Enforcement of this provision under the same general plan of procedure as for unfair methods of competition devolves upon the Federal Trade Commission in cases involving industrial concerns . There is no doubt that this prohibition strikes at an evil much prevalent not only at a time when the great combinations were having their most rapid growth but in this present day . Prices are frequently lowered in certain communities by such combinations to a point even below cost with the intent of destroying competition and thereby ultimately gaining monopoly control in those sections . In the meantime in other localities where their control is dominant and perhaps later in those where their losses are accruing , such losses are made good by relatively high prices . Competitors , though of high productive efficiency , unable to meet such unevenhanded competition are squeezed out , and the consuming public suffers from both discriminatory and monopoly prices . As indicative of the general feeling of need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nineteen states had up to the close of the year 1913 passed price discrimination laws , more than half of which were passed during that year . But while the need is admittedly great , is it adequately met by this Act ? Almost any discrimination in price may be held to be due to differences in grade , quality , or quantity of the commodity sold . 1N-here the trust is the buyer of raw materials , it may still be favored in price as against the independent buyer on the basis of quantity taken and out of all proportion to differences in costs of handling and selling of large and small quantities . The Act does not prohibit the selling of commodities abroad more cheaply than at home . It takes no account of the many discriminations between purchasers that may be quite as important as that of price , as the manner and time of delivery , terms of credit , character of service , and other terms of sale . It makes no allowance for difference in cost of production . The discrimination to come under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a phrase of doubtful meaning . Discrimination made in good faith to meet competition is expressly permitted . What discriminations are not made to meet competition ? What will be left of this section after the courts construe its vague expressions is uncertain . Would it not have been wiser had the unfairness and so the unlawfulness of this method of competition been left to be determined in each case by the Federal Trade Commission as of other trade practices ? This Act prohibits what is popularly known as an exclusive or " tying " contract , whereby a lessee or purchaser of goods , patented or unpatented , for use , consumption , or resale , in the jurisdiction of the United States , agrees not to purchase or use the goods of a competitior of the lessor or seller , where the effect of such an agreement may be to substantially lessen competition or tend to create a monopoly . The duty of enforcing this provision against industrial concerns is likewise placed upon the Federal Trade Commission as in the case of any unfair practice under the Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the local dealer and in its monopolistic tendency unfair to the community . It ties the hands of a local dealer to the sale of one brand or one set of brands of a commodity which may be very essential to the supplying of the public demand , but which may not cover the whole range of the public demand along the general line of the commodity . The products of the American Tobacco Company and the International Harvester Company are cases in point of goods that have been sold under such contracts . The contract likewise ties the hands of a manufacturer who must lease the machines he uses and who under the contract may use only one maker 's machines and equipment . Some of this equipment or even any substitute for it may not be obtained elsewhere and is therefore necessary to continuing in the business . Yet other parts of the equipment which could be obtained elsewhere might be far superior or procured under more advantageous conditions . The products of the United Shoe Machinery Company and those of the General Film Company are examples of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out to the lessee or purchaser in the form of better prices , rebates , sole agencies ,  | local monopoly conditions , etc . But these inducements do not always work out to the advantage of the local dealer . In other cases there is no special inducement , except that to comply with the terms offered is the one way of remaining in business . A manufacturer may refuse to sell or lease a commodity to one who does not handle or use the manufacturer 's goods exclusively , and no prosecution may follow so long as no agreement or understanding exists . This renders evasion of the law possible . Except for this , and the uncertainty arising from the phrase " to substantially lessen competition , " the prohibition would appear to be wisely made . Is not this practice , however , an unfair method of competition and , consequently , covered by the Federal Trade Commission Act ? Section 7 of the Act forbids the acquisition of the stock of one company by another when the effect of such acquisition may be to substantially lessen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in interstate trade . The acquisition of stock that does not have this effect is not prohibited . Exceptions are expressly made in the law of the acquisition of stock solely for investment purposes , of the acquisition of the stock of subsidiaries for carrying out the lawful business of the corporation , and of the acquisition of stock by railroads of branches or independent lines for purposes of extension where there is no substantial competition . The law does not apply to the holding of stock acquired before the passage of the Act but such holding is by express provision declared not to be made legal by the Act . The provisions of this section are , as those prescribed in the Federal Trade Commission Act respecting unfair methods of competition , enforced by the Federal Trade Commission , except that the Federal Reserve Board and the Interstate Commerce Commission have jurisdiction in these cases , respectively , of banks and railroads . For one corporation to hold the stock of another is at common law illegal , but a majority of the states by special statute now permit it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Today the holding company whose primary purpose is to hold stocks of other companies is merely  | a means whose end is commonly the elimination of competition . In so far as it restrains trade or tends to monopoly in interstate trade , it was clearly unlawful under the Sherman Anti-trust Act . However , the courts might possibly hold that a restraint of trade , such as this , is not necessarily an unfair method of competition and therefore not included by the Federal Trade Commission Act as a subject of control for the Commission . This section , while in no way abrogating the old method of attack through the courts on the restraint of trade and monopoly involved in the holding company , with its attendant penalties on conviction , does provide a means of quick action through the Commission against all new cases subject to the law , with power to compel the holding company to divest itself of the illegally acquired stock . Unnecessarily , as it seems to me , there is brought into this provision , as in several other provisions of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " to substantially lessen competition . " No one will know its meaning until the courts have interpreted it . Unless it is a mere redundancy it can not mean a restraint of trade . The courts have held that " restraint of interstate trade " and " restraint of competition it interstate trade " are not interchangeable terms . In U. S. v. F. I. duPont de Nemours Co. , 188 Fed . Rep. , 127 , 151 , the court says : " There may be , under the anti-trust act , restraint of competition that does not amount to restraint of interstate trade . " Would the acquisition of the stock of one company by a competing concern constitute a substantial lessening of competition in the meaning of the law even though there were no effects , as in a restraint of trade , prejudicial to the public interests ? This Act also aims to reduce the evil of the interlocking directorate . After two years no person shall be a director or other officer or employee in any two or more than two national banks , any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and undivided profits aggregating more than $5,000,000 ; nor may the director of a private bank of like size be eligible to be the director of any national bank . And no national bank of any city of more than 200,000 inhabitants shall have as a director or other officer or employee any director or other officer or em- ployee of any other bank located in the same place . But a director or other officer or employee of any bank whose stockholders hold the entire stock of any other bank may be the director or other officer or employee of the latter . The interlocking directorate is likewise forbidden for any two or more competing corporations engaged in interstate commerce , other than banks and common carriers , any one of which has capital , surplus , and undivided profits aggregating more than $1,000,000 . The enforcement of the interlocking directorate section when applicable to industrial concerns rests upon the Federal Trade Commission , and when applicable to banks , upon the Federal Reserve Board . The real evil against which this section is directed is interlocking control , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control may be exercised quite as effectually , through a voting trust , dummy directors , or community of stock holdings , as through common directors . These are all forms of the evil . Why prohibit one form rather than the evil itself whatever the form it takes ? In fact , is not the evil prohibited in the broad provisions of the Sherman Act and would it not have been preferable here merely to have stated , in statutory language of course , that when interlocking control such as , in the judgment of the Commission or Board , constitutes a violation of the Sherman Act , is disclosed , the Commission or Board shall have the power to proceed as in cases of unfair methods of competition ? This , too , would have eliminated the wholly arbitrary limitations with respect to size found in this provision of the Clayton Act . An interlocking directorate among corporations whose capital is just under a million dollars is as indefensible , if a restraint of interstate trade is effected thereby , as an interlocking directorate among corporations whose capital is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ size , should be the test . I shall speak of but one other provision of this Act , that exempting certain organizations from the operation of the anti-trust laws . Human labor is declared not to be a commodity or article of commerce , and the anti-trust laws are not to be construed as forbidding the existence and operation of  | labor , agricultural , or horticultural organizations , instituted for the purposes of mutual help and not having capital stock or conducted for profit , or to forbid or restrain individual members of such organizations from lawfully carrying out the legitimate objects thereof . The purpose of this section , even though it may have been urged by certain organizations with selfish motives , seems to be a worthy one , viz. , that of furthering socially helpful co-operation . But it is doubtful if the law attains the object with respect to some of these organizations in the right way , if it attains it at all . The labor provisions have been almost universally approved . President Wilson , spokesman for the public , may we hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Hon. Oscar W. Underwood , October 17 , 1914 ) : " Incidentally , justice has been done the laborer . His labor is no longer to be treated as if it were merely an inanimate object of commerce disconnected from the fortunes and happiness of a living human being , to be dealt with as an object of sale and barter . " Ex-president Taft , as lawyer and judge , stated in his presidential address before the American Bar Association , October 29 last : " We have seen that the changes from existing law they " ( the provisions in the labor sections of the Clayton Act ) " make are not at all radical and that most of them are declaratory merely of what would be law without the statute . " Representative of the laborer 's attitude , the Council of the American Federation of Labor in its annual statement before the Convention in its recent meeting at Philadelphia said that it " contains the most fundamental , the most comprehensive enunciation of industrial freedom , found in any legislative act in the history of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Davenport , general counsel of the American Anti-boycott Association declares : " in the shape in which it finally passed , " the Clayton Act , " makes few changes in existing laws relating to labor unions , injunctions and contempts of court , and those are of slight practical importance . " Does such universal satisfaction argue the enactment of a labor provision of little value ? It seems rather to mean merely  | this : Labor prior to this enactment had as a protection against prosecution under the Sherman law , for effecting and operating an organization which might be construed as a restraint of trade or monopoly , only the decisions and rulings of the courts ; now it has positive law . It is satisfied . The employer is convinced that labor is protected by this provision only in the legitimate ends of its organization , viz. , collective bargaining and mutual help gained in certain ways recognized as proper . He believes that it will not legalize intimidation , violence , or the secondary boycott . He is satisfied . If these views of the provision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contains terms which until construed by the courts render it somewhat uncertain , its enactment must serve a worthy purpose . No system of wage-fixing has yet been devised that gives so much of promise as that of collective bargaining . Employers and employees alike believe in it . Mr. Frank P. Walsh , chairman of the Federal Commission on Industrial Relations is reported to have stated in an address last month that only five out of three hundred employers representing the great industries of the country who had been examined by the Commission disagreed with the underlying principle of collective bargaining . Though we may disapprove most emphatically of certain trade union practices , unless we choose to reduce the laborer to sharp inequality before the employer , or to fix his wage by public authority , we must accept this principle , and with it , the organizations which alone can make it effective . This section as originally framed in the House included fraternal and consumer 's organizations . The former were omitted in the Senate draft in that not even a forced construction of the anti-trust law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feared that the latter might be held as applicable not only to the consumers of food , clothing , etc. , but to the consumers of raw materials . It is doubtful if the exemption of agricultural and horticultural organizations has more than a " scrap-of-paper " value , for to be thus exempted they must neither have capital stock nor be conducted for profit . If a farmers ' organization can be found that is conducted on purely literary and social lines , it  | page deleted                     