@@430538

IN our American university world only one tendency remains really constant : the tendency to change . Every decade , every ye ' ? , brings new movements and new experiments , new inspirations and new-fads , new truths and new errors . The educational unrest which pervades the pedagogical efforts of our country in every stage from the kindergarten upwards , finds indeed in the college its most important outlet . This unrest is not blameless in all cases . It is often the expression of haste and superficiality , of social nervousness and almost of hysteric desire for changes : moreover its aims are not seldom mere notoriety by eccentricity or advertisement , and attractive power by cheap indulgence to popular fancies . Yet fundamentally this unrest in the college world and these frequent changes and experiments are the signs of a wholesome and most desirable situation . The American college would never fulfil its glorious mission for the nation if it were not ever ready to accept and to realize new ideas and suggestions . By far the most characteristic movement of the last decade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is an exaggeration to claim , as the enthusiasts of the Middle West sometimes do claim , that no Western boy has any longer a reason for going to Harvard or Yale , Columbia or Johns Hopkins or Princeton , no Western girl for going to Bryn Mawr or Radcliffe , to Wellesley or Vassar , or Smith . Some good reasons do remain , and they mean more than a mere worship for a long history and its traditions ; there is an atmosphere and a spirit which can grow up only slowly in the new centers of learning . Persons who can afford it will probably for a long while still continue to send their sons and their daughters East , and what they take home with their bachelor 's degree will be more than mere social prestige and more than the knowledge which they might as well have gained within their state boundaries . Nevertheless the influence of the new development is tremendous and the Eastern colleges feel the competition distinctly . The state universities , as the crowning parts of public education , are paid for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ student at the payment of only a nominal fee ; the old colleges are endowed institutions , and , however rich , yet are dependent upon not inconsiderable fees . Accordingly the economic conditions greatly favor the attendance at the Western seats of education . Drawing Power of State Universities Above all , the state university draws young people into college life who , without this stimulation , would never have thought of a higher education . In the State of New York for every one hundred thousand inhabitants less than two hundred of their sons and daughters are in college ; in Illinois  | two hundred and thirty , in Wisconsin two hundred and forty-six . These much heralded figures do not mean quite so much as it may appear . The youth of New York more frequently go to New England or to New Jersey than the Western boys leave their state ; moreover the entrance conditions do not stand on the same level . But they surely indicate a splendid trend toward the enterprising and enthusiastic Western universities , and perhaps give a useful warning to the Eastern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laurels . But this growth and rivalry became much more significant by the arising of distinctly new university ideas in the new centers of scholarship . The nation experienced not simply a duplication or multiplication of that which existed before , but the vigorous spirit of the West created original forms of educational influence and almost new types of educational ideals . This , moreover , was not confined to the state universities ; endowed institutions like the University of Chicago had their important share : they all were bristling with new plans and newfashioned , if not revolutionary , principles . Was the new always the good ? The East was often inclined to doubt it . A mere change is not necessarily an improvement . Much appeared trivial , much hasty , much imprudent , not a few variations from the older types were evidently nothing but adjustments to a less refined state of intellectual culture and to youth with poorer preparation and with less academic aims . The result was a somewhat condescending attitude on the part of the Eastern seaboard . Western Influence upon Eastern Colleges Yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those modern innovations and experiments . To a certain degree they were forced to it by the demands of rivalry ; they did not wish to lose ground in the West for the sake of remaining national and not becoming provincial . To a greater degree they imitated unconsciously , because some ideas which cropped out in the West spread quickly and became part of the general pedagogical creed of the country . But at many points they resisted and turned down the suggestions of the restless Western spirit as unfit for the academic repose and the cultured setting of the Eastern colleges and universities . Enter , Home Economics The problem is the introduction of home economics or household sciences , or , whatever we may prefer to call that new branch of studies , into the college curriculum . The source of the opposition is familiar . College education is to lead the mind of the young woman to all which is true and beautiful and noble , to a realm of ideals and inspiration far removed from the sordidness of practical life with its commercial interests and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one time in the woman 's life career in which everything is to appeal to her purest and finest emotions and is to stimulate her highest mental energies . Have we a right to fill this time too with the trivial miseries of household care and turn the enthusiastic eye of the young woman from the Parthenon to the kitchen utensils and the sewing table ? That may be all right for special commercial schools and industrial pseudo-colleges ; that may fit Simmons , but it would distort and injure Bryn Mawr . This feeling of repugnance , which frequently has grown into indignation , is not a little strengthened by the knowledge of some of the motives which evidently have entered into this campaign of the state universities . Everybody knows that the farmers of the Middle West have more enthusiasm for good harvests and for reduction of the household expenses than for Greek literature or radioactivity . Their It is well known how co-education appears a matter of course in all colleges on the other side of the great educational divide . and how separated education in the college @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington . Recent years have brought another new Western experiment , which to-day can hardly be called an experiment any longer , as it has succeeded splendidly and hence has certainly come to stay in those regions where it was started . The question is whether it will spread beyond its original Western birthplace and whether it will find an entrance into the conservative East , which as yet seems vehemently opposed to the proposed intrusion . This time the women students alone are concerned ; it is , therefore only a matter for the large leading women 's colleges of the East whether they will finally resist or finally yield .  | state legislature will accordingly be more easily cajoled into voting public money for the increasing expenditures of the state university when the practical instruction stands in the foreground and makes a showing which appeals to everyone in the crowd . Agriculture for the boys and domestic science for the girls fulfil this desire exactly . Hence the introduction of domestic science may be a clever political move in the budget game out there in the Western state capitals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institutions . Even if their trustees were to listen to such financial arguments , they would probably calculate that the number of students and accordingly the income will be the larger the more firmly they uphold the cultural ideas of the surrounding Eastern community . Yet , fortunately , they are anyhow independent of such practical speculations , and can ask straightway : what is the best for a college student ? Only on this ideal level ought the question to be answered everywhere : if the decision has to be that home economics is unbecoming for a true college and adverse to its ideal interests , the taxpayers and legislatures ought to he educated up to the better insight . But is such a negative decision really demanded by the true meaning of the college as a place of liberal culture ? Is he who believes in domestic science as an organic part of a college education really disloyal to the highest ideals of the Eastern traditions ? The Household Courses The detailed plan for such household courses is , of course , not uniform . In various universities the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be repeated almost everywhere on a more or less imposing scale , with more or less elaboration and with richer or more modest equipment . Everywhere a large part of the college work in the department of household sciences naturally belongs to the study of food in its widest aspects . The chemical composition of food , its manufacture , its changes by heat or cold or fermentation , furthermore its physiological effect on the body , the bacteriological problems , the principles of diet , the relation of food to health , to age , to sex , to occupation , and finally its economic side , its selection , its preservation , its fullest utilization , the tests for food alterations , the pure food laws , are the chief topics . Many of them demand laboratory exercises and practical investigations . Another large group which is prominent in all programs refers to the house as such . There the interest turns on the one side to the architecture and sanitation , including the study of surroundings and construction , of soil , drainage , ventilation , heating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practice in making skeleton plans . On the other side it ' turns to the house decoration , with special reference to the aesthetic and historical aspect of furniture , to the color harmonics , to discrimination in rugs , in wall papers and so forth . A third group deals with textiles , their manufacture , their selection , their microscopic and chemical analyses , the hygienic and aesthetic aspects of cloth , the physical and chemical problems of laundry work and many related questions . Finally we find everywhere a scholarly study of household management , in which the organization of the household , the expenditure of the family income , care of the house , principles of nursing , and similar domestic activities are considered . In some universities we also find courses in sewing and dressmaking with practical exercises . In others , special emphasis is laid on medical nursing . Again other institutions offer courses in " humanics " in which the center lies in the problem of the child and his development from infancy to adolescence . How does such a programme fit into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meaning of college education in that conservative spirit which prevails in the East ? Of course , tkere is a possible view of university purposes from which such a traditional " cultural " intention excites only ridicule . The university , the opponents say , is the place at which everybody ought to have a chance to learn everything which has any importance for him ; it ought to be the great department store for knowledge in which you may find everything which men know and learn ; and as many a boy or girl prefers to learn typewriting or metal cutting or to know about farms or the stock market to the reading of Sanskrit or the interpreting of Milton , let us by all means have the useful , practical study courses on our warehouse counters . For such a view of university life no problem and no question is here involved . To know how to manage the household , how to  | buy food and how to select the wall papers is a useful acquirement and if it can be learned , surely the college must give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universities would not only object to such a view ; they would consider it as a prostitution of their ideals . The college , they would claim , is not to offer to everybody everything , but only to the well prepared ones that which will help them toward a fuller development of their inner life and which will prepare them to build up their vocational or avocational later life on a broader and firmer foundation . The much misused word " culture " after all signifies the meaning better than any other ; it emphasizes that all strictly technical and practical teaching , however important it may be , does not belong there . The lawyer , the physician , the engineer , would never seek his professional training in the undergraduate college course ; the technical and professional instruction of the less complex type like that of the household may in the same way be relegated to special institutions , but must not be allowed to trespass upon the academic yard . A Tendency Against Professionalism This tendency against professionalization in the college period is indeed not weakening in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consider as typical the changes in Harvard College which for many years was most progressive in the direction of perfectly free election of college courses . Certainly the courses offered were only those of cultural value , but among them every student had complete liberty to take or not to take what he pleased , and that after all meant a certain concession to the professional spirit . The student would naturally be under a temptation to select only such courses as stood in a definite relation to his later specialized life work : the future physician can not pursue medical courses in his undergraduate years , but he felt inclined to take exclusively courses in the natural sciences which helped him toward his later studies in the medical school and he neglected his opportunity to broaden his mind by humanistic interests . This indirect help toward one-sided professionalism has recently been abolished even in Harvard ; the practice of many years was changed two years ago into an educational policy which insists on a certain breadth of studies . The courses are divided into four large groups and every student @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not go toward graduation with natural science only , but must also have some studies in history , in languages and so on . If in this way even the leader in the movement for free election has yielded , it may be acknowledged that the unprofessional character of the college is to be upheld for the near future . But does this really exclude the household sciences ? Of course we must leave ouf of consideration that small minority of students who devote themselves to domestic studies in order to use them for professional life careers . Several such careers stand open . Some wish to teach home economics in the secondary schools or in commercial institutions ; some plan to devote themselves to vocational work as dietitians , or as sanitary inspectors , or as managers of food laboratories , or as designers in commercial industries , or as interior decorators , and so on : some , finally , intend to carry out scientific research in home economics in the service of biology or of political economy . All this is important , but it does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students alone were involved , it would be wiser to hand it all over to special technical schools or to the graduate departments of the universities . Some of the state universities indeed have advanced courses for such future specialists in their graduate schools , seminary courses in research or courses on the teaching of home economics and similar professional instruction . Wherever domestic sciences are taught in college , these specialists may partake in them in order to go further on in the field , but their interest has no right to decide whether such studies are fitted for college . Our introductory undergraduate work ought always to steer clear of overtender respect for later professional specialists , as otherwise the rights of . the overwhelming majority become neglected . I have been lecturing on psychology in Harvard this year before four hundred and twenty undergraduates who have selected my course , but I hope that surely no more than a score will become psychologists for life and will be concerned with psychology ten years hence ; the course belongs therefore by right to the four hundred other men  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nobody- doubts that the study of psychology , or philosophy , or literature , or history , or physics can have this cultural significance ; the problem is whether we have the right to claim such a value for home economics . " Cultural " Does NOT Mean " Useless " By all means let us not forget that cultural does not mean , or in the least suggest , that a study ought to be practically useless . It is true that some opponents of the traditional college have delighted in picturing the usual college studies as merely ornamental fancies , as if the students were trained there in a kind of intellectual calisthenics . That is nothing but a caricature . Not mental dancing , but mental athletics , are taught in college , and that brings to the youth a gain in mental strength and power useful and helpful for every effort in practical life . But even in a more technical sense the applicability of a study does not contradict its fitness for the college curriculum . As I said , nobody doubts that I am giving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychology , and yet a considerable part of that work is devoted to problems of practical application . We consider carefully in what way the facts of psychology may be made serviceable to school education , or to the needs of the courtroom , or to vocational guidance , or to psychotherapy , and I confidently hope that many of my students when they go out into the world as teachers , or lawyers , or physicians , or business men will find their psychological studies useful in their daily life and helpful for the solution of many very practical problems . It is certainly no different with studies in economics and government , or in physics , chemistry , biology , mathematics , geography , and nobody who devotes much of his college time to cultural studies in modern foreign languages and literatures will disregard the practical advantage of his proficiency in understanding the language for actual usage . Within these reasonable limits the usefulness of the courses not only does not contradict the demand for culture , but is directly demanded by it and harmonizes perfectly with it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the great world which awaits him with its serious demands . It is not by chance that the new Harvard plan , while it forbids a professional one-sidedness , at the same time insists that a certain large part of the chosen courses be clustered in one particular field ; a mere nibbling of all kinds of studies is no preparation for the earnest tasks of life : the concentration of studies is early to point to a unified aim in the future . The college-bred youth is never to be severed from the practical world by his culture courses , but to be brought to a point of outlook from which that practical world is understood in its truer connections and deeper meaning . The mere fact that the studies in home economics will be practically useful to a girl whether she marry or not , and that they will later on help her in her problems of the day , is therefore not in the least an objection to their cultural standing , provided that such culture value exists at all . The Test of a Study 's Value @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the test for this value ? We have already pointed to the most essential criterion so far as the subject matter of a special study is concerned . Any study is a fit part of general higher education , if it contributes to an understanding of life and the world in their inner connections . To see nothing in isolation , but everything in its relations to causes and effects , to purposes and developments ; to see , in short , everything against the background of the natural laws and of the history of civilization : this characterizes the truly educated , as it makes him able to see the great things great and the small things small . Not everybody can , or ought to , understand everything , as no one comes in contact with every feature of the social and natural world . But at least that fraction of the world in which our individual life is embedded , the history of our institutions and national life , of our art and literature and language , the principles of the nature which surrounds us and of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our social aims and ideals , ought to be brought within reach of everyone who seeks the highest level of cultural education . Beyond that point the professional detail begins , which may interest the lawyer but  | not the engineer , or vice versa , but all this refers to the world which is common to all in our national circle . Yet , even in this circle , there is some differentiation , or at least some shading . The facts of government and politics and certain aspects of economics belong essentially to the world in which the ' average man has to work out his daily life ; they are surely not foreign to woman 's experiences , yet they are secondary for her activity . If she studies them in a thorough way , it takes a kind of professional character ; it is not an essential part of her cultural education . The Problems of the House Correspondingly the problems of the house and the household , of food and clothing , are organic parts of the world in which the average woman in our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is in contact with them , but they are secondary for his achievements ; hence if he were to study them , it would be professional , not cultural interest . For the woman , however , nothing can be a truer part of cultural education , if culture really means the ability to see the offerings and questions of our particular world not isolated , detached , accidental , but against the background of law and development . To use the telephone and to send a wireless message without understanding of the principles of electricity , or to talk party politics without knowledge of American history , is typical of the uncultured . Is it less uncultured to be in practical contact with shelter , food and clothing and yet to be unaware of the relations in which every single piece stands to a world of past and present and future facts . No bit of furniture stands in our room of which every detail does not possess a long and complex history , often reflecting the whole history of human progress . Every form and curve of the chair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the rug , every variation of the bed or the mirror , of the spoon or the glass , is a part of a fascinating story of development . But besides the historical aspect the aesthetic viewpoint demands its right . Every piece then becomes an organic part of a harmonious whole in which the life totality of a worthy personality is expressed . Every patch of color , every ornament , every characteristic form of the smallest piece as well as of the largest becomes suggestive and significant in this wider aesthetic setting . And finally each piece is made from material which nature supplied and which indus- edge of the industrial processes . Accordingly the tray , or the vase , or the picture frame , the rocking chair , or the piano , or the little rug in our room are accidental and meaningless so long as we take them disconnectedly . But as soon as we have acquired the necessary deeper know ledge , each of them leads us to the whole of social history , to the structure and laws of nature , to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aesthetics and indirectly of morality . Each apparently insignificant object becomes a center of crystallization for most manifold interests . A richness of relations is now understood which is dead for the unprepared , and this is the test and the meaning of culture . Exactly the same is , of course , true of food , or clothing , or shelter . In the case of food the historical and aesthetic relations exist , but become less essential ; in their place we have the very important connections with health and disease , with the bodily functions related to occupational work , to sex and age ; on the other hand the conditions of their production , the relations to the kingdoms of animals and plants and to the physical and chemical processes in the kitchen , and finally their complex relations to the national economy , to the conditions of the world market and to the social principles of home economy . In short the cup of tea at the breakfast table may , to the naive mind , be just tea in a cup , and that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tea are the crossing points of thousandfold interests . The cup connects itself with the history of the forms of pottery through thousands of years , it links itself with the chemistry of porcelain , it evokes a world of aesthetic considerations . At the same ' time the tea becomes related to the natural history of the tea plant , to the technical processes and to the economic conditions which lead to its appearance on the market , to the physics of . its preparation , to its effect on the nervous system , to its value in the whole scheme of nourishment . The cup of tea will be no less tempting , because a background of culture has set it into a world of significant connections . A woman can not take a nobler power from her college life into the turmoil of the world than the gift of seeing every element of the home in this wider perspective , that is of substituting the cultural aspect for the trivial one . The One Motive for Introducing Household Economics The necessary consequence , to be sure , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only if it is really given for this purpose of widening the perspective and interpreting the single fact by its relation to the whole social , historical , naturalistic and aesthetic background . As soon as the teaching of domestic sciences sticks to the accidental facts and refers only to the external technique , its place is in a technical household school and not in the college . A practical course in cooking or sewing is certainly a useful and important exercise for many girls , but to introduce it into the college world means indeed to give up the true college ideal . The state university which announces a course in which " a heavy skirt and a simple lined dress is made " and another course in which " a suit of underwear is sewed " and " attention is paid to the mending of clothing " can not possibly be an example for Eastern colleges . But most of the state ' universities keep away from such concessions to the desire for mere technical skill . The colleges do not  | teach piano practice either , although they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The college is no place to learn cooking and mending , but what the true studies in domestic sciences offer , with their wealth of historical , sociological , biological , chemical , aesthetic and economical information , is endlessly better and it ought not to be missed in any women 's college which aims toward real culture . The Practical Need The effect would , in the first place , be practical . Where an immense waste of means , of strength , of time , of health , has been going on , a well-planned adjustment to the economic and biological conditions will begin . It is claimed that nearly ten billion dollars are spent annually in the United States by women for household maintenance ; yet it is spent without that deeper knowledge of the material , its sources , its effects , its characteristics , which would be demanded in any other large economic transactions . Not only the budget but the bodily health of the family , and through it the whole nation , must suffer . The waste of national resources through the public recklessness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conscience of the whole land ; the economic waste in the families through woman 's lack of deeper understanding of household sciences is still more appalling . But the practical good will be accompanied by ideal gains . The gain in home happiness resulting from better health and greater savings must follow immediately . But , besides it , no one can overestimate the gain through the aesthetic pleasures which may be hoped for . There is no denying that the overwhelming mass of American homes , rich or poor alike , show little taste ; endlessly less than the female inhabitants of the house demonstrate in their dresses . The dress of the home can not be bought completed from the tailor who is , after all , a specialist ; the dress of the home results from the work of those who live in it and their culture becomes decisive . It is an easy thing to pick up a vase or a chair on a bargain counter , but it needs a firm cultural background to determine whether it will contribute to a noble harmonious whole or whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the room for which it is planned . The American nation , strong in its ethical instincts , is in the midst of acquiring aes thetic feelings , and they must slowly grow by irradiating from the home . Only when the house , the room , the meal , all are attractive and beautiful , will the spirit of beauty reach out to the whole town and surroundings . Yet the ideal gain lies still in another direction . The household work and the householder alike suffer from the depressing idea that the work of the housekeeper is drudgery . It is well known that this is the chief source for much of the dissatisfaction and restlessness in the world of women . Now the truth is that every human being 's life work is in its largest part drudgery , if the elements of the work are taken isolated and detached , and they become interesting and inspiring if they are viewed in their deeper relations . As soon as you analyze the doctor 's , or the lawyer 's , or the teacher 's , or the manufacturer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , unimportant , accidental and therefore tiresome and hardly worth while , but as soon as the wider connections are understood , even the smallest becomes significant . A woman who sees the detail of her home work in the light of broad knowledge no longer knows it as drudgery ; every little item in the house bristles with interests , every activity of hers is linked with all mankind ; aesthetic and moral , hygienic and economic problems of highest importance suddenly seem involved in apparently little matters , the whole surroundings become luminous and wonderful . It would be more than could be hoped if the blessing of such cultural knowledge would fill the heart of every good woman in the land , but it ought at least not to be withheld from those fortunate ones who can devote four of their best years to their highest education on the college grounds .  |                     