@@493020

The New REPUBLIC A Journal of Opinion VOLUME I New York , Saturday , December 5 , 1914 NUMB ER 5 INDICATIONS are accumulating that the time of Congress may be occupied less with the ap ? propriation bills and the remains of the legisla ? tive programme of the administration than with the problems of military reorganization and national defense . The Republicans will do their best to concentrate public interest on the military unpre ? paredness of the country . Lacking , as they are , in an available and promising domestic policy , they need an issue on which they can assume an aggres ? sive national attitude , one that will distract popu ? lar attention from economic issues and problems . The issue of national defense is precisely what they need . It offers the opportunity which every party seeks of converting patriotic feeling into partisan capital , and rarely is such an excellent opportunity provided . The military unpreparedness of the United States is notorious . It can be proved out of official document . It is not even denied by those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the years of Republican rule , but attempts were being made to diminish it . It has become worse since the Democrats have come into power . The Republicans can fasten a certain amount of re ? sponsibility for existing conditions on their oppon ? ents ? enough to furnish them with a partisan issue . All they need in order to convert the issue into a veritable sword of partisan warfare is a refusal by the Democrats in Congress to consider the ques ? tion and provide a sufficient remedy . THE Democrats should not allow the Repub- licans to appropriate the issue of national defense . They should not encourage an agitation in favor of a very much more expensive and bur ? densome military establishment by refusing to pro ? vide a remedy for the deficiencies of our existing military and naval organization and equipment . No doubt such an agitation is the inevitable result of the European war , but if it must come , the oppon ? ents of militarism should not allow their forces to be divided by any action or any failure to act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phase of national foreign policy . At present the United States is not prepared to defend itself against attack . Its military establishment it not only entirely insufficient to support the Monroe Doctrine , or to defend the Philippines , Panama and Hawaii , but it is inadequate to protect our sea coast from in ? vasion . The country must adapt its military or ? ganization and equipment to its needs . In order that the army and navy may not be excessively bur ? densome , it may be necessary frankly to abandon certain responsibilities which the nation has assumed in South America and the Pacific ; but even though responsibilities are diminished , the preparations re ? main flagrantly inadequate . The Democrats should recognize this fact , and should blunt the edge of the sword which the Republicans will try to sharpen for their undoing . They should see that the fleet is sufficiently manned , and that its fighting efficiency is fully restored . They should vote larger appro ? priations for the equipment of the army and for adequate reserves of ammunition , guns and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? gressman Gardner 's resolutions providing for a full investigation into the subject of national defense and military organization . If they fail to do as much as this , they will be inviting a popular agita ? tion which will be dangerous to their success at the next election , equally dangerous to national security and peace , and fatally distracting to steady progress in the work of social improvement . AN orgy of map-searching and map-changing has brought into prominence the free but not unlimited country of Moresnet . This sovereign state had its origin in a boundary dispute between Holland and Prussia . The Council of Vienna , not wishing to have another war while everybody was so tired , decided to neutralize the disputed territory under the joint control of Holland and Prussia , . and when Belgium became independent from Hol ? land she kept this half-interest in the 1,500-acre nation . For years Belgium and Germany ruled the country by a sort of alternating arrangement , but the inhabitants , in canny Moresnetian way , took ad ? vantage of this awkward situation so as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ standing army , and obviously they could have no other kind . Being only a mile wide and a mile and a half long , the state of Moresnet has no imperial am ? bitions such as might be the curse of a thirty-mile country like Luxemburg . It has no coinage , no king , and little crime . It contains a mountain and a zinc mine , and , unless the Germans stepped on it on the way from Aix-la-Chappelle to Liege , three thousand people . THERE is no use in making believe that talk about prosperity or the contemplation of little Mary Sunshine will supply an answer to the hideous suffering of the approaching winter . We are face to face with a state of affairs so bad that already an organized charity like the Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor reports more people on its hands than at any time in the seventy-one years of its history . It had forty-five per cent more families to take care of this Novem ? ber than it had last . On the lower East Side so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who is forced to sign the orders has re ? volted publicly at the task . From Chicago come little items like this : " One State Street store at ten o'clock had been visited by four hundred and fifty-six applicants for positions . Of that number the management selected three girls . " These facts indicate an inordinate amount of misery made in the U.S.A. They call for quick , concerted and generous action , which we shall not get by covering up the facts for fear of hurting business , or by starting a hundred overlapping , badly informed and badly financed committees , or by looking only on what is called the bright side of things . Every city needs to do at once what the New York city administration has this week done ? appoint a cen ? tral commission to coordinate all the existing agen ? cies , to dig out the facts , to estimate the extent of the problem , and to drive a realization of what it means into the heads and hearts of all of us . The well-to-do are going to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have to stand for real expen ? diture . But the giving will be totally inadequate and the spending of what is given will be wasteful if the newspapers and public officials are silent about the needs , and voluble about the little committees and the haphazard efforts of our well-meaning but undirected good-will . JUST now it is not a question of a radical remedy for unemployment . What we have failed to plan in comparative prosperity we shall not be able to carry out spontaneously in a terrible emergency . There should be no relaxing of the attempt to create a national system of labor exchanges , to establish unemployment insurance , to take the " un ? employable " out of the labor market , to regularize production . All these necessary steps may receive an impetus this winter when people have seen what it means to be unprepared for a crisis , and when they have been thoroughly frightened by the demon ? strations of the unemployed . But this legislation will not immediately help the thousands of families who are already in want of beds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relief , given to them because they have to have it . At the present rate of giving they are not going to be re ? lieved . We are informed by one competent ob ? server that the charities at home are having their budgets cut something like fifty per cent because the more spectacular suffering of the Belgians has diverted much of the normal giving , and because there has been a good deal of " economy " among the rich which has left the American charities with smaller resources to meet a larger demand . It sug ? gests how unseeing and how fickle is private phil ? anthropy , for terrible as it is to starve in Belgium , it is no less terrible to starve in the United States . KILLED : 3631 . This is the record of mines and quarries in the United States last year . It means a death rate of about three and a half per thousand . To complete the picture we learn that the injured are estimated at one hundred thousand . These figures are from the report of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement of the Director , Dr. Joseph H. Holmes , that , taking the hazards of the industry into con ? consideration , the losses are excessive and unnecessary . We commend the miners to the consideration of those who fear that peace will destroy the courage of mankind . NEWS dispatches this week suggest that the President is considering whether he should ask Congress to amend the Sherman Anti-trust Law so as to allow exporters to cooperate in foreign markets . This amendment might be accompanied by an inquiry of the new Trade Commission into the industrial combinations abroad with which American merchants compete . The suggestion , we believe , is a good one . It would be public recognition of the fact that artificially preserved competition is an anomaly when markets have widened to the world . It would be the abandonment of prejudice against size , and the beginning of an open avowal that the object of legislation about business is not to obstruct organization or to hinder cooperation . The people of the United States have no interest in unbending roles . Their interest as consumers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results of organiza ? tion , not in dogmatic assertions about its form . ADMIRAL Mahan will be missed not only by his friends but by everybody who likes con ? troversy at its best . Dying at the age of seventy-four , after making his mark upon the thought of our time , he had probably done his work as a writer of books . But his admirable work as a newspaper controversialist was by no means over . Every now and then , though not nearly so often as he had something to say , he would send to one of the New York papers a letter upon some topic of immediate interest ; perhaps a protest against unfair attacks upon Colonel Roosevelt 's motives , perhaps a discussion of the ethical questions raised by Mr. Bruce Ismay 's departure from the Titanic . No one else had quite such a happy hand in con ? troversy . Nearly every one of his letters proved the possibility of using courtesy and fairness as highly destructive weapons . " UNDER a Democratic President and Governor , " says the New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wheat crop amount ? ing to double her best preceding yield . " But against this admittedly magnificent achievement there was the fire in Salem , Mass. , the loss of the Davis tennis cup , civil war in Mexico , uncivil war in Europe , a dry September , and the hoof-and-mouth epidemic . IT would have been slightly miraculous if the war had come to an end without protests against breaches of neutrality by Colombia and Ecuador . There will be more of these protests . Peru , in particular , is almost certain to be technically guilty of offenses against neutrality . From a point a little below the Gulf of Guayaquil southward for more than five hundred miles her coast is barren , with long unlighted and uninhabited tracts . Such a coast is an invitation to belligerents to slip in and establish a wireless station . In the heavy fogs which abound there it is easy for a belligerent vessel to come and go unobserved . Peru can do little but go through the motions of keeping this part of her coast patrolled . She must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own vigilance . THE success of the Institute opened by Co ? lumbia University for the purpose of provid ? ing public lectures , concerts , etc. , at small costs , suggests the question why university graduate courses of historical , literary and philosophical in ? terest should not be made public on similar terms . If the public are intelligent enough to follow a single lecture where the professor concentrates into an hour 's discourse the material for a course , why are they not intelligent enough to follow the course it-self ? Why should a professor of distinction and of more than local reputation be listened to only by the dozen graduate students who happen to be " taking their degree " in his department ? The wider audience should have a bracing effect upon the speaker . The idea that he is giving his sub ? stance not only to perfunctory or awe-impressed students would tend to increase his responsibility . There would , of course , be the usual objection on the ground of the sensationalism of the press . Pro ? fessors giving public courses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the papers . They themselves might be discredited and ridiculed . The sensitive professorial soul without any great conviction of the value of his course usually has a horror of notoriety , and yet , on the other hand , there must be professors who want or would be willing to have exactly that . THE horrors of the present war are intensified by the psychological reverberations which it sends through every part of the civilized world . In spite of the widespread character of the Na ? poleonic operations , the world could know very little of what was going on . Owing to the slowness of communication and the paucity of newspapers , what little there was known was limited to a very narrow range of readers . And the later continental wars were so localized as to interest a relatively small number of peoples or classes . But in the case of the present conflict there can be scarcely a person in the civilized world who does not feel an almost personal interest in the issues . That millions of men of all nations are being put at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and turn of battle , with all the ensuing emotions , is a moving thought . And we are far more sensitive than the world was in its rawer days . Never could it have felt as we feel the recoiling horror of the thing , nor were there so many ideals and hopes of civilization and peace to be shattered into bits as ours have been . If the Peace Movement and the Socialist Movement did not prevent war , they at least taught huge masses of men to loath it . Thus we are doubly ravaged . The injury to good-will and idealism in the dif ? ferent nations will not be the least of the war . A RECENT High School bulletin from the West advises its students , " Talk over your work at home . Tell about the interesting things in history , in English or in science , or your hard prob ? lems in mathematics . That will help you master your work . " In other words , master your school work at home by methods which , owing to the formal and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from using at school . ONE 'S credulity is stretched by reading in Pet ? rograd dispatches that the German Crown Prince has been defeated on both the left and the right wing of the Eastern army on the same day , and that he is retreating simultaneously in two op ? posite directions . One need not be a rabid anti-royal ? ist to feel that the Heir Apparent is hardly agile enough to accomplish this feat . One may also have doubts that General von Mackensen , a man of commoner clay , was crushed just south of the Vis ? tula , also near Wielun , eighty miles distant . Grant ? ed Germany 's superb system of military roads and railways , it yet seems that she would be compelled to divide her catastrophes more equally among her generals . The tradition about the Crown Prince originated while he was being defeated on the West ? ern field . In the early days of the war it was no uncommon day 's work for His Highness to be cut off , surrounded and annihilated on the center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ odds and ends of Belgium and environs . Without disrespect it must be said that the enemy has not learned to recognize the Kaiser 's eldest son except from a front view . Whenever they see anyone running , they say , " There goes the Crown Prince . " SIR Oliver Lodge has been conversing with friends physically dead as he might " converse with any one " at the meeting in London of the Society for Psychical Research . Some of the proofs of this statement " are being published . " Let us assume that they have been published , and that in a single instance they do prove " the survival of bod ? ily death . " Let us minimize the importance of what they prove by granting that the solitary survivor 's mind appears to have been impaired . Let us grant also that proof of survival is not proof of immor ? tality , and that a second and absolute death may occur at any moment . Seen against , a Christian background of faith in the immortality of every ? body 's soul @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even so , would not this proof of the exist ? ence , perhaps for only a few years , of one life after death matter as much to mankind as proof of anything that has ever been proved ? MANY people protest that the United States had no obligations under the Hague Conven ? tions , pointing out that these were " simply and solely " a gentleman 's agreement among the nations ; that " no penalties were fixed for backsliders , and no machinery for devising penalties was created . " The point is only too well taken . It is a sad fact which everyone knows that the Hague Conventions rest on no force , and that at the first test they vanished into thin air . But that is just why our silent and acquiescent neutrality was the loss of a great historicopportunity . We had the chance to put behind the Hague Conventions the force of neutral opinion . A world statesman would have seen ? it was pointed out to the President at the end of July ? that never was there a better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than when the Belgian crime was about to be committed . A warning in the last days of peace that the United States would not ignore the violation of the Hague Conventions would have injected into European diplomacy the dramatic fact that the law of the world was not an empty phrase . The steadying effect of that in those dizzy days is , of course , impossible to calculate now . It would at least have shown that there is such a thing as moral judgment among nations , that wrongs face the disinterested criticism of mankind , that somebody whose life is not at stake cares about the decency of the world . It would have suggested that at the next crisis a league of neutrals must be prepared to act , and so there would have been laid an historic precedent from which to build a world organization . Had we acted on Belgium , it would not have been so simple for Japan as the ally of England to violate China a few weeks later . Yet when we might have done the great service , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for peace . CHICAGO 'S Morals Commission was created on Tuesday night . The first news item about it which reaches us is a statement of Prof. Charles R. Henderson that the protection of the children of unmarried mothers is to be taken up immediately . It is a most moral beginning , and if the Commission goes on to protect the mothers , and from that to protecting women of the streets from blackmail and extortion , from horrid slums , low wages , no wages , educated ignorance and social superstition , it will indeed be a moral Commission . MRS . Charles A. Beard complains that Ameri ? can history writers , notably Woodrow Wil ? son , do not make any mention of the achievements of women . Mrs. Beard thinks it is time that a history was written which treated women less anonymously ; she is tired of having the sex re ? ferred to as " among those present " or " other per ? sons " or " and their families . " One might think from this criticism that Mr. Wilson referred to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Barbara Frietchie as " a certain elderly party . " But this would be an error , as these ladies are not mentioned at all . An examination of the index of the five-volume " History of the American People " shows distinct reference by name to Anne Hutchin ? son , Anne Bradstreet , Harriet Beecher Stowe and several English queens .                     