@@465487

MY good friend , the distinguished inventor and manufacturer , had retired from the management of his business , yielding his captaincy to the disciplined salaried staff of a corporation . All the days ahead of his rigorous prime were to be devoted to the disbursement of his very considerable fortune ; his principal selfindulgence was hereafter to be the bestowal of magnificent alms . The ardent youth of the man blazed up again as he unfolded the gloriously humanitarian project that I had come to discuss with him . The scheme had begun with the contemplated expenditure of some $50,000 ; then the idea had occurred of making the " Home " a beautiful and worthy memorial of a dearly beloved mother , with the result that fifty thousand had gradually mounted to half a million . As we walked about the ample grounds , snugly nestled amid undulating , woodclad hills , the model plant sprang up like Camelot to the music of his magnanimous vision . The " Home " was to be as perfect in its utilitarian appointments as science could make it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that art , inspired by a loving memory , could bestow . I was listening with admiration , when a sudden flood of emotion interrupted the good man 's rhapsody . Looking up , I found his wide , tear-brimming eyes glistening toward a little group of tenement mothers , who sat on the porch of the experimental " Home " watching their babies and singing cozily . " See , " he exclaimed , in a voice like a suppressed hallelujah , " what . happiness ! You would n't recognize them for the same creatures who came here hardly ten days ago , " he presently observed , " they are so wonderfully changed . " Our inspection of the grounds and buildings finished , he called his carriage , and we drove along the white State road to his gracious little mansion on the blossom-strewn hill . Luxurious Persian rugs , woven to order after favorite designs , broke the fall of our footsteps as we entered . We settled down in deep , comfortable chairs and our talk ran lightly to poetry and the gentler arts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first the administration of the rising " Home , " and then the management of the great charitable society to whose keeping he had determined to entrust it . At this point the weight of the theme converted our conversation for a space into monologue . As the salaried executive of the society , I was in a certain sense his business lieutenant , and - he was earnestly concerned to ground me well in the basic principles of what he regarded as sound and efficient business . His counsel I have treasured not only because of the high-minded purpose that prompted it , but especially because it so well expressed the policy that has created America 's colossal fortunes , her unprecedented philanthropies , and her uncounted multitude of broken and wasted human beings ? the twilight armies of her Perpetual Poor . His precise words I do not pretend to remember , but their interesting gist ran as follows : " Do n't employ old people . Weed out those , old and young , who ca n't keep the pace , and those who fail to work in perfect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the man who gets the whole product out of the machine quickest . There will be better machines on the market to-morrow . Do n't be caught with junk on your hands . ' I used to urge my foreman use the machines up , then scrap them . ' So with men . They are at their best from eighteen or thereabouts to forty or forty-five . Get their full labor product out of them quickly . Remember that business has no room for sentiment . Set the pace , drive your workers hard , use them up quick ? then scrap them ! It must be done to succeed . New men are being born every day , and will be knocking at your door to-morrow . " And hardly an hour before his heart had overflown with pity for a handful of destitute working-men 's wives whose babies his bounty had for the moment saved from starvation ! Yet only gross injustice would suggest hypocrisy . This excellent man , half recumbent on his couch as he addressed Me , did not for an instant see the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's lives for quick profits and the little company of tenement mothers over there at the " Home . " He was not only an able , vigorous , intelligent man , but a sincerely lovable , affectionate , large-hearted , and magnanimous man as well . Only , he was essentially of a generation that is passing ? a generation of captains who waged ruthless competitive war upon one another at the head of their own hard-driven troops , and who have left us on the one hand a few colossal fortunes , with a few unprecedented philanthropic foundations , and on the other our natural resources impaired , our forests despoiled , our mines gutted , our virgin topsoil , built up by slow nature in the course of geologic ages , dumped into the sea at the rate of a billion or more tons each year by our ruined and neglected rivers , and an annual roll of 650.000 preventable deaths ? more by a hundred thousand than perished on the field from disease and wounds combined , North and South , during the four and a half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ list , equally preventable , that year in , year out , day after day , and hourly , never drops below 3,000,000 ! And just as my large-hearted friend saw no connection between his policy of scrapping human beings for the sake of quick profits and his little group of working-men 's wives too poor to nourish their children , so business in the nation at large has been oblivious of or indifferent to the connection between the common practice of discarding men like wornout or broken machines and the ever swelling . multitude of spiritually and physically maimed creatures who day after day pour through the doors of our courts and benevolent societies , and in years of prosperity and panic alike keep our almshouses , jails , charity hospitals , and reformatories crowded with human wrecks . It has been cheaper to scrap men than to save them . Even among professional philanthropists it is not generally realized how literally the phrase " scrap them " b. applied to our traditional methods of disposing of the industrially maimed and unfit . For many generations our practice has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aged and infirm slaves to death by the elements upon an island in the Tiber . Take , for example , the early history of New York 's greatest public charity , Bellevue Hospital , which during a considerable part of last century was the general city poorhouse . " There , " the records of the institution tell us , " in buildings intended for general almshouse administration , were congregated in one sickening mass the destitute , the prisoners , the victims of all forms of infectious and contagious disease , the insane , and the sick dependent children of the city . " And how truly that " sickening mass " was regarded as merely a scrap-heap the cam of the inmates bears witness . In the midst of the glorious Sixties , when the nation was aflame for the abolition of African slavery , an epidemic , due to the complete lack of all sanitary arrangements , raged in Bellevue . " The patients , " relates a visiting physician , " had been removed to one of the garret-like wards immediately beneath the roof . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the great number of victims , had to be placed so closely that the drip-pans , which were employed to catch the floods of rain , could no longer be kept on the floor , but were placed upon the beds . " The treatment consisted chiefly of stimulation , and the raw ward whiskey was used for this purpose . On one occasion , in the dead of winter , I visited the ward , and ordered an increased ration of toddy for all the patients because of the extreme cold . There were no suitable means of heating the garret . Early the next morning , fearful that disaster might have overtaken my patients , I rose and struggled to the hospital through a blinding blizzard which had been raging since the afternoon before . On climbing the last steps and opening the creaking door , I encountered a horrible sight . Ify two nurses ? foul , debauched , penitentiary prisoners ? lay in a drunken stupor upon the floor . Snow had drifted in through the rifts in the rotten roof and lay in great white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On some of the beds it had been in part brushed away by the dying patients . On twelve beds its surface was unbroken . The nurses had drunk their patients ' liquor , and during the night twelve victims had died . " That , to be sure , was in 1863 , but in 1893 the conditions from the point of view of human conservation had not essentially altered . Great changes had been wrought in the construction and medical administration of Bellevue proper ? owing primarily to the fact that the clinical value of the patients for medical instruction had become fully realized , and a medical school had accordingly been established to educate young physicians and nurses for medical practice among the more fortunate ? and other hospital and almshouse buildings had been added to the equipment of the Department of Charities and Correction ; but so far as the business intelligence of the city at large was concerned the public hospitals , almshouses , and prisons continued to be regarded ? as they unhappily are to a great extent even to-day ? as the scrapheap of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally accepted index to the value which a community sets upon human life is the infant death rate ; consider how the poor of New York must have been prized when as late as 1897 the mortality among the babies received at the public Infants ' Hospital actually rose from ninety-eight and ninety-nine per cent . in 1895 and 1896 to the horrible maximum of one hundred per cent . in 1897 ! Indeed , in 1900 certain nurses in Bellevue Hospital were indicted by the Grand Jury for manslaughter in the first degree for cruelties , resulting in death , inflicted upon one of the patients , and this same Grand Jury brought a presentment directed VOL . CXXI. ? No. 72G ? 11 7 against the management of the hospital and censured the medical board . There was no lack of petty model homes and the like in and about New York , but then as now they were designed rather for the delight and consolation of the charitable than for comprehensive human economy . But within the last decade or so a radically different spirit has begun to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There has been a noteworthy development of humanitarian sentiment , largely guided by the influence of " preventive " medicine ; but by far the most important and hopeful factor in the transformation that is all too slowly but none the less certainly taking place is the recent awakening of the keener business intelligence of the community to the threatened deterioration of our industrial army and to the impending danger of an inadequate labor supply . As the result of our age-Iong practice of grinding out lives for quick profits and of " congregating in one sickening mass the destitute , the criminal , the diseased , the insane , and the dependent children , " physical and mental degeneracy is startlingly on the increase , and in addition the hosts of the unemployable ? men and women who have been so long without regular work , or shelter , or food that vagrancy has become a chronic disease with them ? are steadily swelling . The attention of the English-speaking world is to-day fixed on Great Britain 's experimental programme of social legislation , a programme that embraces pensions for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the establishment of national employment bureaus , and the complete reconstruction of the English Poor Law . The elements of this programme had been urged by a group of humanitarian enthusiasts for decades , but had been brushed aside by the " practical " men of England until the time of the Boer war , when the recruiting officers found that thousands and tens of thousands of British youth were undersized physically and mentally , and the degeneracy was rotting the national fibre . For more than a century English captains of industry , heedless of social consequences , had been grinding out the lives of working men , women , and children for quick profits , until the war showed the nation that both her military and commercial supremacy were in peril . Then the government initiated a reform . To-day there are signs that the business intelligence of America is being prompted , by a group of similar discoveries , to undertake , on its own account , a similar programme for the conservation of the physical efficiency of our industrial army . Our greatest temptation to prodigality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short-sighted notion that our store of immigrant labor was inexhaustible , that Europe would indefinitely furnish us with new workers more rapidly than business could absorb them or use them up ; but to-day the supply of efficient immigrant labor is visibly approaching exhaustion . Germany , for example , that once poured thousands of sturdy mechanics into our factories , has herself become an importer of labor and is sending us practically no workers at all . ( Just as I write this sentence the papers bring the report that " according to the State Commissioner of Labor one out of every four immigrants is found to be undesirable , " due , it is said , to the fact that we have drained Europe to its southeasternmost dregs . ) Furthermore , in spite of our disgraceful neglect of vital statistics ? the national census report on the proportion of children in our total population begins with the confession that our national birth rate is completely unknown ? a number of special investigators have made it scientifically certain that our birth rate , like that of France and all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finally , as the most ominous consequence of our fatuous policy of social neglect , physical and mental degeneracy , with concomitant vagrancy and crime , are , as already observed , fast increasing . From many points of view these facts are of immense importance to business ; for although we are not a military nation , we are engaged in a world-wide war for commercial supremacy whose successful issue depends absolutely upon the health and vigor and loyalty of our laboring class . - Accordingly , as ( through splendid endowments ) the keen , far-seeing intel ligence of our corporations makes itself increasingly felt , the executive officers of both our public and private charities are less and less concerned with providing " interesting eases " for the ten-o'clock edification of ladies ' and gentlemen 's advisory committees or for stocking kindly conceived though ineffectual memorial homes , and are more and more concerned with the business-like problems of human conservation ? the elimination of degenerates , and the development of the latent industrial power of that abandoned and submerged group whom , beyond casting them the crumbs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bothering about . These " biological engineers . " as the salaried officials of organized charity are sometimes called , are to-day approaching our vast human scrap-heaps in much the same spirit of disinterested scientific economy as that of the civil and mining engineers , for example , whom our great corporations are everywhere employing to eliminate waste of all kinds ? to reclaim the water-power of our neglected streams , to drain the fertile beds of swamps , and to rework the great culmbanks that the passing prodigal generation piled up in mountains of waste at the mouths of a hundred mines . The programme of human conservation as it slowly begins to appear involves the physical and medical care of schoolchildren , the anti-tuberculosis campaign , the campaign for the reduction of infant mortality , and scores of other shrewdly considered activities . I wish to illustrate its spirit by reference to the plans for the elimination or redemption of those two classes that have been regarded traditionally as the types of the predestined or Perpetual Poor ? the idiot or feebleminded , and the vagrant beggar or tramp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from generation to generation ! Until a few years ago ? for the most part even to-day ? our treatment of the maundering idiot , like our treatment of the crippled and sick , was to cast him away in the almshouse , as industrially unfit , or to let him drift at large in the slums . How well I remember " Crazy Sam , " the common jest of the neighborhood where I was reared . It was every one 's privilege to badger and besot the pitiable fellow for the highly appreciated delight of watching his idiot antics . When he ceased to amuse or grew violent and became a nuisance , he was locked up in jail or " reformed " on the stone-pile . Unfortunately none who laughed had the sense to perceive the vengeance he had the power to wreak through his progeny . The most notorious and costly criminals of our day trace their origin to such mental defectives as Sam . Thirty-seven per cent of the young men in our State reformatory are " queer , " as they say , " in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with which I am associated sent an investigator to the State reformatory for women . We had been earnestly assured that none of these " convicts " required custodial care ; that they were simply bad , not diseased . Yet of the three hundred women observed by the investigator , thirty-nine proved to be mentally defective , and of these thirtynine , fifty-four per cent , were mothers , and forty-six per cent . mothers of illegitimate children . These wretched imbeciles had been imprisoned for every conceivable crime from disorderly conduct to manslaughter . About four years ago the educational authorities of New York City began the systematic organization of the so-called ungraded classes . These classes , made up exclusively of mentally abnormal and feeble-minded children , already have a membership of eighteen hundred , and the authorities are convinced that the city contains at least twice eighteen hundred more . In 1907 the Governor of New York appointed a commission empowered among other things to ascertain the extent of feeble-mindedness in the State . After searching inquiry this commission reported that the degenerate population of New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that we had at least 20,000 mental defectives , and that approximately 17,000 of these were huddled in common almshouses with the aged , the sick and infirm , or permitted to drift unprotected at large . It seems trite to refer to the oftenrepeated history of the Tribe of Ishmael , and yet the significance of the figures just quoted would be lost to many readers without it . In the seventeenth century John Ishmael , a mental stray , came to this country from England . Dr. Oscar G. McCulloch , of Indianapolis , Indiana , has traced a fraction of his descendants ? thirty families out of a possible two hundred and fifty . Concerning these he reports that " there is one continuous history covering a period of fortyeight years , touehing almost every known crime , and involving no less than five thousand degenerates of all sorts and kinds . Think of seventeen thousand Ishmaels adrift in one State and of their effect upon the health and vigor of our industrial army ! But under the influence of the new spirit of human conservation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor supply against the contamination of this degenerate group ; last year New York State purchased a splendid tract of some two thousand acres where a colony is to be established to supplement the first experimental colony established fifteen years ago , for the permanent segregation , under medical advice and control , of the incurably feeble-minded , especially of New York City , and plans are on foot for creating an intimate connection between the " ungraded classes " in the public schools and Letchworth Village , as the colony is called , so that these dangerous though innocent creatures may be protected from abuse by society , and may at the same time be restrained from further cankering our working class through the destructive multiplication of their degenerate and corrupting progeny . Like plans are under way looking to the elimination or redemption of our vast numbers of vagrants and tramps . To-day these pariahs are cast on the scrap-heap or set adrift with other dependent poor under the ignorant or blind notion that they are voluntarily unemployed , shiftless , and bad . There is abundant evidence that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of social neglect and industrial mismanagement . At the tenth annual meeting of the National Civic Federation , a manufacturer told the following story : " In our soldering department the conditions have been unhealthful for many years . The atmosphere is heavy constantly with the fumes arising from the contact of hot soldering-irons with the acid flux used . As a result it has always been a problem with us to keep the force constant in this department . We have been compelled to hire as high as 225 men in a year to keep a force of seventy-five to eighty at work . We have been aware that the men were leaving the service because of the unhealthful conditions , but the difficulties in the way of improvement seemed insurmountable until we determined to find a way . As the result of a few weeks of study , we are now preparing to install an exhaust system that will represent an investment of not to exceed 81,200 , that will result in making the force in this department fifty per cent . more constant , which in turn will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many years this manufacturer , because it had seemed cheaper to " use men up quick and scrap them " than to invest $1,200 in a simple improvement , had been sending hundreds of men and their families adrift to become deserters , and beggars , and eventually " bums . " The Russell Sage Foundation recently published a report covering among other things the stability of employment in several typical American industries . " The superintendent of a mining property , " the report states , " insisted on the amazing figures of 5,000 hired during the year to maintain a force of 1,000 . The largest operator of the district thought this too high , but said that 2,000 hirings in a year for 1,000 permanent positions was not an exaggerated index of labor 's mobility . The employment bureau of a huge machine-works hired 21.000 men and women during the year to keep up a force of 10,000 . " It is such wasteful mismanagement as this that fills our city 's slums with demoralized human wrecks . Individual emPloyers are interested in men while they are able-bodied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they have been crippled , the temptation is to discard them , thus adding demoralization to disability . In 1909 the Governor of New York appointed a commission to inquire , among other matters , into the extent of human waste in the industries of the State . Upon thorough inquiry the commission reported : " We must conclude that the 22,722 reported accidents of employment in 1908 a yearwhen , owing to general unemployment , the number of industrial accidents was abnormally low were but a small proportion of the total number of such accidents occurring during the year . " Moreover , the investigations of the commission showed that the wages of a great majority of the industrially injured had not been sufficient to cover the " risk of employment , " as it is called ? that is , not sufficient to enable the workers either to save money , or to insure themselves and their families against accident ; and it was further shown that under our Employers ' Liability law only a pitiable fraction received adequate damages , and that " a large proportion of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next to nothing . " What then becomes of them and their families ? " With the major part of their incomes cut off , " the commission explains , " the injured workmen 's family , especially in the case of serious and fatal accidents , must depend upon the work of women and children or upon the assistance of relatives and friends , must reduce their standard of living to the detriment of health , and must often become destitute and dependent upon charity . That these are the actual results of the situation our inquiry has proved . " In short , they are driven forth on the downward road that leads to the slums and the bread line . I do not mean to suggest that all the flotsam and jetsam of our great cities are the victims of industrial accident . I do mean , however , that no one who has mingled with the men in the bread lines or with the demoralized creatures in the almshouses and jails can miss the conclusion that without exception they are the products of that same social neglect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characteristic example . As the result of our prodigal policy of " using men up quick and scrapping them " experts estimate that even in prosperous times there are at least 500,000 vagrants or " bums " in the country ? millions ' worth of labor power wasting and rotting away . Moved to fresh interest in these facts by the extraordinary accessions to the ranks of the unemployed during the recent panic , a group of New York capitalists and philanthropists held a conference with a view , first , to securing employment for men and women who were without work because of the panic or for other immediate and temporary reasons ; and second , to provide a place of detention and reformation , more healthful , extensive , and efficient than the penitentiary or workhouse for those who had already suffered demoralization and were in imminent danger of becoming chronically unemployable " bums . " In England the government has just opened a chain of public employment bureaus ; the New York conference decided in favor of a private employment bureau , and the financier who guaranteed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the board of directors . The bureau was established on the theory that unemployment in the case at least of those who are still industrially fit is largely due to " maladjustment " ? that is , to the absence of machinery to keep labor distributed to meet the shifting demand . The theory is that there may be a hundred vacancies in Denver , for example , and a hundred idle men in New York mutually unaware of each other . The object of this national employment bureau is to bring the job and the idle worker together , and thus to forestall chronic idleness and consequent demoralization . The second and far more important measure adopted by the conference provided for a farm colony for vagrants to be established and maintained under the police power of the State . Last year , and again this year , members of the conference presented to the State Legislature an " act to establish a State industrial farm colony for the detention , humane discipline , instruction , and reformation of male adults committed thereto as tramps or as vagrants . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure that the farm colony , if established , will be the first of a chain through whose instrumentality the sound unemployed may be winnowed from the wholly demoralized and industrially unfit , and their labor power thus conserved . The discipline is to consist primarily of agricultural labor , which will not only restore the inmatesto full physical vigor , but will enable them to provide food for themselves . As in the case of the employment bureau , it was thought expedient to keep the colony directly and exclusively under the supervision of men of business ? " said colony , " the act reads , " shall be under the control and management of a board of five managers , to be appointed by the Governor . . . and to serve without compensation . " This provision will be effective in excluding representatives of organized labor . The programme for the elimination of the tramp and the feeble-minded , the " burn " and the idiot , like the related programme for the conquest of tuberculosis and the reduction of the infant death rate , is still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ awakening of business intelligence to the need of conserving the working efficiency of the laboring class . It marks the beginning of the end of the policy of " scrap them , " as well as of our traditional self-indulgent practice of sporadic individual alms . The moment it ceases to be cheaper " to bum men than to transport coal , " as a New York merchant recently put it , in explaining why he gave up his beautifully located out-of-town plant to come back to the city ; the moment it pays better to conserve men than to squander them , business will develop a system of pensions for loyal service , will safeguard the lives of workers and their families by schemes of compensation for accident and industrial disease , end will supply ample funds to charity to tide them over periods of unemployment . Moreover , with the feeble-minded degenerate and the unemployed " bums , " separately provided for or eliminated , our Department of Public Charities will cease to be a scrap-heap , and will become exclusively , what in large measure it already is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will bear much the same relation to the industrial army that the medical staff and the Red Cross corps bear to the soldiers in the field . The test that business increasingly applies to charity is , not how many have entered your gates , but how many have you restored to industrial efficiency , how much labor power have you conserved for the money entrusted to you ? 