@@465688

IF we had before us a map of the world showing what is known of its surface forms and other geographical features , on a uniform scale so large that all essential detail should stand out for us to read , we might justly regard it as a monumental achievement , a blessing conferred upon us by modern civilization . It would give a true and clear picture of our earth as far as we have studied its aspects . With the hundreds of sheets drawn on the same map projection and scale , using the same system of colors and other symbols to express facts , it would be easy to compare every land surface with every other and to note all their similarities and contrasts . The map would be a short cut to accurate geographical information , made ready for the use of all peoples . We shall have such a map before a great many years . The leading nations are co-operating to produce it . The work is advancing every day even in lands that are remote . In July this year plans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the map , on the scale and projection selected , have been made by Tr'nropean governments of parts of Russian and Chinese Turkestan , Persia , and Afghanistan ; twenty - two sheets of parts of China , Korea , French Indo - China , and Japan ; and eight sheets covering the Bahamas and the Greater Antilles . These are not the finished sheets , but are the basis upon which the rules adopted by the International Conference in London in November , 1009 , as to coloration , the spelling of place names , and other details , will be expressed to make them strictly conform with all the other sheets in the great standard map of the world . France and Great Britain are mapping their African colonies on the required scale . Dr. Henry Gannett , Geographer of the United States Geological Survey , has prepared a number of these sheets , embracing parts VOL . CXXIV. ? No. 740. - 30 of our Eastern , Central , and Western States ; and he was a prime mover in the convening of the London International Conference that at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idea of a standard map of the world was first proposed by Prof. Albrecht Pena at the International Geographical Congress , Bern , in 1891 . He clearly showed the advantages that would result if the nations should co-operate in producing a world map on the comparatively large scale of one-millionth ( 1:1,000,000 ) , or 158 statute miles to an inch . The project was heartily approved by this and later congresses , committees were appointed to promote the movement , and Great Britain , Germany , and France began to make maps on the required scale . Little practical progress , however , was made till after Dr. Gannett reported that our government could not publish the sheets he was preparing because no agreement had been reached as to the color scheme and other essential details . No general plan had been adopted for the uniform production of these map-sheets. lie therefore presented , through Dr. Day , of Washington , a recommendation to the international Geographical Congress at Geneva , in 1908 , to appoint a commission to work out a uniform plan for producing the map . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was decided to submit it to a conference of the map-making nations , which was accordingly convened by the British government in London , in November , 1909 . The conference was completely successful , its decisions were final , and the map-makers of all nations were at last in a position to co-operate in carrying out the plan . This fortunate result involved mutual concessions , but the plan as perfected was heartily and unanimously adopted . Greenwich is to be the initial meridian . The metric scale for distances and for altitudes above sea-level will he used , but nations not employing metric measurements may add in parentheses their equivalents in miles , feet , versts , and so on . The symbols adopted to represent rivers , rail and other roads , towns , etc. , practically include all the conventions used by the United States Geological Survey on its topographic survey-sheets . The Latin alphabet alone will be used , and spellings are to be those of the official maps of each country . We shall see Roma , not Rome ; Wien , not Vienna @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ map-makers to spell the name of our greatest city " Neu York . " The spelling of Chinese place names will be that of the Imperial Post and Customs Service , whose maps and Yellow Books give both the Chinese characters and their equivalent in Latin type . It was not easy to harmonize the various methods employed by different nations to show the forms of the earth 's surface , such as mountains , valleys , hills , and plains . On our government survey-sheets horizontal lines , called contours , am advantageously used . Each line represents a definite elevation above sea-level ; and according to the distances between the contours the map-reader may get a clear idea as to the angle of slope . On the one-millionth map these contours will be used , but they must be generalized , because the scale will be much smaller than those of topographical survey-sheets , and , while showing the general forms , much detail must be omitted ; and to make the representation of surface forms all the clearer to the general public the contours will be reinforced by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and seas , three shades of green and one of buff showing the lower lands up to about one thousand feet , followed by tints of brown from light to dark up to heights of about ten thousand feet , and above this altitude violet and white will show the highest elevations of the world . Mr. Bailey Willis has recently indicated the coloration on the one-millionth sheets of the United States : tints of green and buff for the Atlantic slope and the Mississippi Valley , above which will rise the Appalachians in brown tones ; brown tints for the high plains rising from the Mississippi Valley to the Rockies ; the violet symbol for high altitude , touching the top of the Western ranges with bands of color . The colors will crowd one another to the Pacific slope , indicating the rapid rise from the sea to mountain regions . It would take 2,642 of these sheets to cover the world on the one-millionth scale , but , as the oceans compose three-fourths of the earth 's surface , it is probable that only those parts of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be included in the map . The whole atlas is likely to embrace not over fifteen hundred sheets . It will be many times larger than any map of the world yet produced . Dr. Gannett has sent us an outline map showing the progress made to September , 1911 , with the sheets of the United States . The sheet covering Rhode Island , the eastern half of Massachusetts , the southern half of New Hampshire , and small parts of Connecticut and Maine was being engraved . The base maps were complete for Vermont , the remainder of Massachusetts and Connecticut , and the whole of North Carolina , Florida , Indiana , Michigan , Illinois , Wisconsin , Iowa , and Minnesota . The sheets for New York , New Jersey , Pennsylvania , Delaware . Maryland , Ohio , Mississippi , Montana , and Wyoming , and the southern half of Alabama were in various stages of completion . In other words , the work is far advanced or in progress in one-third of our area south of Canada . Doctor Gannett 's sketch map shows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atlas , including the neighboring parts of Canada and Mexico and the bordering seas . Fight of the great powers ? Austrialiungary , France , Germany , Great Britain , Italy , Russia , Spain , and the United States -- are now pledged to this standard map of the world by the unanimous conclusions of the London conference in which they participated . Other governments are coming into the scheme . In the past year Argentina , Brazil , Chile , and Venezuela have announced their intention to supply the sheets of their respective territories . Europe has this advantage over other nations , that her detailed surveys are nearly completed . The data are now available , and the production of the one-millionth map of Europe means only a financial arrangement between the governments concerned and the scientific map - publishing houses . Some governments , however , will produce their sheets in their own map establishments . The Ordnance Survey of Great Britain is about to issue a number of the sheets . Progress will be slower in other parts of the world , because many of the " mother-maps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet to be produced . The one-millionth map , however , will not wait for the completion of the mother-maps . Prussia has already mapped eastern China on this scale ; and Germany and Great Britain in Africa , Russia in Turkestan , and France in Africa and the Antilles have produced many sheets . Even the best sheets must be revised from time to time as new truth is learned , new towns and routes are located , and nature and man change the facts of geography . The great fact is that this project contemplates the production of a map for all peoples that will ' scientifically present the truth about the world 's surface as far as it has been made known , clearly differentiating between what is known and what has not yet been adequately revealed . If the work in our country continues to be forwarded with the present energy , it is likely that the one-millionth sheets of the United States will be completed and published within the next decade . A scale of 1 : 1,000,000 means simply that a line of any length @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the ground . In other words , one inch on the map represents nearly sixteen miles in nature . This scale is large enough for most purposes . On the fifty-two sheets of the United States , for example , which will doubtless be sold at hare cost , our people will have a map of the country several times larger than any they have ever seen . It will give a generalization of the forms of the mountains and valleys , high and low plains , the drainage systems , towns , hamlets , railroads , the more important common roads , etc. ; also a good idea of the elevation of all land surfaces and the depths of the lakes and adjacent oceans . Any one who has a fair conception of the sizeof our States may impose , for example , the sheet giving Texas upon the sheets showing France or the Belgian Congo , and he will at once have an approximate notion of the size of these far-away regions . The value of the map to our people is likely to be more important than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because we have not yet reached in our school geographies and in the output of our map-publishing houses the standards of map-making now maintained in most European and some other countries . But when the one-millionth map comes into our homes we shall find it a superior product which will accustom us to good maps , whose every line , dot , color , or other symbolism is meant to convey definite information . We shall learn to discriminate between ' such maps and those that are unworthy because they give so much misleading information . Not till we as a nation attain this ability to judge between a good and a poor map shall we be able to demand and to obtain the facilities for profitable map study that are enjoyed in the humblest homes of many countries . Map-making is very old , and has been practised by the most primitive peoples for many ages . Rude scratches on many rocks in South America are now interpreted as maps . East Greenland natives carve maps out of wood ; American Indians make map-sketches on birch and other barks ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long before they knew of the white man ; the desert nomad sketches maps in the sand to illustrate his wanderings , and nearly every primitive tribe to-day makes maps to show routes to hunting-grounds , animal paths , fisheries , fords , etc . They know as well as we do that maps are practically a human necessity ; but we know further that a good map often places before our eyes an amount of accurate geographical information that might take many months to dig out of books . We may cite a map of Africa , now over twenty years old , the largest of that continent produced up to 1890 . Hermann Habenicht , the compiler , ransacked the literature of African exploration to find what each traveler wrote about the nature of the regions along his route ; and the map showed these routes , and marked along them the forest , grassy , sandy , or tillable stretches , the water resources , native settlements , and much other information gleaned by pioneer explorers . The map was a time-saver for students , a fine epitome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over a long series of years . The leading geographers use the perfected map of to-day as much as they do books , and often more . Dr. Hermann Wagner , for example , has said that maps were his largest dependence in the production of his great Lehrbuch der Geographic . But though map-making is very old , the kinds of maps most useful now have not very long been made . The atlases of a century ago did not contain a tithe of the information now expressed on atlas-sheets . Two generations ago the maps used in European schools gave little more than a few geographical outlines , such as coasts , political boundaries , rivers , and place names ; sometimes a few scratches to represent mountains , but not always . It was only sixty-three years ago that Emil Sydow published in Germany the first edition of his school atlas , in which he introduced the revolutionary idea that school maps should tell children something more of geography than the positions of coasts , waters , towns , and boundaries . Maps should picture as well the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he given to the land forms , and maps should help the teacher to show what the surface of the earth is really like . This fundamental idea has ever since been steadily developing . Map symbolism has wonderfully grown , till it is today fully adequate for the graphic expression of a large variety of facts ; and , best of all , the European map-makers , by their use of contours of elevation , hachures , colors , and light and shade effects , have so perfected methods of showing the diverse forms of the earth 's surface that even on a small-scale map of the Swiss Alps , for example , we may see before us the wonderful complex of high mountains , deep valleys , snow-fields , and glaciers . We may see the birthplace of the Rhine , whose glacial brook-lets issue from an ice mass high up on the slopes ; the little lake perched farabove the valley in a small depression filled by the melting ice of the great Rhone glacier . These atlas-sheets are small , and nature is large ; but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by European cartographers that , though a great many details must be omitted , still the essentials of form are preserved , so that he who knows how to read maps may easily find the essen , tial truth in the map picture . The scientific map , so faithfully depicting the manifold aspects of the earth , has helped us to an interesting discovery . We know now that while the great object of geography is to describe the earth 's surface , language alone is insufficient for this purpose . Only in the most general terms can speech draw a picture of the face of the earth . If we go into detail and try in words to give a complete description , the picture is vague and the mind can not fully grasp it . The geographical description must always be associated with the map picture in order to impress upon the mind a clear and orderly idea of the various phases of the earth 's surface . Naturally , a fine map can not give its greatest service to the man who does not know how to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our own schools ; and the first-class map material that alone supplies the wide range of geographical facts , accurately and clearly expressed for the student 's map study , is not often seen in our classrooms . The result is that as a nation we are not skilful niap-readers . Several years ago our government topographic survey completed eight sheets , embracing most of the Catskill Mountain region . Here was an opportunity to use these map-sheets of a bit of our country embracing considerable variety of topographic form to show how finely all this information might be generalized on a map-sheet of ordinary atlas size . It would be an object-lesson to our people , most of whom seldom see the mother-maps produced by our Government Survey . It would show the hundred thousand or more summer sojourners who annually visit the Catskills how much and how varied is the information that can be truthfully and clearly expressed on a small-scale atlas-sheet . The American Geographical Society decided to have such a map made by one of the most famous map-houses of Germany . It was sold at cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we shall have of our own country when we are able ourselves to apply the perfected methods of the cartographic art to the production of good , true , small-scale maps , generalized from the large-scale sheets that our government supplies . It is one of the finest maps of any part of our country . But it has made little impression upon the thousands who use Catskill maps , because so manyare accustomed to look to a map only for guidance as to the position of towns and the routes leading to them . Hero is a map not limited by such meager detail , but showing not only what the tourist first asks for , but also the hills , valleys , and level stretches in correct proportions and forms . A little careful attention shows approximately the grade of the roads and helps the consultant to figure out how far he can drive and get back to dinner . But though every feature of this beautiful map picture is sharply legible and full of meaning to him who can read a good map , it is to many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the impression that most of us have if we look at a page of Burmese print . How can such a jumble of funny-looking characters mean anything ? We can not read them , that 's all . If we Americans had been taught in school to appreciate and read the best maps , we should not be content with picture maps illustrating theaters of war , as , for example , the map of the strait in which Admiral Togo defeated the Russian fleet , with every war-ship , according to the map scale , at least fifty miles long . The statement above , that the Catskill map is based upon sheets of our topographic survey , illustrates the two great classes of maps . Topographic surveys originated in : Europe . and were meant especially to serve military purposes . It is very important in military operations to know the forms of the land , for as hostile armies approach each other each commander seeks to establish his forces in the most advantageous position forbattle . So every important state in Europe organized topographic surveys , and methods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of land surfaces . These methods , in time , were highly perfected , all governments use them to-day , and the resulting map-sheets give a close approximation to the actual forms of the earth 's surface . We may thank this military impulse for serving so well the highest interests of geography , for these topographic sheets are now the basis of all our most accurate mapping . These detailed maps arc , of course , on a large scale , and if well done they show as completely as possible the various features of the small area each includes . It is different with the small or generalized maps such as the Catskill sheet , on which the great public chiefly depends . If they are maps of high quality they must be based upon the topographic-survey sheets as far as the territory they cover has been topographically mapped . It is interesting to note that while the basis of the generalized map is the topographic map , that of the topographic map is the ground itself . The greatest difficulties of scientific map-making lie in the generalization of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole world , or large parts of the earth , very little detail can be given ; and in the making of all of these maps the decision of many questions , such as what to use and what to omit or how to generalize without sacrificing all characteristic essence , call for the highest qualities of scientific judgment and technical skill . This fine art of map generalization has been highly developed in most European countries , but as yet it has received little attention from our own map-makers . Where no topographic surveys have been made the generalized map shows , in white , regions of which we have no knowledge . The delineation of partly known regions is controlled by critical use of all the available data . Accuracy in this case can not be attained , but such knowledge as we have must be recorded ; and it is even permissible to make some deductions as to the geographical features of the unknown if made by those whose theories are worth attention , and recorded on the map not as fact , but as tentstive suggestion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contour map of the United States published by our Geological Survey and showing various elevations of the surface . A large part of this great area has not yet been topographically surveyed , and many of the contours of elevation on the map are therefore tentative ; but all considerations have been taken into account to Ex the probable value of the contours , and very likely they are not far out of the way . The one-millionth map will doubtless contain more or less of this hypothetical work , which will be eliminated as our knowledge grows . The effect of increased knowledge is usually to enlarge the scale of generalized maps . Twenty years ago all that was known of the geography of German East Africa might clearly be recorded on a small part of an average atlas - sheet . But hundreds of important geographical facts , such , for example , as the distribution of mineral locations , have since been discovered , with the result that no map of very small scale can now record the information at hand concerning this German colony . Generalized maps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now common , and not a few of them are superb examples of map-making , in which scientific treatment of all geographical phenomena is combined with artistic presentation of the facts . Such maps are a source of great pleasure to the advanced student of geography . Thoroughly based on the principles of scientific cartography , they are works of art as well , One of the most conspicuous among them is Vogel 's famous map of Germany in twenty-seven sheets . It can not embrace all the detail of the topographic sheets . but every fact essential to most map-readers is there . Geographers always love to travel with a fine map in their hands , even when more or less familiar with the regions through which they are passing . The late Professor von Richthofen , of Berlin , said that he never made a railroad journey in Germany without Vogera map before him . The Germans have devised a new railroad folder which is a delight to all who love to study good maps . It consists of sections of the Vogel map , showing thecountry for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of travel in Germany . Crossing a little stream , you can see at a glance where it rises , to what larger stream it is tributary , and whether it is likely to be of industrial importance . Passing through the mountains , you can tell what lies beyond the range of vision from the car-window . This is a pastime and also a pleasant way of increasing one 's geographical knowledge . The use of color on maps has now been reduced by the best map-makers to a logical system . Not very long ago we saw on our own maps of the United States each State differentiated from those around it by a covering of color . A tint along the boundaries would have answered every purpose and left opportunity to use colors throughout the sheet as part of the scheme of symbols . Many map colors are now copied directly from nature , and often those selected are particularly appropriate , as , for example , the common use of blues for rainfall maps , the deepening blues of the sea as depths increase , the deepening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the yellow tints for arid and sandy regions , and greens largely used on maps dealing with plant geography . The map-makers of the leading nations are approaching one another more and more nearly in their use of map colors ; and for public convenience it is hoped that some day we shall see a uniform system of colors in all map symbolism . Such questions as these are sometimes settled by scientific bodies , as was the case when the Geological Congress at Bologna , in 1831 , selected the colors to be applied to the international Geological Map of Europe . A lesson we have yet to learn at home is that a good map can not be made in a hurry . Most orders received by our map-making houses are accompanied by demands to hasten the work . The fact is that , even if a map is drawn with the utmost deliberation , errors will creep in . There is no such thing as a perfect map . A wrong stroke of the brush or pen , the slightest carelessness , may vitiate the delineation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a careful . truthful map may be produced when the                     