@@430722

 |p622  WITHIN the past three years the United States Department of Agriculture has go : a new ideal and undertaken a new task . Bill Smith lives on a rather thin " forty " a long way from anywhere . and he has pretty rough sledding trying to pay his taxes every year and keep his children in shoes and school-books . He does his best . according to local standards . but the results are not encouraging . His clover is spotted . Even where it does n't turn yellow and die out the catch is poor and the stand thin . Everything else sags with the clover . He does n't seem to be able to get a good toe-hold . Bill Smith is in danger of selling out and moving to town to try his hand a : teaming or something of the sort . Hitherto the Department of Agriculture has n't had much comfort to offer Bill Smith . A few bulletins , which he might or might not be able to understand , were about all Bill Smith could hope to ge from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department could only tell him how to get a good catch of clover and boost his yields in general . Now , however , the Department wants to do more than that for Bill Smith . It wants to show him , not merely that his spotted clover-field lacks lime or drainage or what not , but that his system is wrong ? that his farm is too small to yield him a decent living if he sticks to general farming , after the fashion of his neighbors on " eighties " and " hundred and sixties . " The Department wants to show Bill Smith , not merely how to grow crops , but what is much more important , how to make money growing crops . It wants to point out the best thing for Bill Smith to do with the means at his disposal ? whether to try some intensive form of farming , to rent more land , or to sell out and go where he can get more acres for his capital . It wants , eventually , to be able to send an pert out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him and tell him what to do . In a word , the Department is getting down to brass tacks . Practical agricultural economics is the new ideal , and helping Bill Smith make more money is the new job . Getting down to brass tacks , in this instance , has involved a process of changing front , of shifting from an attitude which was primarily scientific to one which is primarily economic . Hitherto the Department has been mainly an organization for scientific research , for running down and nailing agricultural facts . Now , while still a vast and highly efficient organization for scientific research . its science has been given an economic bias , a dollars-and-cents slant , so that it may readily be turned to practical account by the farmer , to whom science in the abstract is nothing , but to whom in the concrete it is vital . Science butters no parsnips unless it can be translated into terms of economics . That is what the Department is trying to do now . In a word , it is trying to help the farmer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been reorganized with a view to bringing farm economics to the fore . An Office of Markets and Rural Organization has been established . The Office of Farm Management has been reorganized as a part of the Secretary 's office . The Office of Experiment Stations has been reorganized as the " States Relations Service . " An Office of Information has been established and a weekly publication for Departmental collaborators and the press started . The Office of Markets and Rural Organization was established to help the farmer sort , pack , ship , and sell his products to best advantage , and to encourage co-operative organization for buying and selling as well as for social ends . The Office of Farm Management was reorganized to make it a clearing-house for the information gathered by the other bureaus , to serve as a co-ordinating agency through which the products of the specialists can be mixed in the right proportion to make a balanced ration of advice applicable to Bill Smith 's farm or any similar farm . The States Relations Service assumes the tremendous task of administering the new Smith-Lever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dollars this year ? for the work of carrying to the farmer the best advice at the command of the Department  |p623  and of demonstrating the value of such advice by actual practice on the farms of co-operating farmers . There are now over one thousand county agents carrying on this work . The Office of Information was created to help bridge the gap between the archives of the Department and the farmers ? to get material to the papers while the facts are fresh . The Weekly News Letter was established for the same purpose . It is sent to the newspapers and the agricultural press . with the privilege of reprinting , either with or without credit . Along with this formal reorganization went an informal change in the trend of the work of the entire Department to make it conform to the new ideal . There is scarcely a bureau in the Department in which there has not been inaugurated work on some new project or projects more directly involving the economic and social betterment of the farmer than anything that had been projected before . Take the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are experimenting in bread-making , the rock-bottom household art . They have begun to investigate sole leather ? with a sort of walking machine designed to test the wearing qualities of different leathers . They are working out a method of home tanning for farmers . They have found out how to kill flies before they are born by putting borax or hellebore in the manure in which the maggots develop . They have stopped the shipment of oysters from beds polluted with city sewage . And they have done a hundred other things of equal practical importance . Take the Bureau of Animal Industry : The pathologists of this Bureau have worked out what seems to be an effective way of fighting hog cholera with a serum . They are taking it direct to the farmers of certain districts and trying it out . In three counties where the serum was tried the loss from hog cholera was reduced from twenty-eight per cent to seven per cent in one year , and to 1.7 per cent in two years . At the same time the production of hogs in those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bureau released from quarantine in the tick eradication campaign a territory larger than the whole of Ireland . It has started a big work in live-stock demonstration in the South , has begun work in the classification of wool , and has undertaken the inspection of imported meats in addition to the work of domestic inspection . Witness these miscellaneous new projects and achievements , picked at random from the work of the several bureaus : Establishment of official corn grades . These have now been generally adopted by elevators , and farmers are profiting from their opportunity to market their corn according to grade . Inauguration of extensive farm management surveys , designed to bring out the fundamental principles of good farming as established by the practice of the average successful farmer . Discovery of a way of making potash out of the seaweed of the Pacific coast . This promises much to the farmer , now that our supply of potash has been cut off by the war . Development of a system of blueberry culture which opens the way to the profitable use of acid soils . Investigations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view to fostering the co-operative organization of farmers . Investigation of the possibilities of marketing direct to the consumer by parcel post or express . Campaign started looking to the betterment of social and educational conditions in country communities . Plans made for the organization of cooperative rural credit association and organization begun . Study made of the economic effect of the malaria mosquito upon farm labor in the South . Expansion of demonstration work through girls ' and boys ' clubs , so as to bring the Department in closer touch with the home life of the farm . Campaign for diversification in the South . The slump in cotton , caused by the European war , gave the Department a golden opportunity to push this work , and in the past year the cotton acreage was cut about six million acres , while the acreage of corn , oats , and hay increased in proportion . These sample activities , all either inaugurated or put on a more successful working basis within the past two or three years , are significant of the spirit in which the Department is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideal of service to the farmer . The Department 's hat is in the ring  |p624  so far as its determination to tackle problems in agricultural economics is concerned . It has been in the ring for three years . More than one hundred years have passed since the Department of Agriculture was first conceived ; more than fifty years have passed since the Department was actually organized as such ; yet in the two years just passed it has made greater progress along the lines of agricultural economics than it made in the half-century that went before . The legacy to agriculture of the past century has been agronomy ? a vast but largely undigested and unco-ordinated mass of information about how to grow things . The forces which have been set to work within the past three years will , I believe , liberate to the farmers of the country at large this mass of largely inert knowledge and make it available for practical use . During this short period things have been accomplished or started which , to my mind . are equal in importance to all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fifty years past . The passage of the Smith-Lever Act ? which virtually means provision for the establishment of a deputy secretary of agriculture for every county in the country ? is alone an achievement of epoch-making importance . It means that the Department has at last secured the means of getting into personal touch with the farmers . The creation of the Office of Markets and Rural Organization means that at last the Department has ceased to focus its vast energies solely upon problems of production and that henceforth it means to cope with the equally important problems of distribution . These are problems that concern , not merely the farmer , but every commercial enterprise directly or indirectly connected with the agricultural activities of the Nation , and , in a very direct fashion , the ultimate consumer . Any improvement in the methods of marketing farm products , as well as any improvement in the methods of agricultural production , accrues to the benefit , not merely of the persons directly involved in our agricultural enterprises , but of every man , woman , and child in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bill Smith that he be shown how to grade his crops for market ; it is to the interest of the commonwealth at large , for it tends to increase the sum total of our National efficiency . Ultimate efficiency in this regard will be achieved , I am confident , through co-operative organization . Already the farmers of this country have done much along this line . Witness the co-operative elevators and creameries , and the co-operative fruitgrowers ' organizations now in the field . But the co-operative movement is still in great need of encouragement and guidance . In most of our States the laws relative to such enterprises are amazingly inadequate . The Department of Agriculture is doing its utmost to remedy this situation and to put co-operative organization in this country on a sound business basis . In like manner the Department is doing all that it can to foster a sentiment favorable to the establishment of an adequate system of rural credits . I believe that I am not overstating the matter when I say that a rural credit system is as essential to the further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ widespread application of scientific methods in agriculture . Bill Smith needs more money as badly as he needs more science . It is impossible for him to make good use of the new scientific agricultural methods without having better credit facilities . We are preaching more and better live stock to the farmers all over the country , but it takes money to buy high-grade or pure-bred boars and brood sows , bulls and heifers . Ninety-day credit is little better than none to the farmer who wants to change his grain farm to a live-stock farm . A banking system which has been built up with an eye single to the needs of urban communities is of little use to Bill Smith . He wants a banking system that will enable him to get long-time loans , commensurate with the time it takes for the average agricultural enterprise to reach profitable maturity . The Department of Agriculture is doing all that it can to make the way clear for constructive legislation along rural credit lines . Altogether , I think I am safe in saying that the work that has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highest sense constructive and practical . It has been an epoch-making work , for these fundamental steps which have been taken are the enabling acts that will eventually put American agriculture for the first time on a sound economic footing . Not all of the plans that have been devised along this line have been put into actual operation yet , but the ball is rolling and picking up speed from day to day . If Bill Smith sends out a signal                     