@@493046

AMERICAN public opinion will be inclined to approve the recall of Attaches Boy-Ed and von Papen , because of a general con. viction that the patriotic activities of those gentlemen have been carried on without any very punctilious respect for the laws of the United States . But its approval will be mitigated by its disappointment in having been refused by the administration any information as to the way in which they have offended . The President doubtless has good reason for refusing information to the German government which that government already possesses , but it is to be hoped that he will not continue for long to refuse it to the American people . This is a grave business , and public opinion is entitled to know what the exigencies and hazards of the situation are . Any acts by Captain Boy-Ed and Count von Papen contrary to the American law must have been known to the German Ambassador and must presumably have been authorized by the German government . If offenses have been committed , thegovernment in Berlin is the real offender . Probably that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will prove to be a far more conclusive reason why the information should be furnished . By asking for the recall of the two attaches the President must be serving notice on Germany that his patience is exhausted and that German officials must not carry on war against their enemies within the territory of the United States . He must be contemplating a still more emphatic gesture of impatience and resentment in case the offensive practices are continued . But a more emphatic gesture might lead to a rupture with Germany . If there is any danger of a rupture with Germany , American opinion is entitled to full information about Germany 's real offense and abundant time for mental preparedness . " W HAT we like best about President Wilson 's message is the evidence it affords of a more alert , a more energetic and a more responsible attitude towards the pressing problems of national reorganization . If the Democratic party has had in the past one characteristic fault , it has been that of tending to neglect and undervalue the forehanded formulation of national policies and the making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party it has been prone to depend upon individual and local effort for the accomplishment of public as well as private purposes , and it has conceived the function of the central government in domestic matters to be negative and restricted . But under Mr. Wilson 's leadership its attitude is gradually changing , and is coming to resemble the more eager , vigilant and formative spirit which was described some years ago by Mr. Roosevelt as the " New Nationalism . " " We serve , " says Mr. Wilson in the fine last paragraph of his message , " a great nation . . . . We should see to it that it lacks no instrument , no facility or vigor of law to make it sufficient to play its part with energy , safety and assured success . In this we are no partisans , but heralds and prophets of a new age . " This passage contains the most unmistakable expression Mr. Wilson has ever given of a vision of the new nation . It has looked hitherto as if he were seeking to resurrect out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " New Freedom " as a kind of substitute for the new nationalism , or even as an antidote to it . At last he has definitely committed himself , and to a smaller extent his party , to a conception of the central government and of the national organization as a positive , continuing and indispensable agent of the purposes of the American democracy . p ASSIVISTS who have been doing their best to convince the country that the possession of effective armament is the main incentive to war are now reaping what they have sown . By arguing continually against armament they have spread the delusion that preparedness is the most relevant fact with regard to war . They have made easy the inference that European nations , since they will possess gigantic armies and navies after the present conflict , are likely to attack us . They have made common the impression that a pacifist is a person who wishes his country to be without defense , thus arousing a powerful opposition . They have prepared the way for an armament propaganda based on fear and capable of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the necessity of adequate armament , and had used their resources mainly for educating the country towards a definite and enlightened foreign policy as the best contribution which one nation can make to international organization , they would not now be making panicky attempts to stem a panicky demand for greater defense . They would be in a position to define the limits of adequate armament , and to concentrate a much larger force of public opinion where it would count most for future peace . A YEAR ago the Democrats in Congress were advised by us to do something to make the army more efficient , and to begin an expert investigation into the whole question of preparedness . " If they fail to do as much as this , " the advice continued , " they will be inviting a popular agitation which will be dangerous to their success at the next election , equally dangerous to national security and peace , and fatally distracting to steady progress in the work of social improvement . " We now offer similar advice to the pacifist minority which in the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for greater military preparedness . If they succeed they will present the issue of preparedness to the Republicans for the next Presidential campaign , and thusdo the cause of unlimited armament and international insecurity a great service . If they fail their fight will nevertheless advertise the unfortunate misapprehensions about armament and about themselves in most dramatic fashion . It is of the utmost importance that influential pacifists both in and out of Congress should avoid the emphasis on armament , and proceed to the more fruitful work of constructing or inventing a world of nations which can live at peace with or without armament . A NUMBER of Democratic newspapers have been praising that veteran Republican , Mr. Joseph Cannon , for saying : I did n't vote for Mr. Wilson in 1912 and I wo n't vote for him in 1916 , but I will not criticize his attitude in the European matter . It is not a time for partisanship . After this it is hard to resist asking just what the proper time for partisanship is . Would Mr. Cannon say it was during the discussion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislation , or a railroad bill ? Or perhaps he would confine partisanship to appropriation bills and patronage and pensions . The point of curious interest to discover is that so prominent a politician has so low an opinion of his own life work , for has it not been said that the safety of the country depended upon the Republican party ? If that assertion was not all falsehood , this time of national crisis is obviously the occasion for the party to step forward and save the country . Yet just at this moment Mr. Cannon virtually asks it to keep its mouth shut . W HAT a cameo Mr. Cannon has made for the wonder of historians who study our epoch . They will scan his career , read his utterance on the time not to criticize , note the approval of the Democratic papers , and write : " The voters in those days were divided into two great parties ? the Ins and the Outs . The Ins devoted themselves to staying in , the Outs to getting in . For this ambition , known as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principles . ' The Outs always talked about principles more than did the Ins , because the Outs had to find some way of getting in . It was always considered proper to use the needs and hopes of the people as pieces in the game . But there was a curious superstition that when the issues of war and peace were involved , it was necessary to pretend that the Ins were always right . " Mr. Cannon has indeed thrown a rather severe illumination on American political sincerity , for what his statement amounts to is this : " So far as the safety and future of the nation are concerned , my opinions are n't really worth anything . I realize this , and know how to keep quiet in an international crisis . But that is about as far as my patriotic modesty goes . When nothing but the prosperity and civilization of ordinary people are at stake , I am quite ready to utter my opinions , to play for every political advantage , to upset the Democratic apple-cart . My opinions on domestic affairs are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a government of parties , and a man must live . " T HE illusory " liberty of contract " read into our constitutions by the courts has again been vindicated . This time the Massachusetts Supreme Court declares unconstitutional a nine-hour law for employees in and about railroad stations . The court admits the validity of statutes regulating the hours of labor of men whose work has direct relations to the operation of trains , and women and children , it is recognized , also are allowed to have their " liberty " curtailed . But according to the Massachusetts court , to limit the labor of baggage-men and grade-crossing tenders to nine hours can subserve no rational public purpose . For such is the test of unconstitutionality . In reaching this shocking result the court shelters itself behind the " binding " decision of the Supreme Court of the United States in the famous Lochner ( bakeshop ) case . We had hoped that ghost was laid . We had supposed the Lochner opinion to have been discredited by the common consent of the legal profession , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the more recent point of view of the Federal Supreme Court . We had supposed that the rational guidance to be derived from that case was to be found not in the five-to-four result but in the classic dissenting opinion of Justice Holmes . T HIS latest decision as to " liberty of contract " will come as a blow to liberal lawyers all over the country , who had believed the particular fight against a strangling interpretation of the bill of rights had been permanently won . We can not dispose of the decision by calling the court " reactionary , " nor by attributing it to the well-known tendency of judicial decisions to follow the election returns . The causes lie deeper and must be sought in a different direction . For one thing , our bar is poorly equipped to redeem its heavy responsibility in a legalistic democracy for the success of social legislation . In this very instance the state practically threw away its case by conceding the work in question to be neither arduous nor unhealthy , without any scientific study and presentation of the facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the community of unregulated labor . And this reveals the second evil ? the unfortunate dependence by the Courts for the adequate presentation of the socialand industrial facts bearing upon modern legislation , on the accident of whether the case is argued by competent counsel , the result being that such questions are often adjudicated on abstract , unreal and unjust grounds . The eighteenth century bill of rights has outlived its usefulness , but if and while it continues to be legally enforced , the plain obligation rests upon bench and bar of devising some means whereby courts may be authoritatively advised of the facts which constitute the very life of this class of statutes . G OVERNOR Whitman 's dismissal of Chairman McCall of the New York Public Service Commission of the Second District may be justified , for McCall was utterly unfit for the job . But no well-informed person will believe that he was dismissed merely because he was unfit . He was dismissed as a necessary step to the control of the patronage of the Public Service Commission by the Republican machine . Governor Whitman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of converting the Public Service Commissions into the servants and victims of professional politics . His substitution of Hayward for an experienced and able official like Maltbie is a sufficient indication of the standards and motives which control him in making appointments to the commissions . He will Republicanize them as soon as he can ; and when the Democrats return to power they will undo his work , and appoint faithful but unfit Democrats in place of faithful but unfit Republicans . In the meantime the work of regulating the public utility companies will be so badly performed that public ownership and operation may have to be substituted . The lesson is that we shall never get expert and trustworthy administrative officers in our state governments until the power of the party machines in local politics has been broken . A CCORDING to the New York World , no American has a right to attack the President 's policy unless he is prepared to " demand war in place of the slow processes of diplomacy . " This amounts to saying that there is no diplomacy but Mr. Wilson 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war . Yet it might be argued with force that Mr. Wilson avoided war not through diplomacy but through luck , and that a different diplomacy would have safeguarded the country 's interests far more surely . What falsifies the World 's point of view is the evident belief that Mr. Wilson stopped the submarine war by " diplomacy . " Surely it ought to be clear by this time that it was the British navy which ended the submarine war by making it too dangerous and too unprofitable . Mr. Wilson 's diplomacy consisted almost entirely in keeping the American people quiet long enough for the British to invent a defense against submarine raids . The British navy is the factor which saved Mr. Wilson 's " policy " and kept us out of the war . If the American people think they have learned from the Lusitania that " moral suasion " counts against military empires , then the disaster is worse than can be counted in the number of dead . W HAT is the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace doing to stop the war ? This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pacifists of the type represented in the personnel of the Ford expedition . The Endowment is doing practically nothing to stop the war . It does not exist for the purpo9c of financing any and every movement that is organized in the name of peace . It seeks to prevent war by promoting international understanding , by opposing national policies that create the antagonisms leading to war . This is the kind of work that can not thrive when the world is actually at war . It will have to be taken up and pursued with vigor if the peace following the present war is to be more than a truce .                     