@@486956

The Life and Letters of Waliam , Beckford of Fonthal . By Lewis Melville . New York : Duffield &; Co. $3.50 net . Beckford 's letters now first given to the public are not intrinsically very in. - teresting , and the editor has - lessened their value as a document by faulty transcriptions and by omissions and confusions so glaring that the perusal of his volume leaves one in a state of irritation . And besides these minor errors of editing , Mr. Melville , where he adds his own comment , has , we are obliged to think , utterly misrepresented Beck-ford 's character and ignored what B4ckford really stood for . To read Mr. Melville one would never suspect that Beckford in his strength and more particularly in his weakness was one of the most characteristic products of the romantic movement . Yet not only do his early letters fairly teem with the influences of Rousseau and " Werther " and Osman and Chateaubriand , but he had the courage and the means to carry into practice what other men were only dreaming , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his famous romance of " Vathek " a symbol of the glowing fierce aspirations and the final spiritual bankruptcy of the new generation . William Beckford was born at Fonthill-Gifford in Wiltshire , October 1 , 17 60 . His father , Alderman and twice Lord Mayor of London , the celebrated radical and friend of Wilkes , Had inherited an enormous estate in Jamaica . By his first wife , he had a stepdaughter , Elizabeth March , afterwards Mrs. Hervey , who wrote some foolish , sentimental novels which her half-brother William lauded as a boy and caricatured in his " Azemia " as a man . The Alderman 's second wife , the mother of William , belonged to the Abercorn branch of the Hamilton family . One of his brothers , William 's uncle Julines , had a son Peter , who married in 1773 Lousia Pitt , second daughter of Lord Rivers . For Mrs. Peter Beckford and her sister ( apparently Marcia-Lucy ) , William had a profound and enigmatical attachment . At the age of ten , the boy lost his father and fell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undergoing the wholesome discipline of public school and university , he was , by the advice of ' his godfather , Lord Chatham , placed under the tutelage of the Rev. John Lettice , who seems , indeed , to have been a scholarly and sensible man , but who at least was unable to drag his charge out of the fantastic dream-world into which he had fallen . When seventeen , William went with his " bear-leader " to Geneva , to continue his studies . From here , we have the first of his letters , some of them addressed to Mrs. Elizabeth Hervey , others apparently to the same person , although for some reason the superscription is omitted . The tone of these letters is of a frantic extravagance that might remind one of a sort of hybrid of Ossian and Rousseau , both a little mad . At the end of 1778 , Beckford was back in England pouring out his youthful revolt in letters from Fonthill : " I will seclude myself if possible from the world , in the midst of the Empire , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nouronihar " ; and satisfying his ambition by writing his first book , " Biographical Memoirs of Extraordinary Painters , " which , for the benefit of the housekeeper W110 allowed strangers through the galleries of Font-hill , attributed the pictures to such artists as Og of Basan , Watersouchy of Amsterdam , Herr Sucrewasser of Vienna , and the like . Mr. Melville seems to see a contradiction in this union of sentiment and burlesque in the same mind ; they are , in fact , but different aspects of the romantic desire to escape from reality , and have often gone together , from the days of the double theme in Spanish drama to the magnificent audacities of " Don Juan . " After a year and a half William made the grand tour with his tutor , and in May of 1782 went abroad for the third time , travelling now with all the luxurious state that befitted the richest commoner of England . Some time in the interval between his second and third journeys , he had met at Bath Lady Margaret Gordon , with whom he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1783 , coming back to England for this purpose . Two children were born to them ; but after a union of three years his wife died , and the children , seeming , so far as the letters indicate , to have passed quite out of his mind , were placed under the charge of his mother ; while he himself was hurried about Europe by his friends who , according to his biographer , were " fearful of his losing his reason or taking his life . " Mr. Melville asserts that " the marriage had been an ideal union , " and thinks that , . he memory of Beckford 's loss , " acting upon an emotional nature , may have had more to do with his subsequent retirement than is generally supposed . " It may be so ; yet such practical endurance of grief scarcely accords with the romantic temperament as one reads the annals of those days ; and indeed there is an aspect of this whole affair which is unpleasantly suggestive , but which can not be entirely overlooked , as Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Beckford stood for to his contemporaries . Before he had met Lady Margaret and during his courtship he was writing letters filled with disquieting confessions . Especially there is a series of letters to Mrs. Peter Beckford which are filled with allusions to a thoroughly unwholesome mixture of passions which exhales the unclean atmosphere of the Schlegels and their sentimental circle . These letters are sometimes obscure , and the editor gives no help to their interpretation  --  rather , his story of Beckford 's life is incompatible with them as they stand . Of the still uglier rumors about Beckford , which , as readers of Byron know , formed the real legend of his life , it would be desirable perhaps to say nothing . Mr. Melville declares categorically that there is not a particle of evidence to support them , and dismisses them as preposterous . Yet he himself admits that Beckford 's " Dreams , Waking Thoughts , and Incidents , " printed at this time , was withdrawn from circulation probably because its romantic tendency might give some color to the noxious scandals . Some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's vivid description of a visit to Fonthill , when Beckford read to the younger man the episodes intended for " Va . thek , " but never published . He does not add the comment of Rogers : " They are extremely fine , but very objectionable , on account of their subjects . Indeed , they show that the mind of the author was , to a certain degree , diseased . " One of the reasons for Beckford 's return to England , in 1781 , from the grand tour was that he might celebrate his coming of age in a manner befitting the fame of Fonthill . The festivities , which lasted for a week , followed the usual custom of the day , and might be dismissed with a word , were it not that they seem to have been one of the influences that governed the rest of his life . " My spirits are not sufficiently rampant , " he writes to Lady Hamilton , " to describe the tumult of balls , concerts , and illuminations in which we were engaged here a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which terminates the woody region of Fonthill blazed a series of fires . . . On the years . But the book was popular in its time , and is still one of the main documents to any one who wishes to study the sources of the romantic movement . Its theme is the unendltchkeasstreben and Titanenthum , the insatiable thirst of experience and the self-torturing egotism , which were beginning to run hke wild-fire through the literature of Europe , and which reached their consummation in " Faust . " Instead of the medieval setting of Goethe 's poem , Beck-ford 's hero is an Eastern prince at whose feet lie all the pleasures and powers of the world . Being dissatisfied with the magnificence of his predecessors , he adds to his palace five wings in which , like a Des Esseintes of the Orient , he can indulge in the quintessential charms of the five senses . His thirst for knowledge is equal to his appetite for pleasure , " for he wished to know everything , even sciences that did not exist . " His power was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , one of his eyes became so terrible that no person could bear to behold it , . and the wretch upon whom it was fixed instantly fell backward , and sometimes expired " Only one thing the Caliph can not command in his earthly paradise ? content ; the stars above his head , as he stands on his tower looking down contemptuously on mankind , are an irritation to his desires and a humiliation to his pride . Then enters the tempter , in the form of a hideous Giaour , who in return for a monstrous crime offers him the possession of the palace of . subterranean fire where reposes Soliman Ben Daoud , surrounded by the talismans that control the world . For a space the story is lost in grotesque adventures ; but at the end , as Vathek and the Princess Nouronihar approach their goal , the imagination of the author kindles and the sense of foreboding deepens and intensifies step by step , until in the great Hall of Eblis ( for to this the promises of the Giaour bring them ) , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hither and thither in furious agony or in rapt absorption , heedless of everything about them and forever avoiding one another , each with his right hand pressed upon his heart  --  the feeling rises to real terror and sublimity . At last the trembling pair are led to the great Soliman , seated aloft , yet with his hand , like the others , pressed upon his heart , and listening intently to the sullen roar of a vast cataract , which was the only sound that intruded on the universal silence . He tells them of his doom , and concludes . " In consideration of the piety of my early youth , my woes shall come to an end when this cataract shall for ever cease to flow ; till then I am in torments , ineffable torments ! an unrelenting fire preys on my heart . " Having uttered this exclamation Soliman raised his hands towards Heaven , in token of supplication , and the Caliph discerned through his bosom , which was transparent as crystal , his heart envelopthil in flames The device of the burning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but ? he has more than made it his own . His genius was fitful and never under control ; he was no philosopher or seer , but in this consummation of the undisciplined revolt of romanticism he came closer to the facts of history , and showed a profounder insight into human nature , than Goethe displayed when he resolved Faust 's craving for unbridled experience in a rather futile act of sympathy . And as the Hall of Eblis is a magnified and Orientalized image of Foothill , so the career of Vathek is a grotesquely conceived symbol of Beckford 's own life and of the romantic ideal . This is no place to go into an account of Beckford 's rebuilding of Foothill at an . extravagance and with a demonic energy which quite bewildered his contemporaries , or to follow him through his loss of fortune and secluded days at Bath . Mr. Melville closes his introductory chapter with the words of Beck-ford : " I have never known a moment 's ennui . " The saying may be true , but is suspicious . Beckford was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strength of very prosaic and practical forebears . Ennui , he may have kept at bay until the end by his unceasing activity . But withal it is not easy to read his letters and the story of his insane thirst and haste in building , or to picture his obstinate seclusion from the world in an artificial and barbarously ornate paradise , without remembering the last scene of his allegory of " Vathek . " This at least is certain : One who knows the literary history of that period may be thankful to Mr. Melville for printing these letters , but he will find it difficult to accept the hero whom Mr. Melville pretends to find in them . CURRENT FICTION . Tales of Men and Ghosts . By Edith Wharton . New York : Charles Scribner 's Sons . The enervating influence ' upon our popular story-writers of American magazine " policy " does not decrease with the seasons . One recalls the announcement , made something like a year ago , that Mrs. Wharton had been booked to write a series of ten or a dozen stories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ predestined number , capably turned out according to contract They are Ingenious and readable- so much the most doubtful forecaster must have been sure of . But their ingenuity is altogether too patent : they are too clearly trumped up out of the author 's fancy ; even the doubtful forecaster must have hoped for better things from the writer of " The Valley of Decision " and " The House of Mirth . " Her use of the short-story form is not to be complained of , since it is true that she is naturally an interpreter of the episode and the situation , rather than of action upon a large scale . Her latest essay in the novel , " The Fruit of the Tree , " resulted in a not very happy patching together of several distinct and obstinately detached episodes . But the book left one with an impression of earnest endeavor , if not of actually lofty achievement . Mrs. Wharton may have enjoyed the writing of these " Tales of Men and Ghosts , " but we venture to suppose that her enjoyment was upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least puzzling thing about this collection is its uncertainty of style . Two of the stories , " Afterward " and " The Letters , " are ( rather ineffectively ) in her earlier manner  --  that Anglo-Gallic manner , with its nuances , its compunctions , its hiatuses ; which reminds us of Bourget , when it does not go farther and fare worse by reminding us of Henry James . In " The Valley of Decision " this style seemed to have been so thoroughly assimilated by Mrs. Wharton , that one regarded her simply as one of the " psychological " school , as the cant was . Now one almost comes to doubt the spontaneity of that of it . Their style is rather that alert and commonplace style of the magazine fiction of the day as turned out by an army of skilful practitioners .                     