@@486199

A particular motive , in addition to his usual practice , induced the President at this time to make his message short . It is a short session which Congress is facing The time required to pass the necessary money bills will leave a small margin for other legislation . A large and ambitious programme would be certain to fail . By concentrating on a limited number of measures , there may be hope of getting most of them through . It is a brief list which the President submits . The bill for Porto Rican citizenship ; that for the extension of vocational education ; one to permit exporters to combine to seek foreign trade , the perfecting of the Corrupt Practices act -- those cover nearly all his recommendations except the central one of his message This deals with the completion of President Wilson 's plan for taking further steps to regulate by law the operation of interstate railways . Here he is on ground made familiar by the anxieties and agitations of last summer . To them it is not now necessary to recur . If Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he is firmly withstanding them today . The railway Brotherhoods and the American Federation of Labor have gone on record officially against the President 's proposed legislation to prevent railway strikes . They sent delegations to him to protest . He heard them , but he persisted in his purpose . And now , without emotion or clap-trap , he has laid his project before Congress . It is at once a matter of business and a matter of public security . Of the pretence that a bill to make strikes ( or lockouts ) illegal , until after full investigation , would be a bill to compel men to labor , Mr. Wilson makes short work . There is a clear distinction between involuntary servitude of individuals and the concert . ed action of powerful bodies of men threatening the country with commercial paralysis . It is not really being forced to work that the railway Brotherhoods dislike . They know perfectly well that any dissatisfied trainman or engineer could freely quit his Job even if the President 's bill were enacted . But what they dread is loss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unions to renew their public menace of last summer ; to threaten an instant and universal strike unless their demands were immediately complied with . It would be futile now to go over those unhappy events . Whether there would actually have been a general strike , whether the President and Congress yielded abjectly to labor-union terrorism , there is no profit in discussing at present . The main issue to-day is other and is very simple . Whatever the faults and weaknesses of last August , in December the President presses for legislation to which the railway unions are hostile , but which is manifestly in the public interest . It would destroy the fear that our transportational systems might suddenly be thrown into chaos . Farmers and manufacturers and the great mass of consumers would know where they stood , and would have a guarantee that the ground could not be cut from under them without warning and without mercy . What the President seeks is an American application of the law which has for years worked successfully in Canada . There is no reason why it should not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are still in the great experiment of governmental regulation of railways , and the measure urged by Mr. Wilson would be of undisputed help in making sure that the experiment might be carried out without violent interruptions . Protests against the Belgian deportations have evidently got under the skin of the German Government . It issued on Friday a long defence of its forcing workmen to go from Belgium to work in Germany . The whole seems an act of charity and mercy , as one reads this German description of it . But the sufficient answer to all humane pretences is that what Germany is doing is in flat violation of the laws of war and of the Hague Convention which she officially ratified . She now pleads necessity ; but the very object of adopting a specific code regarding the treatment of the inhabitants of occupied territory was , as one authority expresses it , to prevent " convenience from being translated into necessity . " And in the very language used now by the German Government it is transparently clear that it is for the convenience of Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aged men and women and even children who are wearing themselves out with work in Germany , " and to release the able-bodied for inilitary duty ? that resort has been had to this form of forced labor . The explicit international rule is that people in the position of the Belgians shall not be asked to give " requisitions or services " " except for the ' needs of the army of occupation . " That Die German Government is complying with this it would be a mockery to assert . As for the position of our own Government on the subject , all doubt was removed by the publication on Saturday of the note which our Charg ? at Berlin was directed to read to the German Chancellor on November 29 . In this the Imperial Government was told that the Government of the United States finds itself constrained to protest " most solemnly " against the deportation of Belgian civilians as an action " in contravention of all precedents and of those humane principles of international practice which have long been accepted and followed by civilized nations in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friendliness was scrupulously adhered to in the note , as it has been in all of President Wilson 's communications to the German Government . For the expression of the emotion that is behind the protest , the indignation with which the American people are filled at the contemplation of this colossal barbarity , the only adequate vehicle is to be found in great public meetings . The one that is to be held at Carnegie Hall tomorrow evening should be the signal for like manifestations of abhorrence in every great city in the country . The Constitutional amendment proposed by Senator Shafroth makes a change , not in the basis of the electoral vote for President and Vice-President , but only in the mechanism . It is to be hoped that Congress will limit consideration to this aspect of the subject ; for it is at once extremely desirable and altogether feasible to get the mechanism cleared of difficulties and dangers , while any attempt at fundamental change is sure not only to raise doubts , but to encounter formidable difficulties The particular proposal made by Senator Shafroth includes the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , too , whatever the reasons in its favor , should be kept out of the amendment of the electoral mechanism . If the single term is good , let it be passed on its merits , and not tied up with an improvement which , if presented by itself , would meet with hardly any opposition . The personality of the elector is wholly useless , and technicalities connected with it may at any time become a dangerous element in the decision of the Presidential result . Let the States cast their electoral vote , such as it now is , directly for President and Vice-President , without the nominal intermediation of the electors , that is a simple reform , and we ought to be able to get it at once . And it would have the incidental , but very great , advantage of permitting preferences on the Vice-Presidency as well as on the Presidency to be expressed by the voters . With commendable promptness Secretary Daniels has lifted the ill-advised censorship which Capt . Knapp established in Santo Domingo . This was the enlightened action which we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stop there . We are doing in that unhappy island what the President has said that we would not do in Mexico  --  intervening by force . The islanders may even have a prima facie case in asserting that the downfall of their Government has been due to our refusal to let them conduct their affairs in their own way . We sincerely hope that Congress will hold the Executive to a strict accountability for what is going on in Santo Domingo . There is no warrant for it  --  except by remote implication  --  in our treaty of 1907 . We should like to see a Congressional committee appointed to look into both the Haitian and Dominican situations , so that all the facts may be laid not only before Congress , but before the people . The main obstacle in the way of a clearer understanding of Mexican conditions by the American people is that the problem needs to be divided : there are conditions in northern Mexico and conditions in the rest of the republic . Inevitably we are led to judge of the whole situation by what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ border . If banditry is rife in Chihuahua , if the capital of that State is not safe against capture by Villistas , what more reasonable than to conclude that a similar situation prevails everywhere under the de-facto Government ? More than that , even if we knew things to be better elsewhere in Mexico , we have yet a seeming right to govern our conduct by what is nearest to us and affects us most closely . Yet fuller knowledge of the general state of Mexican affairs is welcome ; and nothing can be more useful than one or two brief extracts from a dispatch by the New York Evening Post 's correspondent : It was possible actually to witness a change for the better , a change which even members of the disgruntled American colony admitted was an improvement on times past , a year ago , for instance The resident correspondents without a single exception , good American newspaper men who have put up with a lot of personal inconvenience , too , told me that Mexico had improved , and that she was going ahead , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ border difficulties , there would not be the slightest doubt about the future of Mexico . One of these Cientificos who had every reason to hate the de-facto Government told me privately that the Carranza Government had done better than he had ever dreamed it would and that he believed it would succeed in reestablishing law and order . Fuller knowledge of what is going on inside of Mexico will also help to explain , if not to excuse entirely , the attitude of Carranza in its variations from apparent obstinacy to stupid exasperation . For if the American people judge of the entire Mexican problem by conditions in Chihuahua , the de-facto President , on the other hand , regards Chihuahua as only one factor in his problem . We may imagine Carranza arguing : If Mexico , as a whole , outside of Chihuahua , is being pacified , if economic conditions are improving , if starvation is less than it was a year ago , if the railways are being rebuilt , if industry is being reestablished , and , above all , if the work of providing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being pushed ahead successfully , why should the American people fix its eyes only on the Chihuahua sore spot ? The answer is , of course , that elementary American rights can not altogether be sacrificed to Mexico 's needs . But there is enough force in Carranza 's contention to drive home the need of fuller knowledge of what is going on in the republic as a - whole . The report of the Secretary of the Treasury calls attention first to the country 's financial position . " General confidence in the future , healthful enterprise and development , have been marked characteristics of the year . " " Fundamental conditions have never been more sound . " In the field of industry , " efficiency of organization and production have reached the highest point in the country 's history . " The country 's financial strength , " the greatest in our history , " has given us " a commanding position in world finance ; we have been transformed from a debtor to a creditor nation . " In particular , our stock of gold has increased $714,597,804 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the operations of the Federal Reserve system , " we have been able to finance our great domestic and foreign trade without strain , and to extend vast amounts of credit to other nations throughout the world . " These noteworthy facts are familiar to every one who has watched the developments of the past two years . The Secretary limits himself to the reciting of the facts ; he might with advantage , we think , have gone more fully into discussion of the eco nomic reasons why our abnormally large credits on foreign trade account not only provided the means for our equally unprecedented loans to Europe and the neutral world , but , in the case of Europe , involved such extension of credit as a logical and necessary corollary . It would have been worth pointing out , also , that the capital raised for the recent large loans to the Allies did not figure as capital withdrawn from the United States , since the proceeds of the loans were wholly expended in payment for purchases from American manufacturers . The Secretary , perhaps wisely , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except to say that " if we make intelligent use of our great power and exceptional financial resources , we can cope successfully with any conditions the future may develop . " Events in the New York money market during the past week suggest , however , that the qualification as to making " intelligent use " of our financial resources may be something to keep in mind Fifteen per cent . on Wall Street demand loans , ostensibly due to reduced surplus reserves , hardly indicates foresighted recourse to the facilities of the Federal Reserve , through rediscount of commercial paper , to regulate the general banking position . Guesswork may be good enough for the common run of folk trying to account for the result of the election , but the true-blue protectionist is in no such quandary . He walks in the light of a fixed and unchangeable faith , and is untroubled by the necessity of looking into facts or reasoning about them . A touching interchange of sentiment has just taken place between Senator Gal-linger and the editor of the American Economist , who are m @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently closed been waged on the question of protection to American industries and American labor the result would have been different , and Mr. Hughes would have been elected President of the United States . " " Some of us , " the Senator adds , " urged that upon the men who had control of the campaign , but it seemed to fall upon deaf ears . " Judging from the floods of money spent upon shrieking advertisements of the good old soup-house character , the ears of the campaign managers can hardly have been so very deaf ; the deafness appears rather to have been in the ears of the voters . And in any case , we rather fancy that Mr. Gallinger himself did not neglect the dear old issue , and yet it was New Hampshire that furnished the singular phenomenon of a New England State carried by the Democrats in a Presidential election ; and Rhode Island elected a Democratic Senator , though Lippitt made a ripping protectioaist fight . But Gallinger 's answer to all this is doubtless perfectly simple . The campaign ought to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that turned the voters ' attention away from it for a moment was so much to the bad . As old Tony Weller said of the sad blundering of Mr. Pickwick 's lawyers , " Oh , Sammy , Sammy , vy wor n't there a alleybi ? " The request of the returned Progressives for formal recognition in Republican councils is met by a call from the Progressive Old Guard for a conference to consider the possibility of " a really coherent and a really national liberal party  --  perhaps under one of the old party standards , perhaps under a new standard . " The names of Woodrow Wilson and Hiram Johnson are coupled as those of leaders in the new alignment . The result of the recent election gives a significance to this statement which Republican leaders of all degrees of progressiveness and reaction can not regard too seriously . It is plain that there are numbers of men who before 1912 expected to live and die Republicans , but who are now balancing in their minds their future party allegiance . We may dismiss the supposed alternative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uncertain but discontented Progressives will join one of the old parties . They may not all join the same one , but it is by no means impossible that the bulk of them will swing together . As in 1884 and 1892 , the party of moral ideas sees thousands of men who would prefer to remain loyal to it forced , as they feel , to debate withdrawal from it . The Republican Old Guard need not adopt a hostile attitude in order to cut the last thread that binds these voters to the party ; hesitation , fumbling , an apparent disposition to wait upon events and hope for " harmony , " may , giving the man in the White House time to make forays among the neutrals , be equally fatal . A recent decision of the Supreme Court sustains the Interstate Commerce Commission in holding that railway rates between terminals which are also ocean or canal terminals may be lowered to meet the competition of water-carriers . When the Panama Canal was opened , the railways asked the Commission to modify previous rulings in order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pacific Coast without reducing them to the same extent on ship ments for inter-mountain points . This modification of the long-haul , short-haul orders was granted . Afterwards , further reductions on west-bound goods were asked for . The Supreme Court establishes the principle upon which the Commission has acted in lowering rates , and vacates a troublesome injunction by the Federal District Court . The country may be going dry , but prohibition is still a vexed question in the original prohibition State . It is becoming the fashion for new Governors of Maine to announce that they will enforce the law . This announcement arouses only languid interest , but there is real curiosity over how they propose to do it . Gov . Plaisted declared that he would make Maine " as dry as a covered bridge , " but , in the words of the Boston Herald , he found that the roof of the bridge was rotten and the shingles bad blown off . Just now speculation is active concerning the ways and means which Gov. - elect Milliken will adopt to achieve an aim which " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utterly " to realize . Gov . Cobb , who perhaps came nearest to squaring his deeds with his words , had a State Enforcement Commission created for that special purpose , with deputies who went into counties where the sheriffs were lax and made seizures of liquor . But his success only provoked the next Legislature into abolishing the Commission ! Gov . Haines resorted to the less radical method of having the Legislature impeach and remove delinquent county officers , but this was a slow process . A justice who suggests that the Governor be empowered to remove sheriffs and county attorneys at his discretion is told by the Attorney-General of the State that this would amount to passing a law that these officers " shall be elected by the people and serve during the pleasure of the Governor . " Finally , there is talk of using the militia . As the Herald remarks , the discussion always arrives at the same goal-when the cities want the law enforced , it will be , and not until then . Atlanta University , an institution for the higher education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now celebrating its semi-centennial , has begun the raising of a halfmillion-dollar endowment fund . To this we gladly call our readers ' attention in the earnest hope that some of them will contribute to this most worthy undertaking , even at a time when the need for help in Europe is so great . Even in the South realizalion is coming that if the colored people are to direct their footsteps towards efficiency , . probity , and useful citizenship , there must be among them great leaders and great teachers . This is precisely the opportunity and need which Atlanta University has lived up to for fifty years . A majority of its graduates are in positions of responsibility and influence . It is estimated that more than fifty thousand children are under the daily instruction of men and women who hold Atlanta degrees or studied there for some time . Yet this College has a pitifully inadequate equipment ; it is really five millions of dollars that it ought to be asking instead of five hundred thousand ; just as it should have 5,400 pupils instead of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grade of collegiate teaching than is the case at present ; indeed , history will surely express itself freely in the years to come on the shortsightedness of the Federal Government in not seeing to it that there was at least one such institution in every one of the old slave States . To-day Atlanta has an able and enterprising president , Edward T. Ware , son of its first president and founder , who is compelled to leave his work at the University to appeal for the small sum of money the University needs . To thousands of colored people it has stood as an open door to opportunity . Paul Leroy-Beaulieu , whose death at Paris was announced in Monday 's dispatches , was Iminently endowed with the faculty of lucid writing , and with a sense of the practical , in his handling of economic problems . A man who was born in 1843 , and who was recognized as a high authority in contemporaneous discussion of the economic history of 1870 , might have been imagined as a link with the old schools of political economy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visible movements and phenomena of the day became greater as he grew older . No one has discussed the new and bewildering economic problems of the war with more clarity and vigor than Leroy-Beaulieu in his weekly articles in the Econorniste Francais . Indeed , these discussions have covered with equal comprehensiveness the political and military problems ; and the number of the Economists at hand by last week 's mail contained what was scheduled as his hundred and first article on " The War ; the Situation and the Outlook . " Apparently , he died in the midst of active work ; though he was greatly shaken by the death of his son and coadjutor , a promising younger economist , at the battlefront last year .                     