@@487195

CONGRESSIONAL inquiries into the conduct of the war may reveal mistakes and weaknesses in personnel and methods and will undoubtedly suggest ways of improvement , but it is gratifying to feel that there is no prospect of those " scandals " for which the ardent imagination yearns . And even such disappointments as we are likely to experience will be tempered by honest recognition of the enormous problems which the Administration and the War Department are facing . It is well that the Congressional investigations have come . This war , above all others , has been no respecter of persons and reputations . Everywhere it has broken down strong men , and nowhere has the ideal of 100 per cent . efficiency and a straight record of bull's-eyes been attained . Even in disciplined and trained and prepared Germany there has been a heavy mortality among chiefs of the General Staff , heads of Admiralty , food dictators , foreign ministers , and Chancellors . We need only recall that in Germany the defeat at the Marne has been openly attributed to a shortage of ammunition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made for human fallibility and human limitations . This does not mean that a fair administrator should be retained where a better one is available ; but it is a just argument against panic . TREASON still stalks abroad among our intellectuals , and on both sides of the water . It is had enough to have Lord Lansdowne supported by Gilbert Murray and others , and to hear Charles W. Eliot in the middle of our war for the destruction of militarism calmly declaring that we shall have to go in for unlimited militarism ourselves as soon as the war is over , when the destruction of all militarism is one of our chief war aims . But here is Dean Inge , of St. Paul 's Cathedral , London , going so far as to say : " We were told that this war would never be ended until German militarism was destroyed . That programme was always hopeless ; we see now it is absurd . We can not even destroy the German army , and if we could , we should not thereby destroy German militarism . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America for saying this sort of thing , but Dean Inge went ahead and moved a resolution in the British Council of the World Alliance for Promoting International Friendship through the Churches to the effect that a just and lasting peace could only be secured by applying the Christian principles of reconciliation and the brothel hood of mankind to all relatfonships between nations . It is for taking a similar view that our own Bishop Jones , of Utah , has been asked by the House of Bishops of the Episcopal Church to resign his bishopric . The sin of believing in methods of the spirit is not to be tolerated in these days of physical conquest . MR . HOOVER 'S straightforward statement as to the sugar situation , drawn from him by Mr. Claus Spreckels 's testimony before the Senate Committee on Agriculture , adds much to our knowledge of the basic facts . He tells us that this country of slightly over a hundred millions has hadabout 500,000 tons of sugar in the last two months , which is nearly five pounds per capita per month . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 70 per cent . of our normal consumption . We shall have a ration of nearly five pounds each per month again in December , if the cars are available . This is twice the French monthly ration , and is quite as much as is good for normal human beings , our usual consumption being regarded as excessive . By cutting down our consumption from over seven to five pounds monthly , we have been able to send considerable exports to France , and Mr. Hoover rightly says that the American people are proud of doing so . Probably after December there will be more sugar available , but by maintaining the economy which has thus far been partially forced we shall be able to do just so much more for the hard-pressed Allies . THERE will be general approval of the President 's proc-lamation stipulating for the most lenient treatment of Austrian subjects resident in the United States . On the day when the Senate voted to declare war upon Austria , Senator Knox , of Pennsylvania , made an urgent plea for considerate dealing with Austrians in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in our basic industries , and strongly argued that there v , as no reason to suppose that they would not be law-abiding or stick to their useful work , if not interfered with . Technically enemy aliens , a great many of them , especially the Bohemians , are hostile to the Austrian Government . The custodian of the property of enemy aliens , Mr. Palmer , has announced that , except in rare instances , he will seize nothing belonging to Austrians . That the sensible and generous course adopted by our Government in the matter is appreciated by the Austrians living here is seen in the grateful expressions of their leading newspaper published in the United States . erHE odds were plainly too great against Sir Wilfrid 1 Laurier , but the sweeping character of his defeat in the West had been expected neither by the Liberals nor by the Bordenites . The victory plainly means that the Anglo-Saxon people of Canada propose to put their whole strength into this war just as long as it lasts and that they are not willing to swap horses while crossing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The gravity of the situation is that it is a straight-out line-up of French Canadians against Anglo-Saxons . In the entire Province of Quebec not a single Unionist was elected outside of three districts in the city of Montreal . That province is as emphatically on record as it is possible for a section to be that it does not wish conscription . What is going to happen ? Who is going to force Quebec to enforce the Conscription law ? The outlook is the more unhappy because , in addition to the racial cleavage , the religious line was very clearly drawn . This makes a demand upon Sir Robert Borden 's statesmanship and breadth of view and tolerance which will be heavy , indeed . As he has been returned with a larger majority than he had hoped for , it is his opportunity and his duty to display the greatest possible wisdom and magnanimity towards the French Canadians lest there arise grave complications . It is at least reassuring that the victory for Borden is so decisive that it can not be attributed to his juggling with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks ' armistice between Bolshevik Russia and the armies of the Central Powers , the one unavoidable and immediate outcome will be a revival of discussion concerning war aims and peace aims , and that not only for Russia , which has officially begun to discuss peace , but for all the belligerents . We need only think how every peace move and peace suggestion down to the thinnest of rumors has been seized upon for debate , and then we have only to recall that the negotiations between the Bolsheviki and the Teutons will bring forward the issue more pressingly and more concretely than even the most definite of official pronouncements from any source hitherto . One can not imagine the western members of the Entente , on the one hand , or the ruling powers in Germany on the other , sitting by indifferent when Trotzky begins to ask questions relative to matters other than those affecting Russia , as he is bound to do . It is doubtful whether German skill will be equal to the task of keeping the Russians down to the " local " Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Servia , Armenia , Alsace-Lorraine . Hitherto Berlin has complained that if only the Allies would consent to ask questions around a conference table , it would gladly answer . Now there is a conference table . MEANWHILE there is reassurance in the definite inti- mation that the Allied Governments will pursue a policy of self-restraint in Russia ; we need not speculate for the moment whether it is to take the form of recognizing the Bolsheviki , or treating with the Bolsheviki , or only " viewing the Reds with tolerance , " as the New York World explains it . How could it be otherwise ? Russia has not yet stepped out of the war , as Lloyd George said the other day . There is the month 's armistice ; there are the long peace negotiations to follow . But put it at the worst and say that Russia will make her separate peace , what is the situation then ? Russia has ceased to be a belligerent and has become a neutral . What would be the normal attitude of the Allies towards a neutral of Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been in the war ? Nearly a year 's efforts went into the winning of Italy for the Entente . A longer period was spent with Rumania and Greece . After three and a half years of wax we still think neutral Scandinavia a subject of importance . What then of neutral Russia with her great potentialities for shaping the war even when her armies are out of it ? We still believe that Russia calls for as much serious thinking by the Allies as any problem of the war . A " FIGHTING speech " is what the exigencies of the .. present situation demanded from Lloyd George , whatever might be his inner beliefs and feelings . Germany as a whole may not to-day be drunk with boastfulness , but a case can be made out for a resolute front by the Allies against the new problems and tasks which the turn of events in Russia may bring any day . Once that is said , there is no ascertainable reason for Lloyd George 's insistence at the present moment upon " victory " as the only way towards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and disarma-+ Tf 41- " , Prarniar is afraid fn cantor info a pornpact with an unbeaten Germany , he is supplying the militarists at Berlin with a counter argument : they will ask the German people whether it can afford to think of reconciliation and cooperation with an unbeaten Entente . Better than an announcement of " victory " as the goal of the Allies would have been the announcement of a concrete war purpose , the statement in definite terms of the irreducible minimum of righteous and necessary demands for which the Entente is prepared to fight to the last . A bold formulation of Allied resolve to hold grimly to the task of exacting just reparation and essential guarantees need not have meant playing into the hands of the Junkers . . British demand for an investigation into the causes of the .1 British defeat around Cambrai , voiced by Northcliffe 's press and reechoed in the House of Commons , has been described as part of a campaign against Sir Douglas Haig and as entering into the question of a single Allied generalissimo for the entire western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon an investigation , but there is one valuable military lesson which should emerge , and that is whether there is any solid merit in the tactics of surprise as practiced by Gen. Byng , or whether the established tactics of formidable artillery preparation , followed by a swift rush and consolidation of conquered positions , is the only sound one . Gen. Nivelle , in the April offensive on the Aisne , was the first to bring into play the tactics of surprise . His experiment was a costly failure , and its lessons appeared conclusive . Gen. Byng 's recent success seemed to justify a revision of judgment on Nivelle 's method . The French failure in April might be explained by accidental causes and not by any essential fault of method . But now comes the disconcerting German counter-stroke , and the question is once more an open one . Was the loss of ground , prisoners , and guns to the Germans due to carelessness and overconfidence ? Or has it been demonstrated that a zone conquered by surprise , and without preliminary demolition of enemy trenches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rapidly enough to withstand a powerful counter-offensive ? Did the British infantry outrun its guns and supply facilities , or did British leadership break down ? The question is important for the future of military tactics . OUR own shortage of coal is working hardships , and may yet cause greater , but till now the lack of fuel in this country has had nothing like the alarming results it is reported to have had in Germany . It is a pitiful state of affairs especially in Berlin which is described by the Vorwarts . The sufferings of the poor are intense . " They have been forced to go cold , hungry , and filthy . " The city gas and electricity works and transportation services are so short of coal that partial stoppage is imminent . But it is the people in their homes who feel that they are on the verge of a " catastrophe . " This picture drawn by the Socialist newspaper , with its attacks upon a do-nothing Government , may be somewhat highly colored . But trustworthy information from other sources warrants the belief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is in France and Italy . Is President Wilson 's letter in support of a Republican , Senator Nelson , of Minnesota , for reelection , a forecast of A nnliev of Rtatus MAO concerning the composition of the Senate , at least with reference to Senators who are holding up the hands of the Administration ? Presidents are not in the habit of exerting themselves in behalf of Congressmen of the opposite party , but Wilson would have Senator Nelson retained against the Senator 's own preference and in spite of failing health . Senator Nelson 's ability and his knowledge of international law are the considerations assigned by the President for his attitude , and when one recalls that the chairman of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations is Stone of Missouri , one realizes the sincerity of the Presidential appeal . Nelson is not even a member of the Foreign Relations Committee , but that is not a vital matter . He can render the " invaluable services " of which Wilson speaks from his place on the floor . As significant as the letter is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is reported to meet with the approval of Democratic leaders . The event is as complimentary to a veteran Senator ? Nelson is finishing his fourth term  --  as it is novel . WHAT has become of the Philippine experts who once predicted ruin if the displacement of Americans by natives continued as it had begun under the Democratic Administration ? The latest Civil Service report shows this displacement going steadily on . At the beginning of 1913 there were 2,623 Americans in the Philippine service , or about the number maintained every year since 1905 . At the beginning of 1914 there were 2,148 ; of 1915 , 1,935 ; of 1916 , 1,730 ; and of 1917 , 1,475 ? a reduction of 1,150 in four years . Of the number left all are subordinates except 62 chiefs or assistant chiefs of bureaus and offices . The Filipinos appointed during the year numbered 1,579 , and the Americans 33 ; the Filipinos promoted were 1,278 , and the Americans 363 . The great agency in last year 's reduction of the American personnel was the new act providing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ receive retirement with a liberal gratuity if the Governor-General approves his application . The gratuity was a reward for proffering application , and all but fifty of the thousand and more Americans eligible took advantage of the opportunity ; about 300 retirements were granted . Filipinos who applied were refused except when incapacitated , because the act was primarily intended " to facilitate a reduction of salary expenditure and the Filipinization of the service . " Yet has any one heard of chaos and disruption in the Philippines ? A NICE question affecting the rights of labor unions was decided by the Supreme Court the first of last week , three judges dissenting . To say that the Court upheld the " open shop " is misleading . As in many previous decisions , it fully recognized the right of laboring men to organize and to make collective bargains respecting wages , working cqnditions , and so on . In fact , the Court was asked to declare a certain miners ' union a conspiracy in restraint of trade , and so illegal , but this it refused to do . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to conduct their business on the basis of the open shop , with the free assent of their workmen , and to be safe from measures by the unions designed to compel them to unionize their shops . In other words , the free contract between an employer and his men may be a part of the good will of a business , and hence a property right with which outsiders may not lawfully interfere . Thus the decision of the Court is of re-stricted scope , and its application may not be practically of great importance . The principle is a sound one , however , so long as we are under a regime of free contract , and in laying it down the Supreme Court has given one more proof of its desire to hold the scales even in all these interpretations of the laws bearing on the rights of labor unions . THE number of British war pensions already granted is reported to be in the neighborhood of 900,000 . How large a part of these pensions will become a permanent charge on the nation , it seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been made as to how many of them go to widows , orphans of men killed at the front , or to dependents of soldiers disabled for life . Nevertheless , the number must be very great , great enough to stagger the imagination . If our Civil War brought us a pension list of near a million names , the British , with their five million men in the military service , may well reckon on an after-war pension list providing for at least three times as many beneficiaries as ours at its most exuberant . T is too early to assume that the recent revolution in Por-Itugal was entirely fomented by the extreme radicals and advocates of peace . Heretofore , and ever since the monarchy 's overthrow , the frequent Portuguese revolts and uprisings were caused largely by a combination of two factors . On the one hand , there were the country districts , especially the northern provinces , with Oporto as their capital , which had always been intensely Catholic , and therefore strongly opposed to the anti-Catholic republic . On the other hand were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stood , usually , at the opposite pole of religious and political belief . These two elements often found it expedient to unite in an attempt to turn out the moderate , liberal Government . Early reports indicated that Oporto and the northern districts again led in the present revolution . Hence , until more definite news is received , the hypothesis seems tenable that the party which has seized power includes at least some extremely conservative elements . Whether these representatives of the Catholic and monarchist part of the country will , because of their hostility to republicanism , also be pro-German and anti-war , remains to be seen . TWO German ladies , no doubt heavily veiled , are re-ported to have been seen recently stealing up to the statue of Frederick the Great , in Berlin , and depositing at the base thereof a wreath inscribed , " We need you now . " Like most past historical incidents , this one is probably only the figment of some idle correspondent 's brain , but as an indication of what the Germans think it may not be without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bad example of Frederick , who was allowed to get away with Silesia , has been lurking in the background of many German minds during this war . What these Germans do not realize is that Old Fritz took seven years to legitimatize his burglary and that in the meantime Prussia suffered unspeakable woes . Berlin was occupied and burnt by the enemy . They ought to be taught instead that if they want to accomplish Frederick the Great 's results , Germany of to-day will have to suffer infinitely greater hardships than did the Prussia of his time . To an unprejudiced observer it would seem as if Germany had had altogether too much Frederick the Great for its own and the world 's good .                     