@@430515

 | IT is a matter of common observation and regretful comment that much of present-day historical writing is not readable . A recent review of certain historical essays voices this frequent plaint in these words : " The papers have small literary quality . . . . There is no attempt to portray the form and character of significant personalities ; nor can a page be found enlivened by a graphic picture of some past event . . . . A taste affects modern historic writers quite different from that which prevailed with Irving and Bancroft , and even the Boston trio , Prescott , Motley , and Parkman . It is thought that in those days History walked in robes too flowing , with an over-display of the purple patch . Our grandsons may feel that in our time , on the other hand , her garment has been quite too sad-colored and scant . Diligence , accuracy , sound judgment are primary requisites , but grace and picturesqueness are not to be entirely thrown aside , unless we are content , like the plodding author someone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anything so irrelevant as a reader . " There was once a close alliance between history and literature . In one of our New England colleges there is , or was until very recently , a chair of American history , literature , and eloquence . And it was not many years ago that a college in the Middle West , which had inherited wholesome traditions of the balmy days of New England literature , maintained a professorship of history and belles-lettres . When these chairs were founded men and women were reading Gibbon and Milman , Guizot and Hallam , Robertson and Macaulay . A pathetic picture ! To think of the way that p 391 Gibbon used his sources , not to mention the sheer ignorance of Guizot respecting the mediaeval chroniclers ! Was it not a benighted generation which suffered its critical spirit to be quieted by the smooth cadences and brilliant pictures of the " Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire , " and mistook Macaulay 's stylistic antitheses for sober truth ? Possessed of our modern monographs , we have a feeling of smug contentment with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were so unsophisticated as to confound primary and secondary authorities . Yet the disquieting fact remains , that we rarely read a modern historian with aesthetic satisfaction . A certain degree ? perhaps a high degree ? of intellectual satisfaction may be derived from modern historiography , a pleasure akin to that of the physicist or biologist who follows the laborious researches of some powerful and penetrating intellect as he pushes back the veil of mystery which shrouds this little life of ours and so widens the bounds of human knowledge . The common satisfactions of the scientist come from patient , prolonged investigations which lead only a step or two along the road to truth , rarely from a brilliant tour de force which gives a constructive interpretation to data gleaned by scores of plodding workers in many fields . Esthetic satisfactions are rarely if ever vouchsafed to the scientist as they are to the artist . And just to the degree to which history has become a science , instead of an art , it has forfeited its claims upon the aesthetic interests of men and women . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is complete ; it is of tendencies that I would speak . The appearance of a historian with a literary style is a sufficiently rare phenomenon to suggest the trend of historiography . Turn whither we will , the influence of the scientific spirit of the age upon historical writing is in evidence . Nor would I affirm that this tendency to separation is inevitable , but only natural . It would have been strange indeed if the  | extraordinary development of the natural sciences in the nineteenth century had not affected historians , and that in two ways : first , in their methods , and then in their choice of historical material . The triumphs of science are essentially the triumphs of method . From the moment that hypotheses were subjected as a matter of course to evidential tests , the vague zone between tradition and fact , superstition and truth , narrowed towards a definite line . Applied to historical investigation , the scientific method led to the essential distinction between primary and secondary authorities , and to practical tests for the establishment of historical valuations . So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a writer no longer suffices to establish his authority ; he stands or falls according as he has reared his superstructure on the bed-rock of accurately ascertained data or on the shifting sands of arbitrarily chosen tradition . The subject-matter of historical investigation is also changing under the pressure of current scientific thought . Pope 's aphorism has been revised : the proper study of mankind is not man but men . There is a clearly discernible tendency among historical writers of the younger generation to busy themselves with human molecules rather than with atoms . It is altogether wholesome that our attention has been turned from kings and court intrigues to the peasant 's cottage and the artisan 's bench , to find the deeper and impersonal currents of national life . Everyone recognizes the debt owed to historical scholars who have passed over the John Balls and the Jack Cades of history to describe guilds and trades-unions , ? the social or economic group rather than the individual man . Yet the average reader prefers biography to economic or constitutional or institutional history . Most men think in concrete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of historical happenings . Nine out of ten readers will peruse the life of Napoleon or Frederick  | the Great rather than the most scientific account of the economic forces which may have shaped the history of their times . Let the scientific spirit penetrate ever so deep into the social consciousness , the vast majority of men will continue to be hero-worshippers . Even where the underlying forces of society are so clearly shaping public affairs as in our own industrial age , we watch our Harrimans and our Goulds with a conviction that they are our good or evil geniuses . The muckraker has exploited this tendency , for next to its heroes society will have its villains . It is not merely a coincidence that at a time when the novel and the drama , both concerned fundamentally with the individual , are having such a development , a revival of interest in biography should occur . Wisely directed this movement may enrich both American literature and history , but it must proceed from new premises . The time has long since swept past when Emerson 's dictum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Few would now care to maintain that every institution is the lengthened shadow of a single man . On the contrary , the conviction is widespread that nowadays institutions make men . The conditions of modern life leave scant room for the play and interplay of personality . Instead of human initiative , the stark act of the naked will , we seem to see only the push and pull of forces , now termed social and now economic . To the positivist , indeed , individuals are but the playthings of cosmic energies , poor frail puppets in a great show , which is comedy or tragedy very much according to the mood of the onlooker . He would scoff at the notion that the forces which shape human history may be reduced to love and hate , charity and avarice , patriotism and self-interest . In short , the biographer must resolutely turn his back upon the great-man theory of history . Modern historiography has no place for Carlyles . The biographer , then , has Hobson 's choice , it would seem . Either he must content @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and purposes of his subject , or he must describe the institutions and the mores , the environmental and hereditary factors which excited the motor centres of his hero 's brain . In the former case , he will have the consciousness that , like the romancer and the novelist , he is indulging his creative imagination ; in the latter case , he must conclude that he is no biographer at all , for his hero becomes simply an automaton geared to the machinery of the cosmos . Now American political biography seems to have found no way of escape from the horns of this dilemma . Fully nine out of every ten biographers have been satisfied to describe " the man and his times " ; that is to say , the man is turned inside out and upside down so that we may observe his endowments of mind and body . Casting a sop to Cerberus , the author will then dwell indulgently upon certain hereditary traits , if possible find a forebear who had much the same qualities but just missed being great , ? and finally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty discharged , he will then joyously transport the inchoate statesman as speedily as may be into the national arena , where he will thenceforth shape the course of empire . Now and then a biography appears which is impaled upon the other horn of the dilemma . It is usually written by one who has an intimate acquaintance with the events of the time and who sees his subject as one among many actors , all swayed by the fell clutch of circumstance . Such a writer has a mind so filled with details that he can discern no dramatic incidents in history . Events shape themselves in accord with inexorable laws . The individual either swims with the current or against it . The individual may reach the desired goal and win fame . Well , he only used the current . He may swim upstream and sink exhausted . Then observe the tremendous onward sweep of the current . One , two , three , ? never three before two nor two before one . The chronological order must be observed except where the  | law of cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Happily such a biography is rare and is never read more than once . Is there no via media ? Is the biographer in theory and in practice reduced to an either-or ? No one doubts that biography would be written , though all the world should turn determinist . The sense of conscious choice within me is too strong for me to deny a similar feeling in others , even though as a theory I may hold that human acts are determined by cosmic processes . It is enough that I think that I choose between alternative courses of action . Certainly I govern my life , so far as I may , on the tacit assumption that a choice is left to me . Waiving then the question whether the individual does act as a free agent , let us take the obvious fact that he thinks that he does in the affairs of everyday life . Is there a man who is not conscious , at some time or other , of the struggle between the " I will " and the adverse course of events ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and of the sting of defeat when it loses ? Even the most stubborn fatalist , who holds that destiny governs his every act , is conscious ? delusively conscious , if you will ? of effort in the decisions which he must make . He is bound to admit that he chooses at the parting of the ways , even though the choice made is foreordained from the beginning of time . Yet these apparent choices form but a small part of the stuff out of which biography is made . Below the margin of consciousness there are instinctive responses to environment . Within every man there is a subliminal self of whose capacity and powers he may not be aware . This alter ego is the child of circumstance ? sometimes our better self , but as often our baser self , yielding obedience only to the laws of heredity and environment . And it is this other self which is often best known to contemporaries and to history . In his own inimitable way , Dr. Holmes once touched upon this problem of multiple personality . When John @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | the presence of six persons , three Johns and three Thomases . There is John as Thomas sees him , John as seen by himself , and John as known to his creator . A triple Thomas adds to the confusion , for John has his opinion of Thomas , and Thomas has fixed notions as to his own personality , and neither probably knows the real Thomas . Now it should be the fascinating task of the biographer to reveal this real self ? not merely the self who assumes will-attitudes , who makes , or thinks he makes , conscious choices , and not merely that other self who responds unconsciously to the call of outside forces , but the composite self ? including all the Johns and all the Thomases ? which is at once the creature of will and imagination and environment . The most conspicuous defect in current American biography is its failure to observe more than one of these aspects of personality . Given a large amount of personal correspondence and other intimate materials , a biographer insensibly drifts into an uncritical attitude . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John or a Thomas : he studies the problems of the hour as they appeared to Thomas 's Thomas or to John 's John , forgetting that it is quite as important to ascertain John 's view of Thomas 's problems . Every biographer of Charles Sumner has succumbed to this subtle temptation . Sumner had his Boswell in the person of Edward L. Pierce , who conceived a biography on what Mr. Charles Francis Adams terms " a Brobdingnagian scale . " It was the avowed purpose of the author to make his " Memoir and Letters of Charles Sumner " a sort of thesaurus for the use of writers of briefer lives . In the pages of this four-volume work , the full-length portrait of the orator appears , posture and gesture exactly as Sumner himself observed them and as he would wish posterity to observe them . The will-attitudes of the man are unmistakable . He is the senator with a conscience , par excellence . The serious-minded biographer with a keen appreciation of ethical values ? and only such is likely to be drawn to  | Sumner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideals of this Massachusetts statesman . Writing his life is like giving embodiment to Kant 's categorical imperative . The sweep of his eloquence , coupled with his obvious purity of mind and integrity of purpose , disarms criticism . This is John as seen by himself and his admirers , but not John as observed by all his contemporaries , and probably not the real John . As an example of the thin ether from which Sumner , the anti-slavery orator , drew his inspiration , let us take his philippics against the slave-power . It is a fact substantiated by the faithful Pierce that Sumner only once saw with his own eyes a plantation worked by slave-labor . On this occasion he expressed surprise at the comfort and contentment of the blacks . Yet shortly after this visit to Kentucky , Sumner wrote solemnly , " The more I think and see of slavery , the more indefensible does it seem . " What offended his conscience was slavery in the abstract . And yet biographers , with a remarkable want of humor , have treated Sumner 's indictment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a life-long student of Southern conditions . The tendency to make biography a mere narrative of willattitudes appears again in the lives of Thomas H. Benton . To those who have read his " Thirty Years ' View , " Benton 's career seems an open book which he who runs may read . The labors of a biographer can be cast into the form of a mathematical problem . Given : the course of political events at Washington , and Benton 's " Thirty Years ' View " ; find his personal equation , and plot his life curve . The figure of the doughty old parliamentarian , always sure that he is right and that his opponents are not only wrong but perversely wrong , seems as clear-cut as a cameo . " Having read Benton 's Thirty Years ' View , ' " writes one biographer , " and being struck in particular with the immense boldness of the course which he pursued in many instances in his long career . . . I decided to write a biography of him . "  | The result is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Consequently , when Benton failed of re-election to the United States Senate in 1851 , we are left without an adequate explanation of the unwillingness of the people of Missouri to reward him for his immense boldness . Some sort of revolution occurred in the trans-Mississippi country , but the biographer has not thought it worth while to explain its nature and extent . The failure to portray John 's Thomas ? Thomas as he appeared to his contemporaries ? is due in large measure , so far as statesmen of our national history are concerned , to an imperfect realization of the nature of representation in the United States . A reader might suppose that these worthies represented pocket-boroughs which never failed to return them to Senate or House by acclamation . Such an impression has only to be recorded in cold print to appear absurd . Biographies which are constructed on the supposition that certain famous characters stayed in the national arena because there was a general clamor for their retention in office , reveal a very slender acquaintance with the brutal facts of American politics . We should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recalled the simple formula that an American statesman is always a dead politician . Ours is a federal , not a unitary , state . Virtual representation is not , and never has been , recognized . Every senator and representative is inseparably bound to a definite State . At the national capitol he may voice the largest conceptions of national destiny and may appreciably mould public opinion ; but though he speak with the vision of Daniel Webster , he remains nevertheless Senator from Massachusetts . He receives his mandate from a locality which may , or may not , be in accord with national policy . His freedom of political movement is far more narrowly circumscribed than he is willing to admit to himself , much less to the public . He must first of all serve his district and his State , for out of them come the issues of political life . Every reader of  | American history will recall how the Webster of 1828 labored to undo the mischief which the Webster of 1824 had wrought by declaring that " the general sense of this age @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freedom of commercial intercourse , and unrestrained individual action . " The earlier Webster represented a constituency which was interested primarily in shipping ; the later Webster argued for constituents who had withdrawn their capital from shipping and invested it in manufacturing enterprises . Calhoun was a thorough-going nationalist in 1816 when South Carolina was prosperous , cotton selling at thirty cents a pound ; but he experienced a trying change of political weather , when the seaboard slave States began to feel the competition of the new cotton-growing lands along the Gulf and the price of cotton fell to fourteen cents a pound . No public man in our history was ever called upon to make a more complete volte-face . An American representative must not only be responsive to the public opinion of his constituents , but ? such have been the conditions of public life ? he must actively win over those agencies of political control which in these latter days we term collectively " the machine . " To be sure , our Sumners have sometimes refused to soil their hands with machine oil ; but , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work of lubrication upon hands already soiled . One wonders what unnamed political toilers would say , if they were permitted to return to this mundane existence to find themselves completely obscured by the refulgence of those whom they have made great . They at least know that American political leaders have not hovered in an empyrean created by eloquence and moral enthusiasms . Political constituencies , it is true , are for the most part artificial creations . Two thirds of the States have been carved out of the public domain . The boundaries of commonwealths like Nebraska and Nevada point unmistakably to their origin . Perhaps it is the aspect of the political  | map of the United States that has led to the all too common assumption that American constituencies have a dull uniformity . At all events , the public whose opinion has been a barometer for most statesmen has not received adequate attention . The subtle forces which form public opinion are as diverse as human activities . The difference between State and State appears less in their political institutions , which are often imitations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ geographical and demographical considerations . Had the United States been confined between the Alleghanies and the Atlantic , the conditions which made Virginia and Massachusetts so unlike would have persisted . It is not so obvious that the great westward movement of population into the more or less artificial political areas beyond the Alleghanies could produce such striking variations between States . Yet the reaction of this mobile population upon geographical environment has created differences which are almost as marked as those among the original thirteen States . The historian of a constituency and of its representative must measure two factors : the influence of geographical position and that of population . Geographical and demographical conditions made Illinois a most interesting constituency before the Civil War . No one can have failed to observe how strongly the people of the State were drawn southward by the pull of natural forces : the Mississippi washes the western border on its gulf-ward course ; and the chief rivers within the State have a general southerly trend . But quite as important historically is the convergence of the Ohio , the Cumberland , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by these waterways that the early settlers reached the Illinois territory from the States of Kentucky , Tennessee , Virginia , and North Carolina . The apex of the irregular , inverted triangle of Illinois , thrust down to the thirty-seventh parallel of latitude , brought the first settlers well within the sphere of southern influence . Nearly one  | half of Illinois lay south of Mason and Dixon 's line . In the early days , the possession by the Indians of the northern areas accentuated the southern connections of the people . At the same time the absence at the North of navigable waterways and passable highways between East and West , left the Ohio and its tributaries the only connecting lines of travel with the remote northern Atlantic States . Had Illinois been admitted into the Union with the boundaries first proposed , it would have been , by all those silent influences which make public sentiment , a southern State . But the extension of the northern boundary to 42 ? 30 ' gave Illinois a frontage of fifty miles on Lake Michigan , and deflected the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contact with the great waterways of the North brought to the State , in the course of time , an immense share of the lake traffic and a momentous connection with the northern central and northern Atlantic States . The passing of the Indians , the opening up of the great prairies to settlement , and the completion of the Illinois-Michigan canal made the northern part of Illinois fallow for New England seeding . The inevitable interpenetration of northern and southern interests in Illinois , is the most important fact in the social and political history of the State . It bred in Illinois statesmen a disposition to compromise for the sake of political harmony and economic progress , a passionate attachment to the Union as the sine qua non of State unity , and a glowing nationalism . The area of the several States has rarely been made to conform to those physiographical regions which nature has marked upon the continent . Hence it has often happened that the actual constituency of a public man has been wider than his political district . The circumstances which impel him to pursue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area . A sectionalism resting upon fundamental physiographical conditions has more than once explained the career of a statesman , whose political orbit would other- wise have baffled calculation . The concern of the upper Mississippi Valley for a free and unimpeded outlet to the Gulf was a determining factor in the public lives of those who represented the great Northwest before the Civil War , predisposing them to compromise with the South to avert secession . The paramount maritime interests of New England as a section , which in turn rest upon certain physical characteristics , go far to explain the course of the Federalists in their antagonism to the policy of the Virginia dynasty . The solidarity of interests in the slave-holding South is now one of the recognized commonplaces of ante-bellum history . Because insufficient attention has been given to background , many American portraitures are not only faulty in perspective , but positively flat and insipid , lacking individuality . Europeans , including Mr. Bryce , are disposed to find everywhere in American life a tendency towards uniformity . So far as this impression has been received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many biographies have been penned by literary hacks who have had no eye for local color or individual characteristics . Their highest ambition seems to be to rescue their hero from humble surroundings and to thrust him into a senatorial frock coat . The results are not happier when latter-day statesmen are mustered into literary service , on the erroneous supposition that because a man is in Congress he must necessarily know a great deal about his predecessors in high office . To the true artist , however , American life is not wanting in local color . Humdrum American democracy has never lacked picturesque leaders . To superficial observers , Lincoln in his law office in Illinois must have seemed like a very ordinary specimen of border humanity . It was only after he achieved greatness that biographers began to find local color in his early surroundings . Indeed , Lincoln 's admirers have almost forgotten the essential tawdriness of life on the prairies of Illinois in the Thirties and Forties . Notwith- standing the ever-increasing volume of Lincolniana , the great desideratum is still a faithful account of Lincoln @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A scientific analysis of the man and of the formative factors of his environment is , however , only preliminary to the constructive art of the biographer . The problem of problems for him , the problem upon which all his historical data converge , is that of leadership . No individual becomes a subject for political biography who does not possess the instinct of leadership to a greater or less degree . A microscopic study of mental and moral qualities may reveal this capacity ; a thorough-going analysis of external circumstances may indicate the sphere within which leadership may be exercised ; but no amount of grubbing in the sources will discover the subtle interaction between personality and society , between politician and constituents , between leader and followers . It is just at this point that the biographer must rub his Aladdin lamp and summon to his aid the genii of his creative imagination . To divine the extent to which a leader leads and a following follows , is to penetrate to the very arcana of human will and destiny . Whether in a given contingency an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon his will and character , but also upon those elusive external circumstances which may or may not have predetermined his conscious choices . Whether in other contingencies a public may be said to have produced a great personality to voice its inarticulate desires , depends not merely upon the dead weight and pressure of circumstance , but also upon the vivifying influence of that personality who alone may have been able to give form to those vague and incoherent imaginings of the multitude .                     