@@487144

It must have been apparent to every experienced political observer that a distinct change in the campaigning of the Republican and Progressive parties has occurred in the past two or three weeks . During the two months or so which followed the nominations , the attitude of the parties was peculiar but unmistakable . The Democrats were carrying ' on a vigorous and effective campaign against the field . The Third Party was devoting itself to attacking the Republicans in general and President Taft in particular . The Republican leaders , meantime , were simply standing still . They were like men stunned , and it could hardly be said that they conducted any campaign whatever until well into September . What has happened these last few weeks  --  the period when actual canvass always dispels illusions and discloses the real nature of a political situation ? is that the Democratic party has moved forward on precisely the lines laid down at the campaign 's beginning , that the Republican party has waked up and begun to do what , in the light of political strategy , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Third Party has almost completely abandoned its original tactical position , and is concentrating its attention now on issues which had little or no part in its original programme . A military critic would say that the Republicans had taken the field only after their opponents had been long left undisturbed in their advance on the important positions , and that the Progressive Party had executed that highly dangerous and usually disastrous manoeuvre , the changing of- front in the face of the enemy . We are impelled to these remarks by the striking unanimity with which the Republican and Third Party campaigning has , in the last week or so , been converged on the issue of the protective tariff . In both parties , orators and organs are now openly and excitedly taking the old-fashioned Bourbon attitude that the country 's prosperity is menaced by the Democratic programme on the tariff . Both are talking  --  precisely as if this were the Presidential campaign of 1392 about " European pauper labOr , " and the prospect of " bread-lines " of laborers in the United States if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the tariff of 1894 as the cause of the panic of 1893 . The Tribune of last week , speaking in Mr. Taft 's behalf , explained how , after the American workingman shall have been confronted with Gov . Wilson 's tariff policy on the statute books , " he can fall back on the charity of the soup house . " The Press , Mr. Roosevelt 's New York organ , denounces the Democrats for opposing the protective tariff , " though without it American business should perish and American wage-earners starve . " Now , we shall not dwell on the rather amusing inconsistency of this suddenly adopted attitude of the two wings of the disrupted Republican party . We might point out that the Republican party 's Chicago platform declared that " some of the existing duties are too higb and should be reduced , " and that the Third Party 's tariff plank contained the information that " we demand tariff revision because the present tariff is unjust to the people of the United States . " We might even remind the excited philanthropists of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like the two other platforms , the present protective tariff , added that " we recognize that our system of tariff taxation is intimately connected with the business of the country , " and that the legislation enacted to correct existing injustices should he " legislation that will not injure or destroy legitimate industry " ? a declaration supplemented by Gov . Wilson 's remark , in his speech of acceptance , that in tariff revision " we should act with caution and prudence , like men who know what they are about and not like men in love with a theory . " All this throws a light that is odd enough on the present turn in the Republican and Third Party campaigns . But we are most impressed by the fact that those two parties are now , in the last weeks of the campaign , harking back to the days when high protection was a fetich and when the public man who touched the tariff duties , except to raise them higher , was laying a sacrilegious hand upon the ark . The Republican party is reverting to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was the Taft Administration 's hostility to tariff reduction which split the party in two . The Progressive Party is adopting the same position , in the face of the well-known fact that the Progressive faction , which was formed in the Repub lican party in 1910 , and out of which the present Third Party directly grew , was at that time founded almost wholly on the issue of tariff reduction . If any one is puzzled to account for these extraordinary inconsistencies , he will find the explanation in political history . The campaign of those two parties , as originally planned  --  especially that of the Third Party  --  has broken down . Mr. Taft still may argue forcibly for preserving the Constitution and safeguarding freedom from industrial monopoly ; but both those issues had been championed in the thick of the fighting by the Democratic candidate , while the Republican campaign was at a standstill . To-day both issues belong to Gov . Wilson As for the Progressives they have apparently discovered , late in the day , just what the American people think of ripping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tyranny of majorities , and licensing monopolies in the necessaries of life . When such discoveries are made , there is nothing for it but recourse to other and all but forgotten campaign slogans In former political campaigns it was the Bloody Shirt , the Confederate Debt , the repudiation of United States bonds ; today it is soup-kitchens and bread-lines . The desperate eleventh-hour manoeuvre bids fair to be exactly as successful now as then , and it reflects an equally remarkable conception or the American voter 's common sense . CAMPAIGNS AND VOTES . Mr. Edward Stanwood , author of the standard " History of the Presidency , " contributes to the current Atlantic an interesting article on " Election Superstitions and Fallacies . " These range all the way from the queer belief that " no man , possessed of a middle name could be elected to the Presidency a second time " ? which , as Mr. Stanwood reminds us , had considerable currency prior to Gen Grant 's reelection  --  to the comparatively respectable , though still quite fallacious , - notion that no Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ superstitions and fallacies is in one and the same tendency . " There are men , " as Mr. Stanwood says , " who discern an occult and invariable law in the sequence on three successive occasions of a certain event after another event which ' has no relation to the first , and which could not have caused it . " That Mr. Stanwood himself should fall a victim to this weakness , is of course out of the question ; but there are fallacious ways of thinking far less crude but not altogether without kinship to these that he laughs at , into which even so careful a student may be trapped ; and in his earnest argument upon a thesis of his own , Mr. Stanwood has committed such an error . He says : The most successful stumping tours in our political history , so far as the number addressed was concerned , and the most spectacular , were those of Mr. Blaine , in 1884 , and those of Mr. Bryan in his three campaigns But the election returns at the close of the canvasses can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into proving that by their eloquence an appreciable inroad was made in the ranks of their opponents . ' " INIr. , thematical ingenuity " can not , incleed , avail either to prove or to disprove that ' Bryan 's speeches helped him ; but this is primarily because no amount of mathematical ingenuity suffices to fix the solution of a single equation with two unknown quantities . We know the final result ; but we have no means of knowing what the result would have been if Bryan had made no speeches , or had bored his Western audiences instead of pleasing them and arousing their enthusiasm . And inasmuch as , after all , Bryan 's amazing personal ascendency over millions of American voters , an ascendency which was proof against repeated defeats , was built up solely by his public utterances , there is good reason  --  of a non-mathematical kind , to he sure  --  for supposing that his campaign speeches were not wholly without effect in attracting votes to his cause . The thesis that Mr. Stanwood is here engaged in supporting is , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He makes an admission , indeed , which would deprive that thesis of most of its practical significance , even if its abstract truth were admitted ; for he says that " the manufactured enthusiasm of those who attend the meetings probably has an influence in dissuading doubting and hesitating voters from deserting their party , " and that it " certainly has the effect of bringing indifferent citizens to the polls on election day . " The numbers that come under these designations would alone be sufficient to determine the issue in most campaigns ; but Mr. Stanwood seems to regard as nonexistent another class which plays an important part in our electoral con , tests . There are hundreds of thousands of " doubting and hesitating voters " with whom the question of their choice in a given election does not present itself in the light of " deserting " or not deserting their party ; men who , though they have been in the habit of voting with a given party , do not regard themselves as bound to it by anything like an obligation . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sets aside as exceptional  --  the number of such men is enormous ; but they have been very numerous at any time these thirty years , and for much of this period have probably held the balance of power . " Did you ever meet or know of a voter , " asks Mr. Stanwood , " who was converted from one party to another by a stump speech ? " Well , we may never have known of a change of heart so sudden and so radical ; but we have been familiar with great numbers of cases in which judgment was held in suspense until the last weeks of the contest , and then was determined by the aggregate of the impressions derived from all sides during the campaign . Accordingly , the idea that , as the campaign progresses , there may be " a perceptible drift towards this candidate or that , " which Mr. Stanwood regards as an illusion , we believe to have a most substantial foundation . The argument that campaigning effects little or nothing in the way of changing votes is similar to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up whenever the weightiest journals of a community are on one side in an election and the other side is overwhelmingly victorious . Such a result proves nothing of the kind ; it may even be that the overwhelmingness of the victory is the very thing that deprives the event of value as a test . The most that sober journals can hope to do is to influence a comparatively thoughtful class of men  --  men to be found in every walk of life , rich and poor , learned and unlearned , but still small in numbers as compared with the whole voting population . They can not hope to make any impression on a tidal wave . If a million votes are cast against their side and only half a million for it , this does not show either that they were wrong or that they were unsuccessful ; it only shows that they are unable to turn the tide when it is running against them in that tremendous way . Fortunately , the odds against which they have to contend are not usually so heavy ; and accordingly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ justify that interest in their attitude which continues to be felt by the community at large , and to be reflected in the solicitude of politicians . THE MURDERER 'S TRADE . The story told in court by the principal witness for the State of New York in the trial of Police Lieut . Becker has a significance that quite transcends its direct bearing upon the case at issue . It opens up an extraordinary perspective of human character and motive . It brings forward an entire group of fundamental problems , problems of psychology , sociology , and politics . It would be quite improper to assume in this plac4 the correctness of " Jack " Rose 's testimony . But whether " Jack " Rose told the whole truth , or only part of the truth , or nothing at all of the truth , it does not affect the essential value of his revelations regarding the attitude of the criminal mind towards the individual and society . What this witness has done is to furnish information from the " inside , " confirmatory of the general public impressions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this time , is pretty generally convinced that there are men in this city with whom murder is a trade ; and though the professional thug has always been found at work in all countries , the public is also convinced that , so far as this city is concerned , the class of professional assassins is on the increase , and the profession itself is being systematized to an unprecedented degree . People will tell you as a matter of course that in New York to-day any one can be put out of the way by hired thugs at so many hundred dollars for the job . But even the man who is convinced that the hired bravo is busy at work among us , must find it difficult to picture to himself the matter-of-fact spirit in which the practitioners of this horrible trade go about their work . Thus it is in this sense immaterial whether Lieut . Becker instigated the murder of Herman Rosenthal , or whether " Jack " Rose himself was the prime mover in the affair , or whether the story told by Rose upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Assuming that " Jack " Rose 's story was reality , they are chosen for her by the unconscious complexes . " This is , of course , not the first time that " science " ( so-called ) has laid violent hands on Shakespeare . Lovers of verisimilitude were cheered by one physician 's statement that Juliet 's deathlike sleep of forty-two hours was perfectly possible , and some of us have had the sneaking hope that a geologist might some day tell us how Bohemia once had a seacoast . But the new scientific critics have not stayed their hands from the very heart of the plays . Their attitude appears to be this : if the characters are really true to life , " science " is now in a position to explain them in more accurate terms than the ordinary critic possibly can . We are not here concerned with the question whether the new science is entitled to speak with any assurance even in regard to persons who have actually lived . But it makes itself ridiculous in setting up as the mouthpiece of Shakespeare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That they are far from that is proved by the modern realist who turns from them with the crushing judgment that no one ever talked like Hamlet . Hamlet can be called human only in the peculiar sense that , though his counterpart is not to be found on earth , human beings can at least conceive of a person in his circumstances behaving and talking like him ; and the conception is instructive . But to resolve him into an ordinary neurotic , the victim of " repressed " love for his mother , as one physician has done , is as absurd as it is disgusting . And even if Shakespearean plays were near to literal truth , psychopathic interpretation would need to hesitate . The problem is made difficult by the present lack of critical standards . Until there can be some substantial agreement on the purposes of artistic creation , authors will suffer from the fads of the Moment . We all know to what wrenchings Shakespeare has been subjected . There have been the moralists who had their reason for the rise or downfall of every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lost handkerchief , and Cassio likewise because he had a mistress . - The symbolists have come and gone , with their tenuous centrifugal meanings , while many of the most accurate scholars to-day affect to believe that the great master had enough to do telling a good story without bothering about anything so silly as a moral . Little wonder that the alienist has thought his services to be very much needed . In Germany , he is said already to have converted some of the most dignified personages of Greek drama into a great mass of nerves . Whereupon musical composers , like Strauss , have rejoiced , believing that by music alone can these be most truly expressed . It is to be hoped that such a pass may rouse literary scholars out of their present indifference to the deeper aspects of artistic purpose . For it can never be that creators of great characters intended them to be set forth in terms from which the human will is conspicuously absent . Even Ibsen , with his great dependence upon the laws of heredity , could have meant nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amazement and humiliation at the inroads of the new German psychology into his field , we may recite the words of a great book : " Keep that which is committed to thy trust , avoiding profane and vain babblings , and oppositions of science falsely so-called . " " THIS ASTONISHING NATION . " If a nation may be supposed to feel like an individual on the subject of advancing age , we Americans have reason for much gratification . It is taking us a monstrous long time to grow old ; the European who comes to our shores is - still impressed , as he was in the days of our fathers and grandfathers , with a sense that what is presented to his vision is the spectacle of a youthful prodigy . Here , for instance , is the literary editor of the London Daily News , Mr. R. A. Scott-James , telling us , in the North American Review , of the thoughts with which a visit to America has filled his mind ; and he finds the title best fitted to describe their general purport to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vast expanses of our continental area , or the developments peculiar to the comparatively newly-settled West , that account for his impressions ; since he frankly tells us that he has not visited Chicago or St. Louis or San Francisco , nor seen the Rocky Mountains or the Colorado Desert or " the flood of the Mississippi . " Apparently , his experience has been confined to the cities of the Atlantic seaboard ; yet he feels himself to have been in contact with a race full of the untamed blood of youth . When we recall that , in point of time , we are as far from the Declaration of Independence as the England of Goldsmith was from the England of Shakespeare , and much farther from the foundation of Harvard College than the England of , Shakespeare was from the England of Chaucer , it can not but strike us as remarkable that we continue , in the eyes of our British cousins , to appear so inveterately young . The battery of the standard questions ? " What do you think of us ? " " How @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all what you expected ? " ? with which the newly-arrived foreigner is assailed , has remained , generation after generation , a source of ridicule on the part of the visitor and of mortification on our own part . But there are few things that persist long in this world without some kind of justification ; and , ridiculous as these inquiries are , they do not have their root solely in American naivet ? . If , in point of fact , almost every European who publishes his observations on our country finds us a new thing under the sun , a mystery to be explained , a sign and portent to stand amazed at , it is small wonder that there is a certain curiosity on our side to watch the manifestations of this state of mind . On ninety-nine successive days , the " average American " newspaper man does not think of himself , or of his country , as a curiosity to be examined , or a problem to be solved ; but on the hundredth day , when an eminent European chiel comes here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prent it  --  what is more natural than that the thought of the American newspaper man should be directed to what he expects will soon ' be uppermost in the mind of the visitor ? " A nation of men free from the burden and the responsibility of self-consciousness , having the directness and the spontaneity of young Schoolboys " ? this , among other things , is what Mr. Scott-James finds us to be ; and indeed , in his case , the questions thrust at the incoming visitor on landing were hardly even premature , for his first feelings were emotion of such " bewilderment and desolation " isolation ? that he was overjoyed to realize that he resembled the " average American " at least in the point of having the same number of legs . In these remarks , we are far from intending to find fault with our English visitor 's article , which is certainly , not lacking in friendliness , and which contains many interesting reflections . One of these , which strikes us as specially worth quoting , refers to our passion for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York without observing that business ' has been actually embellished with that loving care which is akin to the care of the artist . I have been taken through offices organized to a point of efficiency which must be highly unremunerative . One is assured that millions of dollars are spent upon labor-saving appliances , which clearly satisfy the business instincts of directors on their artistic side ? by which I imply their disinterested love of efficiency for its own sake . I venture to utter a conviction when I say that this love of the machine is bred in the bone of the average American . But the note that runs through the article as a whole  --  and through the whole class of writings of which it is an example  --  suggests the idea that , in a measure , the tables might be turned on the writers . Is it , after all , in ourselves or in our visitors that the youthfulness really resides ? Is not the capacity to see in us wonderful traits and potentialities quite as much an evidence of the freshness of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? But - there is another aspect of these foreign generalizers . They draw the picture of what seems to them the American type ; do they draw it so that we ourselves recognize its fidelity to the fact ? Mr. Scott-James , for example , deals in a most kindly way with the American 's relation to the almighty dollar ; he makes our refusal to accept as a basis for personal distinction any " adventitious aid " except the possession of wealth a basis of praise , not blame . The regard paid thus to wealth does not show grossness or vulgarity ; it is connected with that " artistry of business " which is so distinctively American . " The appearance of gentility , " on the other hand , " without the solid hall-mark of wealth , is for the American the most detestable of frauds . " That sounds pretty well ; but , just as we are beginning to feel that the writer has made out a better case for us than we could have thought out for ourselves , he goes on to say , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man who is not rich would dare to say that his ancestors came over in the Mayflower . " At this , of course , with the best of will , we can not forbear to smile ; and all of a sudden we realize that one reason why the stranger can generalize so much more beautifully than the native is because he knows so much less of the facts . But this is in the nature of things ; and , so long as our note-making visitors are  --  as is not only this one , but the majority of his confreres  --  honest , well-disposed , and intelligent , we can find pleasure and profit in the sidelights they throw upon our national life .                     