@@430458

 |p773  THE beginnings of social activity against child labor in this country have been chiefly by repression and compulsion . Perhaps necessarily so . At least such was the programme followed for nearly a century by England and other European countries . But it would be unfortunate to regard them as other than initial steps . The employment of children , many of them extremely young , has become a part of our industrial system by a gradual and almost unnoticed growth . This was due , we believe , to the operation of a natural economic law coupled with the general lack of public recognition that America has ceased to be exclusively an agricultural country and has become intensely industrial , rather than to any abnormal excess of greed or cruelty , as often charged . The sturdy farmer , merchant or professional man , who boasts himself the glorious example of all child labor because he went to work at eight years old and has been self-supporting since , for many years dominated the situation . His assumption that all child labor is to be promoted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ store , or in his father 's or neighbor 's office was a benefit to him , expresses the point of view of a large number of our citizens towards a system grown to such proportions that , by the latest census among the 1,750,189 child-workers , not less than 688,207 children under sixteen , 186,358 of whom are under fourteen years of age , are in industries other than agricultural . The Census Bureau is acknowledged to be imperfect because of lack of facilities for collecting accurate data . But beyond this , some industries were omitted in which child labor is particularly involved . For example , a recent report of the Bureau of Labor in New York State shows a large number of children , 774 THE NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW . some as young as four or five years , employed in the various home industries in New York City , whereas none of these children under ten years are reported by the Census Bureau . Only twelve cities in the - United States are shown in the census to have newsboys . These number 668 . But by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not less than 17,000 children engaged as newspaper carriers in thirty-three of our cities . Many of these are as young as six or eight years . Boston alone shows three times as many as were reported for the entire country by the Census returns . When it became evident that a system had fastened itself on society which added every year several thousand youth to the army of those unfitted for any but the most unskilled and precarious occupations , it seemed necessary to seek measures more immediately effective than the tardy general appreciation of the proper use of the years of childhood . Among the first activities of the National Child Labor Committee on its formation six years ago was a careful and systematic field study in a number of sections and in various industries of the extent of child labor and the specific conditions in which many children are employed . Studies were made and carefully reported of child labor in coalmines , glass-factories , textile-mills , and in the mercantile establishments and street trades of many larger cities . Although the reports collected frequently disprove the sensational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the credulous , they confirm the convictions of school officials and other interested authorities , and the reports of serious students in earlier days . The net revelation of the various investigations has been sufficient to convince legislators of the necessity of putting a legal check on the system without waiting for a complete and scientific arraignment of the evil . The result has been that , at present , in every State of the Union , with one exception , there exists some form of legal prohibition or regulation of child labor . In the effort to secure these better laws , those representing the industries affected have been frequently the chief promoters . There is a growing disposition among employers , who recognize the short-sighted policy of child employment , to seek the aid of society in bringing competitors up to their own higher standards .  |p775  We are repeating the history of factory regulation so long ago promoted by Sir Robert Peel , Robert Owen and other leading manufacturers in England . The larger social aspects of this problem ? the weakening of citizenship and the cheapening of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action in addition to the mere sense of pity for the wrongs of childhood , which was the chief earlier motive . Through public interest , the beginnings of which date from the earlier activities of trade-unions , women 's clubs , consumers ' leagues and many earnest individual workers , there have been enacted important child-labor laws in the past five years in thirty-eight States and the District of Columbia . In the legislative sessions of 1908-09 , seventeen States enacted new laws or revised existing laws . Five of these States are Southern . Since January 1st , 1910 , important changes in these laws have passed the Legislatures of Kentucky , Virginia , Maryland , New Jersey , Rhode Island and Massachusetts , while other important bills are pending in Massachusetts , New York and Ohio . But we must not be misled by this somewhat formidable record of legislative enactments . The end we seek , namely , adequate preparation of the American child for citizenship , is not attained , but only made possible of attainment by such prohibitions ; and it is significant that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the condition of working-children , the field of usefulness of such measures is limited by their repressive nature . Multitudes of people affected , whether employers , parents or children , resent these laws and look on them as detrimental , while an army of officials is required to secure their enforcement against the connivance of these three interested factors . This negative legislation has been accompanied in most instances by positive laws for compulsory school attendance . In all the States having child-labor laws compulsory school attendance laws have been enacted except in Alabama , Florida , Georgia , Louisiana and Texas . The effectiveness of such laws is strikingly attested by the steady growth in the number of commonwealths adopting them . In 1870 less than five per cent . of the population were subject to compulsory school laws . To-day over seventytwo per cent . are subject to these laws . But this fact is of slight significance compared with the dis/ tribution of the benefits of public education . The United States Department of Education in 1900 reported that over fifty per cent . of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were less than nine years of age ; 87.5 per cent . were in the first five grades and under twelve years of age . Referring to the amazing achievement of a system of education which enrolls over 16,000,000 pupils and is maintained at an annual expense of over $300,000,000 , the Commissioner of Education , in his report for 1908 , says : " The mere ability to read and write indicates , however , a very alight remove from crass ignorance , and a large proportion of our people are is danger of stopping at this point . The early withdrawal of pupils from school is a fact universally recognized , although up to this time there have been few systematic investigations as to the extent and the cameo of the evil . Such investigations as have been attempted relate to particular cities , differing widely in respect to growth and movement of population . It is , however , significant that they all indicate a marked decline in school attendance between the fourth and fifth school years or grades , and continued decrease thereafter . " ( Report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1906 . ) What would be gained by the addition of a few grades to the period of average attendance may be matter of debate . Popular criticisms of the public school are familiar , and the jokes upon the examination papers of students of doubtful cephalization have frequently been arrayed in condemnation of the whole publicschool system , which our country has built at so heavy a cost . Despite these strictures , we venture the-belief that the American people are not yet ready to abandon these establishments for mental culture . Our hope rather lies in a vigorous pruning and grafting of the " tree of knowledge . " The findings of the Massachusetts Commission on Industrial and Technical Education have been largely quoted . They are significant of what probably occurs in other States at the end of the compulsory school period . In Massachusetts there are 25,000 children between fourteen and sixteen not in school , fivesixths of whom did not complete the grammar school , one-fifth did not complete the seventh grade and one-fourth did not complete the sixth grade . The statement was recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ army of 20,000,000 children attend/ ing the public schools of the United States during the school year , there would be at least 5,000,000 deserters before the roll would be called at the beginning of the following school year . It is of the greatest importance to discover the cause of this desertion ; why there is such a decrease in school attendance after the fourth grade ; why such impatience for the last day of the compulsory school period to come ; what the attractive feature out of school and what the future of these deserters . Unquestionably the majority become , temporarily or permanently , wage-earners , either from family necessity or because work promises less monotony and irksomeness than school attendance . The responsibility seems to lie mostly with the child , for out of 3,157 families investigated seventy-six per cent . could give the children industrial training and would gladly do so were it offered . In many instances the parents were found to be spending in supplementary lessons , such as commercial branches and music , as much as the child 's income . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week before they are seventeen , and reach the maximum wage of eight to ten dollars at twenty years of age . It is estimated that for every one going into an occupation advantageous to the employee , four enter a cotton-mill or become messengers or cashgirls . Moreover , it is rare that one goes from an unskilled to a skilled trade . Out of the fifty eases between seventeen and twenty years of age employed in Cambridge in skilled industries , only one had formerly been employed in unskilled labor other than errand and office work . Boys were rarely found in printing-houses who were formerly employed at other work , and this was true of mechanics . plumbers , painters , glass-workers , plasterers , masons and stone-cutters . A comparison was made of the aggregate wages at eighteen years of age , of children leaving school at fourteen and at sixteen . The results showed that even with the faulty education now afforded , the child of sixteen goes from school so much better equipped as a wage-earner that in two years his earnings aggregate more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been working four years . Why do such unsatisfactory and poorly paid employments lure children from school ? The desertion seems mainly due to posi/ tive dislike of school life and a wish to be active . Influenced by their companions , children have a strong ambition for money of their own . A compulsory elementary education which results in such distaste for school that children prefer to enter some unskilled labor , which wastes from two to four years of adolescence for an insignificant wage and leaves them stranded at twenty , has missed the purpose of education . Some helpful facts they may have gleaned , but there has been little influence in shaping their life and ideals . The most common deduction from the investigations made is that " many of these children would be in school if the school promised preparation for some life pursuit . " Our problem is to supply the attractive power in our educational system that will prove the complement of prohibitive legislation and compulsory elementary education . The adaptation of our educational system to earlier needs in our civilization is well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it is at present class education , for the great majority of our youth enter manual trades , while our schools in the main furnish only preparation for professional life . In a recent paper which appeared in the " Atlantic Monthly " Dr. Paul Hanus describes our present educational system as " general " in contrast with the excellent system he advocates . In our judgment our schools are not providing a general education , but a special class education . All the dominant characteristics of the regular school method tend to train children to avoid occupations which command the services of at least ninety per cent . of our population , while they are urged by precept and example to seek eagerly the employments of the other ten per cent . The recruits for our industrial army receive comparatively little of the time or money expended upon our public schools . Educators are giving their best thought to the task of adapting our public-school system to the needs of an industrial society , and many steps are being taken in this direction . In 1890 thirtyseven city school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were five hundred and ten . Trade schools are being instituted in many cities and State Legislatures are rapidly making appropriations for industrial and trade training . We need not here discuss the excellent programmes which are  |p779  being suggested by leading educators , covering as they do the introduction into our elementary schools of practical work with an industrial bent ; the multiplication and enlargement of high schools of the manual training type ; the founding of trade schools which will provide vocational training to bridge the chasm between fourteen and sixteen , when so many enter unskilled industries ; and continuation schools to serve the needs of those who have already entered industry with meagre preparation . Every revision is admirable that will make our schools a part of real life and impress their practical , helpful character to such a degree that the family will prefer to sacrifice the pittance that might be received for unskilled labor , in order that opportunity may be given the child to prepare for larger usefulness and remuneration . For some families this sacrifice would be impossible because of poverty . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , assistance must be given either by private or public aid . The question as to the limit of social responsibility is a mere quibble . When society dictates that every child shall be educated , it can not disclaim the responsibility implied . But preparation for skilled production is not enough . It has been said that all our training to-day is a training for consumption , but nothing seems to us TO have been quite so poorly done . Every worker during his vocational training should have an opportunity to learn something of the demands and conditions of labor in other industries . Only thus can he be fitted for intelligent democratic citizenship , for wise sympathy with fellow workers and for an appreciation of work and the place of the worker in the social scheme . Workers thus trained would not tolerate the inequality of profits to the actual producer and the middleman , so strikingly demonstrated at the recent New York City Congestion Exhibit . Efficient workmanship and honest service would also be demanded . Whatever the phases through which society may pass , the purpose of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pre-eminently industrial the education must be along industrial lines , but if it ends merely in the acquirement of a handicraft it is a failure . There must also be training toward lofty industrial ideals . If we could train the coming generation to revolt against tawdry or dishonest goods , we should have some  |p780  hope for the steady elevation of our industries to a higher plane . The manufacturer is forced by competition to cater to the majority demand , and quantity is the popular goal . The true craftsman who is dissatisfied with the dishonest results of the speeding which reduces himself and his fellows to machines has at present one recourse ? he can quit . What is demanded is training for the entire group to which this craftsman belongs . The very class of people who do the shoddy work buy that kind of goods . This is partly due to their cheapness , for the average mechanic can not afford better . But let him once sense the affront to his manhood , the insult to his wife and family , the social sin he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any price that which is devoid of all ideals of proportion , beauty , simplicity , honesty or reasonable utility : ? a new type of purchaser enters the markets of the world . The training of the child is the main concern rather than the effect this training is to have on industries . Our public schools must be called into requisition not to train experts in single specialized trades in order to lift the burden of expense from the employer , but that the children shall become so alert and well developed as to be fit for a choice of several opportunities . A noted educator has recently suggested that " the last two years of vocational training would include specialized instruction in the trades appropriate to a given locality . " There is the danger-point . This is legitimate , if the trades that seem proper to a locality afford a fair opportunity for advancement in skill and in wages . Otherwise the boys and girls should be so fitted by a knowledge of other occupations that their future and the future of their children can never be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry " of the community . It is obvious to careful students that the dominant industries of a community are frequently not such as offer the best opportunity for the development of skill and advancement to self-support . In spite of this fact , is it not true that the movement toward manual training is too prone to accept the local situation as inevitable , and to seek to adjust itself rather than attempting to alter local conditions ? For example , the mining of coal is a chief industry in Pennsylvania , but the child of the coalmining community , instead of being absolutely predestined in  |p781  industrial career , should have presented to him an industrial horizon broad enough to enable him to choose intelligently whether he will become a coal-miner . It is questionable whether the training offered the youth in some of our industrial centres can be regarded as of especial constructive value . To equip them for earlier entrance into some trade or labor which can never give promise of a living wage may be only to aggravate the evil we seek to abate . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are " gainfully employed . " Nearly one-third ( 30.6 per cent. ) of all women between fifteen and twenty-four are so employed . " Statistics of Women at Work " ( Census Bureau , 1907 ) gives figures that are startling . In seventy-two of the seventy-eight cities with 50,000 inhabitants more than one-third of all the girls between sixteen and twenty years of age are at work . In thirty-six of these cities more than one-half are earning their living , and in eight the percentage rises from sixty-nine to seventyseven per cent . of the total number of girls . Woman . is not new to industry , but factory production has forced her out of her home if she would continue productive processes . Formerly women and girls in the home could , if necessary , materially supplement the family income by producing nearly all . the necessities . To-day , if they contribute to family needs , they must find employment elsewhere . Serious social complications have been brought about by this advent of women into industry outside the home . The standard of wages has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole family can not earn what the head of the family should singly . Many hold this condition responsible for the general unfitness of the wage-earning woman for family duties and responsibilities , for the outside work she enters rarely offers any training that would make her an intelligent consumer . What shall be our attitude toward girls in industry ? It would be impossible to exclude them even were it well to do so . The place they fill is perhaps suggestive of a remedy . They are found mainly , especially the younger ones , in unskilled trades , which do not afford a living wage and give no opportunity to learn a skilled trade . The report of wages of women in Pittsburg industries just published shows that sixty per cent . receive wages  |p782  less than an amount regarded as a bare living wage . At present one of two courses is open to them : to remain where they constantly lower the wages of others or enter a home of their own untrained in any particular for that responsibility . Girls should be excluded by law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and thus jeopardize the interest of the home and of future generations . The trades remaining should be carefully selected on the basis of labor demand , opportunities for advancing in efficiency and remuneration and their effect upon womanly instincts and domestic tastes . In the trades thus selected they should receive as careful industrial training as boys . Such a course would deter them from entering industry at an age and degree of preparation which forbid their becoming skilled laborers . The unskilled trade is often more vitiating to women from the social standpoint than to men . A boy at least looks upon industry as a permanent thing and rarely fails to have some regard for his fellow workmen . The girl is apt to consider it as a temporary occupation and hence does not respect industry and her fellow worker and cares nothing for organization or any protective measures . The excuse made for not including domestic science in trade schools now existing is that girls do not desire to go into domestic service . It is preposterous that only those girls who are willing to enter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there should be adequate instruction in the subjects that vitally affect the home . She should receive some knowledge of productive processes in general , hygiene , decorative art in its relation to the home and domestic science . Society , in order to serve its own ends , should expect each girl to be mistress in her own home , and if industrial training is provided at all , should embody domestic science not as a fitting for remunerative occupation , but as preparation for home-making . When it does not mark a girl as having chosen to be a domestic servant , undoubtedly many will choose such instruction and go out with loftier ideals of a home and with preparation for its responsibilities . The stigma now resting upon domestic science as being something necessary to be understood only by domestic servants should be removed . Let us give all our girls the idea that home-making requires THE CHILD-LABOR PROBLEM . 783 scientific preparation or else give up the theory that the home is especially " woman 's work . " Incidentally , this might so develop the future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would make domestic service a dignified and desirable trade . It is notorious at present that in many homes no self-respecting girl can work as a domestic servant , for conditions are such as would invite speedy correction if any manufacturer or merchant attempted to maintain them in their places of business . And this , not from a deliberate desire to be unjust , but from sheer ignorance . Both employers and organized workers are divided on the subject of trade schools under a system of public instruction . The manufacturer doubts the efficiency of workers thus trained . This doubt can not be removed by argument , but only by a practical demonstration of the quality of workmanship . The equipment and instruction should be such that a certificate from a public trade school would mean that its holder lacks nothing that his trade calls for , save the celerity which comes only by practice . However , there is nothing to hinder the inauguration of factory trade schools when an industry so desires . A most interesting experiment in combining practical training with education is in the team-work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are employed alternate weeks in various factories of the city and alternate weeks in the classroom . Thus the employer has a regular shift of two workmen , while the students receive the practical training required under commercial conditions . Organized labor fears that the public trade school will flood the labor market and increase the sharpness of competition for work . But , as Robert A. Woods has observed : " It is inconceivable that as a class school-trained workmen should not be even more jealous than others of all unreasonable encroachments upon their wage standard , and that they should not apply their additional training to the development of even more effective forms of labor organization than now exist . " All private and class interests must be forgotten in the interest of the social good , if we are to meet the problem of proper education in a democracy . Undoubtedly the manufacturer will profit by having the public , through the trade school , pay for training  |p784  his recruits and bear the cost of the material now wasted by beginners . To make the employer and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to make the newer education play into the hands of great industrial interests , would be a perversion of a splendid opportunity . But while this direct benefit to the employer is acknowledged , the trained worker and society in general will reap the chief advantage if industrial training is properly directed . The trained worker will cease to be menaced by the helpless and ignorant competitor , many times the child laborer , now so often the potent tool of the employer . Moreover , the trained worker , together with society at large , will reap the constant advantage of having offered for purchase in the markets honest products . The community will be relieved of the burden , now so heavy , of that multitude of industrial misfits whose helplessness arises from ignorance and utter lack of training for any useful occupation . Best of all , if there is placed before the youth of our nation the opportunity to learn some one handicraft in its completeness , they can never be crushed to the level of industrial machines . The methods pursued in this educational revolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social asset , intelligent citizenship . Prohibitive legislation and compulsory elementary education open the door of opportunity for youth , but the education must be of such a character as to help the child by its attraction and lead him into such fields of skilled labor that in the education of his own children compulsion will cease to be necessary . The present demands among parents ? in so far as they have been able to express their desires ? are so wide-spread as to justify more aggressive steps than have thus far been taken in this direction ..                     