@@430638

 | " THE most aspiring and in some ways the most brilliant piece of strategy that this war has yet produced , " this is the manner in which an enemy critic , the military expert of the London Times , characterizes the German movement that has resulted in the capture of the Polish capital and in the overthrow of the first Russian line of defense . Whatever may be the final outcome of the war , the operations of these last three months in the eastern theater will furnish a theme for discussion to students of military science for years to come , and every history of Europe will have to devote a page to the map of Galicia and Poland on which this campaign has been developed . It is easy to understand by reference to a map what has occurred . We see first that Poland projects from Russia like a great peninsula into the Teutonic sea , or perhaps a German caricaturist would prefer to picture it as a big nose sticking into what was none of its business . Looking at it this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smash it in or bite it off . This in short is what he has been trying to do for the past year , first one way , then the other , until now Poland has at last been bitten off between the upper jaw of East Prussia and the lower jaw of Galicia . Whether the morsel can be swallowed and digested in the Teutonic stomach remains to be seen . Or if this simile is too grotesque let us compare the campaign to the game which comes nearest to war in its tactics and the number of its casualties . On the football field mass movements resolve themselves essentially into two , rushing the center and running round the end . In war it is the same . But in the present war bucking the line has proved frightfully expensive and resulted often in gains of a few yards only , while end runs were mostly made impossible by keeping the end on the side lines . The Russian line-up on the start extended from the Niemen River on the north to the Dniester River on the south . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Warsaw and failed . Three times they tried a run around each end , and the third time succeeded in getting around both . It is interesting to note the dates of these successive attempts . The first was around the south end . An Austrian army of 350,000 under General Dankl , striking north from Galicia between the Vistula and the Bug , got within eleven miles of Lublin by the first of September , when it was driven back by the Russians . The second attempt to get behind the Russian line was made at the other end by the Germans . General von Hindenburg , by his great victory at Tannenberg , had driven the Russians from East Prussia , but when he tried to carry the war into the enemy 's country he was checked at the Niemen September 25 . Two days later Hindenburg , in command of the combined German and Austrian forces , began a direct attack on the Russian front all along the line , but with Warsaw as its main objective . This came within an ace of succeeding . In fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why Warsaw was not captured , for on October 7 the Germans were within seven miles of the city , and it was practically undefended at that time . The Russian authorities no less than the Germans believed that the city would be evacuated . The British residents , by the advice of their consul , had left . The bank had withdrawn its funds to Moscow . Trains were ready to carry away the officials . The German cannon , having come within range of the suburbs , had ceased firing , probably because the city was regarded as virtually taken . Elaborate preparations had been made for a triumphal entry of the Polish capital , when , it appears , the ancient kingdom of Poland was to be reestablished and the king of Saxony was to be seated on the throne which his ancestors had occupied at intervals in the seventeenth , eighteenth and nineteenth centuries . But Hindenburg " came back , " as he has a knack of doing . By the middle of November he had collected a new and larger army , and again advanced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But this time the Russians were ready for him and put up a stout resistance . Lodz , which before had fallen into his hands without a struggle , now cost him some 50,000 men . The Kaiser had to relinquish his ambition of spending a merry Christmas in Warsaw , for the German advance was definitely halted at the Bzura and Rawka Rivers about thirty miles west of that city . Here the winter and spring were spent in trench fighting at close range , much like that in Flanders . During the first week in February the Germans made desperate attempts to break thru the Bzura-Rawka line , but the sacrifice of thousands of men gained them nothing . While Hindenburg was making his first drive at Warsaw in October the Austrians also advanced in Galicia , but they only got as far as the San and were ; driven back in November . In February , when the north country was covered with deep snow , Hindenburg made another attempt to outflank the Russian line at this end . While part of his force advanced south of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the north , and between the two he came near catching the Russian army in East Prussia . But a swift retreat thru the forest of Suwalki saved most of it , and when the Germans came to the fortress of Osowiec and the Niemen River they halted . Why they should have ceased their activity in this direction was not at the time clear , but now it appears that they were waiting till the Austrian advance in Galicia should come up with theirs , so the two could act in harmony . We come then to the final movement of the northern and southern armies which has resulted in the conquest of Poland . We will take up first the southern campaign . At the end of January the Austro-German drive in Galicia began . It was accomplished by the lavish use of the arm in which the Germans are particularly strong and the Russians particularly weak , that is , artillery . The Austro-German army advanced swiftly , pushing the Russians back from Cracow , driving them out of the Carpathian passes , recapturing the fortress of Przemysl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not stop with the recovery of lost ground . Reaching the Bug River east of Lemberg the Austro-German forces ceased their eastward movement and marched north between the Bug and Vistula rivers . This brought them in the rear of the first Russian line of defense , which is on the Vistula . The fortress which stands at the southern end of this line is Ivangorod , but this had to be evacuated as soon as the invading army had cut the railroad in its rear at Lublin and Cholm . The Austrian and German armies under the command of Archduke Joseph Ferdinand and General Mackensen are advancing northward as rapidly as possible in order to intercept the Russians who are retreating from the Vistula to the shelter of the Bug . On the left of the Archduke is another army under General von Woyrsch , which crost the Vistula above Ivangorod and is in pursuit of the Russians who evacuated that fortress and are now trying to reach  | Brest Litovsk . On his left is the army of Prince Leopold of Bavaria , who passing thru Warsaw has now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be seen by the map , come to a focus at Brest Litovsk , which is not only the chief fortress of the second line of Russian defense but , what is more important , the railroad center of the line to Moscow . If the Germans succeed in penetrating farther into the interior they will be able to cut the communications between Moscow and Petrograd , the spinal cord of the Russian empire . So much for the lower jaw of the steel trap ; now for the upper . The northern line of the Russian permanent defenses consists of a chain of fortresses along the Niemen , Bobr and Narew rivers to the Vistula , where Novo Georgievsk forms the apex of the angle with Warsaw thirty-five miles below . This line has now been broken at two points by the capture of the fortresses of Lomza and Sierok , and this allows the Germans to get at the railroad line connecting Warsaw and Petrograd which runs parallel to the river fortifications and about twenty miles behind them . The Narew River was crost on July 25 between Ostrolenka @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the ring of forts surrounding Lomza was stormed by the troops of General von Falcke on August 9 . The strongest of this chain of defenses is probably the fortress of Novo Georgievsk , which was constructed by Napoleon in 1807 and stands upon a promontory between the Narew and Vistula , which here run together . This fortress has been surrounded and may stand a siege like Maubeuge or Przemysl , tho it certainly can not hold out as long as the latter . No one of the half dozen fortresses of the Narew-Bobr line is capable of retarding the great tidal wave of German troops now pouring into Poland . The first line of defense has completely collapsed at the end of a year ? . - must we say , of the first year ? ? of the Great War . The Russians count themselves lucky to have withdrawn their troops without serious losses . They may now reform behind the second fortified line of defense , which runs straight north and south along the Niemen and the Bug rivers . The chief strongholds of this line are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first three defending the road to Petrograd and the fourth the road to Moscow . But even if this second line should hold against a frontal attack the Russian empire is. not safe , for Hindenburg is likely to get around its northern end where it rests on the Gulf of Riga . The movement in this direction , which Petrograd at first derided as a mere foraging raid , may prove to be one of the most stupendous operations of the war . The Field Marshal himself is in charge of it and he is said to have twelve army corps , or some 450,000 men , under him . Libau has been taken and made a naval base for the German fleet . Riga , now attacked by land and sea , may soon fall . And then ? Will the Kaiser be content with that or has he ambitions to surpass Napoleon the Great by marching on to Petro-grad ?                     