@@465702

A CONSIDERABLE proportion of the Socialist movement remains , as it has been from the first , vaguely democratic . It points to collective ownership with no indication of the administrative scheme it contemplates to realize that intention . Necessarily it remains a formless claim without hands to take hold of the thing it desires . Indeed , in a large number of eases it is scarcely more than a resentful consciousness in the expropriated masses of social disintegration . It spends its force very largely in mere revenges upon property as such , attacks simply destructive by reason of the absence of any definite ulterior scheme . It is an ill-equipped and planless belligerent who must destroy whatever ho captures because he can neither use nor take away . A council of democratic Socialists in possession of New York would be as capable of an orderly and sustained administration as the Anabaptists in Munster . But the discomforts and disorders of our present planless system do tend steadily to the development of this crude Socialistic spirit in the mass of the proletariat ; merely vindictive attacks upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ logical and inevitable consequences of an uncontrolled concentration of property in a few hands ; and such things must and will go on , the deep undertone in the deliquescence of the Normal Social Life , until a new justice , a new scheme of compensations and satisfactions , is attained or the Normal Social Life reemerges . Fabian Socialism was the first systematic attempt to meet the fatal absence of administrative schemes in the earlier Socialisms . It can scarcely be regarded as anything but an interesting failure , but a failure that has all the educational value of a first reconnaissanee into unexplored territory . Starting from that attack on . aggregating property which is the common starting-point of all Socialist projects , the Fabians , appalled at the obvious difficulties of honest confiscation and an open transfer from private to public hands , conceived the extraordinary idea of filching property for the State . A small body of people of extreme astuteness were to bring about the municipalization and nationalization first of this great system of property , and then of that , in a manner so artful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and , behold ! they would find themselves poor men ! For a decade or more Mr. Pease , Mr. Bernard Shaw , Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Webb , Mrs. Besant , Dr. Lawson Dodd , and their associates of the London Fabian Society , did pit their wits and ability , or at any rate the wits and ability of their leisure moments , against the embattled capitalists of England and the world , in this complicated and delicate enterprise , without any apparent diminution of the larger accumulations of wealth . But in addition they developed another side of Fabianism still more subtle , which professed to be a kind of restoration in kind of property to the proletariat , and in this direction they were more successful . A dexterous use was to be made of the Poor Law , the public-health authority , the education authority , and building regulations , and so forth , to create , so to speak , a communism of the lower levels . The mass of people whom the forces of change had expropriated were to be given a certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and this , the Socialists were assured , could be used as the thin end of the wedge toward a complete communism . The minimum , once established , could obviously be raised continually until either everybody had what they needed or the resources of society gave out and set a limit to the process . This second method of attack brought the Fabian movement into co-operation with a large amount of benevolent and constructive influence outside the Socialist ranks altogether . Few very wealthy people really grudge the poor a share of the necessities of life , and most are willing to assist in projects for such a distribution . But while these schemes naturally involved a very great amount of regulation and regimentation of the affairs of the poor , the Fabian Society fell away more and more from its associated proposals for the socialization of the rich . The Fabian project changed steadily in character until at last it ceased to be in any sense antagonistic to wealth as such . If the lion did not exactly lie down with the lamb , at any rate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ returned very peaceably together . The Fabian hunt was up . Great financiers contributed generously to a School of Economics that had been founded with moneys left to the Fabian Society by earlier enthusiasts for Socialist propaganda and education . It remained for Mr. Belloc to point the moral of the whole development with a phrase , to note that Fabianism no longer aimed at the socialization of the whole community , but only at the socialization of the poor . The first really complete project for a new social order to replace the Normal Social Life was before the world , and this project was the compulsory regimentation of the workers and the complete State control of labor under a free plutocracy . Our present chaos was to be organized into a Servile State . Now to many of us who found the general spirit of the Socialist movement at least hopeful , attractive , and sympathetic , this would be an almost tragic conclusion , did we believe that Fabianism was anything more than the first experiment , and one almost inevitably shallow and presumptuous , of the long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the road humanity must follow . Rut we decline to be forced back by this intellectual fiasco upon the laissez faire of the Individualist and the Marxist , or to accept the Normal Social Life with its atmosphere of hens and cows and dung , its incessant toil , its servitude of women , and its endless repetitions , as the only tolerable life conceivable for the . bulk of mankind , as the ultimate life , that is , of mankind . We still declare that we believe a more spacious social order than any that exists or ever has existed , a Peace of the World in which there is an almost universal freedom , health , happiness , and well-being , and which contains the seeds of a still greater future , is possible to mankind . We have faith in a possible future , but it is a faith that makes the quality of that future entirely dependent upon the strength and clearness of purpose that this present time can produce . We do not believe the greater social State is inevitable . Yet there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater social State , because we believe any social State not affording a general contentment , a general freedom , and a general and increasing fullnws of life must sooner or later collapse and disintegrate again , and revert move or less completely to the Normal Social Life , and because that Normal Social Life contains in itself the irrepressible seeds of fresh beginnings . It has never at any time been absolutely permanent ; always it has carried within itself the germs of enterprise and adventure and exchanges that finally attack its stability . The superimposed social order of to-day , such as it is , with its huge development of expropriated labor , and the schemes of the later Fabians to fix this state of affairs in an organized form and render it plausibly tolerable and permanent , seem also doomed to accumulate catastrophic tensions . Bureaucratic schemes for establishing the regular lifelong subordination of a laboring class , enlivened though they may be by frequent inspection , disciplinary treatment during seasons of - unemployment , compulsory temperance . free medical attendance , and a cheap and shallow elementary education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of man . They are cravings that even the baffling methods of the most ingeniously worked Conciliation Boards can not permanently restrain . The drift of any Servile State must be toward a class revolt , paralyzing sabotage , and a general strike . The more rigid and complete the Servile State becomes , the more thorough will be its ultimate failure . Its fate is decay or explosion . From its debris we shall either revert to the Normal Social Life , and begin again the long struggle toward that ampler , happier , juster arrangement of human affairs which we believe to be possible , or we shall pass into the twilight of mankind . This greater social life we put then as the only real alternative to the Normal Social Life from which man is continually escaping . For it we do not propose to use the expressions the " Socialist State " or " Socialism , " because we believe those terms have now by constant , confused use become so battered and bent and discolored by irrelevant associations as to be rather misleading than expressive . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to express this ideal of a social system no longer localized , no longer immediately tied to and conditioned by the cultivation of the land , world-wide in its interests and outlook , and catholic in its tolerance and sympathy , a system of great individual freedom , with a universal understanding among its citizens of a collective thought and purpose . Now the difficulties that lie in the way of humanity in its complex and toilsome journey through the coming centuries toward this Great State are fundamentally difficulties of adaptation and adjustment . To no conceivable social State is man inherently fitted ; he is a creature of jealousy and suspicion , unstable , restless , acquisitive , aggressive , intractable , and of a most subtle and nimble dishonesty . Moreover , he is imaginative , adventurous , and inventive . His nature and instincts are as much in conflict with the necessary restrictions and subjngation of the Normal Social Life as they are likely to be with any other social net that necessity may weave about him . But the Normal Social Life had this advantage , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worked-out material method . All the fundamental institutions have arisen in relation to it and are adapted to its conditions . To revert to it after any phase of social chaosand distress is and will continue for many years to be the path of least resistance for perplexed humanity . Our conception of the Great State , on the other hand , is still altogether unsubstantial . It is a project as dreamlike to-day as electric lighting , electric traction , or aviation would have been in the year 1850 . In 1850 a man reasonably conversant with the physical science of his time could have declared with a very considerable confidence that , given a certain measure of persistence and social security , these things were more likely to be attained than not in the course of the next century . But such a prophecy was conditional on the preliminary accumulation of a considerable amount of knowledge , upon many experiments and failures . Had the world of 1850 by some wave of impulse placed all its resources in the hands of the ablest scientific man alive , and asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he would have at best produced some clumsy , curious toy , or more probably failed altogether ; and similarly if the whole population of the world came to its speculative sociologists and promised meekly to do whatever it was told , it would find itself still very largely at a loss in its projects for a millennium . Yet just as nearly every man at work upon voltaic electricity in 1850 knew that he was preparing for electric traction , so do we know that we are , with a whole row of unsolved problems before us , working toward the Great State . Let us briefly recapitulate the main problems which have to be attacked in the attempt to realize the outline of the Great State . At the base of the whole order there must be some method of agricultural production , and if the agricultural laborer and cottager , and the ancient life of the small householder on the holding , a life laborious , prolific , illiterate , limited , and in immediate contact with the land used , is to recede and disappear , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ larger scale , employing wholesale machinery and involving great economies . It is alleged by modern writers that the permanent residence of the cultivator in close relation to his ground is a legacy from the days of cumbrous and expensive transit , that the greater proportion of farmwork is seasonal , and that a migration to and fro between rural and urban conditions would be entirely practicable in a largely planned community . The agricultural population could move out of town into an open-air life as the spring approached , and return for spending , pleasure , and education as the days shortened . Already something of this sort occurs under extremely unfavorable conditions in the movement of the fruit and hop pickers from the east end of London into Rent , but that is a mere hint of the extended picnic which a broadly planned cultivation might afford . A fully developed civilization employing machines in the hands of highly skilled men will minimize toil to the very utmost , no man will shove where a machine can shove , or carry where a machine can carry ; but there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vast amount of hand-operations , invigorating and even attractive to the urban population . Given short hours , good pay , and all the jolly amusement in the evening camp that a free , happy , and intelligent people will develop for themselves , and there will he little specific difficulty about this particular class of work to differentiate it from any other sort of necessary labor . One passes therefore with no definite transition from the root problem of agricultural production in the Great State to the wider problem of labor in general . A glance at the country-side conjures up a picture of extensive tracts being cultivated on a wholesale scale , of skilled men directing great plowing , sowing , and reaping plants , steering cattle and sheep about carefully designed inclosures , constructing channels and guiding sewage toward its proper destination on the fields , and then of added crowds of genial people coming out to spray trees and plants , pick and sort and pack fruits . But who are these people ? Why are they in particular doing this for the community ? Is our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do commonplace work for mediocre wages , and will there be other individuals who will ride by on the roads , sympathetically no doubt , but with a secret sense of superiority ? So one opens the general problem of the organization for labor . I am careful here to write " for labor " and not " of labor , " because it is entirely against the spirit of the Great State that any section of the people should be set aside as a class to do most of the monotonous , laborious , and uneventful things for the community . That is practically the present arrangement , and that , with a quickened sense of the need of breaking people in to such a life , is the ideal of the bureaucratic Servile State , to which in common with the Conservators we are bitterly opposed . And here I know we are at our most difficult , most speculative , and most revolutionary point . We who look to the Great State as the present aim of human progress believe a State may solve its economic problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lifelong labor . And contemporary events , the phenomena of recent strikes , the phenomena of sabotage , carry out the suggestion that in a community where nearly every one reads extensively , travels about , sees the charm and variety in the lives of prosperous and leisurely people , no class is going to submit permanently to modern labor conditions without extreme resistance , even after the most elaborate labor-conciliation schemes and social minima are established . Things are altogether too stimulating to the imagination nowadays . Of all impossible social dreams , that belief in tranquilized and submissive and virtuous Labor is the wildest of all . No sort of modern men will stand it . They will as a class do any vivid and disastrous thing rather than stand it . Even the illiterate peasant will only endure lifelong toil under the stimulus of private ownership and with the consolations of religion , and the typical modern worker has neither the one nor the other . For a time , indeed ? for a generation or so even ? a labor mass may be fooled or coerced , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subjection , even if it breaks out to a general social catastrophe . We have , in fact , to invent for the Great State , if we are to suppose any Great State at all , an economic method without any specific labor class . If we can not do so , we had better throw ourselves in with the Conservators forthwith , for they are right and we are absurd . Adhesion to the conception of the Great State involves adhesion to the belief that the amount of regular labor , skilled and unskilled , required to produce everything necessary for every one living in its highly elaborate civilization , may , under modern conditions , with the help of scientific economy and power-producing machinery , be reduced to so small a number of working hours per head in proportion to the average life of the citizen as to be met as regards the greater moiety of it by the payment of wages over and above the gratuitous share of each individual in the general output ; and as regards the residue , a residue of rough , disagreeable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which will devote a year , let us say , of each person 's life to the public service . If we reflect that in the contemporary State there is already food , shelter , and clothing of a sort for every one , in spite of the fact that enormous numbers of people do no productive work at all because they are too well off ; that great numbers are out of work , great numbers by bad nutrition and training incapable of work , and that an enormous amount of the work actually done is the overlapping production of competitive trade and work upon such politically necessary but socially useless things as Dreadnoughts , it becomes clear that the absolutely unavoidable labor in a modern community and its ratio to the available vitality must be of very small account indeed . But all this has still to be worked out even in the most general terms . An intelligent science of economies should afford standards and technicalities and systematized facts upon which to base an estimate . The point was raised a quarter of a century ago by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was already discussed by More in his Utopia . Our contemporary economics is , however , still a foolish , pretentious , pseudo-science , a festering mass of assumptions about buying and selling and wages-paying. and one would as soon consult Bradshaw or the works of Dumas as our orthodox professors of economics for any light upon this fundamental matter . Moreover , we believe that there is a real disposition to work in human beings , and that , in a well-equipped comVot . CXX1V. - No. 751 - 61 community in. which no one was under an unavoidable urgency to work , the greater proportion of productive operations could be made sufficiently attractive to make them desirable occupations . As for the irreducible residue of undesirable toil , I owe to my friend the late Prof. William James this suggestion of a general conscription and a period of public service for every one , a suggestion which greatly occupied his thoughts during the last years of his life . He was profoundly convinced of the high educational and disciplinary value of universal compulsory military service , and of the need of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life . He would have had the whole population taught in the schools and prepared for this year ( or whatever period it had to be ) of patient and heroic labor , the men for the mines , the fisheries , the sanitary services , railway routine ; the women . for hospital and perhaps educational work , and so forth . He believed such a service would permeate the whole State with a sense of civic obligation . . . . But behind all these conceivable triumphs of scientific adjustment and direction lies the infinitely greater difficulty on our way to the Great State , the difficulty of direction . What sort of people are going to distribute the work of the community , decide what is or is not to be done , determine wages , initiate enterprises , and under what sort of criticism , checks , and controls are they going to do this delicate and extensive work ? With this we open the whole problem of government , administration , and officialdom . The Marxist and the democratic Socialist generally shirk this riddle altogether ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extent of being a distinct class and cult , exists only as a starting-point for healthy repudiations . Whatever else may be worked out in the subtler answers our later time prepares , nothing can be clearer than that the necessary machinery of government must be elaborately organized to prevent the development of a managing caste , in permanent conspiracy , tacit or expressed , against the normal man . Quite apart from the danger of unsympathetic and fatally irritating government , there can be little or no doubt that the method of making ends . Public organizations , for example , may distribute im.partially , and possibly even print and make ink and paper for , the newspapers in the Great State , but they will certainly not own them . Only doctrine - driven men have ever ventured to think they would . Nor will the State control writers and artists , for example , nor the stage ? though it may build and own theaters ? the tailor , the dressmaker , the restaurant cook , an enormous multitude of other busy workersfor-preferences . In the Great State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more prosperous classes of today , the great proportion of occupations and activities will be private and free . I would like to underline in the most emphatic way that it is possible to have this Great State , essentially socialistic , owning and running the land and all the great public services , sustaining everybody in absolute freedom at a certain minimum of comfort and well-being , and still leaving most of the interests , amusements , and adornments of the individual life , and all sorts of collective concerns , social and political discussion , religious worship , philosophy , and the like , to the free personal initiatives of entirely unofficial people . This still leaves the problem of systematic knowledge and research , and all the associated problems of esthetic , moral . and intellectual initiative to be worked out in detail , but at least it dispels the nightmare of a collective mind organized as a branch of the civil service , with authors , critics , artists , scientific investigators , appointed in a frenzy of wirepulling ? as nowadays the British State appoints its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while I am thus indicating the broad features of this conception of the Great State as the opposite to the Normal Social Life , it is necessary to point out the scope of our present ignorance and indecision upon those two closely correlated problems , the problem of family organization and the problem of women 's freedom . In the Normal Social Life the position of women is easily defined . They are subordinated but important . The citizenship rests with the man , and the woman 's relation to the community as a whole is through a man . But within that limitation her functions as mother , wife , and home-maker are cardinal . It is one of the entirely unforeseen consequences that have arisen from the decay of the Normal Social Life and its autonomous home that great numbers of women , while still subordinate , have become profoundly unimportant . They have ceased to a very largo extent to bear children , they have dropped most of their home-making arts , they no longer nurse nor educate such children as they have , and they have taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the domestic interior . That subjugation which is a vital condition of the Normal Social Life does not seem to be necessary to the Great State . It may or it may not he necessary . And here we enter upon the most difficult of all our problems . The whole spirit of the Great State is against any avoidable subjugation ; but the whole spirit of that science which will animate the Great State forbids us to ignore woman 's functional and temperamental differences . A new status has still to be invented for women , a Feminine Citizenship differing in certain respects from the normal masculine citizenship . Its conditions remain to be worked out . We have , indeed , to work out an entire new system of relations between men and women that will be free from servitude , aggression , provocation , or parasitism . The public endowment of motherhood as such may perhaps be the first broad suggestion of the quality of this new status . A new type of family , a mutual alliance in the place of a subjugation , is perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directly we turn ourselves definitely toward the Great State . And as our conception of the Great State grows , so we shall begin to realize the nature of the problem of transition , the problem of what we may best do in the confusion of the present time to elucidate and render practicable this new phase of human organization . Of one thing there can be no doubt , that whatever increases thought and knowledge moves toward our goal ; and equally certain is it that nothing leads thither that tampers with the freedum of spirit , the independence of soul in common men and women . In many directions , therefore , the believer in the Great State will display a jealous watchfulness of contemporary developments rather than a premature constructiveness . We must watch wealth , but quite as necessary is it to watch the legislator , who mistakes propaganda for progress and class exasperation to satisfy class vindictiveness for construction . Supremely important is it to keep discussion open , to tolerate no limitation on the freedom of speech , writing , art , and book distribution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all contemporary institutions and processes . This briefly is the programme of problems and effort to which this idea of the Great State , as the goal of contemporary progress , directs our minds .                     