@@436726

ON two facts in the present state of affairs every one will agree . We have been passing through a period of slackened prosperity , of greatly disturbed financial markets , of discouraging business conditions . Stock Exchange prices have been falling , at home and abroad ; occasionally , in the past few months , there have occurred those convulsive movements which financial Europe calls crises ' and which Wall Street calls ' panics ' ? both Wall Street and Europe , however , drawing mental distinctions , in the present use of the terms , between little panics and big ones . Some of the oldest and soundest investment securities " in the world , British consols in particular , have fallen during the past few months to the lowest prices in twenty years or more . ' Trouble ' was reported on the London market in July , on the New York market in August , at Berlin in the beginning of September , and at Paris near the end of it . With a varying degree of emphasis , bankers , merchants , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All this is undisputed ; and so is the fact that the season has been one of political disturbance . England 's people have been engaged in acrimonious controversy over the social and fiscal plans of the Asquith ministry , particularly the bill to curtail the time-honored legislative powers of the House of Lords . The French and German governments have been conducting , in such manner as at times to threaten war , avigorous and prolonged dispute about Morocco . In October , Italy actually went to war with Turkey . Legislatures of almost all the great European states have been passing laws of a character which would once have been called purely socialistic . The weight of taxation on the well-to-do has been increased . Labor demonstrations in the form of strikes have been more numerous and violent in England , Germany , and Scandinavia than in many years ; popular riots , partly induced by the cost of living , have been prevalent in France , and in Austria and Spain have had to be suppressed by the military . In China , a rebellion more formidable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has shaken the imperial throne . The United States , which entered 1911 after a political landslide such as completely reversed the administration majority in the House of Representa-tives , has had ahead of it all the year a presidential election whose result is perhaps more doubtful than any since 1896 . Political ideas throughout the country have been in a state of agitat-ing uncertainty . The Constitution has been complained of as decrepit and out-of-date ; the Supreme Court has been denounced , when it interpreted a law in a way that did not suit the ideas of certain factions and certain public men , for usurping legislative power . In some states , laws have been passed to enable a small minority of opposition voters at a preceding election to force the elected public officers immediately to the polls again in a special election , with a view to removing them from office . One state endeavored to set the example of extending this new political rule to judges , so that the voting proletariat might indirectly control judicial construction of the law . Meantime the courts and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem of applying the Anti-Trust Law of 1890 to existing corporations . In October , the billion-dollar Steel Trust , with 120,000 shareholders , was indicted . Nothing , then , could seemingly be more natural than that a good part of the financial and business community should declare that ' politics are ruining prosperity . ' That assertion is made most vehemently in financial England . It has been emphasized , there , by the bitterness of party feeling ; the pressure of taxation ; the holding of the balance of power in Parliament by the Irish ; the belief that ancient political landmarks were being ruthlessly removed ; the fact that consols not only went down but would not stop going down ; the social unrest ? more irritating to the rich , perhaps , because of their feeling that it followed large governmental concessions to the poor , provided by increased taxes . But the same assertion regarding politics and prosperity has been quite as insistently heard in America . On this side of the ocean , the trust prosecutions , the talk of new tariff legislation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assigned , not only as the immediate cause for such incidents as the autumn crash in the Steel Corporation 's shares , and the general Stock Exchange disorder , but as the real explanation of depression in general business . Now , there are several inquiries to make in such a matter . First , and of primary importance , is it true , or not , that politics has had a hand in arrest ing prosperity ? If it is true , did the financial and industrial set-back result from politics primarily , or was political unsettlement only a later and aggravating influence ? If it is not true , then what was the cause ? All of these questions deserve careful and fair examination . They are highly practical questions , because business depression is to many of us the most personal of all considerations , and because we shall not be able even to shape our everyday plans with confidence until we know what is really wrong , and what prospect there is of righting it . When the source of trouble is something else than politics , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apply , and they are sometimes applied so automatically that only a brief lapse of time is necessary to restore prosperity , in the natural course of events . But if the trouble arises from politics alone , or even from politics primarily , the position becomes a little awkward . Prosperity can not then return , by inference , until the political situation changes . Reversal of the attitude of electorates , legislatures , and governments , here and abroad , is doubtless possible ; but it is not exactly what can be classed as an early probability . The Englishmen who flocked to London just before the general election of December , 1910 , to assure their City friends that provincial constituencies had changed their minds about the House of Lords , were as quickly put out of countenance as were the Americans whose Western tours , last spring or summer , had charged them with the tidings that the American people were getting tired of Anti-Trust agitation . Convincing evidence to the contrary followed close on the heels of each assurance . The press and the public , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calling a halt in such activ- ities as they were before the business reaction and the decline on the Stock Exchange . But if the present trend of politics is the one sure preventive of trade revival , and if that trend is to continue , where are we to look for better times ? Has Prosperity been permanently killed by Politics ? Nobody believes anything of the sort . But in that case what are we to believe ? To begin with , it will hardly be denied that politics does have some influence on prosperity . Bad government has certainly ruined some prosperous communities in the past , and feeble or inefficient government has crippled them . Politics as a term is comprehensive enough to include a programme of public acts which lead to war , and war has undeniable influence on prosperity . Anarchy may result from misguided politics ; the connection of politics and prosperity in some of the South American states is clear enough . Bigoted , narrow or oppressive government can paralyze national prosperity ; it has done so in Russia . These illustrations are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progressive modern state , can certainly impair prosperity . Bad currency laws , we know , can do it ; for if confidence in the standard of value is shaken , people will move slowly in their trade , and will sometimes place their surplus money elsewhere than in the country whose currency projects they distrust , and where lenders can not be sure of getting back at maturity the full intrinsic value of their loan . But the mere recital of these particular spheres of influence by politics on prosperity shows that it is not this sort of politics that the markets have lately been blaming . In England , for instance , the accusation is leveled against the ministry 's double programme of readjusting taxation so as to fall more heavily on the rich , and of readjusting the scheme of constitutional govern- ment so that the wealthy and titled classes will be shorn of much of the influence which they have hitherto exercised . In the United States , the complaint is not of an attack on wealth as such , but of an attack on organized wealth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Politics , we know , may influence pro- ? sperity ; but has this kind of politics really done so ? Here we reach the heart of the question . On general principles , and as a result of long experience , thoughtful men approach with reserve the argument that since times are bad , therefore something is wrong with government . That argument may itself be a trick of politics . There probably never lived a politician who did not appreciate the political value of ' hard times ' or ' good times , ' as the case might be , for a campaign slogan . The average voter does not reason deeply , but he knows when his own affairs are doing well and when they are not . If business is good , he is receptive to the plea that a change in legislative policies would be an experiment which might upset the agreeable equilibrium ; why not , then , let well enough alone ? And if business is bad , his instinct is to blame somebody for it . Such is human nature , indeed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distresses were brought about by their personal rashness , misjudgment , or extravagance , the more infallibly will he and his neighbors seek for some other explanation . Now , ' politics ' is always an available explanation , because legislative sessions and governmental actions are never out of sight . The post hoc argument is at such times more convincing than-all the orthodox logic in the world . Now that the crisis of 1907 is four years behind us , most people know that it was a world-wide phenomenon ; that actual panic had broken out in the markets of four other continents than North America , before it broke out in New York City ; that the collapse had been preceded and brought on by two years of straining credit close to the breaking point in every great market of the world ; and that warnings based on these well-known facts had been sounded repeatedly from eminent quarters , home and foreign . But philosophers such as the Massachusetts congressman who , in December , 1907 , explained that the panic then in progress ' had been made inevitable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enterprise ' assumed by ' gentlemen very responsible for the administration of the government , ' got a much wider hearing than the economic critics . It was a ' Roosevelt panic . ' This was quite in line with precedent . Martin Van Buren had hardly been two months in office when the panic of 1837 swept over the United States . He was a highly conservative administrator , and he did much service , of a very useful sort , in allaying the severity of the subsequent depression . And even had his policies and purposes been the most nefarious , they would not have had time to cause a panic . Yet , a few weeks after the outbreak of that panic , the New York Merchants ' Committee of Fifty adopted public resolutions asking , ' What constitutional or legal justification can Martin Van Buren offer to the people of the United States for having brought on them all their present difficulties ? ' It was politics which had made the trouble , to be sure ; not wild-cat banks , land-speculation , overborrowing , 20-cent cotton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On Grant , whose popular plurality for president , in the ' boom times ' of 1872 , was the largest ever polled up to that time , a large share of personal responsibility was laid by the bewildered and angry banking community , M the next year 's financial panic . Yet it would to-day be a little difficult , with all the admitted shortcomings of the Grant administration , to discover what the unlucky occupant of the White House had done to cause the business crash . The political argument ' of Cleveland 's day is the most familiar of all . Chronology standing in its path , even the post hoc part of the argument was reversed . People were told that the tariff legislation of 1894 caused the panic of 1893 , and a very large part of them believe it to this day . Not only , in fact , does experience warrant some prima facie suspicion of the assigning of politics as the chief explanation of hard times , but the record ' sometimes brings us singularly close to the inference , not that politics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? or the absence of it ? was a dominant influence on politics . Until Mr. Taft 's campaign in 1908 , no party in power during an era of panic or hard times ( waiving the disputed election of 1876 ) ever carried the presidency in the next election . One is reminded of M. Taine 's exposition of the part the great drought of 1788 in France , followed by harvest failure , by the coldest winter in eighty years , and by the crowding of an army of discouraged laborers into Paris , performed in bringing to a head the next year 's political revolution . Mr. Thorold Rogers has shown us that when the Long Parliament assembled at Westminster , it had behind it a prolonged and disastrous increase in the cost of living , in which ' wheat rose 209 per cent over the comparatively high prices of the first half of Elizabeth 's reign , meat 184 , while labor , up to 1642 , rose only 32 per cent . ' History will not assign crop failures and high cost of living as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Charles the First ; but we who know what sort of political conditions follow such circumstances , even in the twentieth century , will not easily challenge the assertion that the state of prosperity must have had some considerable influence on those episodes in past political history . In a general way , no one disputes the principle ; but it is just as well to emphasize it in an inquiry which depends on the question which is cause and which is effect . There must certainly have been Frenchmen in 1789 who insisted that the provincial distress and cost of provisions were due to the storming of the Bastile , and Englishmen in 1641 who ascribed their trouble in meeting household bills to the mutinous House of Commons and the impeachment of Strafford . All this might tempt us to investigate the question whether the present unsettled state of politics may not it- ' self be a consequence of impaired prosperity . There is certainly something to say for that theory alsO ; but if one wishes to avoid the embarrassment of arguing in a circle , it will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moment , and inquire just what has been the matter . If the falling markets and disappointing trade have not been caused by political influences which are plainly visible , then what was the cause of them ? For , obviously , if all other influences than politics favored prosperous times and expanding trade , then the political argument will have the right of way . Now , one curious fact about the trade depression of 1911 is that the very people who have been blaming politics for the business troubles and disappointments , have set forth a reasonably complete explanation of the state of things , based upon economic causes pure and simple . I have before me , as I write , a voluminous pamphlet issued by a Western banking institution . It was published this past autumn , with a view to ascertaining the actual state of business and the reasons for the existing depression ; and for that purpose , inquiries had been addressed to several thousand banking and mercantile correspondents , throughout the country . The answers , carefully compiled , cite four main causes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as government prosecution of the trusts and an impending presidential election . Then follows over-production in manufacture , whereby supply had outrun the possible demand . Disappointing grain harvests , with their restrictive influence on interior trade , are cited next . Along with these , there is very generally assigned a cause of much larger scope . The natural aftereffects of a great financial crisis , it is repeatedly explained , had not worn off when merchants , manufacturers , and speculators engaged in premature efforts at another exciting boom . ' But since the country 's condition called for retrenchment , economy , and rest , the returning strain on credit , in 1909 especially , made another period of severe reaction unavoidable . The last of these explanations attracts attention . There are such things as cycles of prosperity : rising and receding waves of industrial activity . A great financial panic , such as that of 1907 , is a landmark in the cycle , and it ought to be interesting to inquire what economic history usually shows to be the condition of things , four years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sequel to such crises in America has been singularly uniform . During actual panic , with the hoarding of cash , the runs on deposit institutions , the bank failures , the wide-spread restriction of cash payment by banks to depositors , the clearing-house loan-certificates , the premium on currency , the collapse in stock and commodity prices , and the embargo on credit facilities , a feeling of despair pervades the community . But in one way or another , the acute stage of crisis is brought to an end . The hoarded currency rushes upon the market . Bank reserves pile up again . Money rates go to nominal figures . The stock market rises rapidly . A revulsion of sentiment in the business district is visible at once ; and in a very few weeks or months , one begins to hear ( as we did , from very good quarters , two or three months after October , 1907 ) that the panic was a passing incident ? a ' mere flurry , ' as Mr. Carroll D. Wright described it which interrupted , but can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this is that the process of prolonged readjustment and continuous liquidation , such as was essential for real recovery from the collapse occasioned by the financial orgy of the three or four preceding years , is interrupted and postponed . The nature of the immediate response of financial and commercial markets to this altered state of mind is governed by circumstances . When actual panic in 1873 had spent its force , there was , so wrote the New York Financial Chronicle in a contemporary article , ' a general rebound from the previous depression , and an expectation of renewed buoyancy in business affairs ' ; and this , though checked by repeated disappointments , lasted until the end of 1876 . After the panic of 1893 , the railway insolvencies , the corn crop failure , the government 's fiscal embarrassments , and the labor uprisings of 1894 , gave longer life to depression and liquidation . But in 1895 ? hardly a year-and-a-half after the acute stage of panic ? the business community suddenly made up its mind that ' boom times ' were normally at hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Stock Exchange was violently excited ; prices of wheat , cotton , dry goods , iron , steel , and copper rose from ten to fifty per cent . The country 's iron production for the year exceeded by a quarter of a million tons the highest previous record , and production of other commodities was similarly increased . When the money-hoarding and currency premium of the last great panic ceased , in January , 1908 , a similar sequel was at hand . Merchants organized ' Prosperity Leagues , ' and held public meetings to advise immediate return to conditions prevalent before the panic . Concerted and organized efforts were made to misrepresent the financial situation . The ' National Prosperity League ' addressed circulars to all American merchants and manufacturers , advising that the first of June be made ' general reemployment day . ' This episode , which seems so odd and childish four years afterward , was part of the history of the period . And the business world responded ? whether to such appeals or to the instinct which had inspired , on every previous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once to the departed ' boom times . ' Recovery , even in 1908 , was continuous though spasmodic ; the stock market , where prices had already moved up again to relatively high figures , rushed in November into a fury of speculation for the rise . And 1909 repeated faithfully the story of 1895 , at exactly the same distance of time from the panic period . Commodities of all sorts were held back from market for speculative purposes . Wheat was cornered , and put up in June , 1909 , to $1.51 per bushel . Land values in the West rose again to the high prices of 1906 . The country 's monthly iron production increased from 1,707,000 tons in February to 2,635,000 in December , whereas the highest monthly output , prior to the panic of 1907 , had been , 397,000 . Cotton went to 16 cents a pound in December , 1909 , and to N cents next year ? the latter price being the highest in sixty-three years , except for the Civil War and paper-inflation period . To conduct these speculative movements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bank resources were drawn upon to the point of strain , and new corporation securities were offered on the market in a sum-total actually double that of 1906 , and close to the prodigious figure of the celebrated boom year ' 1901 . When the home investment market showed very natural inability to absorb these stocks and bonds , something like $150,000,000 were placed in Europe ? this in spite of the fact that London 's own issue of new securities , during 1910 , overtopped by $375,000,000 the highest previous yearly total , and that Paris and Ber lin had similarly , in their own home fields , broken all precedent . So much , then , for what happened in immediate sequel to the panic of 1907 . An artificial , precarious , and in its nature temporary condition had been created , we have seen , in trade and industry . At a time when credit had just sustained a formidable shock , when banks and business men were still carrying ' long lists of clients who could not pay their debts , and when capital had just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made to impose on capital and credit heavier requisitions than those under which the whole financial structure had lately toppled over . We have also seen that , after our other panics , a precisely similar position arose , under almost exactly parallel circumstances and at almost exactly the same distance of time from the panic shock itself . It is naturally in point , therefore , to inquire what happened after the premature booms ' which followed 1873 and 1893 . If the sequel to those older after-panic demonstrations was what the country has been witnessing in the past year or two , then the logic of the case should be reasonably clear , and our feet on solid ground . The precedent does not fail us . The attempt to ignore the realities , after 1873 , broke down disastrously in 1877 , a year of profound discouragement and depression . Business activity came to a halt . Prices fell from ten to fifty per cent on all commodity markets . Stock Exchange values were demoralized ; the investing public withdrew all support . Business failures were more numerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ curtailed that wages were reduced , with a series of labor demonstrations as a consequence , which culminated in the bloody riot of railway employees at Pittsburg . This was a sequence of events not at all remotely suggesting 1911 . After the premature boom ' of 1895 came 1896 , whose disordered markets , industrial discouragement , and increase of business mortality beyond the record of any previous year except 1893 , closely repeated the story of 1877 . Now , it is fair to warn the reader that when he studies even the contemporary story of the years which ended the ' after-panic boom ' of those two decades , he will again be confronted with the familiar political explanation . The Congress of 1877 was in a ferment over the Bland free-silver-coinage bill and the attack on specie resumption ; and , in 1896 , Bryan was making his first run for the presidency . To people who lacked economic and historical perspective , the argument that , but for politics , ' the after-panic boom would not have been checked at all , was as plausible then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have already covered , no further argument should be necessary to convince the open mind that the essential cause of the hard times was something quite outside of politics ; and that even if the Bland bill and the Bryan campaign were serious aggravations to the financial depression of the period , they were as much the outcome of the country 's industrial depression as the cause of it . There is no reason to doubt that the intelligent historian who writes , a generation hence , of the present era , will say as much of 1911 . We have been taking our medicine for the excesses of 1909 . The past eighteen months have been the period of relapse in a convalescent who , when scarcely out of the sick-room , had insisted on plunging into activities which only robust health could have enabled him to sustain . So that , on the face of things , economic precedent should have led us to anticipate , as a consequence purely of economic causes , precisely that business depression , financial unsettlement , and industrial discouragement , which have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason for expecting anything else ? even supposing a serene and cloudless political horizon . And yet , when sentiment is so powerful a force in sustaining or undermining financial confidence , when plans of finance and trade are so frequently affected by uncertainty as to the laws and conditions which concern them , and when business at large is suspicious and mistrustful of violent change in such conditions , it would be clearly unreasonable to allege that political disturbances have had nothing to do with the state of the past year 's ? market . Granting for the sake of argument that the world-wide political unsettlement of the period has been consequence rather than cause of the great industrial reaction , it would still remain true that , at some point , politics would of itself become a contributory influence . But what , then , is to be the way out of our present financial dilemma ? There are three possible ways out . Industrial revival , due to purely economic causes or to normal completion of liquidation in finance and industry , might cause a similar reaction in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and satisfactory basis . Or automatic industrial recovery might altogether supersede , as an influence on business sentiment , the political unsettlement . Or , finally , it might turn out that the political ferment of the period was not , as the markets had imagined , evidence of social disintegration , but was the intermediate period on the way to a new and better condition of affairs ? such as should inure to the ultimate great advantage even of trade and the money markets . In asking which of these three roads is likely to be the outlet from the present bewildering confusion , we have one very remarkable precedent to guide us . It is somewhat more than sixty years since a political , social , and financial commotion has arisen of such scope as that which now prevails throughout the world . The politics of 1877 and 1896 , unpleasant though they unquestionably were , will scarcely take rank as epoch-making disturbances with those of 1911 . But the resemblances between 1911 and the famous year 1848 are numerous and close . That , too , was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ancient political landmarks seemed in course of obliteration . New and radical ideas in politics had come suddenly to the front . Continental Europe was in a state of revolution . A popular uprising drove King Louis Philippe from the throne of France . The young generation of Prussians rose against King Frederick William ; political concessions had to be made , even when the army was firing on the insurgents . Sicily revolted , and King ' Bomba ' had to save himself by flight . Milan , Naples , and BudaPesth rose against Austrian rule , and a popular demonstration at Vienna overthrew Metternich and compelled the Emperor Ferdinand to abdicate . In England , the Chartist movement was at its height , and huge open-air meetings were held to support the then alarming political programme of universal suffrage , equal electoral districts , vote by ballot , annual Parliaments , no property qualification for legislators , and payment of members . On the Continent the Prussian war over Schleswig-Holstein was still in progress ? a war curiously similar , in character and purpose , to Italy 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War was just ending ; it was followed by a split in the administration party over the question of slavery , which was destined shortly to split the country itself in two . The Abolition movement had begun to make itself heard in Congress and to derange the calculations of public men ; it was in 1848 that the Free Soil convention at Utica , by nominating its own presidential candidates , had a hand in reversing Congressional majorities and in turning the presidency over to the Opposition . An even more singular parallel to recent events was presented in far-off China , where in 1848 there was beginning that popular discontent with the Manchu dynasty which , two years later , exploded in the famous Tai-ping rebellion , whose success in defeating the imperial army and capturing powerful provinces was never witnessed again in Chinese history until October , 1911 . Never since 1848 has any such political panorama been spread before the world until the present day , and there had been nothing like it between 1848 and the great French Revolution . What , then , was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must logically , it would seem , have accompanied the political storm . In fact , 1848 was a year of industrial depression . British consols went from 90 to 80 , the lower price being destined never again to be quoted in the market until September , 1910 . French government five per cents fell from 1161 to at , which was the lowest price since Napoleon 's retreat from Russia . The Bank of France suspended gold payments ; ' Government intervention alone , ' wrote a contemporary financial review , ' saved it from insolvency ' ; and great financial houses went down at Paris , Marseilles , and Hamburg . All markets were depressed ; Sauerbeck 's index number makes the average English price of all commodities 78 in 1848 , against 95 in 1847 . The Stock Exchange was demoralized during the Continental uprisings of the spring , and in October , 1848 , when the Northwestern Railway of England announced its abandonment of a projected expenditure of ? 4,000,000 because of the prevalent distrust and the prostrated transportation industry , the market again broke from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commission was sitting at London to investigate the causes of the present commercial distress . ' Here at any rate , one would think , was politics creating unmistakable havoc with prosperity . But to be quite sure of our ground , we must look a little further even into 1848 ; and our inquiry will at once confront us with some interesting facts . Like 1911 , the year 1848 came in sequence to a great financial panic . It was in 1847 that the furious railway speculation which had been raging throughout Europe collapsed in a memorable crash . In the autumn of that year , there had been a run on the Bank of Er ; land ; the bank act had been suspen . ' Al ; discounts in the City had gone to 13 per cent , and the Stock Exchange money rate to 60 . Banks had failed over England , Scotland , and the Continent . Drafts of great mercantile houses in the India trade had been stopped ; the London Bankers ' Magazine estimated liabilities of defaulting English houses at ? 17,000,000 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been almost non-existent in Lombard Street , and the shock was felt throughout the world . The panic of 1847 had been a sequel to the same wild financial excess as precedes all great crises of the sort ; it had been caused , not only by overdone speculation and general extravagance , but by what the London Times then described as a system of blind credit among leviathan houses . ' All that was ended by the panic of 1847 , exactly as the identical practices , on an even larger scale , were ended by our 1907 . But it was just as certain as it has been on every such occasion that a period of hard times , bad business , low prices , and financial unsettlement would follow . Had there been no political disturbance during 1848 , it must nevertheless , in the recognized and inevitable sequence of events , have been a year of industrial depression . That was equally the sequel to the English panics of 1866 and 1890 , when political skies , in the after-panic year , were clear . To what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the hard times in trade and industry , and to what extent it would have caused financial disturbance had it followed a prosperous year , I shall not stop to argue . This is the problem which has so repeatedly confronted us in the progress of this inquiry , and the answer is the same for 1848 and 1911 . But the very fact that the depression of 1848 ( like that of 1911 ) , though accompanied by world-wide political commotion , was immediately caused by purely economic influences , gives point to the inquiry with which we began our retrospect of this older episode ? how did finance and industry manage to emerge from the entanglement ? Did business automatically improve , and the political situation with it ? Was politics simply shaken off as an influence on finance ? Or did the business world discover , after all , that there was more good than bad in the political upheaval of the day ? These are the questions the answer to which ought to throw light on our own financial future . They were answered after 1848 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was able to write that , with produce of all descriptions showing a revival , and with the speculative mania effectually crushed , ' the new year was opening cheerfully . ' Even if it be found impossible , ' it continued , ' to preserve peace on the Continent , the evil consequences upon trade must still be small . ' The cheerful forecast was correct ; the next year was a peaceful period in markets , and toward the end of 1849 , a genuine and continued revival was in evidence , which financial historians describe as a new era of prosperity . The political situation also had improved , in the sense that order had been restored from chaos . In some states ? notably Prussia and Hungary ? the revolution had been subdued with a powerful hand . In others , France particularly , the insurgents were triumphant and their government in control . But in very few were the new conditions what the old had been . Even the Prussian and Austrian sovereigns made large concessions to constitutional reform , and were destined soon to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Chartist movement , in its menacing shape of 1848 , had disappeared , but Parliamentary reform and extension of the franchise were placed irrevocably on the political programme of powerful English leaders . In the United States , the abolition campaign , though seemingly checkmated by the trend of national politics in the next few years , had , as a consequence largely of the agitation of 1848 , become the really fundamental problem of the clay . But the question must yet be answered , whether finance and business , in their return to normal and prosperous conditions after 1848 , had merely shaken off political influences , or had concluded that the political commotion of that famous year had brought , after all , more good than harm to the world at large . If the markets are assumed to anticipate the sober judgment of history on such matters , ? if the stock market in particular was truthfully described by Macaulay , when he spoke of it as ' the pulse which has for five generations continued to indicate the variations of the body politic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answer . The events in the politics of 1848 which aroused such dismay and despair in the minds of rigid conservatives of the day , in and out of the Stock Exchange , have long since been placed by the verdict of sober history among the great forward movements of the century . We know now , as the frightened bankers and business men of 1848 did not , that the political upheaval of that ? ear was both necessary and inevitable , unless the social and political institutions of the period , and probably its financial institutions with them , were to enter on a chapter of decay . There are always excesses and misjudgment somewhere in a world-wide movement of the sort , but they are corrected in the long run ; for there is a vast deal of hard common sense in the people as a whole . Time sets right even the judgment of timid and suspicious financiers . We know , by the memoirs of a still older generation , what was said in their day concerning the English Revolution of 1689 , the American Revolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Civil War , by conservative people who were overcome with fright as they witnessed the progress of those sweeping political innovations ; and we know what was said of the same events , by similar people , two or three decades afterward . It is quite possible that when the smoke and dust of the present worldwide political commotion have blown away , when orderly and permanent policies on the new lines of action have replaced what has seemed so much like chaos in the affairs of the various nations , we shall all regain some such clear historical perspective , and come to the conclusion that there were certain things in the social , political or industrial institutions of the present day which it was time to modify radically or remove entirely , if the genuine progress of the communities concerned with them were to continue . This certainly does not mean , however , that everything must change . Some institutions which have seemed to be threatened in the prevalent political confusion will no doubt be found never to have been in peril . The world may not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too deep in the groundwork of social welfare for a political storm to shake them . Neither state socialism in France nor political independence in Ireland has even yet been established , though Louis Blanc and John Mitchell were conspicuous figures in the events of 1848 . A good many curious social or political schemes and propaganda , which appear at such times to be carrying everything before them , turn out to have been mere froth on the surface of the rising wave . This has always been so when a programme of innovation and reform , on the basis of heated political discussion , has become the order of the day . Such popular interest is indeed the quite inevitable signal for advocates of peculiar fads to assert themselves , and for excitable persons , who assume that since something is wrong , therefore everything must be wrong , to get the public ear . But these are passing demonstrations , under leadership which Struts and frets his hour upon the stage And then is heard no more . The Constitution of the United States will hardly be patched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terrorized by special elections to remove them when their decisions are unpopular , merely because the prevalent agitation over real abuses has advertised such nostrums . The sober common sense which established constitution and judiciary , and which surrounded them with safeguards against popular whim and passion , is still in command of American politics . The world is not likely to see legislation seriously promoted by women breaking windows from the street , and chaining their persons to the grill of Parliament , or by union leaders announcing that labor is immune from the restrictions of the moral and statute law . By the time the skies have cleared , these minor incidents will have been forgotten , and the really great reforms of the period will appear in their true relations . It will be easier for the community as a whole to understand them then , because judgment will no longer be clouded by resentment at industrial depression . For it must not be forgotten that the very reaction in business and liquidation in markets , which have given so dark a color , in the eyes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were themselves the remedy for the economic evils which caused the present conditions in finance . We shall have prosperity again , as we did after 1848 and 1877 and 1896 , and it will be more lasting because built up from the bottom on a stable basis . But even if present impressions regarding public affairs were not to be obliterated by speedy return of good times in finance and industry , and even if business depression were to be long continued , it would still have to be remembered that there are more import . ant things in the life of nations than rising markets or heavy surpluses on the annual balance-sheet . Certainly , some memorable achievements in the cause of popular liberty , sound government , and social progress , would never have come to pass if their authors and advocates had allowed the question of the markets to tip the scales , or if the people who rallied to the support of the new ideas had stopped to consider the danger of disturbing business . ' Not the least interesting chapters of history are those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ? the trade monopolies under the Tudors , the crushing taxes on peasant laborers under the old regime in France , the rotten boroughs before English Parliamentary reform , the institution of slavery in America , ? which squarely blocked the path of civilization , but which had been accepted as essential parts of the social system , which were interwoven with property rights , and whose destruction was bound to shake the financial position of the day to its foundations . Fortunately for the world , a large enough part of the communit was ready , at the critical moment m these controversies . to make the choice rightly between principle and pocketbook . Perhaps one reason why so many of the great political reforms have been carried to success in periods of hard times is that principles stand forth the more clearly when a community 's eyes are not dazzled by the glare of booming trade and successful speculation . But political reforms are remembered long after financial depression is forgotten ; and no doubt this will be so on the present occasion . Possibly , after a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has become settled history , even the most conservative and old-fashioned of us will understand why , in the normal course of human progress , it was necessary that in 1911 the House of Lords should be shorn of its hereditary veto power ; that the continental proletariat should revolt against increasing taxes , extravagant armaments , and excessive cost of living ; that decrepit monarchical systems should be swept away ; and that the United States government should demand the dissolution of industrial combinations which , in the wild ' promotion period ' of the past ten years , had acquired absolute or potentially absolute dictatorial power over American industry .                     