@@430498

When the American Colonies separated from England they named among their grievances a tyrannical executive and an insecure judiciary . In setting up state governments for themselves , the Americans sought to guard against the former evil by reducing the executive to little more than a mere figure-head , while making the legislature almost omnipotent . The real grievance in the case of the judiciary was that it was subservient to a power over which they had no control , and whose interests were different from those of the Americans . Failing to discern this , they took the control of the judiciary entirely away from the executive and made it almost independent of the legislature and of the people . The mistake of a weak executive soon became apparent , and was avoided in defining the position and power of the President of the United States . Gradually the state executives were also elevated in position and power , while the tendency ever since has been to limit the power of the legislatures . Within recent years popular distrust of the lawmaking bodies has become very general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to lead to the adoption of the Initiative and the Referendum , the professed object of which is to recover for the people the power of government . Of late the third division of our government , the judiciary , has also been subjected to searching criticism . This criticism has been general , ranging all the way from our most conservative citizens to the most radical agitators . Even President Taft has suggested that a reform in procedure is needed . Practically all the party platforms have had something to say on the subject . Labor leaders have made their complaints , the state executives have gone so far as to appoint a committee to voice their protest , and even dissenting judges have joined the army of the discontented . The existence of the distrust of the judiciary can not be denied . Mr. Gilbert E. Roe , in his book entitled " Our Judicial Oligarchy , " explains it as due to ( 1 ) the usurpation of the power to declare laws  | null and void ; ( 2 ) the growing practice of declaring laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3 ) the fact that judges have become lawmakers through the power of interpretation ; and ( 4 ) the fact that the poor man is not on an equality with the rich man in the courts . That the power to void laws is a usurpation is in the main the view of Mr. Gustavus Myers also , though he does not hold without qualification that it is a usurpation on the part of the United States courts , but that it was a clear case of usurpation in case of the state courts , which had pretty well established the practice before the Constitution was drawn up . Taking advantage of that fact , he thinks , the framers of the Constitution so constructed that instrument that the judiciary , which they expected to be the bulwark of protection for property against democracy , must inevitably exercise the power . That this power is not a usurpation was clearly pointed out by Professor Charles A. Beard in the " Political Science Quarterly " for March , 1912 , and his work has been greatly supplemented and strengthened by Professor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exercise of the power by the state courts prior to 1787 and giving quotations from contemporaries in support of it and explaining the origin of the practice in the Supreme Court of the United States , he gives the most rational explanation of the custom which the present reviewer has yet seen . " They the courts asserted this power , " he says , " not because they were superior to the legislature , but because they were independent . " This makes it a natural consequence of putting into practice the theory of the separation of power . He might have continued and pointed out that the present exalted position of the judiciary is largely due to the tendency toward supine submission on the part of the executive and the legislature . At least one executive declared that he had as much right to his opinion of the Constitution as the Chief Justice did to his , and refused to enforce the court 's decree . It can not be denied that the courts have often strained the constitutional point in order to declare void a law of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of decisions upholding laws regulating the hours and conditions of labor for women and children , and overturning similar laws when designed to protect adult males . The courts say that the rule of reason must govern such laws , and by these decisions they have arrogated to themselves the sole power to exercise reason in such cases . The next step is to legislation by judicial decision . Many cases are cited by Mr. Roe and Mr. Myers , but the most notorious is that of the Standard Oil case . In 1897 the Supreme Court , speaking through Mr. Justice Peckham , said that they were " asked to read into the Sherman act by way of judicial legislation an exception that is not placed there by the lawmaking branch of the government , " that is , insert the word " unreasonable ' ; but this they refused to do . Mr. Justice White dissented . Some years later , when Mr. Justice Peckham and his supporters of 1897 were gone , Mr. Justice White was elevated to the position of Chief Justice and made glad the hearts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " by way of judicial legislation . The poor man is not on an equality with the rich in the courts , not because he has no money to employ an attorney or bribe the judges ? for outright bribery is very rare , ? but because the judges , having formerly served as corporation attorneys , naturally lean toward the interests and think in terms of vested rights . With them whatever has been still is right , and they continue to draw upon precedents hoary with age . Our own courts still cite English precedents long since outlawed there , ? f or example , the Priestly Case , which is not yet fully abandoned here . Well may the people exclaim , " Who shall deliver us from this body of death ? " ? the dead hand of an unjust past . It will not be surprising at no distant day to hear the lawyers themselves praying for a second Alexandrian fire to consume the court reports , and for legislation to prohibit , or at least greatly limit , their future publication . Those who suppose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics and the thought of sordid wealth , will be surprised , not to say shocked , at the revelations made by Mr. Myers in his " History of the Supreme Court . " The main purpose of his book is to show the close relationship that has always existed between the judiciary and the interests . Some of his statements are not altogether convincing , but many others are . In consequence , many of our heroes begin to lose some of that sanctity with which they have hitherto been enshrined . Hamilton , James Wilson , the Morrises , Livingstons , Schuylers , Gorham , Dayton , and others become ordinary mortals following the devious ways of gain , some of them through fraud and deceit . The most common avenues of wealth in those days were the acquirement of vast tracts of land , trade , and banking . The very first justices of the Supreme Court , ? Wilson , Cushing , Blair , Iredell , Johnson , Paterson , and Chase , ? are shown to have been allied directly or indirectly with the men following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as no less immaculate than the ermine which fell upon his shoulders , was so intimately connected by inheritance , marriage , and business alliance with the landgrabbers that one may be pardoned for having some doubts about his disinterestedness . As for James Wilson , lately praised by Mr. Roosevelt as a learned jurist , he is found to have been a shrewd Scotchman concerned in almost every questionable land deal of any magnitude , from that of the half-million acre deal in the Connecticut Reserve and the threemillion acre transactions of the Holland Company in New York , to the stupendous fraud of thirty-five million acres in the Yazoo Land Company . His banking experience in Pennsylvania , when the legis- lature repealed the charter of his bank , taught him a lesson , hence the clause in the Constitution forbidding laws impairing the obligations of a contract , of which he was the author . As for John Marshall , Mr. Myers has left precious little of that halo which so long surrounded his head and which Mr. Jesse F. Orton did so much to destroy a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the story of his questionable acts . From one or two we may learn the character of the rest . Shortly after the Yazoo grant was secured from the Georgia legislature by corrupt methods , Wilson and his associates hurriedly transferred several million acres to a group of New England capitalists . When the next legislature wrathfully rescinded the grant , these purchasers set up the defense that it was impairing a contract and was injuring innocent purchasers . It is a well-settled principle of law that fraud vitiates a contract , and that there is no such thing as an innocent receiver of stolen goods . If a man buys stolen goods in ignorance of the theft he not only secures no title , but must suffer the loss . But Marshall complacently passed over the bribery as a mere fiction , and protected the " innocent purchasers " by declaring the original grant a contract and therefore irrepealable . An individual who has had his horse stolen may have a right to recover it even from an " innocent purchaser " but , by some sort of legerdemain , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been robbed of land , the innocent purchaser gets a vested right and the public must lose . At this time Marshall had his heart set upon acquiring " Leeds Manor , " on some of Lord Fairfax 's stealings , the claim to which he had bought . When Marshall 's case came up he absented himself while Story , who had recently lobbied some bank charters through the Massachusetts legislature for himself and others , rendered the decision . Virginia had confiscated the property of British subjects and did not allow aliens to hold land in her borders . Yet Story held- that the Fairfax claim was valid . When the Virginia Supreme Court denounced the decision and defied the court , Story calmly reaffirmed his own decision and Marshall got his manor . One good turn deserves another . These decisions about the impairment of contracts and the innocent purchasers opened the floodgates of fraud which have not yet been closed . A few years after the Fairfax case one of Lord Baltimore 's heirs was suing Charles Carroll for quit rents . After the foregoing decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Maryland law which abolished quit rents . Having been true to the land-grabbers , the corporations , and the slaveholders , Marshall was followed by Taney , the special tool of the last class . Then came Chase , put in to validate the anti-slavery legislation and to uphold the interests of his clients , the bankers . Such is the meaning of the first legal tender case . But the railroads did not like this decision , and they had their attorneys , Bradly and Strong , appointed to reverse it . And ever since , the corporate interests have generally managed to keep on the bench a majority favorable to them . Mr. Myers nowhere charges the Supreme Court judges with venal corruption . On the contrary he says that , on the whole , they have been peculiarly free from it when it was all too common elsewhere . But he does charge that they have been dominated by the ever-expanding capitalist class , which has worked its will by ceaseless fraud and bribery . In many instances they have been the paid attorneys of the interests before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to them rather than to the common man . No wonder , then , that the courts have , in many cases , blocked the wheels of progressive legislation . What is the remedy ? The recall of judicial decisions , say Mr. William L. Ransom and Mr. Theodore Roosevelt . When Mr. Roosevelt first made this proposal it was received by many with derision and denunciation . But of the many propositions he has hurled at the American people of late , the recall of judicial decisions rightly understood seems by all odds the best . set this proposition before the people in its true light is the object of Mr. Ransom 's book on " Majority Rule and the Judiciary . " Mr. Roosevelt never has advocated , as many have assumed without investigation , the indiscriminate recall of decisions . Suits at law and criminal cases are entirely out of consideration ; but when the courts set themselves in opposition to the will of the people as expressed in a law by declaring the law unconstitutional , then the people should have the right , after due deliberation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the law of the land . This , Mr. Ransom declares , is far less revolutionary than the recall of judges , which is rapidly growing in favor . To recall the judge would not recall his decision , the real end in view . Often there is no real occasion to recall the judge , for he may be an honorable and upright man , who honestly believes the law unconstitutional . Many laws are overturned by a divided court . Then may not the people at least decide between the majority and the minority ? The trouble with Mr. Roosevelt 's proposition is , not that it is too revolutionary , but that it does not go far enough . He would apply it only to state courts . Why should even the Supreme Court be exempt ? No court capable of rendering so foolish a decision as was handed down last spring in the mimeograph case ( A. B. Dick Company ) deserves any immunity . So outraged was the country that Congress at once took steps to recall this decision as far as applicable to future cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have based its action . The recall of judges and of decisions will help to remedy matters ; but we need most of all to reclaim our courts from the control of corporation attorneys , who naturally think in terms of corporate interests .  |                     