@@430643

 | FROM prehistoric times the population of the world has been held in check by war , pestilence and famine . Toward the close of the eighteenth century these were relaxing in severity , thanks to the applications of science and to a gradually ameliorating civilization , and the population of Europe was increasing at the rate of about one per cent a year . It is no wonder that Malthus was appalled by this geometrical compounding of human beings , which would exhaust the food supply and even leave no standing room on the earth , and that his point of view dominated the economic theory of the nineteenth century . But two factors already in existence soon gained force . The applications of science ? the use of the steam engine in manufactures and transportation and innumerable other advances ? increased the means of subsistence more rapidly than one per cent a year , and the birth rate was beginning to decline . Owing to a remarkable balance between a decreasing birth rate and a decreasing death rate , the population of Europe continued to increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of one per cent a year , rising from 175 millions in 1800 to 420 millions in 1900 . The population increased about as rapidly as it could be conveniently assimilated , with gradually improved conditions of living for all . A new factor in the adjustment of population was emigration on a large scale , some thirty-five million people leaving Europe in the course of the century , more than half of whom came to the United States , where the increase in population has been in the neighborhood of two per cent a year . The adjustment of population to means of subsistence appears at first sight to be so exact that there is likely to be an assumption of a controlling mechanism such as exists in a state of nature . The fact of the matter is , however , that the food supply and the other necessities of life are not fixed quantities , but increase in proportion to the number of men who both use and produce them . In an era of the applications of science , there are no diminishing returns with increasing population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of larger numbers of men who make discoveries and improvements for the benefit of all . The average well-being has been about the same in France with a stationary population , as in Germany with a rapidly increasing population ; but Germany thru its greater share in the advancement of science and its applications has contributed more to the world than has France . The first effect of a lowered birth rate is to increase wealth ? tho it is generally consumed in luxuries ? by saving the cost of the rearing of children , but later when the productive workers are lacking there is an economic loss . France , as compared with Germany , saved each year over a billion dollars by having fewer children to support ; but the gain in wealth was temporary . In fact it ended in 1895 , whereas the increase of wealth in Germany in the course of the last generation was enormous . It is a fundamental question whether the relation between the birth rate and the death rate will be maintained under existing conditions so as to give an increasing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Will both continue to decrease or remain approximately as at present , or will the balance of the nineteenth century be lost as has apparently happened in France ? The death rate has been halved by the partial abolition of war , pestilence and famine in their grosser forms , and by alleviation of their milder aspects ? improved conditions for the struggling classes , the limitation and mitigation of disease , and better conditions of living . There is abundant room for further improvement ; it is stated that the death rate can again be halved . But this is impossible ; indeed , it seems that in certain nations the death rate has now reached its minimum . Australia and New Zealand report a death rate of ten . This means that in a stationary population the average age at death is 100 years . For every infant that dies , a man must live to be 200 years old , or ten men live to be 110 . This is beyond the limit of possibility . The death rate in England and Wales is about thirteen . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have given a population so constituted that an unusually large part is of the age when deaths are few . In France , with its small birth rate and stationary population , there are relatively about four-fifths as many young children and nearly twice as many old people as in England . When the latter country attains a stationary population its death rate must increase , and if the birth rate continues to decline the population will soon become stationary and will then begin to decrease . The vital statistics of the United States are entirely inadequate . Where registrations of deaths and births exist , they are imperfect , and the changing population , its age composition and the amount of immigration render them difficult to interpret . But some information concerning birth rates is given by the proportion of children as determined by the census . If the percentage of children under sixteen years of age in the population should continue to decrease as it did from 1880 to 1900 , there would be no children two hundred years hence . From a special study by Mr. Kuczynski it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Massachusetts was sixtythree per thousand women of childbearing age , as compared with eighty-five in France , 104 in England and 143 in Russia . As the French population is stationary , the native New England population , even apart from any further decline in  | the birth rate , decreases to threefourths in one generation . Special statistics have been gathered for college graduates . President Eliot in his report for 1901-02 stated that 634 married Harvard graduates of the classes from ' 72 to ' 77 had an average family of two surviving children . Other data concerning the families of college graduates have been published by Professor Thorndike , President Hall and others . The Harvard graduate has on the average three-fourths of a son , the Vassar graduate one-half of a daughter . What , then , are the causes leading to the recent decline of the birth rate , and are they likely to alter so that the rate may again increase , to maintain the existing state of affairs , or to produce a and social conditions have led to one-half of the women of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ average family to three or four ? in the case of American scientific men or college graduates to two ? must be due to infertility or to voluntary limitation . Both causes have been recognized since the time of the writing of the book of Genesis ; both have doubtless increased in force in the course of the nineteenth century . It is generally believed that t h e principal cause of the small size of the modern family is voluntary limitation . A definite answer is supplied by information given to me by 461 leading scientific men .  | Of these families 176 were not voluntarily limited , while 285 were so limited , the cause of the voluntary limitation being health in 133 cases , expense in 98 cases and various other reasons in 54 cases . Childlessness was involuntary in two-thirds of the cases . In the standardized family of two children the condition was desired in six cases out of seven . In over one-third of the 461 families the limitation was involuntary , due to infertility and other pathological causes , but if these had not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all , perhaps in all , cases . In seventy-one marriages prior to 1890 the average size of family including all children born was 2.9 , and the limitation was voluntary in forty-eight per cent of the cases . In the decade of the 80 's with 132 marriages the size of the family was 2.6 , and the limitation was voluntary in sixty-four per cent of the cases . For 198 marriages contracted in the 90 's , when no more children will be born , the average size of family is 2.0 , and the limitation is voluntary in seventy per cent of the cases . Neither the prevalence of the voluntary limitation of the size of family , nor the fact that the size of family is limited directly or indirectly thru infertility or ill-health in more than three-fourths of the cases , can be regarded with satisfaction . It is indeed evident that a limitation of the number of offspring was an essential condition of the evolution of a higher race and of the civilization to which it has attained . There was first a biological adaptation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twelve children , then a development of social institutions reducing the average number of children for each woman to about six , and now we have a psychological restriction limiting the number to about three . This number appears to be nearly ideal , in so far as the most desirable rate of increase of population is concerned . It might be as undesirable and be made as illegal for a man to have six children as to have two wives . But we are playing with edged tools when we substitute rationalism for fundamental instincts . In practise the family is not voluntarily limited for the welfare of the race , but to avoid risk and ill-health ? real or fancied ? expense and inconvenience , and to give the individual child greater advantages . There seem to be no existing conditions which will check the decreasing birth rate , while there are powerful forces tending to its decline below the danger point of the death rate . We should accustom ourselves to the idea that social control is necessary to maintain the vigor of the race and perhaps to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and natural selection are largely eliminated by enabling most of those who are born to attain middle age , then the vigor and fertility of the race can only be maintained by a eugenic selection of healthy parents . If social conditions become such that children are no longer of economic value to their parents , while they have for the state a greater economic value than ever before , then the state should be prepared to pay the cost of bearing and rearing them . When laws are past forbidding the marriage of the feeble-minded , of the diseased , of cousins and between different races , it is evident that we regard social control of marriage as feasible . If we supply free schools on the ground that this is of advantage to the individual and to the state , there is no reason why we should not give free medical attendance and much else . When we learn that the privileges of property are subordinate to the welfare of children , there will be no difficulty in providing that the cost of children shall be shared equally by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death rate has been the principal factor in modern history , leading to the present position and relations of the great powers of Europe . This mad war will probably close with a stalemate ; in any case the losses will not depend on the terms of peace . France will lose most , Great Britain next , Germany next , Austria-Hungary and Italy next , Russia and the Balkan States the least ; and the longer the war is persisted in the greater will be the disproportion . The losses depend less on victories or defeats on the battlefield than on the relative birth rates of the nations . The lesson applies equally to us . We can do incomparably more to make the nation strong in defense by caring for our children than by increasing our armaments . IN ENGLAND AND WALES The curves exhibit the birth rates , death rates and marriage rates for each year since 1876 , being drawn from the figures supplied by the registrar general . The number of births for each thousand of the population was 36.3 in 1876 , and has since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death rate has in this period declined from 20.9 to 13.3 . Here there are more fluctuations owing to epidemics or unfavorable seasons . The marriage rate has not altered in a constant direction , being as high for the last ten years as for the first ten years . THE DECLINING BIRTH RATE ABROAD The figures at the left indicate births per thousand of population . The top curve represents Germany , the middle one England , the lowest France . The decline for France has been very regular since the beginning of the last century at the rate of one and one-half per thousand for each decade . The decline for England since 1876 is also nearly in a straight line and much faster than for France . The decline for Germany , beginning later than for England , as that waslater than for France , has since 1895 been more rapid than for England . These three curves , if continued , give the queer result that births in these three nations would cease altogether at about the same time one hundred years hence . Such results are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remembered that there are now only three births to replace four deaths in some French departments and in the native population of New England . AMERICA AND NEW SOUTH WALES The curves show the distribution of the families of 461 scientific men in comparison with the families of some twenty thousand New South Wales mothers who died toward the close of the last century . In both cases all children , whether they survived or not , are included and no more children would be born . The figures at the bottom indicate the number of children to a family ; those at the side the percentage of families in which these numbers occur . The New South Wales families of from one to eight children are nearly equally numerous , and there is then a gradual decrease to families of sixteen and larger . The families of American scientific men ? which may be regarded as typical of the professional classes and other college graduates ? show a remarkable contrast . Nearly one-fourth are childless ; less than one in four is larger than three , only one in seventy-five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nine . The average size of family is 2.2 ; the surviving family is about 2 , and the number of surviving children of each scientific man , including those unmarried , is about 1.8 . THE DECREASING FAMILIES OF COLLEGE GRADUATES The figures at the left indicate the average size of the families of alumni of three eastern colleges . The curves show that the size of the family of college graduates has decreased from 5.6 at the beginning of the century to 2.5 and 2 for classes graduating in 1875 . The dotted line is the projection of the average decrease , indicating that if conditions should remain the same students graduating in 1935 would have no children . THE FAMILIES OF 461 LEADING AMERICAN SCIENTIFIC MEN The figures at the bottom indicate the number of children to a family ; those at the left the number of families of equal size . The chart shows for each size of family of 461 American men of science in how many cases the limitation was involuntary and in how many cases it was voluntary . The shaded areas , showing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to indicate the causes . Thus when the marriage was childless , this condition was involuntary in 67 cases and voluntary in 35 eases . The reasons assigned were health in 25 cases , expense in 5 cases and other causes in 5 cases . In the family of two , the limitation was voluntary in 84 out of 98 marriages . The reasons assigned were health in 44 cases , expense in 29 cases and inconvenience or other causes in 11 cases .                     