@@493026

A Journal of Opinion WHEN Mr. Roosevelt read that a presidential boom had been launched for him by Professor Miinsterberg in a letter to the Fatherland , he must have felt as if he had been embraced affectionately by one of his own African lions . Nor would there have been much solace if the lion said , " Of all men who have entered this jungle , you , my dear Colonel , are the most leonine . And because we are both lionhearted we can afford to despise the jackasses and kangaroos . True , Colonel , you have hunted us , but you are a good lion nevertheless , and we respect you . Besides , it occurs to me that if the lions united , the logothetes would tremble , and in the depths of my heart I have even a sneaking hope that if the lions were friendly to you you might cease to hunt them . " Full justice has not yet been done to Professor Munsterberg . His letter was a nimble mixture of foolery and truth , of malice and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amusing enough to bewilder and embarrass . Professor Miinsterberg must have enjoyed writing it , and many will enjoy reading it ; but as a political document it is about nine times too clever . Y ET here is Mr. Roosevelt back on the first page , the object of everyone 's curiosity , the only man mentioned for the Republican nomination who excites the least popular interest . Those who announce his extinction because they wish it are once again wrong . Someone else may be nominated , but the Colonel is the man everyone has to reckon with . And even his bitterest enemy will have to confess that his hold on the attention of America is due to qualities invaluable in a democracy . He has taken a positive line , he has created a real opposition , he has presented a real alternative . He has fought for a point of view with reckless courage ; his cards are all on the table while other " leaders " remain wrapped in the gloom of their prudence , resolved to make no enemies and capable of making few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's resurrection . He is filling the vacuum where Republican leadership ought to be . T HE Senate Committee on the Philippines has devised a most desirable formula of independence for the preamble of the measure reorganizing the Philippine government . The Jones bill , as it passed the House of Representatives in the last Congress , promised independence " as soon as a , stable government can be established . " In the bill which failed in the Senate last winter , independence was to be granted " when the people of the Philippines were fitted therefor . " The preamble now provides for independence " when in the judgment of the United States it will be to the permanent interests of the people of the Philippine Islands . " The advantages of the new formula are manifest and considerable . Both of its predecessors uttered a promise which because of its ambiguity and vagueness tended to embarrass the Philippine government and to distract and delude the Filipinos . The promise was to be redeemed at the discretion of Congress and might be indefinitely postponed , but in the meantime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to an independence which they might not finally desire , but the lack of which wrote them down as politically childish and incompetent . They were bound to agitate for independence , because in their own constitution self-government was associated with it . Thus even though neither of the old forms was adopted , their mere proposal and discussion have been a perpetual source of vexation to the Harrison administration , and have made it more difficult to organize a government in which the Filipinos should have the largest practicable share . M ANY existing difficulties will be avoided by the proposed new formula of Philippine reorganization . Independence is no longer bound up with self-government . As the more intelligent Filipinos very well realize , independence is a definite status with specific and onerous responsibilities under international law , while self-government is a fluctuating quantitative matter . Independence might be undesirable even though in the ability to govern themselves Filipinos measured up to the level of Australians . Its desirability would depend not only upon the people 's ability to organize and operate a tolerable government , but on their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The new formula does not promise independence until it can be justified by the permanent interests of the Philippine people . The United States retains the right to decide when this promise shall be redeemed , which may in the future be a source of trouble , but for the present the embarrassment suffered by the Harrison administration in having the transaction of all its business complicated by an irrelevant agitation for more self-government should be very much diminished . The independence of the Philippine Islands is a question of foreign as well as domestic politics . It is a matter to be considered in relation to the general political situation in the Far East . Until the readjustments necessitated in that part of the world by the war have actually taken place , the less said about it the better . W HEN will Americans begin to trust public opinion to use political resistance and provide political remedies against erroneous political action ? At present they are obsessed by the notion that all future errors can be prevented by legal precautions . We are almost as much attached to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Theodore Woolsey , for instance , has proclaimed an infallible method of attaining " Sanity in Preparedness . " He proposes to prohibit the use of the new federal army for service outside of this country as an expeditionary force . It is to be used only for defence . The suggestion will prove popular , and attempts will certainly be made in the House or the Senate toprovide in this way by law against the aggressive use of the new military forces of the United States . Yet such a prohibition , vicious as it would be as a matter of military method , would be even more vicious as a matter of politics . The armed forces of the United States are an essential although inferior instrument of national policy . If the policy adopted by the country is sound , adequate and enlightened , they will never be used for sinister or harmful purposes , but the effective safeguard is the definition and popularization of the enlightened policy , not futile prohibitions against particular methods of perversion . Our foreign policy is not and should not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as necessary to fight a merely defensive war in Venezuela , Hayti , or Flanders as on Long Island . A policy of defence , whether military or political , is a policy based on isolation , nourished by fear , and perpetually verging on panic . It is an impoverished and unworthy policy for a nation which should wish to be aggressive in the attempt to realize in both foreign and domestic politics its own sincerely democratic purposes . T HE Anglo-French expedition into Serbia , now withdrawn into Greece , did achieve at least one of its objects , for it delayed that rapid advance of Bulgarian infantry to Ochrida via Monastir which would have cut off the last avenue of Serbian retreat . It is now clear that the principal Serbian force , retiring in a general southwesterly direction from Nish with 20,000 or 30,000 Austrian prisoners , did actually succeed in reaching Elbasan in Albania by way of Ochrida ( Ochrida is in the extreme southwestern corner of Serbia ) . From Elbasan to Valona the distance is about eighty-four miles , part mule path , part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trail , already traversed , between Elbasan and Struga on the Serbian-Albanian frontier , and Italian resupply and reenforcement will be available from Valona . According to the Corriere della Sera of Milan , this is the only road from Valona into Macedonia , and Valona Is the only Albanian port which can receive transports of even moderate draft . Therefore the reasons for non-intervention of Italian troops either in the past or future in a Balkan campaign become evident . Nevertheless it is probable that the main Serbian army is close to Valona to-day , no doubt very hungry , certainly without its guns , but still hanging on to almost all those Austrian prisoners captured last December . The Teutonic official reports have never announced their recapture . Estimates of Serbian numbers will vary , but 100,000 Serbs have very likely escaped . Another Serbian army , the army of the Bosnian frontier , retired into Montenegro and is withdrawing with the Montenegrins toward Scutari , a far less secure haven of refuge than Valona . The Austrian campaign in Montenegro still continues . All told , there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this theatre of the war . No danger threatens the Teutonic allies from Scutari or from Valona . Saloniki , the gate of Macedonia , is the only point of vantage which the Allies still retain in the Balkans , and it is against Saloniki , from a military point of view , that the next Teutonic offensive should be launched . A CCORDING to the usually well informed Washington correspondent of the Chicago Tribune , the real explanation of President Wilson 's treatment of the European belligerents is to be found in the hope and expectation of a future intimacy between the United States and the British Empire . It would have been manifestly dangerous for the President to express this preference in any overt way , but it has determined the relative emphasis of his protests against the belligerents ' violation of international law . Whether the preference for an increasing intimacy with Great Britain exists in the President 's mind and has influenced his behavior we do not know , but his interest in maritime commerce and sea power would make the inference plausible . He must know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ really independent of one another , and that a frank recognition of mutual dependence would add enormously to the security of the two countries and their effective influence in international politics . To be sure , whether he knows it or not he can not say it , but he can say , as the Chicago Tribune says , that isolation from Europe is no longer either possible or desirable for the United States . And having said it he could trust to his fellow countrymen to read the salutary lesson ? the lesson that no perfection of friendship with the other free and equal republics of the west will constitute any substitute for a clear and comprehensive understanding with our necessary associates on land and sea ? Canada and Great Britain . S ECRETARY GARRISON 'S continental army if not already dead is apparently gasping for breath . It was a pretty little child , dressed up to make a good appearance in public , but it was fatally anaemic . Nobody was interested in keeping it alive . Congress was indifferent because Congress lives upon politics , and there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the state militia than in the creation of a federal militia . The military experts were hostile because most of them believe in compulsory service , and they did not want a voluntary system to succeed . They havenever patiently and exhaustively tried to devise methods of making service in a national militia sufficiently attractive . Worst of all , the parents of the unfortunate infant were not themselves very much interested in keeping their offspring alive . The administration has no strong convictions about the kind of an army best adapted to the country 's needs . It has submitted certain ideas to Congress and the country , but the President has no intention of fighting for them as he fought for the currency bill . The death of the continental army is a pity , because the idea of a national body of volunteer citizens trained during peace is too desirable a method of military organization to be abandoned without being seriously tried . But Congress would never agree to it except under compulsion , and the administration is the only agency sufficiently instructed and powerful to exercise the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard , the end is inevitable . A CCORDING to Associated Press despatches from Rome , the total Italian losses from six months of war aggregate 45,000 casualties . The same report gives the number of men now engaged at about 1,000,000 and it is a safe estimate that the average number on the Austrian front since Italy entered the war has been about 750,000 . Among a half million men employed by the American railways in positions involving risk to life ? trainmen , switchmen , etc. ? the annual casualties exceed 50,000 . It seems to follow that war-making conducted by Italian methods is little , if any , more dangerous than transportation conducted by American methods . War-making on the eastern side of the Adriatic is a more serious business . Little Serbia has endured more casualties in a single week than great Italy reports for six months . With all due allowance for probable understatement in the Italian reports , the conclusion seems unavoidable that Italy is playing a remarkably cautious game . T HERE is a remarkable contrast between the policy of Cavour , the founder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of to-day who are seeking to found Italian imperialism . By skillful manoeuvering Cavour succeeded in 1854 in gaining the consent of France and England to the dispatch of Sardinian troops to the Crimea . It was of no direct interest to Sardinia that Russia should be beaten , but by helping to fight the battles of France and England , Cavour won for Sardinia an important place in the Congress of Paris and committed the sympathies of France and England to the cause of Italian union . It is quite another spirit that animates the Italian statesmen of the present . They are spending no blood on any project that does not offer visible and immediate profit to Italy . There were enough unoccupied Italian troops to fill the valley from Belgrade to Nish and to make the Teutonic irruption into Serbia impracticable . Their presence would have kept Bulgaria out of the fray , and would have immobilized large Teutonic forces on the Hungarian frontier , with an advantage to the Allies as a whole that would have been incalculable . But was there not a chance that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was ; and the current variety of Italian statesmanship , unlike that of the great Cavour , takes no chances . M UCH has been written about what should be the relation of a statesman to the people of a democracy . No better answer could be given than to point to Secretary Lane 's annual report . The head of a highly technical department of the government , a man dealing daily with very complicated facts , Mr. Lane has nevertheless succeeded in making his work understandable and alluring . His report is an example of the art of popularizing knowledge in its most inspiring form . There is no condescension in it , but a gifted enthusiasm and the warm assurance that its writer is singularly in tune with the very best of America . " I make bold to express the hope that no other policy of this government may be allowed to stay the internal development of this country . " This is its first sentence , and it goes on to express the fear that the strengthening of the military forces will leave the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overlook these matters of less dramatic and perhaps less immediate concern . " These are words which might be printed on the little bits of cardboard and tacked up over the desk of every official , every editor , and every citizen of the country .                     