@@466153

must not forget that these men and women who file through the narrow gates at Ellis Island , hopeful , confused , with bundles of misconceptions as heavy as the great sacks upon their backs ? we must not forget that these simple , rough-handed people are the ancestors of our descendants , the fathers and mothers of our children . So it has been from the beginning . For a century a swelling human stream has poured across the ocean , fleeing from poverty in Europe to a chance in America . Englishman , Welshman , Scotchman , Irishman ; German , Swede , Norwegian , Dane ; Jew , Italian , Bohemian , Serb ; Syrian , Ilungarian , Pole , Greek ? one race after another has knocked at our doors , been given admittance , has married us and begot our children . We could not have told by looking at them whether they were to be good or bad progenitors , for racially the cabin is not above the steerage , and dirt , like poverty and ignorance , is but skin-deep . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left the immigrant 's cheek ; a few years , and he loses the odor of alien soils ; a generation or two , and these outlanders are irrevocably our race , our nation , our stock . That stock , a little over a century ago , was almost pure British . True , Albany was Dutch , and many of the signs in the Philadelphia streets were in the German language . Nevertheless , five-sixths of all the family names collected in 1790 by the census authorities were pure English , and over nine-tenths ( 90. a per cent. ) were British . Despite the presence of Germans , Dutch , French , and Negroes , the American was essentially an Englishman once removed , an Englishman stuffed with English traditions , prejudices , and stubbornnesses , reading English books , speaking English dialects , practising English law and English evasions of the law , and hating England with a truly English hatred . In all but a political sense America was still one of " His Majesty 's dominions beyond the sea . " Even after immigration poured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to impress upon the immigrating races its language . laws , and customs . Nevertheless , the incoming millions profoundly altered our racial structure . To-day over thirty-two million Americans are either foreign-horn or of foreign parentage . No longer an Anglo-Saxon cousin , America has become the most composite of nations . We can not help seeing that such a vast transfusion of blood must powerfully affect the character of the American . What that influence is to be , however , whether for better or for worse , is a question more baffling . Our optimists conceive the future American , the child of this infinite intermarrying , as a glorified , synthetical person , replete with the best qualities of all component races . He is to combine the sturdiness of the Bulgarian peasant , the poetry of the Pole , the vivid artistic perceptions of the Italian , the Jew 's intensity , the German 's thoroughness , the Irishman 's verve , the tenacity of the Englishman , with the initiative and versatility of the American . The pessimist , on the other hand , fears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the unpardonable sin ; is contracting a mhalliance , grotesque and gigantic . We are diluting our blood with the blood of lesser breeds . We are suffering adulteration . The stamp upon the coin ? the flag , the language , the national sense ? remains , but the silver is replaced by lead . All of which is singularly unconvincing . In our own families , the children do not always inherit the best qualities of father and mother , and we have no assurance that the children of mixed races have this selective gift and rise superior to their parent stocks . Nor do we know that they fall below . We hear much concerning " pure " races and " mongrel " races . But is there in all the world a pure race ? The Jew , once supposed to be of Levitical pureness , is now known to be racially unorthodox . The Englishman is nut pure Anglo-Saxon , the German is not Teutonic , the Russian is not Slay . To be mongrel may be a virtue or a vice . We do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and we have no approved receipts in this vast eugenic kitchen . Intermarrying will go on , whether we like it or loathe it , for love laughs at racial barriers and the maidens of one nation look fair to the youth of another . Let the kettle boil and let us hope for the best . But the newcomer brings with him more than his potential parenthood , and he influences America and the American in other ways than by marriage and procreation . He creates new problems of adjustment . He enters into a new environment . He creates a new environment for us . Unconsciously but irresistibly he transforms an America which he does not know . He forces the native American to change , to change that he may feel at home in his own home . When we seek to discover what is the exact influence of the immigrant upon his new environment , we are met with difficulties almost as insurmountable as those which enter into the problem of the immigrant 's influence upon our common heredity . Social phenomena are difficult to isolate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is also a wage-earner , a city-dweller , perhaps an illiterate . Wage-earning , city-dwelling , and illiteracy are all contributing influences . Your immigrant is a citizen of the new factory , of the great industrial State , within , yet almost overshadowing , the political State . Into each of our problems-wages and labor , illiteracy , crime , vice , insanity , pauperism , democracy ? the immigrant enters . There is in all the world no more difficult , no more utterly bewildering problem than this of the intermingling of races . Already thirty million immigrants have arrived , of whom considerably over twenty millions have remained . To interpret this pouring of new , strange millions into the old , to trace its result upon the manners , the morals , the emotional and intellectual reactions of the Americans , is like searching out the yellow waters of the Missouri in the vast flood of the lower Mississippi . Our immigrating races are many , and they meet diverse kinds of native Americans on varying planes and at innumerable contact points . So complex is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so many perplexing combinations , that we struggle in vain to unweave this weaving . At best we can merely follow a single color , noting its appearance here and its reappearance there , in this vast and many-hued tap-estry which we call American life . Fortunately we are not compelled to embark upon so ambitious a study . We are here concerned , not with the allinclusive question , " Is Immigration good or bad ? " but with the problem of how immigration has contributed to certain broad developments in the character and habits of the American , and even to this question we must be content with a halfanswer . When we compare the America of to-day with the America of half a century ago , certain differences stand out sharp-ly . America to-day is far richer . It is also more stratified . Our social gamut has been widened . There are more vivid contrasts , more startling differences , in education and in the general chances of life . We are less rural and more urban . losing the virtues andthe vices , the excellences and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the city . We are massing in our cities armies of the poor to take the place of country ne'er-do-wells and village hangers-on . We are more sophisticated . We are more lax and less narrow . We have lost our earlier frugal simplicity , and have become extravagant and competitively i lavish . We have , in short , created a new type of American , who lives in the city , reads newspapers and even books , bathes frequently , travels occasionally ; a man , fluent intellectually and physically restless , ready but not profound , intent upon success , not without idealism , but somewhat disillusioned , pleasure-loving , hardworking , humorous . At the same time there grows a sense of a social maladjustment , a sense of a failure of America to live up to expectations , and an intensifying desire to right a not clearly perceived wrong . There develops a vigorous , if somewhat vague and untrained , moral impulse , an impulse based on social rather than individual ethics , unesthetic , democratic , headlong . Although this development might have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the process has been enormously accelerated by the arrival on our shores of millions of Europeans . These men came to make a living , and they made not only their own but other men 's fortunes . They hastened the dissolution of old conditions ; they undermined old standards by introducing new ; their very traditions facilitated the growth of that traditionless quality of the American mind which hastened our material transformation . How we estimate this influence of the immigrant depends upon our definition of the term . In a sense we are all immigrants , from the straightest lineal descendant of Miles Standish to the burly " Hunkie " unloaded at Ellis Island this morning ; from the men who came over in the Mayflower to the men who came over in the newest liner . We may , however , arbitrarily define immigration as beginning with 182o , the first year for which we have statistics . Prior to that date the transatlantic movement was feeble . During the Colonial period only a trickling stream flowed across the ocean . The Revolutionary War cut us off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world indifferent . America was little known and not well-known . During the forty years ending in 182o , less than a quarter-million Europeans came to America . At present more immigrants land on a single summer day than arrived a century ago during a whole year . The very poverty of the European masses prevented their exodus . A ticket for the hold of one of the pitching little sailing-vessels cost about ten pounds . But where should a laborer in those days find ten pounds ? Men were born , grew up , married , begot children , and died at a ripe old age without ever owning a CXXIX. ? Nn. 772. - 77pound , without ever touching or seeing a fivepound note . To buy his passage the emigrant sold himself . He became an " indentured " servant liable to a number of years of unpaid labor in America . This service was neither brief nor easy . Adults usually indentured themselves from three to six years ; children from ten to fifteen , or until they came of age . If , on the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was common enough ? the orphan served their time as well as his own . At Philadelphia , at Boston , at New York , dealers in " indentured servants " boarded the boat to look for a " likely boy " or a not too ' old housekeeper . Parents some- times sold their children , to remain free themselves . The traffic , though lucra- tive to the ship-owner and advantageous to the farmer , pressed hardly on the poor " indentured servants , " often chained together and peddled off in the Colonial villages . It is not strange that immigration increased . Gradually transportation facilities improved , America became better known , and the European population more mobile . Immigrants , already established in America , sent home money to permit other immigrants to come . The endless chain began to revolve . In 1828 the number of arriving immigrants exceeded twenty-seven thousand , as compared with less than eight thousand only four years earlier . In 1832 another powerful impulse carried the immigration to over sixty thousand annually . During the next twelve years immigra-tion maintained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousand a year . Then in 1845 there came to the transatlantic movement a stupendous and unprecedented growth . Soon the two-hundred-thousand mark was reached , then three hundred thou-sand , and finally , in 1854 , no less than four hundred and twenty-seven thousand immigrants arrived . In proportion to our population , it was the greatest immigration this country has ever had . No one who knew the state of Europe need have wondered at this human flood . The feudal conditions in Germany , which had survived the French Revolution and Napoleon , were at last disintegrating ; industry was beginning , the power loom was destroying the old hand-weavers ; education was spreading , and the population was on the move , intellectually and physically . To these conditions , making for a freerfooted peasantry , a special occurrence contributed . The bitter winter of 1845 destroyed innumerable vineyards . The melting snows swelled the Danube , the Elbe , the Main , the Moselle , the Rhine , devastating the surrounding country . The potato crop , the main resource of the German peasant , failed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people stolidly starved . Those who had the means to leave discovered that America was the one way out , and so on the white Strasburg road long lines of carts began to make their way from Bavaria and Wiirtemberg , from Baden and HesseCassel , to the nearest seaport . " There they go slowly along , " wrote a sympathetic observer , " their miserable tumbrils drawn by such starved , drooping beasts that your only wonder is how they can possibly hope to reach Havre alive . " The carts were littered with the scanty property of the emigrants , and " piled on the top of all are the women and children , the sick and bedridden , and all who are too exhausted with the journey to walk . One might take it for a convoy of wounded , the relics of a battlefield , but for the rows of little white heads peeping from beneath the ragged hoods . " If these German emigrants , these new adventurers , were poor , what may we say of the Irish , who in their fearfully overcrowded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of starvation ? The horrible ravages of the potato famine of 1846 among the wretched poor of Ireland need no repetition . Untold thousands died in their huts ; others , finding no relief in the towns congested with starving folk , lay down in the streets and died . " Along the country roads , " writes Justin McCarthy , " one met everywhere groups of gaunt , dim-eyed wretches , clad in miserable old sacking and wandering aimlessly with some vague idea of finding food . " This was the impulse , this " vague idea of finding food , " which in the fifties brought millions of West Europeans across the ocean . The voyage was desperate . The vessels , officered by ignorant , underpaid , and often brutal captains , and crowded to the gunwale with despised passengers , carried fever in their holds . The dead were consigned to the sea , the sick and stricken were put off at New York or Boston , to fill the hospitals and almshouses . The Germans , some of whom had means , moved in a never-ending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were to a great extent stranded in the Eastern cities . This immigration was by no means cordially welcomed . From 1835 on , a strongly antagonistic attitude manifested itself in the " Native-American " and " Know-Nothing " movements , both of which were largely anti-Catholic in animus and political in form . The Nativists demanded a restriction of immigration and the appointment of only native Americans to political office . The " Know-Nothing " party , which arose out of the enormous immigration of the late forties , elected a number of Senators and Representatives , but remained without effect on national legislation . Immigration went on unimpeded . The conditions , however , in which the newly arrived immigrants found themselves , and the conditions which they made for themselves , were by no means all that might have been desired . America did nothing to protect the newcomers , and the first and most lasting impression which the alien received was often the lodging-house shark or some other of the numerous exploiters who infested the landing-place at Castle Garden . Nor did the majority of immigrants bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ southern and western Ireland had spent their early lives in the utmost squalor , in crowded , wretched , ill-ventilated hovels , with no floor and no furniture , and no beds but heaps of filthy straw or filthier rags . From miserable huts of this sort these immigrants migrated to horrible tenements in loathsome American alleys . The transition meant no immediate radical improvement in their habits . As a matter of history , most of the conditions and influences now ascribed to immigration were ascribed to it half a century and more ago . Then , as now , the resident had a prejudice against the new-comer , because of his lower standards . Though the native refused to associate with the alien , he none the less objected to the latter 's isolation , to the clannishness of the Irish and to the close congregation of Germans , who formed racial clots in the American vascular system . It was complained that these aliens " have their own theaters , recreations , amusements , military and national organizations ; to a great extent their own schools , churches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " A quiet social ostracism prevailed , emphasized from time to time by attacks upon Catholic churches or German Turner societies , by persecutions of foreign-born children in the schools , and by occasional vehement denunciations from rostrum and pulpit . In the mean while , however , the immigrant was quietly being changed by America and was quietly changing America . After 185+ immigration fell off rapidly , and during the early years of the Civil War it dwindled to less than a hundred thousand a year . The country was expanding at an unprecedented rate . The war absorbed native and foreign born , and the growing West made its appeal to all . Industry grew stupendously , the railroads opened new territories , and cities sprang up everywhere . The immigrants were learning American ways , were marrying American wives , were begetting and rearing American children . The son of the German or Irish immigrant was more American than the Americans . What happened in the forties and fifties has been repeated again and again , though in less spectacular form . The source of immigration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Hundreds of thousands have come to escape religious or political persecution , but the movement of the millions has been an economic movement , impelled by economic causes and subject to economic laws . Immigration ebbed and flowed , declining after panics and depressions in America , and increasing to torrential floods with each European calamity or with each sudden improvement in American industry . Progress , however , was upward . Immigrants were insulted , cheated , occasionally murdered , but those who survived and prospered wrote glowing letters home , while the men who died from tuberculosis and dynamite explosions wrote no letters . Year by year the inflow increased . The average gross immigration during the years 1905-1912 was only a little under a million a year . A change , however , has come over this movement . Of the total immigration from 182o to 186o , over one-half was British and Irish , and over onefourth German . Since 1881 , our immigrants have come chiefly from southern and eastern Europe . To-day there climb out of the ship 's steerage Italians , Greeks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hebrews , Syrians , Armenians , Turks , Croatians , Slovenians , Slovaks , Servians , Rumanians , Bulgarians , Montenegrins , Dalmatians , Bosnians , and Herzegovinians . Improved transportation and improved conditions in Europe have contributed to this development . We could not have expected many more immigrants from Ireland . That country 's population is less than five years of our total inflow ; if all our immigrants were to come from Ireland , not a soul would be left by the year 1918 . Sweden 's population is that of New York City ; Norway 's that of Chicago . We could empty both countries in a decade . Germany 's large population grows , but conditions there are improving so rapidly that the Empire now attracts immigrants . Eastern and southern Europe , on the other hand , are awakening . The railroad , trolley , newspaper , telegraph , telephone , invade the interior . Men begin to move . The attraction of America reaches ever farther . To-day the peasant in Dalmatia , Syria , Basilicata , is nearer America , knows more about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half a century ago . The Italian in New York City goes to a moving-picture theater on Elizabeth Street and sees on the screen the faces of friends who , a few months before , embarked from Naples for the Tripolitan war . For a few soldi an urchin of Palermo actually sees " Little Italy . " That is the history of our immigration , a coming together of the New and the Old World . The attraction of America penetrates ever deeper into Europe , from the maritime peoples living on the fringe of the ocean , to the inland plains , and then into somnolent , winter-locked mountain villages . Simultaneously Eu-rope changes America . You can alter any i country if you pour in enough millions . These immigrants , moreover , are of a character to effect changes . America 's attraction is nut to the good or to the bad , to the saint or to the sinner , but to the young , the aggressive , the restless , the ambitious . The Euro-peans in America are chosen men , for i there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the discouraged and defeated returning by the ship-load . These immigrating races are virile , tena-cious , prolific . Each shipload of newcomers carries to American life an impulse like the rapidly succeeding explosions of a gasolene-engine . Moreover , these immigrants , peasants at home , become city-dwellers here . The city is the heart of our body social . It is the home of education , amusement , culture , crime , discontent , social contacts ? and power . The immigrant , even in the gutter of the city , is often nearer to the main currents of our national life than is the average resident of the country . His children are more literate , more restless , more wide-awake . With such numbers , such qualities , and such a position within the social i network , one might imagine that the immigrant would gradually transform us in his own likeness , But no such direct influence is visible . As a nation we have not learned politeness , although we have drawn millions of immigrants from the i politest peoples in the world . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the contrary , s actually increased , by the mass of idols , of goodold customs , memories , religions , which come to us in the steerage . Nor is the immigrant 's influence in any way intentional . Though he hopes that America will make him , the immigrant has no presumptuous thought of making America . To him , America is a fixed , unchanging environmental thing , a land to browse on . This very passivity of the newly arrived immigrant is the most tremendous of influences . The workman who does not join a union , the citizen who sends his immature children to the factory , the man who does not become naturalized , or who maintains a standard of living below an inadequate wage , such a one by contagion and pressure changes conditions and lowers standards all about him , undermining to the extent of his lethargy- our entire social edifice . The aim of Americanization is to combat this passive influence . Two forces , like good and evil , are opposed on that long frontier line where the immigrant comes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through self-protection , not love , seeks to raise the immigrant to his economic level ; the immigrant , through self-protection , not through knowledge , involuntarily accepts conditions which tend to drag the American down to his . In this contest much that we ordinarily account virtue is evil ; much that is ugly is good . The immigrant girl puts on a corset , exchanges her picturesque headdress for a flowering monstrosity of an American hat , squeezes her honest peasant 's foot into a narrow , thin-soled American shoe ? and behold , it is good . It is a step toward assimilation , toward a more expensive if not a more lovely standard of living . It gives hostages to America . It makes the frenzied saving of the early days impossible . Docility , abnegation , and pecuniary abasement are not economic virtues , however highly they may be rated in another category . In still other ways this assimilation alters and limits the alien 's influence . Much is lost in the process . The immigrant comes to us laden with gifts , but we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to tender . The brilliant native costumes , the strange , vibrant dialects , the curious mental molds are soon faded or gone . The old religions , the old customs , the traditional manners , the ancient lace do not survive the melting-pot . Assimilation , however necessary , ends the charm and rareness of our quaint human importations . For this esthetic degeneration the immigrant must not be blamed . To gain himself he must lose himself . He must adopt " our ways . " The Italian day laborer finds that macaroni and lettuce are not a suitable diet for ten hours ' work on the subway or the Catskill dam . The politeness of sunny southern Europe is at a discount in our skurrying , elbowing crowds . The docility of the peasant damns a man irretrievably in the struggle to rise , and conservatism in gentle , outlandish manners is impossible in kaleidoscopic America . The immigrant , therefore , accepts our standards wholesale and indiscriminately . He " goes the limit " of assimilation ? slang , clothes , and chewing - gum . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affects him most immediately . The Talmudist in Russia is , for better or worse , no Talmudist here : he is a cloak-presser or a real-estate broker . The Greek shepherd becomes an elevator-boy or a hazardous speculator in resuscitated violets . The bicilian bootblack learns to charge ten cents for a five-cent shine ; the candy-vender from Macedonia haggles long before he knows a hundred English words ; the Pole who never has seen a coal-mine becomes adept at the use of the steam-shovel . Another limit to the immigrant 's influence is due to the fact that the America to which he adapts himself is the America that he first meets , the America at the bottom . That bottom changes as America changes from an agricultural to an industrial nation . For the average immigrant there is no longer a free farm on a Western frontier : there is only a job as an unskilled or semi-skilled workman . For that job a knowledge of his letters is not absolutely necessary . Nor is a knowledge of English . There are in America to-day a few millions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ write their native tongue , and who , from an industrial point of view , are almost mere muscle . The road from bottom to top becomes steeper and more inaccessible . Stratification begins . Because of his position at the bottom of a stratified society , the immigrant ? especially the recent immigrant ? does not exert any large direct influence . Taken in the mass , he does not run our husinesses , make our laws , write our books , paint our pictures , preach to us , teach us or prescribe for us . His indirect influence , on the other hand , is increased rather than diminished by his position at the bottom of the structure . When he moves , all superincumbent groups must of necessity shift their positions . This indirect influence is manifold . The immigration of enormous n um hers of unskilled " interchangeable " laborers , who can be moved about like pawns , standardizes our industries , facilitates the growth of stupendous business units , and generally promotes plasticity . The immigrant , by his mere presence , by his mere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accelerates the whole tempo of our industrial life . He changes completely " the balance of power " in industry , politics , and social life generally . The feverish speed of our labor , which is so largely pathological , is an index of this . The arrival of ever fresh multitudes adds to the difficulties of securing a democratic control of either industry or politics . The presence of the unskilled , unlettered immigrant excites the cupidity of men who wish to make money quickly and do not care how . It makes an essentially kind-hearted people callous . Why save the lives of " wops ' ? What does it matter if our industry kills a few thousands more or less , when , if we wish , we can get millions a year from inexhaustible Europe ? Immigration acts to destroy our brakes . It keeps us , as a nation , transitional . Of course this transitional quality of America was due partly to our virgin continent . There was always room in the West ; a man did not settle , but merely lighted on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ journey . im- ? migration , however , intensified and protracted this development . Each race had to fight for its place . Natives were displaced by Irish , who were displaced in turn by Germans , Russians , Italians , Portuguese , Greeks , Syrians . Whole trades were deserted by one nation and conquered by another . The peoples of eastern Europe inundated the Pennsylvania mining districts , displacing Irish , English . and Welsh miners . The Irish street laborer disappeared ; the Italian quietly took his shovel . Russian Jews revolutionized the clothing trade , driving out Germans as these had driven out native Americans . The old homes of displaced nations were inhabited by new peoples ; the old peoples were shoved up or down , but , in any case , out . Cities , factories , neighborhoods changed with startling rapidity . Connecticut schools , once attended by descendants of the Pilgrims , became overfilled with darkeyed Italian lads and tow-headed Slays . Protestant churches were stranded in Catholic or j cwish neighborhoods . America changed rapidly , feverishly . That peculiar quiet restlessness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the tail of our eye to avoid swirling automobiles , the rush and recklessness of our life , were increased by the mild , law-abiding people who came to us from abroad . There was a time when all these qualities were good , or at least had their good features . So long as we had elbow-room in the West , so long as we were young and growing , with a big continent to i make our mistakes in even recklessness was a virtue . But to-day America is no longer elastic , the road from bottom to top is not so short and not so unimpeded as it once was . We can not any longer be sure that the immigrant will find his proper place in our Eastern mills or on our Western farms without injury to others ? or to himself . The time has passed when we exulted in the number of grown-up men , bred at another country 's expense , who came to work for us and fertilize our soils with their dead bones . The time has passed when we believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schools , settlements , and a whole network of Americanizing agencies , we have teeming , polyglot slums and the clash of race with race in sweatshop and factory , mine and lumber-camp . We have a mixture of ideals , a confusion of standards , a conglomeration of clashing views of life . We , the many-nationed nation of America , bring the Puritan tradition , a trifle anemic and thin , a little the worse for disuse:The immigrant brings a Babel of traditions , an all too plastic mind , a willingness to copy our virtues and vices , to imitate us for better or for worse . All of which hampers and delays the formation of a national consciousness . From whatever point we view the new America , we can not help seeing how intimately the changes have been boundup with our immigration , especially with that of recent years . The widening of the social gamut becomes more significant when we recall that with unrestricted immigration our poorest citizens are periodically recruited from the poor of the poorest countries of Europe . Our differences in education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by our enormous development of university and high schools at the one end , and by the increasing illiteracy of our immigrants at the other . In cities where there are large immigrant populations we note the beginning of a change in our attitude toward the public schools , toward universal suffrage , toward many of the pious , if unrealized , national ideals of an earlier period . Fundamentally , however , the essential fact about our present-day immigration is not that the immigrant has changed ( though that fact is of great importance ) , but that the America to which the immigrant comes has changed fundamentally and permanently . And the essential fact about the immigrant 's effect on American character is this , that the gift of the immigrant to the nation is not the qualities which he himself had at home , but the very qualities which Americans have always had . In other words , at a time when American industrial , political , and social conditions are changing , partly as a result of immigration itself , the immigrant hampers our psychological adjustment to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characteristics which should be obsolescent . America to-day is in transition . We have moved rapidly from one industrial world to another , and thisprogress has been aided and stimulated by immigration . The psychological change , however , which should have kept pace with this industrial transition , has been slower and less complete . It has been retarded by the very rapidity of our immigration , and by the tremendous educational tasks which that influx placed upon us . The immigrant is a challenge to our highest idealism , but the task of Americanizing the extra millions of new- comers has hindered progress in the task of democratizing America .                     