@@487072

WORCESTER , Mass. , November 23 . The United States suffers certain disadvantages with regard to the pursuit of science in being so large that it contains no national intellectual centre to which all scientists may rally in national societies . New York can never be to this country what Paris is to France . No more can Washington ; yet both of these cities possess certain indubitable advantages . The National Academy of Sciences , which holds its annual spring meeting in Washington , could hardly preserve its national character without holding an ambulatory meeting in the autumn . This meeting has just been held on November 21 and 22 , in New York , which has proved itself to have great advantages as shown by the record-breaking attendance of above sixty members . The meeting was held at the Public Library , a most convenient as well as magnificent abode for such a meeting , on account of its central situation and its nearness to various clubs , particularly the new Chemists ' Club and the Century Association , whose hospitality was kindly extended to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in New York afford many points of interest , and the visit to the Rockefeller Institute and the reception at the American Museum of Natural History were greatly enjoyed . Two such institutions as these would be hard to equal in any city in the world . This meeting was certainly a biological session , and did not lose in popular or scientific interest thereby . Twenty papers were read , including eight by non-members . No paper was presented on astronomy , one each on mathematics and botany , two on chemistry , two on physics , three on geology , and eleven on biological subjects . Simon Flexner , director of the Rockefeller Institute , in a paper on " Modes of Infection in Infantile Paralysis , " described the ravages of this fatal disease , of which upwards of twenty thousand cases have occurred in this country up to last summer within the last three or four years . Many of these cases , in which paralysis does not ensue , are still important , because they may spread infection . Until the last two years the method @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infectivity was unknown . This has now been established by experiments made exclusively upon animals , the disease being transmitted to monkeys . The result on monkeys early showed that the germ , which has been identified but not seen , being too small to be filtered out , and of ultra-microscopic size , when introduced into the brain passes to the membranes about and follows the nerve fibres and the spinal cord . The nerves of smell , closely related to the brain , form a channel of communication between the upper mucous membrance and the brain , so that the germ could be discovered in the nose , which undoubtedly affords one means of getting out to the external medium . The question thus arose whether the germ could get into the organism in the same way , and this was found to be , next to direct inoculation , the easiest manner of communication . These results have been verified in the case of spontaneous disease in the human patient . In this disease prevention will be enormously more easy than cure Prof. Jacques Loeb , in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to study the role of oxygen in supporting life by means of the careful determination of the temperature coefficient and the control of the supply of oxygen in two cases , those of segmentation and of the heart-beat . The conclusion was that not all the oxygen was consumed in producing the work of segmentation , but that some was disposed of in other processes . Dr. Alexis Carrel , also of the Rockefeller Institute , read an extremely interesting paper on " Manifest and Non-Maniiest Life of the Tissues , " in which he described how life may be preserved outside of the body , either as latent , in which case the tissue does not grow , or manifest , in which there is an actual growth of tissue , or alternate , in which one process alternates with the other . For instance , a piece of skin or spleen may be maintained in vaseline or other solution a few degrees above the freezing-point for several weeks , and may be shown to have life by being transplanted and cultivated . Pieces of artery , heart , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cold storage and then cultivated as well as ever , and after several weeks may be used in human beings . In the case of manifest life , the growth and multiplication of the cells are very striking . Tissue maintained in a blood plasma will grow for ten or fifteen days , but eventually dies . This is prevented by Dr. Carrel 's method of removing it from the plasma , washing out the waste products , and again putting it in cold storage and then in the nourishing plasma again . By means of these alternations , growth can go on for fifty days with no evidence of senility of the tissue . These results produced a profound impression , which was shared by a paper by Dr. R. G. Harrison of Yale University , on " Protoplasmic Movement in Embryonic Cells , " in which a similar method was used . Dr. E. G. Conklin of Princeton University , in a paper on " Cell-Size and Nuclear-Size , " examines the cause of senescence and rejuvenescence , by measuring the relative size of - nuclei and protoplasm in many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action does not depend on the relative volume of the two , but on the rate of exchange between nucleus and protoplasm . Anything that hastens metabolism hastens rejuvenescence , and this- is most rapid when the nuclear membrane has just been dissolved so that change of substance is most easy . It is then that the most carbon-dioxide is given out by the egg . Prof. T. H. Morgan of Columbia University presented an elaborate study of " Sex Limited Inheritance , " showing the results of breeding on various unit characters in sheep , poultry , and flies . Many interesting results were described ? for instance , if a black cock is crossed with a barred hen , in the first generation , all the sons are like the mother , and all the daughters like the father . In the reverse case of the father barred and the mother black , all the off-spring are barred In the next generation , there are no black cocks . In the case of the fruit fly , if a female with red eyes is crossed with a male with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while if these are inbred , the females have red eyes and the males white . As a , result of thdbe experiments , Professor Morgan communicated a very simple formula , which would seem to take the place of Mendel 's Law . The next two papers also had to-do with the question of heredity . Prof. C. B. Davenport of the Cold Spring Laboratory of the Carnegie Institution described " Recent Advances in the Study of Eugenics , " by the method of sending a corps of disciplined field workers out to make judicious inquiries and obtain physical traits , these being illustrated by reports on inheritance of feeble-mindedness . The effects of inbreeding are shown , for instance , on one island in Maine , where all the inhabitants have the same family name . Dr. Henry F. Osborn of the American Museum of Natural History discussed " The Problem of Continuity or Discontinuity in the Origin of Unit Characters in Heredity . " In the last thirty years , we have become familiar with Mendel 's idea of the formation of unit characters which are inherited not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ components , as well as with the idea that evolution is not gradual , but discontinuous , or progressing by leaps . The study of the inheritance of the mule is an excellent opportunity for the investigation of such questions , since his ancestors , the horse and the ass , have been thoroughly separated for three hundred thousand years . While the exterior appearance Or the mule is derived largely from the ass , for instance . the limbs , he has the skull of the horse , but the teeth of the ass He obtains his psychology from his father , but the kick from his mother , the ass . Out of eleven characters of the teeth in the mule , only two show the character of the horse . It is shown that a large number of characters developed slowly and-by interbreeding and segi egation . It is concluded that certain graaual developments of unit character ale just as important , as , or in the bones more important than , sudden jumps . In geology , Prof. J. F Kemp of Columbia University presented a paper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hudson River , " in which he showed how borings at Storm King made for the new aqueduct under the Hudson , prove the bed-rock to lie between seven hundred and nine hundred feet below the surface , while the borings made at the Pennsylvania Railroad tunnel at New York give a less depth . The depth above was attributed to glacial erosion . In the second paper on the " Source of the Saratoga Mineral Springs , " Professor Kemp described the chemical history of the waters for the last sixty years and was inclined to supplant the old theory , which holds them to be the remains of an ancient sea , with the theory of volcanic origin , a volcanic plug being present in the neighborhood . Prof. B. B. Boltwood of Yale University described the " Proposed International Radium Standard , " being prepared by Mme. Curie , by which the strength of all radium preparations may be tested by comparison of the effects of their gamma rays The standard of a weight of twenty-two milligrams ( about one one-thousandth of an ounce ) has a value @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of Columbia University presented an interesting study , both experimental and mathematical of " Conductors Rotating in an Alternating Magnetic Field . " This subject , of particular importance in connection with the transmission of power and in telephony , has never been systematically examined . II- possesses great mathematical interest on account of its being an exemplification of the method of treatment of differential equations introduced into astronomy by G W. Hill , and great physical interest , because of its possible explanation of certain peculiarities of the spectrum of luminous bodies . Certain very remarkable effects similar to resonance were observed and photographed , and it was shown that under certain conditions an unstable state supervenes , in which a very small current may be converted into such a large one as to destroy the machine . It is not to be supposed that this large current comes from nothing . as the power has to be put into the machine to drive the armature . The possibility of a very remarkable telephone relay is suggested . At the business meeting of the Acadeiny  --  announcement was made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fund for the foundation of a medal to commemorate the scientific work of his friend , Alexander Agassiz , late president of the Academy . Many social events were enjoyed and the Academy adjourned after a rather short , but very successful session . ARTHUR GORDON WEBSTER . This week Holt brings out " The Evolution of Animal Intelligence , " by Prof. S. J. Holmes . " The Wonders of Bird Life " ( Lippincott ) Is a cheap abridgment of John Lea 's " The Romance of Bird Life . " The nine chapters are devoted to such themes as Sitting , Defence of Home , Make-believe , Sport and Play , and Courtship , themes discussed in so popular a manner that the book is to be recommended only to children and insatia , ble nature lovers . Such readers will hear of the chick 's six call-notes and their precise meaning , of a chick two and a half days old that cuddled under the body - of a fox terrier , of the stork that does not bring children into the world , though it plays tag @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fierce sow by pulling its right ear very hard . F. C. Constable , a member of the Society for Psychical Research , has adopted an unfortunate order for his book on " Personality and Telepathy " ( Kegan Paul ) Leaving his real evidence for the second part of the volume , he assumes , in defiance of the consensus of scientists , that telepathy is a fact , and proceeds to establish for it a philosophical basis . If the skeptics of this generation become the believers of the next , the philosophers will make such changes in their systems as are necessary Mr Constable 's discussion of this part of the subject is premature , and his effort to Justify his position by the authority of Kant is futile ; no amount of philosophical reasoning can do more than assert the possibility of telepathy . Concerning the evidence which follows , a few examples will show that it furnishes nothing particularly new " I was sitting alone in the drawing-room . . . when suddenly I experienced an undefined feeling of dread and horror . . . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the death of a very near and dear cousin . " Three startling tales may be immediately rejected . The narrator of the first is not certain even of the year  --  he states " about the year 1841 . " The second is told by an uneducated sailor ; the events he describes are said to have taken place twenty-five years previously , he was fifteen at the time The third begins , " I well remember a singular circumstance I have often heard my father relate , which occurred to himself " The gem of the collection and the happening on which the writer lays the utmost stress is an alleged thought transference from Mrs Piper , in this country , to another medium , Mrs. Verrall , in England . It is interesting to observe that three days elapsed between the suggestion of " spear and sphere " to Mrs. Piper and the reception of the Greek " sphairos " and the Latin " volatile ferrum " by Mrs. Verrall . The question which comes to oile 's mind , however , is , " Were the transatlantic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  