@@486334

In the sixth book of " The Republic , " Plato paints the portrait of the ideal or , as he says , " the true " philosopher . He must be a man of quick mind and retentive memory , devoted to truth and abhorring falsehood in every shape , temperate and thoroughly uncovetous , with no taint of meanness or little-mindedness or cowardice , gentle and just in his dealings with men ; one whose spirit is full of lofty thoughts and privileged to contemplate all time and all existence , and who is , therefore , fearless in the face of death ; one who is enamoured of all learning that will reveal somewhat of that real and permanent existence which is exempt from the vicissitudes of generation and decay , and of the whole of that real existence , willingly resigning no part of it , great or small , honored or dishonored . A rare combination ! And the fortunate possessor of these gifts now , as in ancient Athens , is almost irresistibly enticed away into less exalted pursuits . Plato goes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field of philosophy all but deserted , rush in to take possession , likening them to some baldheaded little tinker who has suddenly amassed a fortune , and taking advantage of his master 's poverty , married his daughter . What can one expect in such a case but a base-born progeny ! What in the former case but a spurious brood of sophistries ! Whether this description fits our day , let the reader decide . Certain it is that the virtues Plato enumerates as essential to full capacity for philosophy were in Josiah Royce singularly combined , and that from his youth up he was steadfastly and unreservedly devoted to the cause of truth . I am impressed by the massiveness of his learning . His mind was fashioned on cos. mic proportions . I do not mean by , this merely that his interest centred in la haute maaphysique , and that he fearlessly faced the problems , old as reflective thought itself , concerning God and Nature and Man , interpreting them in the light of recent scientific discoveries , and giving us new readings of ancient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his intellectual interests , although as a polymath he ranks with the greater philosophers of the past , making contributions to mathematics and logic as well as to all the more strictly philosophical disciplines , and being familiar to an unusual degree with the work of recent science in its various fields . On one occasion at a club some one who had made a special study of the subject read a paper on meteorology , a theme that might seem . remote enough from philosophical interests . Royce discussed it , and , such was his evident mastery of the subject , for the rest of the evening questions were addressed to him rather than to the reader of the paper . The instance is typical . He was always surprising one with such glimpses of hidden lore . But what I have in mind is rather this . Royce never lost sight of the fact that philosophy 's ambitious aim is vision in the light of the whole . And he always lived with his vision . This gave him not only his unusual serenity and poise , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) in piecing together the fragments of knowledge like the fragments of a puzzle picture , until the pattern of the whole was revealed . And all the little and seemingly trivial incidents of life were , for him , fraught with universal significance . The chance exclamation of a child learning a new game : " How do you be it ? " and forthwith for Royce life becomes a game and the problem for the individual always , " How do you be it ? " Once on a street car in New York he had occasion to take a transfer . But he never put it to its intended use . It was too precious far that . For on the back was an advertisement in which these sentences appeared : " Individuality sets you apart from all other persons who might possibly be just like you . The average woman feels that she might as well be dead as to be out of fashion . She wants to wear what everybody else wears , but it must be with a difference . " And this transfer slip @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ identity and difference , and the principle of individuation . I may he pardoned for mentioning these incidents , for they illuminate the character of the man . There was something essentially Socratic in this habit of elevating the commonplace , and in this combination of the serious and the playful . James once remarked that the average undergraduate rarely understood Royce , but that he always had a sense that something big was going on . He was not , indeed , a successful teacher of undergraduates . This is , however , less a reflection on Royce than on the undergraduate , who has been pretty generally spoiled and expects to have truth handed to him diluted and peptonized . Royce never insulted the intelligence of his students by offering them a consistent and tenable theory of the universe wrapped in neat word packages But in dealing with the graduate students he was masterful , always encouraging their independent efforts , giving them confidence in themselves and in the power of reason , yet always ready to put to rout the over-confident zealot by piercing his pet dogmas with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intellectual detachment . He was never the partisan of his own convictions ; never sought to make proselytes . Never was an absolutist less concerned with having followers . Philosophy as he viewed it was always an individual venture , and he knew that only the least original of students ever repeat a teacher 's views , and that one 's most helpful collaborators are often one 's severest critics . But , above all , at this time , one must think of Royce as preOminently a good man , gentle and kindly , generous and unworldly , whose life was the embodiment of the philosophy of loyalty that he taught . In the face of the greatest personal affliction that can befall a man , his courage was undaunted , his head " bloody but unbowed . " A few years ago , suffering an attack which would have led most men to surrender , he was but stimulated to greater effort , and put forth some of his best work , as if his intellect burned on with increasing brilliancy as his frail body wasted away ; until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asleep as peacefully as a tired child . We bow our heads and are fain to repeat the words a loving disciple uttered on the death of another great teacher of philosophy : " So perished the wisest and best man I have ever known . " At its last annual meeting the American Philosophical Association , in memory of his sixtieth birthday , did Professor Royce the signal honor of devoting two of its sessions to papers dealing with various phases of his work as a philosopher . These papers , with some others , have since been published as a commemorative volume by , the Philosophical Review . This makes at once more difficult and less necessary the attempt to give here a critical estimate of his contributions to philosophy in its more technical aspects . I shall , therefore , confine myself to more general considerations . The three names that stand out in the history of American speculative thought , preeminent above all others , are Jonathan Edwards , William James , and Josiah Royce . What Edwards accomplished in interpreting the spirit of American life and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in interpreting the spirit of American life and ideals in our own day . It is customary to represent James and Royce as totally opposed in their philosophies , the one an empiricist and pragmatist , the other a rationalist and absolute idealist . I have no desire to minimize the differences between them  --  and they were frequently engaged in polemical controversy . But on the great thinkers all labels are misfits . And with them agreements are generally more numerous and more fundamental than differences . In this case I think the philosophies are complementary rather than antagonistic . It is certain that Professor Royce regarded himself as a disciple of Professor James , however unruly a one he may have been , and always generously acknowledged his indebtedness to him . And James was no less generous in the expression of his admiration for his younger colleague . It is significant that both men received their early inspiration from men of science  --  the one from Agassiz , the other from Agassiz 's brilliant pupil , Joseph Le Conte . Both were caught by the theory of evolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interpreting the larger problems of human life in. its light . It is , however , no ? less significant that in their earliest scholarly activity James turned to anatomy , physiology , and psychology , Royce to literature , history , and logic . For as these differences suggest , James was from the first more interested in details , Royce in the completed vision . This difference , which determines the divergence of their paths , is not unconnected with their personal history . James , brought up in the very centre of New England culture , a social favorite from the start , breathing an atmosphere of absolutism and rationalism , is stifled by his surroundings , and , in search of air , freedom , elasticity , makes his escape to science and psychology , The bogeys in the background of his thinking are ever after verbalism , closed systems , and drab respectability . Royce , on the other hand , was born and spent his early years in a small mining town in California , at a time when frontier lawlessness and the days of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Royce was uncouth , and awkward , and of very unusual appearance , with a slight body and a very large head ( mostly forehead ) , crowned with a shock of bright red hair . Boys are cruel to a fellow of such strikingly unconventional appearance , and as Royce has said , although his classmates early taught him the " majesty of the community , " he found the experience grievous rather than joyous . A certain shyness resulted , and both at school in San Francisco and later at the University of California he was essentially the solitary student , given much to reflection , but knowing little or nothing of the social and sportive sides of college life . The bogeys in the background of his thinking are ever after lawlessness , capriciousness , fragmentariness , and isolation ; and he seeks refuge in those humane pursuits which ever aspire to a certain comprehensiveness of vision  --  literature and history and philosophy . But he is saved from vagueness and sentimentalism by the stiffening effect of logic . It was characteristic that when , after studying at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alma mater to take a position in English literature , he should have decided that his students needed discipline in logic , and that , finding no book on logic suited to his needs , he wrote one . For as James is always the psychologist , gifted with unusual powers of observation and description , so Royce is always the logician , as skilful in its art as he is master of its theory . Both men were fearless and intrepid thinkers , singularly free from cant , and distrustful of all formulas , knowing well that when thought has crystallized in the phrase , the life of thought has departed . Both sought merely to interpret the facts of experience as they themselves had found them . Both , however , saw clearly that facts are not such simple things as the average fact-monger supposes ; but that part at least of their meaning comes through the cooperation of the experiencer . And hence for both the ethical and religious interests are never long out of sight . Royce 's first philosophical book is " The Religious Aspect of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Problem of Christianity . " Most of the essays in James 's " Will to Believe " were written early in his career , and the " Varieties of Religious Experience " comes towards its close . In the all too simple classification of the day , James is set down as an empiricist , Royce as a rationalist ; which distinction is explained by saying that the former looks to last things , facts , consequences , while the latter looks to first things , causes , principles . This is true enough as far as it goes . But it must be remembered that for James facts always include those larger human experiences which defy description in terms of the visible and tangible ; and surely he was as far removed as Royce himself from the position of the pseudo-scientific philosopher , our modern positivist , who is in truth the representative in our day of the spirit of medievalism , with its fondness for verbal solutions and its tendency to hypostasize abstractions . And for Royce principles are not decrees fulminated from eternity , in advance of facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the facts of experience and bind them together . Again , Royce is called a monist , James a pluralist . In his earliest work Royce does indeed find the desired unity in the concept of the Absolute or Logos , in whose life our partial purposes and fragmentary meanings are harmonized . The monistic tendency of this work was early the object of attack , the most notable assault being that of Professor Howison , against which Professor Royce sought to defend his doctrine in the supplementary essay published in " The Concept of God . " And I think it is clear that a large part of Professor Royce 's work throughout the remainder of his career is determined by this controversy and by similar attacks coming from other quarters , especially from his friend and colleague , James . His chief concern is to find in the world of the Absolute elbow-room for the individual . And when , in his latest work , what he called " The Spirit of the Beloved Community " has taken the place of the Absolute of the earlier works , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on the other hand , found forthwith the desired variety in the facts of experience . But I think it not an exaggeration to say that he spent his life in seeking to recover the lost unity through the discovery and justification of the faiths by which men actually live  --  which is what alone can save pragmatism from being merely a subtler form of opportunism . Together , these two men stand as our great national philosophers , helping to define and make articulate the spiritual aspiration that underlies our experiment in democracy and justifies our confidence in its ultimate triumph , the one approaching his task mainly from the side of logic , the other mainly from the side of psychology . We have , or flatter ourselves that we have , at last broken away from authority and tradition and dogma ; we call ourselves progressives , are lovers of the concrete , believe in efficiency and the strenuous life , and admire , above all things , the man who " makes good . " But while in its blatant spokesmen this Americanism smacks Overmuch of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from such debasement by that deeper current of ethical idealism to which these thinkers have so clearly given voice . Correspondence THE EUROPEAN WAR AND THE CIVIL WAR . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : I observe a tendency in nearly every one of the current articles about the European war to compare that conflict with our own war of the sixties . Superiority in numbers and in economic resources having won finally for the North through the process of attrition , the writers constantly indicate a similar outcome in favor of the quintuple Allies over the Central Powers . The Central Powers are outnumbered , it is true , but in nothing like the same proportion as was the South . The Federal Government in the four years of the Civil War mustered 2,600,000 men ; the Confederacy only from 600,000 to 800,000 . At the close of the struggle odds were from six to ten to one against the South . In capacity to supply ammunition and munitions of all kinds the Federal Government was even more powerful in proportion . The North was an industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jefferson Davis had to build from the ground up in industrial matters . It made a wonderful showing during the Civil War in manufacturing , but shortage in munitions due to the blockade contributed much in the strangling of the Richmond Government . The food supply was not received by sea . The South could not , as does Germany , take the money printed in its presses and buy of its home people the material it needed for its armies . The purchases had to be made abroad and the South could not establish a large credit because the blockade prevented its delivery of cotton . Let us look at the comparative geographical situations . The South was a sparsely settled plantation country , stretching from the Potomac to the Rio Grande , a distance of quite two thousand miles . It was vulnerable to attack by sea and land . The Confederacy had no navy , and the Federal fleets at once harried its coasts . Not until the latter part of the war had the ingenious systems of mine defence been perfected . The South contributed this invention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but they came too late to prevent the landing of invading armies at many strategic points . Norfolk , Wilmington , Charleston , Beaufort , Pensacola , Mobile , New Orleans , Galveston , and other points were attacked with success . On land invading armies cooperated with gunboats on the Mississippi , the Tennessee , Cumberland , and other rivers By the summer of 1863 the Mississippi had been opened , thus bisecting the Confederacy . By January , 1865 , Sherman had reached Savannah , and thus the fated Southland was split into three segments . Probably there was never a Government occupying territory more easily attacked by superior forces than the Confederacy , and its resistance will continue to be the marvel of the ages . On the other hand , there could be found a no more compact region geographically , with a greater density of population ( Germany has a population of 850 to a square mile , Austria-Hungary 210 , against 200 in France and 20 in Russia ) or better defended by natural bulwarks on land or by open seas than Germany , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : on the north the Baltic and North Sea , made impregnable with harbor and coast defence , to the south the Adriatic , the sEgean , the Dardanelles , the Bosphorus , and the Black Sea ; on the west the Vosges Mountains , and , as an inner line , the great Rhine River ; on the east the Carpathians and Transylvania Mountains , and , as a final defence , the Vistula River , so fatal to Napoleon . Even Turkey is favored by Mountain and desert . The entrance of Rumania , it is true , admits a tongue-shaped salient which licks up Orsava and the iron gates of the Danube and threatens the Berlin-to-Constantinople railway . This is the point of greatest danger , and hence Mackensen 's campaign in Dobrudja and von Falkenhayn 's in Transylvania to relieve the pressure . Again , it must be remembered that the Germans have overrun at least one-seventh of France , practically all of Belgium , all of Servia and Poland , Volhynia , Grodna , Vilna , and the Baltic provinces an . Russia . Thus they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the west and thirty millions on the east away from their colors . These territories do not furnish troops to Germany or Austria-Hungary , but they do Contribute to them in an industrial way , weakening the Allies just that much by being withdrawn from participation on their side . Russia is spoken of as if its supply of human material were exhaustless . This is hardly true . As stated , about thirty million Russians , not to mention prisoners , are now under the enemy flag . Losses of at least six million troops in the field have occurred The population of Russia at the beginning of the war was not known . The latest census was in 1897 . It then had 127,000,000 people in Europe and Asia . It is now estimated at 170,000,000 , but the sparsely settled regions east of the Ural Mountains can contribute little to the war . The population of Germany in 1916 , if the previous rate of increase has been maintained , is about 75,000,000 and that of the dual mon archy 55,000,000 . Bulgaria has about 5,000,000 and Turkey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The available population from which the Allies may draw at this time I estimate as follows : Great Britain , 50,000,000 ; France , 34,000,000 ; Italy , 35,000,000 ; Russia in Europe , 100,000,000 , and Rumania 7,000,000 , a total of 226,000,000 . I believe those figures indicate approximately the relative numerical strength of the combatants , which is about in the ratio of ten to seven and not two or three to one as often stated . Furthermore , numbers alone are deceptive . At the time of the Civil War artillery cut little more figure than cavalry . The infantry arm was all-important . It is the factor of artillery which disturbs any estimate of military power based on numbers . This and several other quantities can not be ignored . The number of men ( a ) multiplied by the artillery strength ( 13 ) and by organization , geographical position , transportation , and leadership ( c ) gives tins equation : abc equals x , the land military power of that nation . Now we know that the Central Powers have the shorter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ larger supplies of iron and steel , and seem to lack no important material ; despite the blockade they have sufficient food ; they are well trained and led by veterans whom they trust . Trench warfare has eliminated the turning movements which decided the campaigns of Frederick the Great , Napoleon , and Stonewall Jackson . Russia and Italy are weak in industrial capacity . For these reasons , I doubt the conclusion of so many writers that the Central Powers will be worn out in a war of attrition . They will probably lose ground they now hold , but I do n't believe they can he crushed as was the South . The situations , instead of being alike , are strikingly dissimilar . It still seems to me that the war is destined to the impasse of which De Bloch wrote All are whipped . All have paid much more than they bargained for . Every day the war as prolonged bleeds every land whiter and brings it closer to the precipice of bankruptcy . Then why should America , just because it leans to the Allies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world , neutral as well as belligerent , be compelled to pay the price ? We ought to begin to survey the new situation brought about in the world with an eye single to truth . GEORGE F. MILTON . Chattanooga , Tenn. , November 6.                     