@@493054

Isolating the Negro COMPULSORY segregation of the negro through separating his home from that of the white man has recently , as a legislative idea , spread among the Southern cities . Is it sociologically expedient , and is it legal ? Such segregation ordinances are in effect in Baltimore , Louisville , Richmond , Norfolk , Greenville , S. C. , and other cities , and some of these have been upheld in local state courts . The Atlanta ordinance of 1.913 , under which two proceedings had been instituted by negroes to exclude undesirable white neighbors , was obviously drastic in form ; it was judicially condemned in February , 1915 . The Louisville ordinance makes it unlawful for a person of one color , over formal neighborhood protest in a certain form , to move into a house in any block in which a majority of houses are occupied by persons of the other color . With respect to vacant blocks , the owners of over fifty per cent of the frontage may exclude one color or the other . This leaves ownership untouched and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ type of law on the basis of which the issue of segregation , reduced to its lowest terms , will be finally decided by the United States Supreme Court . In that Court segregation of negroes in schools and railroad cars has been upheld , but with qualifications which , applied to city segregation , might serve to bring about its repudiation . At the trial involving the Louisville ordinance , counsel for the city , with a view to establishing that it was a reasonable exercise of the legislative police power , introduced evidence that the advent of colored residents in white neighborhoods inevitably causes friction , which in some instances has resulted in the enforced withdrawal of the negro family through personal threats or wilful destruction of property . Highly reputable evidence was introduced to the effect that the arrival of a negro family in a white residence block immediately cuts down actual real estate values in such block by from thirty to sixty per cent . Race distinctions in law or in custom prejudicial to the negro are to be found in nearly all parts of this country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have been first used in 1841 with reference to a railroad car in Massachusetts set apart for the use of the negroes . One of the first decisions in the United States upholding the legality of forcing the negro child into a separate school was by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts in 1849 . All forms of discrimination under sanction of law seem to have been abandoned in that state , but discrimination in fact still exists . In the course of the vocational guidance work now being carried on in the Boston public school system , the authorities have , within the past two years , decided not to teach stenography to young colored women , because investigation seems to prove that positions would not be open to such women in Boston . About eight years ago President Eliot made a public statement with reference to the Boston public schools and Harvard University , to the effect that segregation of the races might prove expedient if the numbers of colored students should become proportionately large . The negro in many of the other Northern states has met treatment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Massachusetts , and in some a treatment far more severe . Because race prejudice is such a ubiquitous fact , this latest form of legal race distinction in the South must be regarded with an interest sufficiently sympathetic to make the conditions surrounding it understandable . Let us examine fairly the justification for the ordinance made by progressive Southern men who are interested in the welfare of the negro . The expression , " Keep the negro in his place , " is not heard to any material extent in the rural South , where the mass of the negro population lives . There , generally ' speaking , you will find few race difficulties ; the negro , as a mental survival from slavery , cheerfully accepts the idea of his social inferiority ; his problems are born of his shiftlessness , slack morality , and propensity to crimes of violence . The situation in the cities and towns includes these problems , but its most serious aspect is the race issue . The white man 's fear of race amalgamation mostly manifests itself as the antipathy of the race @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a definite element in his social thinking ; a fear not that there is an impending danger , but that the social concessions for which the negro is pressing might , through the channel of imperceptible color variations or some other medium , lead to legitimized race mixture , a consummation abhorrent to him both from instinct and from reasoned conviction . Whenever he feels the negro pushing for more social ground , he responds with an irritation from which the negro is always the loser . The course of the challenge , the encounter and the issue , comprise an inevitable psychological cycle which with each revolution tends to bring the race conflict to a more acute stage , and further from adjustment . Many Southerners who have a genuine desire to help the negro contend that his immediate need in cities is to escape those frictions which throw him backward and interfere with affirmative remedial forces for his improvement ; that the negro in Southern cities has recognized this need by voluntary segregation , but that individuals in growing numbers have been led to disregard the present futility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law is the necessary counter-move of the white man for preserving peace while he waits to see whether or not the negro may develop in ways which will justify his being given a greater measure of political and social freedom . But such an ordinance , consonant as its motive may be with a sympathy for the negro and a real desire to help him , should be tested as to its ultimate usefulness and possibly also its legality . There undoubtedly are affirmative remedial influences within the negro race which are in need of encouragement . There is now , in the slow beginnings of its operation , a social force which , if grasped and developed by both races in the next fifty years , may remove one of the horns of this gigantic dilemma . That social force is the dawning respect of the negro for his race . What ambition there is in the negro for racial absorption results from a realization of the staggering burden of economic and political disadvantages which he and his children 's children must carry as members of his race . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempt to escape these disadvantages ; and it is this pressure which makes the race problem in the urban South . Reduced to barest principles , there seem to be just two theories for dealing with such a situation ? either deliberately to keep the negro so degraded that the way for civic justice or legitmized amalgamation could never open to him , or to help him so to gain his self-respect , through granting to him economic and political responsibilities and then privileges , that his ambition for race absorption will subside and tend to disappear . There are still many supporters in the South for the first method ; but its reaction is almost as harmful to the white man as its action is demoralizing to the negro , and it has surely had its day . The second method has not yet been worked out . That the negro can and must be trained into the qualities of individual self-reliance has been implied in the widespread Southern sentiment now supporting industrial education for him . But the most pressing need in the working out of the second method @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for law and order . The lawless , irresponsible element in the negro race in the South is the main obstacle to building up its self-respect . There is strong reason to believe that when the negro has learned orderly habits of living and regard for law he will be entrusted in the South with a greater de-gree of political and social freedom , will develop a confidence in and a respect for his race , will find his own latent instinct for race integrity , and will be less feared as a potential menace to the purity of the Caucasian stock . All serious thinkers , whether for segregation or against it , agree that the negro 's self-respect is the condition of his ultimate welfare . The Southerner who argues for city segregation believes that it will provide the medium in which the character of the negro will develop . Are we , on the sole ground that it infringes upon ideal principles , able to say that this social makeshift is in itself so pernicious as to necessitate condemnation ? The problem is charged with such abysmal doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsibility of repudiating a thoughtful plan for its relief is a bold man indeed , especially if he should he without intimate personal knowledge of Southern conditions . But besides the departure from principles of abstract justice , this plan of legislative relief involves other perils . There are , of course , the general dangers inherent in the psychology of resentment . How far will the negro 's self-respect suffer here ? Further possibilities lie in attempts to extend the once-admitted principle of segregation into rural districts . Such a movement would almost certainly fail to receive judicial sanction as a reasonable exercise of the state police power , but it would introduce a new element of disturbance into the situation . Many of those who now advocate segregation in the city would resist its adoption in the county as calamitous ; but they would find difficulty in making distinctions between the urban and rural problems which should be convincing to the race prejudice aroused by the Southern demagogue . There is a danger also in the plan which can thwart the socially constructive purpose behind it . In most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ districts have in the past received a scant share of municipal improvements or service . If the successful negro is not to be allowed to remove himself from conditions which make against self-respect , then the conditions must be removed from him . A refusal to recognize this new obligation will surely bring its bad social reactions ; but it may bring something more conclusive , namely , a judicial condemnation of the segregation law itself . The Supreme Court has consistently conditioned its decisions upholding segregation in schools and railway carriages by requiring that the segregated negro shall be furnished with facilities equal to those which the white man enjoys . The Court has also , since its decision in Yick Wo v. Hopkins in 1886 , recognized the principle that a city ordinance constitutional on its face is an illegal denial of equal protection of the laws if it is enforced by city officials so as operate with unjustifiable discrimination against a particular class of citizens . This principle has so far been applied to an ordinance only where the conditions of inequality arc created by officers acting with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well expect that the Court , if the proper situation should arise , would apply that principle so as to condemn a segregation law where the city can be held responsible for conditions which cause it to operate unfairly against negroes . Of course the Supreme Court may , on this or some other line of reasoning , repudiate the law from the outset . But assuming that the law is held constitutional under the police power , the Yick Wo case shows that it will still behoove a segregation city to improve the living environment of its negroes , not only as a consideration of sociological expediency , but also as a matter of legal necessity . But segregation cities , in connection with these new obligations , have now a great constructive opportunity . With their more rigidly located negro communities , the time has come for them to show to the urban and rural South the immense promise for race adjustment which lies in giving to the negro a large measure of responsibility for the order and orderliness of his own people . The idea ofself-respect through responsibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for its validity . Application of that idea would be practicable anywhere , and should have been undertaken years ago throughout the South . But wherever the courts of public opinion sanction this new form of segregation , the city which enforces it is peculiarly called upon to develop this constructive idea . The use of negro police , with authority over members of their own race , already in use in some Southern cities , is the starting-point for increasing the negro 's respect for law . But there can be no doubt that negro commissioners of public safety , public works and sanitation , who would be paid officials and who would work among their own people under the direction of , or as officers in , the city departments , would intensify the negro 's concern for his living conditions , and for his own proper part in American city life . By this principle of self-stimulus , more than any other , we can hope to prepare the ground in which the inner forces at work for the individual and civic character of the negro will flourish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            