@@465622

All living things , including man , show in their life-history a continual tendency to undergo changes and variations which , in their degree of adaptiveness to the surroundings , determine the survival of the individual and the race ; such is the primary principle of evolution . Yet , just as a dragonfly resting upon the hour-hand of a cathedral clock realizes no change of place or time during its brief sojourn upon the index of the great dial , neither does man immediately sense in the living world about him the apparently slight variations which further the progress of Nature 's Long Day ; for the forms and colors of animals and plants , their characteristics and behavior , seem always the same and immutable . Only the larger vision of science discerns the continual slight variations , the gradual but fundamental evolutions which , through the slow procession of the centuries , all creatures undergo , until , after the lapse of time , earth 's face is changed and wears a far different aspect from that of an earlier age . Nowhere are these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insects . And naturally the most striking evidences of adaptation are seen in species whose natural habitat has greatly changed ; or , again , in those groups which have migrated to a very different region , for the variations in appearance and behavior are in proportion to the degree of change in the surroundings . . Tust such a colonized region , the sea-shore , many of us visit every year ; bow many see in its insect broods , in these ancient migrants , or offshoots from the fauna of the mainland , the curious and striking adaptations which they have undergone ? They may be defined , in distinction from the more native animals of the ocean shallows , as the foster-children of the shore . Upon first arrival at an island sandspit between the wide-reaching ocean and the solitary bay , no sign of insect life is visible . But retire within the dunes , where the bayberry thicket 's blue shadow is already spreading its long and longer checkered pattern across the hot , white sand ; then , after a - time , when the softly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ocean becomes . fainter and fainter in the distance and finally ceases altogether , in the succeeding stillness many small creatures make their presence known . Close by my ear a cricket chirps , waits , then chirps again . Now loudly shrill from the near - by marsh harsh sibilations almost indefinitely prolonged as insect minstrels hidden there emit their scythe-sharpening z-z-z-z-zip ; in the still air these sounds seem almost suspirations from the heat-baked grass and the rustling , rasping sedges in the sun-steeped , shimmering air . Dragon-flies , high overhead , weave to and fro in the blue vault ; a. white cabbage butterfly sails over the dune to my left , half settles , then wafts away where its fluttering fellows hover over the wet sand in company with other temporary wanderers from the mainland ? yellow sulphurs , a mourning-cloak , an occasional thistle butterfly . As the senses become more attentive other creatures are seen all about one , close at hand . Grotesque , long-bodied , predaceous flies occasionally settle upon the reeds ; green and orange wasps hum past my Pal ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with flipping wings in pursuit of their curious duties ; while , right at my elbow , a spider poises on the tips of firmly extended limbs which stride its burrow , and , with eight red eyes agleam , waits , tense and immobile , for its prey , the embodiment of desire in leash . Compare some of the most characteristic shore-dwellers with their cousins of the mainland , and see what striking changes the shore has imposed . Consider the matter of color alone . Here is a brilliant green tiger - beetle of inland woods , bright as its native herbage ; and here is an umber-colored relative of the shore whose darker , duller color fittingly protects this small forager while hunting among brown sea-weeds cast up along the water-line . Another beetle of the same family shows a body so nearly pure white that only a tracery of black lines on the ivory-white wings distinguishes it from the surrounding sand . Or , contrast the dun-colored grasshopper of dusty inland roads with the white , shore species of beautiful frosted whiteness ; or compare the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here , well represented by that - unobtrusively tinted arachnid which was seen earlier in the day . The ' male is even lighter , with a covering of hoary hairs which render it far less conspicuous ; and . as this sex alone wanders abroad over the sand ( only the female inhabiting the burrow ) , the instance of color adaptive to the specific creature 's habits is most striking and significant . Another species is nearly pure white , for only a faint speckling of gray colors the VOL . CXXIII. ? Nn. 736. - 65 body , and this , indeed , still further incorporates the body outlines with the sand against which it rests . These individuals seem to wander more widely abroad , and more openly expose themselves than do their slightly darker - colored neighbors ? again an instance of protective color and its correlative behavior . That the theory of such protection and the mimicry of surroundings has been overdone no one can deny ; but it is equally certain that a remarkable sympathy does exist wide-spread in nature between the color of a creature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through some chemical change , some physiological response to surrounding color initiated through the nervous system ( the maritime locust Trimerotropis shows even tinges of red or blue according to the particular color of the home soil ) , or whether it has slowly evolved through slow variations gradually becoming more and more adaptive , the naturalist is obliged , in many cases , to admit its protective , and hence its perpetuative value . Equally adaptive and variable , however , are insect habits and behavior , for these , too , must conform to the creature 's changed surroundings if it is to survive . And although many published statements have denied this , and have elaborated the automatic , unvarying character of animal behavior , zoological literature shows many authoritative notes on the other side of the question in this comparatively new and suggestive field . Ford 's Algerian ants , which , when transported to Zurich , learned to fortify their burrows against the attacks of a new enemy ( a garden ant tin-known to them in. their native home ) ; Atkin-son 's ants deserting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bush on the marshes beyond the reach of tides ; and Peck-.ham 's wasps digging very different burrows in sandy hillsides from those they dig in garden clay ? all these are plastic , responsive adaptations between the creature and the new problems which confront it . Interesting adaptations of this psychological character are present among our shore insects , particularly in that remarkable group , the " solitary wasps . " Their very manner of birth seems to foster an engaging initiative , for the bees and ants are more restricted in variability of behavior owing to the subservience of the individual to the good of the commune , but the " solitaries , " born alone in the wild , like many another original child of destiny , rely , from the very beginning , upon their own unassisted efforts . As a consequence , not only has each species developed special habits peculiar to itself , but separate individuals show deviations therefrom and persons tricks and traits . It was a member of the genus Ammaphila which the Peckhams and Doctor Williston saw using a pebble as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this and other inter-esting studies , so far as the author knows , the ocean-shore behavior of these creatures is without definite record . In-deed , so great is their general varia-bility that only the most ex-haustive compar-ative studies can determine how certainly the ob-served traits are responses to the peculiar prob-lems of the shore . Yet even a few brief , selected notes will show certain idiosyn-crasies almost certainly im-posed by the beach life , in addition to the more general characteristics which are of pe-rennial interest . The first small " huntress " sud-denly attracts my attention one morning by alighting beside me while I am watching some green wasps in their household labors . Immediately she begins to dig . With head bent low , abdomen raised , and fore-feet rhyth-mically beating , she tosses back the sand till it pours outward and upward from beneath her body in a steady stream . Already she is half hidden ; soon only the tip of the abdomen shows . Meanwhile , as a result of her labors , a mound of sand is heaping up at the en-trance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flying fore-feet tosses the sand still farther away until the entrance is dear . Now again she disappears into the burrow , to dig still deeper the cham-ber designed to hold the egg , and the larva which is to be . She emerges once more , grasps a small gray object ( a spider which she brought with her in the first place ) , and drags it into the burrow . In a moment Pompilus shows her watchful eyes and agitated antennae at the entrance ; but , instead of filling the burrow , she flits away ten feet over the sand and hurriedly examines the surface with the closest attention . Soon , by short zigzag flights which ever correct their direction , she finds the home nest again , plunges in , and emerges with her spider ; and , strangely enough , flies a few feet away in an entirely new direction . Here she lays her provender down , busily ' begins to dig a new nest ( such fastidious behavior is also common inland ) , and continues SHORE SPECIES without interruption until its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , remains for a few significant moments , then emerges and proceeds to fill the entrance . Facing in the oposite direction , she tosses the sand backward , and , with accurate aim , plies lie r swiftly flying feet until the stream of cast - up sand blocks the burrow ; then over the uneven surface she flits , with here a touch , and there a delicate , smoothing stroke , until the entire area is indistinguishable from the surrounding beach , She looks about as if to make doubly sure , then nervously spreads her flipping wings and sails away ; her work is done , and well done , for her progeny and for the future . The actual capture of prey is observed upon an-other occasion , when Pompilus , flying low , suddenly swoops al-most at my feet and savagely strikes at a spider resting there . He turns , apparently unhurt , causing her to withdraw . But she circles , dashes , and strikes again , when both roll over in confusion upon the sand . Almost immediately the " huntress " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sand , and begins to stroke her drooping antenna. , her fluttering wings , and to compose her agitated person and herself . Der preparations complete , she turns and grasps the spider in her mandibles ; then , half running , half flying , proceeds backward and upward along the most remarkable " carry " I ever witnessed . Immediately behind her rises the steep side of a long cut that extends northward for many rods through the dunes , and it is up this slope that she diagonally struggles . Now she traverses steep sandslopes which avalanche beneath her light tread , pouring their light particles down from above ; there she half flies and half climbs upward over masses of tangled roots , where she drags the heavy spider over such precarious footholds that both slip and tumble headlong . Quickly recovering , she takes a fresh hold upon her prey and furiously essays a perpendicular ascent ; but , baffled by the overhanging cliff , is forced to desist and continuo her diagonal course . For over an hour Pornpilus biscipennis struggles along this " carry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labors are rewarded ; then a gentler slope opens toward the summit , and up this way she slowly labors , to disappear among tangled grasses on the height above . It is difficult to understand why no other situation would do but the one she so toilfully attained ; but she exhibits many curious little crotchets . Sometimes , while spider-hunting , she will come upon the object of her search ; but if the arachnid is very small , the wasp , even though about to grasp him , will refrain and continue her arduous search until a larger individual is found . Then , too , another species seems determined to safeguard the spider in every way ; for , after it is secured and stung , the spider is suspended upon some near-by vegetation , safe from . prying ants or covetous neighbors . Then , a few feet away , the wasp begins to dig , but can hardly continue on account of her nervous anxiety . She pauses , rushes over to the grass , and , having found her prize , examines it carefully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lo work again ; but once more the swiftly flying feet are halted until another reassuring visit can be made . Finally the " kill " is transferred , the egg laid , and the nest covered over . It should be said that the apparently unexplainable fastidiousness which the wasps show in choosing the nest site inland has a rational explanation on the shore , for only Mild areas with a slight upper crust are sufficiently coherent to preserve the burrow walls and roof . Much more careless in this respect seems our green-eyed wasp Microbembex monodonta . And yet , as both here and inland she habituallyvisits her burrow all through the . larva 's developuneut , feeding it from day to day , it is especially desirable that a firm location be secured . Through her short-sightedness the soil sometimes gives way , producing a tragedy . Some such catastrophe had evidently overtaken an individual which I found one morning digging far down in the midst of an irregular excavation whose friable sides continually poured down from above and threatened to engulf her . A great heap of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she now ascended , and , with swiftly flying feet , proceeded by great and prolonged labor to toss still farther away . The next morning when I arrived she was still at work . Upon the next the misguided , or shall we say heroically faithful , parent was delving deep clown into the loose sand of a Culebra cut ( equal in size to one 's two fists ) , whose unstable sides , as she undermined them , constantly crumbled and dissolved to add more material to that of the pit 's bottom where she so frantically and hopelessly labored . The next day the wasp had disappeared ; the work was evidently abandoned . Still other burrowers have established themselves on the beach , notably a va riety of the common garden-ant , whose craters appear in great numbers throughout the hills . Following inland custom , they pursue certain overground labors during the day , but these seem slight and infrequent ; by far their principal visible activities are nocturnal ( much greater in proportion than is the case inland ) , probably in order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visiting them in the dark and letting the orange radiance from a night-lantern shine down upon the shadowed entrances of their industrious cities , it is impressive to see the small miners emerge , one after the other , from the cavernous blackness of the gateway into the mellow light , climb tho surrounding r at e r-like sides , deposit their shining pellets of sand , then turn and retire to the dark of the gates and the underground , mysterious ways . How curious is this scene of industry pursued through the night ! how forcible a reminder of the senses other than sight . which our workers posses.s1 for , as we know , the care of the queens , the fostering of the young , all the economy of the community , is pursued in a Stygian darkness . An exception should be made to the statement that overground activities are few ; since , on late September afternoons , as days of fervid heat are succeeded by a season of tempered light and calm , almost any early evening hour will witness an unusual commotion and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the nuptial flight is approaching , and each afternoon as the sun sinks low there appear , among the crowds of sentinels and workers that guard the gates , certain larger-winged forms , the hitherto invisible , virgin queens . See how , with slow , persistent patience this mother of the future struggles upward , and pushes her insistent way toward the freedom of the outer air and of her wings ; how decisively the warders oppose her , while the crowds of workers in the rear set their combined strength against hers until she desists , turns slowly back , and disappears amid the jostling throng . Other queens , however , now push forward through the restless crowd , and repeatedly tug and struggle in fervid efforts to be free ; but with equal patience the guardians of the gates and of the race oppose their impetuosity , and once again force them to the underground chambers . Comes an . afternoon , however , breathless , mild , and unspeakably calm , an hour propitious . And through all the hidden ways , as if a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long vigil , and , instead of retarding , urge forth the waiting host . Then from these hitherto uncommunicative doors the winged myriads emerge by tens , by hundreds , by countless multitudes , as a thousand times ten thousand queens with their accompanying males mount higher and higher into the air , forming a continually moving , shimmering veil of countless , shifting wings that hang suspended in brief festival over the shore . Unable to advance , owing to the great waters which they face , the innumerable units of this living , drifting , palpitating canopy con - stantly rise and sub-side to mount again , as if in the mystic ittaze6 of some graceful dance , religious and significant . Near at hand the separate groups of male and female floating together often alight upon one 's uplifted arm or shoulder ; farther away , in the westering light , the individual members dance like motes of living gold ; while far down the shore the commingling throngs drift wide like smoke - wreaths before an uncertain wind . Upon the following afternoon many queens lie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resolute efforts , and preparing to lay the foundations of new colonies . Others lie dead upon the shore , and many more will join them , so severe are the conditions of survival operating among these queens that labor on the ocean-beach . But that the most fitted do indeed succeed in laying their eggs , rearing their young , and bringing forth a brood of workers which , in their turn , care for her who has borne them , the innumerable nests that annually stud the shore bear witness . Such , in part , is the insect shore-world , an epitome of the larger world of living things . For the same general principles are operative in both , as all living things have an inherent tendency to vary in. form , color , and behavior , while their survival is determined by the adaptiveness and response to the environment . And although these differences which we have noted between a green beetle and one entirely white , and between inland habits and the slightly varying ones of the shore , seem insignificant when compared with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men , the Neo-Darwinian postulates that these greater as well as the lesser differences are mainly due to the operation of the principles of variation , isolation , natural selection , and heredity . Whether in the last analysis the truth lies , as certain other biologists believe , in the theory that variations , instead of being indiscriminate ( as Neo-Darwinism teaches ) , are vitally determined along regular , progressive lines ; or whether it lies in the more abrupt transitions of variation , the so-called De Friesian mutations ; or whether it lies , as the strongest consensus of present opinion declares , in the additional operation of factors unknown , the unity of the process of origin and development is a truism . Even such trite but remarkable parallels in behavior as are exhibited in the ants and in man ( both showing a parallel race history of the hunting , pastoral , and agricultural ages ) are more than chance resemblances . Whether or not it is true , as Wheeler so significantly suggests , That this similarity is due to their coincident rise in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through some cause unknown the psychical mutations gained a supersedence over the physical , it is evident that the dominance of each creature in its world is due to respective co-operative gifts and psychical endowments . Only a few days ago the sunlit air was shimmering and quivering with count less insect wings as the ants foregathered to their nuptial dance , and to-day the shrubs , the sedges , and the air above harbor another winged host . For the migrating butterflies , the " monarchs , " are arriving on their way to the southward , and , by ones , by twos , and by companies , are flutteringly settling down upon twigs and shrubs near by . Soon the leafless branches of bayberry are clothed with innumerable folded , down-drooping insect wings ; then , as an impulse moves the resting multitudes , a burst of bright wings clouds upward , and the air is full of butterflies . Now slowly , palpitantly , they again drift down upon softly waving wings that pause in flight and poise above the thickets until small , black limbs clasp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expanding wings together fold and droop dependent , and all the leafless thickets are reclothed with a new and a sentient leafage . These insects at this time show strange hesitations and insensibilities . The observer may lift one or another from its supporting twig without disturbing the others ; but occasionally of their own volition they mount high in the air , only to subside and settle in the thickets again . Finally the moment arrives when land-clinging desires and hesitating withdrawals from the great adventure are overcome : with an impulse one and magnificent , the entire ruddy host forsakes the shore , mounts higher and higher , and wings its impetuous and passionate flight southward over the sea . 