@@466966

WAR-TIME Washington was like nothing Americans of our generation had ever seen before . On a day in April two years ago the least busi- ness-like city in America became electric with business energy . From all parts of the nation multitudes of men and women ? scientists , manufacturers , stenographers , business men ? poured into the capital . It was as if the human watersheds of the country had been rocked and lifted so that their gathering streams of man power converged toward Washington as to a central storage basin . The swift concentration of America 's vital energy was a thrilling spectacle . But it was a disquieting spectacle , too . America had undertaken to stop and finally crush the most efficiently organized military machine of all time . Her own vast resources were unorganized . She faced the necessity of converting her potential into efficient power and focusing it upon a point at the fighting front more than three thousand miles away . Her eighteenth-century governmental machine was not designed for this prodigious twentieth-century task . It was like a wooden mill-wheel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turbine engines are needed . There were months when it looked as if our vast stores of energy would be lost in the spillway . Our railroads staggered and broke down . While our Allies were pleading for coal , we were unable to stoke our own furnaces . Essential supplies piled tip in disheartening confusion at our choked terminal ports . We discovered , what our Allies had already learned , that modern war is a battle of industries as well as of men at arms . In his Principles of War Marshal Foch points out that victories are won less bynew methods of strategy than by the invention of new forms of political and administrative organization through which the entire resources of a nation can be harnessed to the national will . In America two years ago the form-of our national administrative organization was of so ancient a pattern that the functional integration of our industrial resources with the national will was physically impossible . Faced by disaster , Congress adopted an unprecedented course . Shallow critics say that Congress abdicated . No charge could be more grossly unfair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it discarded precedent and by a sweeping delegation of its constitutional authority enabled the President to create a new administrative organization adapted to the emergency . For the period of the war , the organized industries of the nation became the recognized instruments of the national will . Antiquated and unfunctionalized Congressional committees . tape-tangled governmental departments , were superseded by boards and commissions directly representative of the basic industries of the country ? the Food Administration , the Fuel Administration , the Railroad Administration , the War Industries Board . For the period of the war , the conventional distinction between public and private business disappeared ; business men became the agents of the national will for the mobilization of our industries and economic resources . The full significance of this administrative reconstruction has hardly yet come home to the consciousness of the American people . The war , in so far as we were involved , did not last long enough to enable us as a nation to see in sharp outline what had happened or why it had happened . The service which business men rendered to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incident to the necessarily hurried organization of the new - administrative agencies , by the generally deeprooted prejudices and suspicions of a business people against conspicuously successful business men . There was profiteering ; there were instances of disgraceful incompetence , as in the case of the Aircraft Board ; there was occasional abuse of unaccustomed authority . But all these things sink into insignificance compared with the extraordinary fact that for the period of the war organized business and the representatives of organized business divested themselves of their private status and became the conscious and accepted agents of the national will . For the moment we became a united and . economically integrated nation , with all our energies focused upon the accomplishment of a definite national purpose . Industrially , as well as politically , the war made us a new nation . To understand how this new integra-tion was brought about we need to get close to one of the business machines through which the war administration was able to throw the whole weight of our national resources into the scale . Take , for example , the Steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry is one of the most highly organized and powerful instru-ments of economic government in the world . By its control of essential ores , railroads , fleets , mills , and smelters it holds a dominating position in the nation 's industrial life . Practically all manufacturing industries , and transportation and agriculture also , depend upon thesteel industry for indispensable equipment . Before the war , the steel industry was strictly private property , administered primarily in the interest of the holders of steel stocks and bonds . It produced what it wanted to produce , subject only to the dictates of business i expediency . It had its own internal government , its independent electorate . It maintained its own ambassadors in every important industrial center in the world . It was an impenum in irnperio , a state within the state . When war came and the life of the nation was threatened , the steel industry immediately took on the character of a public service ; from an instrument of private profit it was transformed into an instrument for the doing of the national will . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ required to produce those things which the nation needed , and only those things , irrespective of profits . The steel industry made money during the war ; but money-making was incidental . The prices of steel products were fixed by the government , with primary regard to the development of the industry as a public service . In the case of many products , the enforced reduction in prices as compared with the prices which the industry had been able to impose upon an abnormally necessitous market amounted to 75 per cent . Steel plates , for example , were selling at from eight to fourteen cents a pound when the government fixed the price at three and a quarter cents . Moreover , when the Steel Division of the War Industries Board was organized , only a very small part of the output of the mills was adapted to the emergent needs of the nation ; the industry was ruled by the primordial law of supply and demand and its own interests rather than by the national will . Then the ? director of the Steel Division summoned a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brain of the nation for the conservation , production , and allocation of steel . All steel-producing companies were required to furnish weekly reports of orders received , shipments , and unfilled tonnage to the army , navy , the Emergency Fleet Corporation , and other government agencies , to domestic nongovernment agencies , and to each of the Allies . Steel that was going into nonessential commodities , however profitably , was diverted to essentials . All requisitions for steel needed by the nation were distributed to the various mills in accordance with their ability to produce ; where there was a shortage of needed facilities new facilities were created . Through the Committee of Iron and Steel Manufacturers , acting as the nation 's qualified brain on the problems of steel production , the director of the Steel Division of the War Industries Board knew the location of the nation 's available supplies of iron ore , manganese , molybdenum , and other ferroalloys , knew where the mills were best equipped to convert the raw materials into required finished articles , knew what engineers were best qualified to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defined national purpose , the steel industry became as definitely a public service as the army itself . What happened in the case of steel happened also in the case of all other industries whose privately owned raw materials and manufacturing plants were needed to win the war . The wool industry , the leather industry , the shoe and clothing industries , the manufacturers of tinware , soap , linters , bleaching-powder , rolling-stock , machinery , tools , and timber , were mobilized as national services , with their representative committees ? the qualified brains of the nation on the problems of their trades ? through which the War Administration was ahle to harness their resources to the national will . The result of this functional integration of the industrial mechanism of the country with the will of the nation is now a matter of history . In almost every essential direction production rose to unpreced.mted volume , and we were just getting into our stride when the war ended . In spite of the withdrawal of millions of men into the army and navy , in spite of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women from nonessential to essential industries , we produced more steel , more coal , more shoes and clothing , than everbefore . In spite of the diversion of enormous quantities of goods to our Allies , the standard of consumption among the masses of our own people reached a new high level . Wages attained unprecedented heights . Unemployment disappeared , and poverty , that terrible scourge of the masses , was fast disappearing . It is true that the full significance of the administrative reconstruction which made these results possible has hardly yet come home to the consciousness of the American people . Frow the results were obtained they do not yet clearly understand . But they have made the unforgettable discovery that our national resources can somehow be so organized and directed as to satisfy the healthy desires of the entire pop-Yoe oxxxxeR. ? No. ulation for economic security , decent homes , education , and the amenities of life . It is this discovery and the resultant temper of the masses that constitute the great domestic problem of business , now that peace has returned . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him to give to organized industry the status of an acknowledged public service , was for the period of the war only . When peace came the President felt obliged to throw off the harness and release business to its own devices . But the conception of business as primarily an instrument for satisfying the wants of the whole nation lingers in the minds of the people . The masses are nor classical economists . They do not understand the technical intricacies of business . They are not intelligently interested in the problems of capital investment , overhead charges , the burdens of financial administration . But they are stubbornly determined that their newly attained standard of consumption shall not be lowered , that wages shall not be reduced , that their new status as recognized parties to the control of industrial production shall not be impaired . Unless business men can con. trive in peace , as they did during the war , to harmonize their private interests with the insistent popular demand for abundant food and clothing , for equality in educational opportunity , and a full share in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be strikes and inflammable discontent ; a passionate conflict of interest will arise between the propertyless many and the private owners of industrial capital ; the devastating spirit of revolution may spread across Europe , across the Atlantic , across our own shores . For hunger , which is the parent of revolution , is a relative term . It may mean hunger for " bread ; it may mean hunger for clean , comfortable homes ; it may mean hunger for a college education ; it may mean hunger for social status and economic security ; it may mean all these things together . Hunger in America is not likely to mean hunger for bread alone ; we are too generally prosperous for that . It is much more likely to mean hunger for the maintenance and further uplifting of the high standard of living to which millions of our people first attained during the war . It is likely to mean a spiritual even more than a material hunger . And throughout history the revolutionary force of unsatisfied spiritual hunger has been infinitely greater than the mere hunger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of sansculottes or starving peasants . It was a revolt of business men against the autocratic pretensions of the old landed aristocracy . The liberty and equality which the French Revolution brought into the world was the liberty of merchants and business men to do business as free agents rather than by special permission of princelings and kings . Today the temper which the wage-earning masses are developing toward the business men as the vested owners of capital and the machinery of production roughly parallels the temper or business men toward the landed feudal aristocracy a hundred and more years ago . The problem is further complicated by the strained domestic and international financial situation . America has piled up a huge war debt that must be liquidated principally out of taxes levied upon the earnings of business . The government 's promise to our farmers to buy every bushel of wheat harvested in the United States in 1918 and two at a price approximating $2.26 involves a disbursement of nearly three billions , and a probable loss , in view of the postwar market , of a billion dollars . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the uses of peace are likely to be added to the nation 's bonded debt and will become an added charge upon business . On top of all this is the fact that America has become a creditor instead of a debtor nation . When the armistice was signed in November , America had made cash advances to the Allies aggre-gating more than seven billions , which probably represents only a fraction of the total indebtedness of Europe to the business men of this country . In the case of several of the Allies , these debts were incurred in the expectation that they could be liquidated , in the event of victory , by the recovery of Russian invest . ments and the imposition of indemnitieson the conquered peoples of Central Europe . These expectations have been jeopardized by the threatened repudiation of obligations incurred by the government of the Czar in Russia and by the overthrow of the structure of private business in Germany and Austria . While civil war rages on the Continent and until peace is firmly established , millions of men will be kept under arms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debts , the victorious nations of Europe will probably need further economic assistance to make the fruits of victory secure . In the face of this precarious international situation , American business men can not afford to risk the development of discontent and industrial turbulence at home . How will they meet the problem ? During the war it looked as if the business men of America were undergoing a spiritual rebirth . Time and again one heard business men of conspicuous ability declare that they could never happily return to the old game of money-making . They gloried in their new identification with the public service , they freely made their business the nation 's business and the nations purpose their own . Without their patriotic co-operation , the will of the nation could not have been harnessed to the modern industrial machinery of the country . The vast stores of energy that converged toward Washington at the outbreak of war would have run to waste . It was they who created the new administrative organizations through which the whole weight of the nation 's resources were thrown into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they abandoned their posts with a speed that was as amazing as the earlier concentration of forces had been thrilling . With an almost indecent haste they rushed back to business as usual . A few weeks after the signing of the armistice , upward of five thousand business men held a convention in Atlantic City . There were few signs there of the spiritual rebirth that seemed to have been in process during the war . The feeling against the restraints which the war administration had imposed upon private initiative for private business ends was intense . It was not enough that the President had thrown off the war-time harness ; there was an insistent demand for the repeal of the Sherman law " and all other checks on private initiative . " The only war-time enactment which met with unqualified approval was the Webb-Pomerene law , which removed the restrictions of the Sherman Act upon business combinations for the exploitation of foreign trade . But in view of the unsettled condition among the wageworking masses , the most ominous manifestation of the convention was that of class-conscious animosity against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the organized workers had made during the war with the aid and encouragement of the government . The course of events in Europe seemed to have made little impression upon these representative business men . At a time when the stability and healthy democratic growth of our business and economic structure depend as never before upon the development of the co-operative spirit between business and labor , they seemed eager for the abrogation of the enforced industrial truce , and ready for a fight to the finish with the tradeunions . There is a very wide consensus of competent opinion that the labor problem is at the heart of the entire domestic problem confronting American business to-day . We can not proceed in security as a nation divided against ourselves . Everything that tends to sharpen class divisions or to intensify hostile class feeling tends toward civil war . Whatever one may believe about the seemliness , wisdom , or usefulness of trade-union organization , the fact is that the unions exist and that the wage-workers regard them as their most effective instruments for securing what they want in the matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of living . If business men undertake to attack the present conservative organizations of the workers , they will find other and less conservative organizations arrayed against them ; they will fan the present moderate desire of the workers for participation in the control of the conditions of their employment into a revolutionary flame for the overthrow of established business and economic order . They willhave to advance to meet the rising tide of democracy in industry or risk the inevitable consequences of power grown rigid and irresponsive to the expanding human needs and desires of the wageworking masses . In this Held of industrial relations , the business men of England have been more alertly foresighted than the business men of America . Their longer experience of the war taught them that the old industrial order could not be completely restored , and that unless British labor and capital could discover a new basis of co-operation , England could neither liquidate her war debts nor hope to recover her former position in the international competitive markets . They saw that the productive efficiency of British industry must he enormously increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efficiency is impossible so long as industrial relations are shot through with suspicion , hostility , and mutual sabotage . Instead of adopting an attitude of uncompromising hostility toward the organized workers , they invited the trade-unions to join with them in working out a plan for the establishment of representative government in industry , not by single establishment : , only , but also on a national scale . The idea underlying the national industrial councils is the familiar idea of representative government applied through the nation 's industrial units as it has traditionally been applied through geographical units only . As so applied , it presupposes the existence of an inclusive association among the employers of an industry , and a similarly inclusive organization of the workers . - These two groups elect their representatives to a joint governing body which becomes responsible for the democratic conduct of the industry as a whole . Each national council is formed under a standing agreement ? not a contract terminating on a specified date , but a constitution , rather , a body of basic laws governing the scope and method of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flexibility in determining labor or production standards ; it simply assures that demands for changes will be considered with a minimum interruption of work and with a maximum use of orderly parliamentary methods . It is of the very essence of the plan that the national council and all its administrative subdivisions should fully incorporate the principle of equal representation of the two parties , the organized employers and the organized workers . Indeed , so necessary is it to the success of the larger purposes of the council idea that the representation shall reflect the sentiment and opinion of the entire industry , that some form of enforced membership in employers ' and workers ' organizations is under serious consideration . The pottery industry , which was the first to organize a joint national council for the government of the industry , has gone on record as advocating that the state should give the force of law to the council 's determinations or that " membership in tradeassociations and trade-unions should be compulsory by law on all eligible for membership . " This demand is highly significant , whether or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for it clearly recognizes the responsibilities as well as the privileges of full industrial citizenship . As a necessary corollary to this full joint representation , is the power to confer and legislate upon many more matters than the " wages , hours , and conditions " which mark the limits of the usual collective agreement . The industrial councils will extend the scope of their joint consideration to problems of shop organization , problems of training , research , the introduction of new machines ? all problems affecting the efficiency of production and the status of the workers as human beings and enfranchised industrial citizens . The basis of joint negotiation has thus been widened in recognition of the fact that all details of industrial and shop management can be settled in a way that makes harmonious operation possible only when the workers are fully consulted regarding them . But the plan does not contemplate the centralization of all power and authority in the national council . It provides for the creation of local district and shop organizations to assume responsibility for local self-government . It is what the English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equal repre-sentation of the employers and workers throughout the industry , operating under nermanent constitutions with wide powers over the trade , but delegating to district and local groups , similarly composed , power of decision and enforcement within the local jurisdiction . Broadly speaking , the industrial structure with its city , county , state , and national agencies of administration and adj udication . Clearly , such a plan did not spring up overnight in one man 's brain , nor did it . get under way simply by virtue of its inherent wisdom . There has been an interplay of economic forces to bring the idea into actuality ? of forces similar to those which during the war crisis compelled the American government to create functional administrative instruments for the purpose of harnessing the organized industries of the country to the national will . The outstanding difference between our war administrative boards and the national industrial councils is that the councils are voluntary organizations controlled , in the first instance , not by directors with autocratic powers , but by small industrial parliaments composed of equal representations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to continue in peace that same integration of the productive forces of the nation with the national will that gave to England , as to America , a new spirit of national unity , a new domestic and international vitality and power . For the business men of England realize that England needs high productivity and a clearly defined national purpose in peace as much as in war . They realize that high productivity can not be secured with industrial conflict , sabotage , limitation of output , and strikes rife throughout the land . They can not get it under a system of cutthroat competition that ignores quality , that creates high charges for competitive selling abroad , that permits the most selfish producer to dictate the terms on which an entire industry shall employ its workers . Like American business men , they are impatient of negative restraints which bureaucratic government has placed upon industry to protect the community against the evils of unrestrained individualistic competition , just as the workers have grown impatient with an industrial system which compels them to take a hostile attitude toward efficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of living . But they see that the evils themselves must be eliminated . Through the industrial councils they intend to eliminate the worst forms of competition . Through the representative national industrial councils it will be possible to level up and equalize the conditions and terms of employment and the standards of productive efficiency throughout the nation , which in itself will remove some of the gravest abuses of human exploitation and sweating , some of the gravest causes of discontent and unrest . And finally , the business men of England have come to appreciate that the coherent organization of an industry on a national scale is essential to the most efficient and economical prosecution of the industry 's foreign trade . The work of appraising and developing foreign markets is expensive and difficult ; the consular service is a cumbersome and inexpert instrument ; individual competition in this held involves an undue and unnecessary tax upon the resources of the individual manufacturer . This our American business men recognized when they secured the enactment of the WebbPomerene law , permitting combinations for the prosecution of foreign trade . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national industrial council idea , it is not strange that when the British Reconstruction Committee , appointed to examine into " relations between employers and employed , " brought in the now famous Whitley Reports , the British government promptly gave official approval to their recommendations and intrusted to the Labor Ministry the duty of assisting in the establishment of national councils in such industries as seemed ready for them . Already fifteen industries , representing 2.300,000 workers , have been constitutionalized , and the organization of joint councils is proceeding in at least half a dozen more . Before the government initiated this policy several industries had of their own initiative developed national industrial organizations so nearly identical with the council idea that they are properlyto be regarded as parts of the same process of industrial reconstruction . The most noteworthy of these are the Cotton Control Board , the newly formed Wool Council , and the Building Trades Parliament . And the demand of the National Union of Railwaymen for representation on the national directorate of the railroads promises to develop into a reality which will make of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course , - Great Britain is not the United States . Industrial , social , and political conditions there differ in many respects from ours . But the spirit of our institutions is the same and the economic and industrial forces that have led to the establishment of national industrial councils there are clearly at work in America . They have the advantage of a more flexible constitution and a more highly developed industrial consciousness . Our constitutional form of government was devised chiefly by small farmers and highly individualistic pioneers who were suspicious of all forms of financial and economic combination and especially suspicious of " big business . " Our laws have been designed to check rather than to promote the forms of business organization which are inseparable from the effective development of modern machine production . Our national policy with respect to business has been inhibitory and negative rather than liberating and constructive . As a result , the inevitable structure of modern business organization has been forced to develop under cover ? often in violation of the written laws . Instead of a steady functional adjustment of governmental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into an expanding instrument of national service , our courts and legislative bodies have fostered the inherited spirit of hostility between public policy and the efficient economic organization both of business men and of wage-workers . The basis of representation in our recognized governing bodies has remained exclusively territorial , whereas the basis of representation in the so-called " secret government " is by industries and economic organizations . For the purpose of national industrial administration , the " secret government , " our atavistic fears and prejudices to the contrary notwithstanding , is and for more than a generation has been our effective government , although , in obedience to our eighteenthcentury conception of government as a system of restraints , checks , and balances , we have persisted in forcing it to work in the corrupting darkness of lobbies . When war came and we were faced by the necessity of establishing dynamic relations between the public will and the industries of the nation , we swept aside the old legal restraints , we encouraged combinations and price-fixing , we called the " secret government " into the open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not to closeted lobbies , but to the public eminence of such administrative and executive boards as the Food , Fuel , and Railroad adminis-trations , and the Committee of Iron and Steel Manufacturers . The swift dissolution of the war administrative organizations after the signing of the armistice is not so much a reflection upon their value or upon the patriotism of business men as it is upon the incompatibility of our inherited governmental machinery wirh the actual structure of our national industrial organization . Considering the obstacles which our inherited system of restraints , checks , and balances placed upon them , the achievements of the business men who entered the public service during the war are almost miraculous . Nothing could be done without the direct authorization of the President , whose executive freedom was for the period of the war only . The President was overwhelmed with requests for decisions which would have taxed the brains and energies of an executive general staff . Time and again minor executives were compelled to take action in the interest of the nation , which , if it came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ censure and possible disgrace . Men who came to Washington enthusiastic and eager for public service were driven to despair , and left Washington with the Conviction that public service under our form of governmental organization was impossible ; that business initiative , inventiveness , and efficiency were utterly incompatible with the red tape of ouradministrative system . If the new spirit of national service which the war emergency awakened is to be saved and perpetuated , we shall have to devise some plan similar to , if not identical with , the national industrial councils of Great Britain , through which the industrial energy and genius of the nation can at the same time be liberated and brought into effective harmony with the nation al iwill. 1 his is the great task which confronts American business to-day . To howl down government ownership and control because of the manifest inefficiencies of our present legislative and administrative system , without devising an efficient substitute , will not meet the situation . Nothing is clearer than that we can not go back to the old ways of cut-throat competition , business sabotage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between organized industry and the government . If , in their natural reaction against the war-time restraints of an efficient bureaucratic system , business men yield to the temptation to return to the old game of business bucaneering , of fleecing the consuming public , and beating down the workers , they will imperil their present trusteeship of the economic and industrial resources of the nation . They are on trial before the wage-earning masses of to-day as the old landed aristocracy was on trial before their business predecessors a hundred and more years ago . It is for them to say whether history will repeat itself . There are those who believe that there is a fatality in history , that the minds of men are the predestined instruments of inexorable economic forces , that power breeds a lust for power , and that the only escape from the tyranny of power is revolution . But there is no such fatality. its intelli-gence is free to shape ts own destiny . It is not a patter of words to say that the spirit of democracy is gathering irresistible force throughout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too , will have to conform to the new spirit of the times . Will it conform through processes of rational and voluntary adjustment , or will it resist and , by striving to repress the new spirit , invite catastrophe ?                     