@@430809

N glancing through the three preceding papers of this series and in looking over the notes for future papers , I have discovered myself using , with a frequency I had not before realized , the word " statesmanship " in all sorts of connections ? business statesmanship , industrial statesmanship , educational statesmanship , medical statesmanship , and so on . There is , of course , nothing new in these varied adaptations of the term ; they are sprinkled rather freely through the liberal literature of the last ten years . But seeing such a variety of these adaptations of statesmanship within the small compass of one series of papers , and realizing that they were there not from any unified design but from the separate consideration of the several fields of which the series treats , led me to question whether I was simply falling victim to a current catchword and indulging in the easy retailing of a young platitude . But on second thought I realize that I have been reckoning more or less unconsciously with an actual tendency of our time toward a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Now , if it is true that many of the functions and responsibilities commonly credited to political statesmanship are devolving , or clearly should devolve , upon the leadership of business , industry , agriculture , education , medicine , and other such functional fields of interest , the administration of which touch with a most intimate concern the daily lives of all of us , then that fact involves on the one hand a redefinition of political statesmanship , and on the other hand plunges the leaders of business , industry , agriculture , education , medicine , and other occupational fields into new and untried adventures which will attach to the position of all such leaders far-reaching new possibilities of personal interest and social significance . All this lies so closely at the heart of those processes of readjustment and revaluation into which we have been driven by the war and drawn by the requirements of progress that I have seen fit to interrupt the sequence of this series of papers for this month in order to make certain observations upon this revolutionary , but in its final @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a decentralization of many of the current functions and responsibilities of statesmanship to the end that ultimately every process of our common life will be administered by those who know most about it rather than by politicians fitted neither on the basis of their selection nor by their fundamental training and outlook for such responsibilities ; to the end that the nation 's vital interests be administered by the men functionally fit , by virtue of a realistic equipment . There is , unless I am far afield in judgment , a definite recognition of modern facts and a massing of tendencies making for a narrowing and intensifying of the field and operation of statesmanship at Washington and our several state capitols and a correlative awakening and widening of statesman- ship in New York , Pittsburgh , Chicago , Kansas City , San Francisco , and other significant centers of American life . There is an increasing skepticism of the soundness of a policy under which political statesmanship stands on the outer edge of business , industry , agriculture , education , and other social functions , playing the role of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And there is a turning , in a spirit of critical inquiry and hope , toward a policy under which business statesmanship will stand at the center of business , industrial statesmanship at the center of industry , educational statesmanship at the center of education , as the administration itself rather than an outside and superimposed force ruling and regulating the administration . THE POLITICAL RULE OF BUSINESS IT is not strange that this fresh consideration of a policy of decentralization should appear coincident with the present unprecedented concentration of economic and industrial functions in the hands of government . It took the excessive war-induced centralization of economic and industrial functions in the hands of government to dramatize the essential fallacy of trying to substitute the politician for the engineer and executive , using the terms engineer and executive rather broadly to suggest the men functionally fit for the job in hand . The experiences of great centralization in governmental agencies during the war both here and in Europe have convinced a growing number that handing everything over to the state , as now organized , to be run by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it throws the vital processes of a nation 's life , particularly those of business and industry , with a danger ous certainty into the hands of an offs cialdom that stands too far removed from the actual processes to know them with that intimacy of touch that alone can insure sanity and efficiency in poi icy and action . That too great political interference with the vital processes of a nation through the action of an ill-trained and amateur bureaucracy is fatal to an effective and harmonious common life is little questioned . And by one of those strange paradoxes of history both ultraconservative ' and highly liberal forces are together blasting at the foundations of such a policy ? from entirely different motives , it must be granted . On the one hand , certain selfish interests upon which the Government has been obliged to impose conscience and a social sense , and a large number of business men who have a personal sense of social responsibility and can not be adjudged profiteers either of peace or war , but who are honestly convinced that business and industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the old autocratic methods of control ? all these are openly warring against the political rule of business and industry . On the other hand , there is a party of constructive liberalism , equally opposed to the political rule of business and industry , made up of forward-looking business men and certain creative thinkers in the fields of political and economic theory , as well as certain elements in labor leadership . The first group desires to relax the political grip upon business and industry so that they may go back to the old order of business . The second group desires a decreasing political interference with economic processes so that we may go forward to a new and better business order . Both groups are acting upon one of the most sound and fruitful ideas of modern times ? that business must be governed from the inside , not from the outside . And that fact holds true of every department of American life , for every department of American life should be administered by those who touch and handle the stuff of that department as part of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ INDIVIDUALISM AND BUREAUCRACY THAT a large part of political interference with economic and industrial processes has been justified in the past by the fact that government has had to step in here and there in order to introduce a needed element of social  | control in given situations will be little denied . But the point is that we are now coming to see that we are not confined to a choice between a rampant unsocial individualism on the one hand and an inefficient amateur bureaucracy on the other . We are coming to see that business and industry can be organized upon bases that will give adequate protection , voice , and opportunity to all classes involved ? the employer , the employee , and the consuming public ? and increase both the efficiency and profits of the undertakings . And it is toward such policies of self-governing business and industry that the best minds of both capital and labor are turning in their reaction against an encroaching governmental ownership , control , and regulation which , run to its ultimate application , provides such motherly oversight that business and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statesmanship or conscience . The state is right in its insistence that business and industry have a social responsibility ; but social responsibility , to say nothing of that high efficiency without which a sense of social responsibility is only a pious and abortive emotion , will never be enforced by the political policeman ; it must be evolved by the business and industrial statesman . The Fallacy of Paternalism IT is just such problems of finding and acknowledging the socially right and sound centers of authority and administration that have turned the liberal intelligence of our time toward a consideration of that decentralization of statesmanship which I purpose now to discuss in greater detail . It should be said in passing that the same set of facts and considerations that is bringing about a reaction against the too great centralization of economic and industrial functions in the hands of the state , as we know it , is also convincing a larger and larger number of its former adherents that a socialistic state would likewise drift toward the rocks of bureaucratic unreality . In the light of the high specialization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simply do not dare to put all of +our eggs in one basket , whether the basket is carried by a bureaucratic politician or an autocratic business executive . It certainly is too great a risk to make the efficiency , justice , and social responsibility of our complex and interrelated business and industrial world depend upon the policies of ever-changing cabinets and congresses , still less upon presidents and premiers . Benevolent and enlightened paternalism is a comfortable and convenient system when and while it works , but our waiting-list of supermen is not long enough to justify our trusting to such a system . The consistent and continuous safety and efficiency of our democracy demand a constant broadening of the base of policy , the bringing of policy more and more fully into the hands of the men whose authority is intrinsic by virtue of their being the creative conductors of those real enterprises that constitute our common life , and the leaving of fundamental policies less and less to fluctuating political groups brought together by antiquated election methods , by a counting of noses that too frequently fails @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will of society . I am not here making a personal plea . I am reporting and trying to set in orderly relation certain elements of a plea for more realistic politics , based upon government by those who know and do , as I have found scattered fragments of that plea upon the lips of business men , labor leaders , lawyers , and educators within the last few months . I am building the underlying arguments of this paper upon definite interviews , printed statements , and vagrant scraps of conversation with such men . This would be a superficial method were I trying to present a comprehensive discussion of some political or economic theory . But in doing this I am simply holding to the purpose which I set for these papers in the beginning ? the interpretive reporting of the most significant drifts of opinion  | among the men and women upon whom the actual responsibilities of business industry , education , the church , and cer tain of the professions rest . The pur pose of these papers is not so much to discuss the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so on as these are advanced by stu dents and publicists , as to give a sort of moving-picture of the mind of the men and women who are doing the work in these fields . In the measure that these papers succeed in reaching their purpose we shall be able to see to what extent the theories of the best students of these matters are influencing the men of action , and better still discover what new and creative ideas are being evolved out of actual experience to serve as the raw materials for new and better conceptions of the function and organization of these several fields of interest . I am aware that in this paper I am at one point and another approaching a field of political theory which has been ably developed by such writers as Benoist , Duguit , Figgis , Barker , Laski , and others who , either as part of an attempt at a complete philosophy of the state or in discussions of particular problems of industry and politics , have concerned themselves with the unreality of a representative system of government under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drawn geographical units , and with the possibilities of governmental reforms that would determine representation upon the basis of interests and occupations as well . Such students have blazed and are blazing a path toward new and more realistic politics . But I am not concerned primarily with the interpretation of any theory of the state in the direction of which the subject matter of this paper may look . In fact , I am not approaching the problem from the angle of political science at all , but from the angle of business and industry , in an attempt to forecast upon the basis of present and going facts what developments are likely to occur in the relation of government to business and industry and in the internal reordering of the administration of business and industry . We may find that the political pluralist starting from the ground of theory and the business man starting from the ground of practical necessity , as he faces the present day labor unrest and political bureaucracy , will meet in agreement . THE FORCES AGAINST GOVERNMENTAL CONTROL I THINK I have suggested with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radical , a definite conviction is forming that we should move from a policy of government of industry by the state toward a policy of government of industry by industry . I . ave suggested also that the principle involved in this conviction has a much wider legitimate application than simply its application to industry . It is clear that among the adherents to such a conviction will be found some business men and captains of industry who support the contention for individualistic , selfish , and reactionary reasons , men who chafe at any and every restraint the state may impose upon business . But it just happens that this movement toward a more realistic , more just , more democratic , and more efficient organization of both industry and politics serves their selfish purpose in the negative and purposely destructive phase of its criticism . But forward-looking business men , labor leaders , and the whole intellectual leadership of this movement toward self-governing business and industry and a decreasing political interference with industrial processes may accept the help of these reactionaries in the criticism and defeat of the forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and then courteously part company with them when the hour strikes to determine the new alternative policy , when the positive constructive phase of the movement is entered . Disregarding , then , for the moment the reasons that lead the ultra-reactionaries to oppose the entrance of the state into business and industrial activities , what are the basic considerations that are drawing many men of action and thinkers of diverse interests and points of view together in support of a policy of decentralizing statesmanship , of selfdetermination and self-government for  | business and industry ? I do not refer to the conventional battle of arguments regarding the relative efficiency or inefficiency of governmental or private ownership . I am thinking of the deeper considerations that are less likely to be colored by personal and selfish interests , and more likely to spring from disinterested analysis . These considerations fall roughly into two classes : first , those considerations arising from a growing feeling that our political institutions have not been progressively adapted to changing conditions in a manner to make them effective instruments to express and serve modern industrialized society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic organization of our country at its beginning , when any average citizen of intelligence and honorable purpose might really represent competently the interests of his congressional district or State ; and , second , those considerations forced upon business and industrial leaders by the character and extent of the present labor unrest , which is daily making it more evident that compromise and concession are about played out and that some new approach to the problem of the government and control of industry must be made . Let us look at some of these considerations . Grounds of Reaction against Paternalism MODERN SOCIETY IS MORE ECONOMIC THAN POLITICAL Fort one thing , many are saying that the real center of authority in the modern world has shifted from politics to business , anyway , and that the rational thing to do is to recognize the fact and set to work at the organization of business and industry upon a basis that will make them socially responsible and give full and effective recognition to all classes involved , capital , labor , and the community ; that if business and industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sort of invisible government , the wisest thing to do is to make that invisible government visible and socially responsible , to organize these economic forces into a mainstay instead of a menace to the common rights and interests of society . As I have already suggested , this point of view , arising from different motives , is found among both conservatives and radicals . This matter was aptly stated in a recent issue of " The Nation , " which said : The framers of our Federal Constitution could not foresee the development of mod ern industrialized society . They could not foresee the shifting of the actual seat ot government from executive chambers and legislative halls to banks , stock exchanges schools , and newspaper offices . . . . The real rule of the modern world ? the power which makes or breaks a nation , which directs the creative energies of a culture , which determines the development and destiny of a people ? is vested in forms economic rather than political . These constitute the invisible government which lies behind the visible government of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political forms remain fundamentally unchanged . Over against these new economic forms , exercising the real governmental functions of modern society , has grown in the industrial field a system of organized check and protest , the invisible opposition , as it were . This is the political significance of the organization of the workers everywhere during the rapid rise of industrialism ; they recognized the necessity of an economic opposition , the inadequacy of the old political forms to furnish a proper check upon the new governmental functions ; and the action was a healthy sign of man 's political sagacity . For the past fifty years these lines have been deepening . If the old political forms could have been made flexible enough to encompass the new economic order , to ride the tidal wave of industrialism , all would have been well ; the channels of political activities would have run smoothly , the workers would have been satisfied with adequate voice and representation in the new industrial functions of government , the community instead of a special class would have profited , and the  | great economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those in control were too selfish or too blind to render the political machinery flexible , to make the invisible government the visible and responsible government . . . and thus they . . . brought about a fatal division be . tween our political activities and the life processes of our society . The line of thought here is clearly logical . If business and industry become in effect the real government of society , and if political forms are not adapted to reckon with this fact and are therefore ineffective instruments either for expression or protection alike on the part of capital and labor , it is inevitable that both capital and labor will ultimately resent political control and turn their energies either toward a reform of government along lines that will merge the actual economic rule with political forms or toward the development of some sort of business and industrial self-government . The latter seems more likely to occur than the former in the United States . POLITICAL GOVERNMENT INADEQUATE FOR EMERGENCIES ANOTHER consideration that is weakening the faith of many in political control of business and industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the heavy demands of a great emergency , like the war , with our normal government polity and its relation to business , industry , agriculture , education . We hurriedly construct an emergency machine , and the moment the emergency , the war , is over , every one is impatient to shake off the temporary restraints . Now , every one realizes that a great emergency like the war through which we have just passed will always involve certain emergency organization , certain alterations in the normal administration of the state , but not a complete alteration of the basis of life and government . And there is a growing conviction in many of our best conservative minds that there is something inherently unsound in a political organization , in its relation to the social and economic forces of the nation , that can not meet emergencies without a fundamental reorganization of itself . Modern wars are more than fights between troops . Modern wars are struggles between the whole round of creative powers of production and organization of rival nations and alliances . A nation 's army is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We have just been through a costly demonstration of the fact . We have seen that the quiet processes of production can be as belligerent as the actions of a submarine ; that a Kansas wheat-field is as much a war factor as a munitions plant ; that the potato-growers of Maine are as essential to our armies as the powder manufacturers of Delaware . Farm , factory , and firing-line constitute the essential trilogy of war power . A breakdown of either spells defeat . Fighting power is essentially a by-product of industrial power . Therefore , aside from the drilling of troops , the determination of strategy , and certain emergency organization that will always be necessary in war-time , the governmental and industrial organization that will give the greatest social harmony and the highest production in peace-time is the best possible organization for war . The way we were obliged to scurry about in search of effective policies and organization to meet the demands of war has given rise to a whole new critique of our governmental organization in its relation to business and industry and the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ REPRESENTATION IS UNREAL THEN , too , there is an increasing recognition of the fact that there is an inevitable tendency toward unreality in a system that elects its representatives solely upon the basis of arbitrarily and artificially drawn geographical districts that have a less and less distinct unity of interest as society becomes more specialized and industrialized . This does not spring from theory , although there is a growing literature on this matter . It springs from a facing of certain clear facts of modern life , which H. G. Wells has stated with as much clearness as any other writer . In an essay of his  | which appears in his " Social Forces in England and America , " he says : The ties that bind men to place are being severed ; we are in the beginning of a new phase in human experience . . . . For endless ages man led the hunting life , migrating after his food , camping , homeless . . . . Then began agriculture , and for the sake of securer food man tethered himself to a place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilization is essentially a story of settling down . It began in caves and shelters ; it culminates in a wide spectacle of farms and peasant villages , and little towns among the farms . ... The enormous majority of human beings stayed at home at last ; from the cradle to the grave they lived , married , died in the same district , usually in the same village ; and to that condition , law , custom , habits , morals have adapted themselves . ... Now . . . this astonishing development of cheap , abundant , swift locomotion which we have seen in the last seventy years . . . dissolves almost all the reason and necessity why men should go on living permanently in any one place or rigidly disciplined to one set of conditions . . . this revolution in human locomotion that brings nearly all the globe within a few days of any man is the most striking aspect of the unfettering again of the old restless , wandering , adventurous tendencies in man 's composition . We are off the chain of locality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have hardly begun to speculate about the consequences forces of transport are already straining against the limits of existing political areas . Mr. Wells is here dealing with the political implications of rapid transportation only , but the implications he outlines later in this essay rest not only upon the fact that in modern times a man can move himself about from place to place and from job to job , but also upon the fact that in modern times the business and industrial interests of almost every man , whether he is capitalist or workman , overruns political boundaries within states and crosses the frontiers of the state itself . In other words , the area of the average man 's interests and the area of his congressional district or State , in the United States , from which his political representative is elected , do not at all correspond . Keeping this fact , as well as the fact of rapid transportation , in mind , it is worth while to quote further from Mr. Wells ' statement : In every locality . . . countless people are found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . . In America political life , especially State life as distinguished from national political life , is degraded because of the natural and inevitable apathy of a large portion of the population whose interests go beyond the State . Politicians and statesmen , being the last people in the world to notice what is going on in it , are making no attempt whatever to readapt this hugely growing floating population of delocalized people to the public service . . . . Local administration falls almost entirely ? and the decision of Imperial ( or national ) affairs tends more and more to fall ? into the hands of that dwindling . . . moiety which sits tight in one place from the cradle to the grave . No one has yet invented any method for the political expression and collective direction of a migratory population . . . . Here , then , is a curious prospect , the prospect of . . . a floating population going about the world , uprooted , delocalized , and even , it may be , denationalized , with wide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ customs and habits of its own , a morality of its own , a philosophy of its own , and yet , from the point of view of current politics and legislation , unorganized and ineffective . . . . The history of the immediate future will , I am convinced , be very largely the history of the conflict of the needs of this new population with the institutions , the boundaries , the laws , prejudices , and deep-rooted traditions established during the home-keeping , localized era of mankind 's career . It is clear , at least , that the real struggles that cut to the heart of our modern society are more and more struggles between interests rather than struggles between parties . The cleavage between interests , actual or believed , have an air of reality and per- manence , while the cleavage between political parties is a shifting line determined from election to election by a very large element of opportunism . The recognition that present political forms are ill adapted to deal with such social and economic facts as have just been pointed out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of business and industrial poiicy and administration . GOVERNMENT IS TOO LITTLE RESPONSIVE TO THE PUBLIC WILL BUT even though it were feasible to get a genuine representation of vital interests by a system under which the basis of representation is the geographical area , the fact remains that our political institutions are not designed for quick and effective response to the will of their constituencies . In this respect the British Government is much more fully responsive to and controlled by the current public mind than our own Government . The members of our legislative bodies are elected part at one time and part at another . And for that reason we can never say that a particular Congress is the creation of the public mind at that given time . Our President 's responsibility to our popular house in no wise corresponds to the responsibility of the English Premier . Our President creates a cabinet that is not responsible to the popular house or in any specific and controllable sense to the public will . The line of cause and effect running from the individual citizen 's vote to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to trace . And all this contributes to the feeling of unreality that an increasing number feel in connection with much of current political processes . It is clear that this , too , adds to the reaction against too great political control of business and industry . If we are to trust the vital processes of our national life in the hands of government , we want it to represent a highly realistic politics . These are some of the fundamental considerations that enter into the opinion that governmental ownership , regulation , and control of business and industry by the present state , on the one hand , and the creation of a socialistic state , on the other , both lead to the same fundamentally bad end ? the management of the larger aspects at least of our productive and distributive processes by a bureaucratic class rather than by the men who know and do , the men who handle the stuff of business and industry as their regular job . All these considerations are based upon the inadequacy of current politics to meet the responsibilities of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is another set of considerations , as I have already suggested , growing out of the clear necessities forced upon business and industry by the present aspirations and demands of labor . These I have taken up so fully in the two papers preceding this in THE CENTURY for April and May that I need do little more at this point than to refer to them . This set of considerations has to do with what is becoming a very definite movement toward an organization of business and industry upon the basis of self-government that shall be a government truly representative of the employer , the workman , and the community . And quite naturally business and industry that is engaged in the fundamental task of reordering itself upon a basis truly representative of all classes and interests concerned will not want to be hampered in this constructive task by politicians who lack that sureness of touch and judgment that comes alone from practical contact with business and industry . Let us see how these considerations have arisen . Prophecy is a game as elusive as it is tempting in such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passing through , such as we shall be passing through for a long stretch of months and years . Much of current forecasting will go to the scrap-heap of snap judgments . There are too many unknown factors , too many new factors being interjected day by day , to make prophecy a wholly scientific calculation . But some things have reached the stage  | of essential certainty ; among them this : labor will demand and successfully demand , an increasing share in both the profits and management of business and industry . What changes in the fundamental organization of business and industry will that demand make necessary ? Will the increased participation of labor in the control of business and industry make for greater or less efficiency ? Will it raise or reduce the total profits ? Will the wise employer oppose the demand , or will he join with his employees in working out a new organization of the productive and distributive machinery of the nation along lines that will mean an increase in both the equity and efficiency of business ? Does this mean a class war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These are the questions , cutting to the heart of modern society as they do , that employers the world over are asking themselves . The clearer the answers lie in the minds of both employers and employees , the sooner will the job of readjustment find an effective basis , of procedure . And every day an increasing number of employers are reaching an understanding of the inevitable answer to these questions . There is no permanently valid reason why the economic problem , which completely underlies our other problems , must pass into the hands of any one class for solution , whether that class be employers or employees , provided genuine economic democracy is achieved . And the idea of industrial and business democracy is no longer the scare-phrase it once was to the responsible business and industrial leaders . Only the other day one of the big business men of this country said to me : " Speaking purely from the business point of view , I am convinced that a real democratization of business that shall organize labor and capital into a real partnership ir @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in business efficiency and profit as in social and eco . nomic justice . In other words , I am convinced that genuine democracy in business not only is right , but that it pays . Figured in terms of profit and loss , I believe that every argument against autocracy and class control in government is now coming to apply with equal force to autocracy and class control in business and industry . Of course there never was a time when one man or a few men with expert equipment and specialized experience could not do certain things better than a mass meeting could do them ; but looked at from the long view , democracy with all of its mistakes arrives at right ends more times than does autocracy . Autocracy can , by its possible quickness of action , undoubtedly achieve greater improvements in a particular instance and in a shorter time than democracy can . But the unbusinesslike thing about autocracy is that too frequently it will achieve immense immediate improvement at the price of stifling progress thereafter . The businesslike thing about democracy is that its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more sustained . " To the degree that American business men act upon such principles will the dangers of Bolshevism in this country diminish . There are more factors involved in the reaction against an increasing governmental ownership , regulation , and control of business and industry than the mere selfish desire of a visionless group of business men who want to go their socially irresponsible way . The reaction against too great centralization of business and industrial functions in the hands of the government is simply one expression of a fundamental protest against the unreality of present-day politics , the negatively critical side of a plea for greater realism in politics . Granted the truth of this conclusion , what are the probable lines of development in politics on the one hand and industry on the other that will come from this protest and plea ? A Forecast of Political and Industrial Development I DO not look for any fundamental constitutional changes in this country looking toward a reform of the basis of representation . I think it is very unlikely that we shall get anything in the nature of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We have a marked reluctance to experiment with our political structure . What seems more likely is a large-scale experiment in the organization of business and industry upon a more representative and democratic basis . We are already seeing indications of this in the proposal of The International Harvester Company to institute shop committees throughout that industry . As our unrest becomes more acute , we shall doubtless see wider and wider application of the Whitley scheme of joint industrial councils in our industries . That , of course , is not the last word in industrial democracy , but it is a start . And the further development of all such ventures looking toward a more democratic organization of the relations of industry will not only serve as a preventive against Bolshevistic tendencies , but will make material headway toward an answer of the plea for a more realistic politics . Such developments will contribute toward the vitalizing of our political processes in this way : as the various fields of interest in our national life , business and industry particularly , are shifted to a broader base of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that takes adequate account of the legitimate interests of employer , employee , and the consuming public , the necessity , both apparent and real , for political interference with business and industrial processes will grow less and less . In the end such development of the forms and functions of self-government in business , industry , and other functional fields will mean that we shall have a series of cooperating sovereignties in these fields , with the political government acting as their correlator . We shall arrive at a situation such as I suggested in the opening paragraphs of this paper ; we shall see business statesmanship standing at the center of and administering business , industrial statesmanship at the center of industry , educational statesmanship at the center of education , with political statesmanship acting as the impresario of these several statesmanships in their relations . All this will mean an approach toward the ideal of government by those who know and do , by those who know most about the department of national life that they are administering . It will tend in many ways , if not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to make the invisible government visible and socially responsible . At least , many factors point this way . An Example of Self-Governing Business IT would materially help the situation if some one would make a survey of all attempts that have been made in this country toward a more democratic organization of business and industry . Such a survey would help to lift this entire discussion out of the realm of pure theory and , to some degree at least , afford a basis of proved experiments upon which our business and industrial leaders might found their conclusions regarding the wisest procedure . During the last three years it has been my fortune to work in close relation with Mr. Edward A. Filene , President of William Filene 's Sons Company , the largest store of its particular kind in the world . This effective and profitable business has been developed at the same time that an attempt has been made to organize the store upon a basis of the employees ' sharing alike in profits and management . To me the most significant thing about this store is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization of business as an idealistic , but costly , concession to be granted after a business has succeeded and piled up a large surplus ; rather have they regarded democracy of organization as one of the corner-stones of permanently successful business . In that fact lies the justification for the mention of this store in this connection . We shall never lack for examples of benevolence and paternalism in business , but the way out does not lie in that direction . Some time ago I asked Mr. Edward A. Filene to outline for me those features in the organization of the Filene store that he considered representative of principles that will be  | helpful in the inevitable readjustments of business and industrial organization in this after-the-war period , and to tell me how they have worked . I want now to summarize the results of that interview . In the early days of that business the managers found that they were spending much time and energy in the adjustment of differences between employees and executives which would produce larger returns to the business if spent on the more creative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and administration of the business . The managers felt that every hour that they were obliged to give to the adjustment of differences or to the administration of discipline represented a direct loss to the business , if those matters could be adequately attended to in any other way . They reckoned that the energy of the management could be more profitably employed in the creative rather than in the negative features of administration , so they determined to hand over , so far as practically possible , the matters of discipline and the adjustment of differences to the employees themselves . A board of arbitration was created in 1901 , if I rightly remember the date . This board is composed entirely of employees . It consists of twelve members , elected one from each section of the store , and a chairman appointed from the council of the Filene Cooperative Association , which I shall discuss later , by the president of that body . This Arbitration Board has jurisdiction over all cases of difference between employee and the management ; cases relating to the justice of rules affecting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or wage , transfers , location in the store , sales shortages , lost packages , breakage , and the like . In all cases except dismissal or increase of pay , where a two-thirds vote of the entire board is necessary , the majority vote of the entire board decides the case . The action of the board is final in all cases arising within its jurisdiction , unless it sees fit to reconsider a case upon request . To date the board has passed upon about one thousand cases , I think , and about one half of these have been decided in favor of the employees and one half in favor of the firm . At the time the board was founded , there was marked fear in many quarters that the discipline of the store would be undermined . Many business men said that it was impossible to submit every question to arbitration by a board of employees and get safe and conservative judgments . But experience has proved this fear to have been unfounded . The result has been highly satisfactory as regards discipline , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ larger directive work of the store . A distinguished jurist who made an analysis of the records of this arbitration board has said that the type of justice meted out by this board compares favorably with the justice meted out in any of our courts . The board is so organized that its twelve members are counselors to the respective store sections from which they have been elected . These counselors advise employees in their sections on questions arising in the conduct of their work , distribute information regarding the Arbitration Board and its processes , and instruct employees in the details of presenting their cases before the board . The principle of the right of the employees to participation in the conduct of the business is further recognized in the arrangement under which to-day four of the eleven members of the directorate are representatives of the employees who exercise the right of direct nomination . And the store is experimenting its way toward some workable method of profit-sharing . Throughout the store organization an attempt has been made to work out and apply what I may call the " confidential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ After the establishment of an employees ' hospital or clinic in connection with the store , the managers found that many employees were reluctant to take advantage of it because of the fear that the bringing of their physical defects or disorders to the attention of the management might result in discrimination or dismissal . With that highly practical and scientific procedure which has marked the development of  | this store , the managers gave to the employees the power to dismiss any nurse or doctor who should violate their confidence . This arrangement has produced marked results . An average of about two hundred employees take advantage of the clinic every day either for treatment or advice . This has materially reduced the charge on the business involved in absences due to sickness . All of these factors ? the control of the Arbitration Board by the employees , the sharing of profits by employees , the participation in the management by employees , and the payment of relatively high wages ? have proved a marked business advantage instead of a drain upon the profits of the business . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meant the development of a higher and higher type of employee . All of these features find expression in and through the Filene Cooperative Association , an organization to which every regular employee of the store belongs , and enjoys a voting privilege in , by virtue of employment in the store . In this organization no dues are imposed , but each feature of its work is planned to be self-supporting . Where such is not the case , it simply means that they have not yet worked out completely the technic of this policy , which they steadfastly hold as their goal . Participation in this work is optional . It is the central organ of government in this store community of some three thousand business citizens . It conducts the social and so-called " welfare " work of the store without the dictation , but with the cooperation of the management . Aside from its representation on the directorate of the store , it has in certain matters a direct voice in the management . For example , if two thirds of the members of the Filene Cooperative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or amend any rule affecting the discipline or working conditions of the store , the vote becomes immediately operative . Or , if five sixths of the members of the governing body of the Filene Cooperative Association vote in favor of any such rule , it goes into effect at the end of a week unless during the week it is vetoed by the general manager , president , or board of managers of the corporation , or a majority vote of the Filene Cooperative Association membership . But even when vetoed by the management , a mass meeting of the employees may be held , and a two-thirds vote of the entire association at such meeting passes the rule over the veto . I need not here go into the numerous matters of insurance , education , recreation , and other features which the Filene Cooperative Association controls . Such features are to be found in many businesses and industries irrespective of the degree of democracy that enters into their fundamental organization . The distinctive feature of such matters in the Filene store is that they are under the control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It seems to me that all this should be highly suggestive to the leaders of American business and industry in the face of the fundamental labor unrest that is moving across the world . These experiments would seem to suggest that when the powers granted to employees are real powers , where the responsibility enjoyed by labor is real responsibility in the determination of wages , hours , conditions of work , and the settlement of disputes , the net result is not radical , but sanely conservative . This does not mean that such a system is a capitalistic scheme to dull the edge of labor 's demands by granting an authority which the employer is fairly safe in assuming will be little used . It means simply this : so long as employers organize business and industry upon the theory that labor is a purchaseable commodity we may expect a discontent upon the part of employees expressing itself largely in destructive criticism and protest ; but where the employees are made a working part of the management with a real voice , then what would otherwise be troublesome protest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and create satisfactory conditions . Participation in management , if it be real , does not diminish the rightful demands of labor , but it does convert labor 's legitimate protests into an instrument of constructive endeavor.  |                     