@@430565

 | IN an early number of this REVIEW I attempted to analyze the effect which the extension of scientific discovery and the deepening of scientific conception have had upon the teacher and the student in the American college . Using a similar analysis and resting upon the same major premise , that the phenomena of college life can be understood only when they are set in their true relation to like phenomena in the larger world , I wish now to consider how far the college has responded to other changes in the intellectual life , changes of broader meaning than any movement in the world of pure science , in the hope of finding in such consideration help towards the solution of problems with which the college is now occupied . It is a superficial observation that sees in the movement of American life only the march of a triumphant materialism . And it would be a narrow observation that should confine the intellectual life within the limitations of purely scientific thought . Between these two lies the body of cultivated intelligence , upon which , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is the mission of the college to contribute . Now , in this stratum of the intellectual life changes have been taking place during the last half-century , changes in attitude and feeling , which , when they are measured in their full extent , seem to have transformed our world . The changes in our houses , in our railway trains , in our electrical appliances , are not greater , nor are they in their sum total as significant to the college . A change of this kind , which has to do with the deepening and enrichment of life on the intellectual side , with some- thing not much less in meaning than civilization itself , is by its nature difficult to measure and even to apprehend until it can be seen in its accomplished completeness . I will not , however , try to prove that such a change has occurred by an enumeration of particulars ? libraries , laboratories , parks , public museums and private collections , domestic architecture , orchestras ; statistics in regard to these and other measurable elements of the change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole ; it is indeed within the memory of a single generation , and men in later middle life , as they can recall simplicities in transportation and crudities in scientific method , so can recall also simplicities in appreciation and accepted limitations of knowledge which are now impossible to an educated man and which have become to our children only an interesting tradition . Nothing is further from my purpose than to over-emphasize these limitations ; the present is what it is by virtue of what the past was ; but a certain summarizing pause is necessary to enable us to realize the greatness of the change and to say , not in thoughtless laudation of the present , but with full acceptance of the meaning of the words , that our fathers lived in a narrower world than we , in a provincial life , in conditions esthetically and even intellectually arid . Over against this statement are to be set some distinct reservations . The philosophical tone of the eighteenth century still deeply affected the thinking of the middle of the nineteenth , and , reinforced by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intellectual content and its logical coherence , preserved and strengthened an element of intellectual profundity which our children may recover , but which we have lost . In pure literature , which is at once a measure of cultivation and a means of further culture , it is especially difficult to judge impartially ; literature is the special province of the praiser of the past ; but it can scarcely be doubted that in writers of high distinction the present time is inferior to the middle period of the last  | century , and it may easily be argued that thoroughness of reading then gave to literature an influence which it has not quite retained . It is to be remembered also that there have always been in this country small communities where the learning of the old world found lodgment , and families in which culture was an inheritance and knowledge a familiar possession . But these reservations do not alter the general truth ; within a generation the intellectual life of America has been profoundly modified . Two aspects of the change call for special notice ; the one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its nature . The statistics of private and public endowment of knowledge , to which I alluded above , might be regarded merely as evidence that America , now rich , is ready to hire foreign musicians to play for her , to collect books that she does not read and pictures that she can not appreciate . But the impulse which leads an individual to collect a Goethe library or support an orchestra or found a museum of art is not self-made ; it is the particular expression , by a man to whom circumstances have made it possible , of an antecedent general interest in books or music or paintings . In the town where private gardens are intelligently cultivated , there will sometime be a public park , the gift perhaps of a single citizen , but the product of a common interest ; and Beethoven must first be played at home on many pianos before there shall be an orchestra to render his music in public . In the days of debating societies a favorite subject of discussion was the question whether it was desirable that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very form of the question is a reminder of the difference between that time and this , for it implied that culture was to be passed down to us , the busy crowd , from those above us , who had no other occupation than the cultivation of the arts . The event has proved quite different . That measure of cultivation to which we have attained has not come from  | the leading of men of leisure , but has been furthered and shared by busy men of affairs , who have so arranged their occupations as to have time and energy left for the pursuit of serious and intellectual interests . Nor is the word " class " in any proper sense descriptive of the body of intelligent men and women in the country . The precise opposite is more nearly true ; there has been a general elevation of taste and extension of knowledge , a general diffusion of intellectual ideals . It is not uniform ; no such change is ever uniform , affecting all individuals alike . There will always , in every advance of civilization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left behind , and in this loose sense of the word there are classes of the more or the less cultivated . But in the only harmful sense , of a fixed and superior class , defined by artificial or traditional boundaries , there is in this country no cultured class . There is rather a large and increasing cultured mass , a democracy of knowledge and intelligence . These considerations have to do with the situation in this country ; economic forces have brought us , to our immense gain , into the current of the world 's thought . Meanwhile that thought has itself been changing , changing profoundly in habit and attitude and in its very spirit and purpose . The nineteenth century , we say , was scientific , but the word carries with it too much of the professional ; it suggests applications of biology , or , more broadly , the methods of the investigator . But there is a deeper sense in which the thinking of the educated man is scientific and differs , by reason of this characteristic , from the thinking of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is to say that it implies a larger knowledge and recognizes a more exacting standard . We are conscious , in a way impossible to our fathers , that there exists a body of accurate thought , a library of precise and detailed knowledge ; and it is , indeed , partly by reason of this consciousness and the use we make of it , that we may be called educated men . We  | have become aware of that deep background of evolutionary process where the explanation of the present is to be sought . Something of scientific caution and scientific curiosity has been absorbed into our thinking , enough of caution to remind us of the incompleteness of our knowledge and enough of high curiosity to leave us still unsatisfied with anything less than the fullest attainable knowledge . For the centre of all this is not scientific method ; that has doubtless affected our habitual thinking and colored our conception of the world ; but the heart of it all is knowledge , in the widest sense , knowledge of interpretations and processes and causes , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inheritance and have learned that , by the reading of many books and by contact with many well-stored minds , we may become worthy to enter upon it . The first response of the college to the change of intellectual attitude was naturally to that which was most obvious , the widening of knowledge by the growth of the natural and physical sciences . The immediate result was the disintegration of the old curriculum . This was a revolution , but the secondary results were in truth of more consequence than the immediate effects . It then seemed impossible to find an adequate place for the new knowledge within the four years ' course ; and the college was plunged into all those experiments in free election , restricted election , and group systems of all kinds , in which the American instinct for organization found congenial occupation and with which , in one form or another , college officers are still too much engaged . That the experimentation was necessary is plain ; it is equally plain that some element of truth was contained in each of the experimental forms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the fog of irrelevant argument , is that the function of the college is still precisely what it was before ? to put the young man between eighteen and twenty-two into possession of his  | intellectual heritage , to hand on to him the wealth of emotion and experience which the race has accumulated . The difference which physics and biology and all the deepening knowledge have made is that the heritage is now larger ; there is more to be taught , more to be learned , as in the larger world the educated man has more to learn , more books to read , more to know . But the problems which are entailed by a widened knowledge and a more exacting standard are not of a kind to be solved by the mechanics of school programmes . In the enlarged performance of its unchanged function , the college is supported by the appearance during the last half-century of three new factors in education : the graduate school , the State university , and the preparatory school . Of the first this is not the place to speak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sometimes said that the growth of the State universities is the most conspicuous phenomenon in the recent history of education . This is true , in so far as these universities are taken as evidence of a general willingness to provide for the higher education at public cost ; looked at in this way it is indeed a remarkable fact . But the contribution which the State universities have made to educational theory is not great . In their arts courses they have continued the older college with such slight changes as were necessary to adjust it to their constituency ; and in the technical and engineering work they have repeated , sometimes with improved facilities , but without essential variation , the corresponding courses in the endowed institutions . This is not said in disparagement , but by way of definition . The arts course has been comparatively unimportant , hardly more than another college in addition to those already existing in the State ; but the technical and professional schools have offered facilities for training in the mechanic arts to those students whom inclination or circumstances  | have led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this extremely useful work , the university has had the aid of the public school system , finding effective support in the high school , and in turn stimulating the high school by opening an upward path for ambitious students . State university and public high school have formed a harmonious course of instruction leading directly into active life . The trend towards vocational studies in university and high school and the consequent turning away from intellectual ideals have been sometimes criticised or lamented , but it is hard to see how it could have been otherwise . The high school has a task of great and increasing difficulty , the task of training towards usefulness boys and girls drawn from the miscellaneous population of a city ; it is not cultivation or preparation for further education that must be here the determining factor . And , aside from this special defense , the vocational tendency of both high school and university is justified by the fact that it is a response to the increasingly severe demands of manufacture and transportation , which , like the increased demands upon the physician @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even at the cost of a partial sacrifice of the intellectual . The State university and the college , especially the Eastern college for men , are therefore not in direct or harmful competition ; such competition as the arts course sets up has not yet proved seriously harmful even to the coeducational colleges in the same States . The relation is rather complementary than competitive , and , like all such relations ; may be reciprocally beneficial , if it is frankly accepted . Practically , the college is relieved from the obligation to provide technical instruction and from the disturbing presence ? these words should not be misunderstood ? of students who would inevitably be impatient to begin their professional training . On the ideal side , the clearness with which the aims of technical and engineering  | courses define themselves , brings out the more distinctly by contrast the non-vocational definition of the college . The help towards the realization of its ideal which the college receives from the existence of the technical school is indirect ; the help which it is receiving from the preparatory school is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as yet scarcely known how to make full use of it . A sentence will tell the story of the rise of these schools ; forty years ago they were few and their graduates made up less than a quarter of a Freshman class ; now they are many , their number is increasing , they have long waiting lists , and more than half of the students in Eastern colleges come from their instruction . This is a great change . The local academy has been absorbed into the public school system , the high school is turning towards the vocational , and the preparatory school is doing the academic work of both . Scarcely conscious of what has been happening , we have reached a situation like that which exists in England , where a boy goes away from home to school as a matter of course , and where the formative influence of the school is counted not secondary to that of the university . It is unfortunate , since words affect thinking , that we have for these institutions no better term than preparatory school , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ names will be written in the history of American education , they have long since ceased to be merely preparatory to college and have formed a character of their own . They found their model in the English schools and their opportunity in the large control that they could exercise over the time of boys away from home . They have so used their opportunity as to require a much larger amount of work than the day school can require ; and larger also than the college , confused by the difficulties of adjusting its curriculum and cautious in freeing itself from tradition , has as yet ventured to demand . Apparently the schools are now reaching down into the earlier years , and , either in the form of boarding schools or of day schools  |p464  that take complete charge of younger boys , are about to occupy the years from ten to fourteen , where the system of the public schools is most painfully wasteful . The meaning of this is easy to read . College and preparatory school together form a connected and harmonious course of study leading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of State university and high school . The shaping forces have , as always , originated outside the educational system . The technical training is a response to the demands of increasingly complex processes of manufacture ; the academic course has been moulded by the enlargement of the world of knowledge and the more exacting standard of the intellectual life . But , while the college has responded to the widening of science , it has acquiesced too easily in the dictum that no man can now learn everything , and has not yet deepened its instruction . The schools , on the other hand , but slightly disturbed by elective systems , have been in a position to respond more quickly and completely to the advance in the standard of intellectual thoroughness . It implies no censure of the colleges to say that they have here something to learn from the schools . Thus far I have been speaking of education as if its function were wholly intellectual . This of course is not the truth ; on the contrary , the usual statements of the ideal of the college @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in intellectual : that it is for discipline , that it prepares for citizenship , for public service , for life . These ideals may not unfairly be summarized by saying that the college exists for ) he development and direction of character . All of them contain truth ; they contain , indeed , too much truth for the purpose of precise definition . It is the mission of the church also to develop character , to prepare for service , for living . Nor would it be difficult to support the thesis that character is the ultimate aim of all organized effort and all human institutions . This is the justification for the  |p465  existence of a railway , for it is in vain that freight is carried for a fraction of a cent per ton-mile , unless in the end men are to be the better , really the better , for it . But church and railway and college reach their common goal by divergent paths and are to be defined by their divergences , not by that which they have in common . Now the college @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge is the centre of it and the passing on of knowledge is the reason for its existence . But knowledge does not stand alone ; and from the process of acquiring it will result certain secondary effects : discipline , enlarged comprehension of duty , fitness for citizenship , fitness even for a vocation , which show how the intellectual life is intertwined with the high virtues . The college may well claim credit for these secondary effects also , as it must accept responsibility for all the indirect consequences which flow from the gathering of young men together , and must feel itself deeply bound to make the conditions of its social life unfavorable to folly and favorable to all manliness . But knowledge is the thing it ought to do ; the others are the things it ought not to leave undone . It is desirable that chisels be made in hygienic shops , by well-paid employees , who shall go home in contentment to cheerful hearths ; but if the chisels shall not take and keep an edge , then the factory has become an ill-conceived charitable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theoretical ; the college is not forced to choose between its immediate intellectual function and its higher , but less immediate , moral duties ; it may rest in the assured conviction that knowledge makes for intelligence , and intelligence for virtue . Definitions of the college in ethical terms will therefore not affect , and are in truth not intended to affect , the relation of primary and secondary functions , and they serve as a prophylactic against the sterility which is the inherent weakness of the purely intellectual . But , while this is true in general , it has not been without  |p466  exceptions , especially at periods when the college has met the pressure of some strong current of popular feeling . Colleges have been founded in the past in which the religious aspect of education ? and this is a crucial test ? has been so emphasized that it has seemed to be the supreme duty . I do not think it is an unfair judgment of the result to say that such colleges have been of lowered intellectual standard , while the type of moral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neither broad nor robust . The confusion of primary and secondary function has not been favorable to the performance of either . At the present time , as might be expected , the encroachment comes from the side of social ideals . The American colleges , at least the men 's colleges , have thus far been free from that precocious and over-confident interest in public affairs which has disfigured some foreign universities ; but there has been of recent years a disposition to attach a high importance to the social training of the college , so that the greater or less degree of democracy which is supposed to prevail at this or that , institution has been regarded as a kind of standard by which the excellence of the college might be measured . This is not precisely an interest in the preservation of democracy ; democracy , we know , is selfpreserving and in no danger . It is rather an expression of the determination that the college shall not injure itself by becoming a nursery of class distinctions . An attitude such as this deserves sympathetic recognition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extreme emphasis upon the less immediate duty should impair the performance of the prime function . The possibility of such interference is not imaginary . The entrance requirements of the college have for many years demanded frequent revision , since they affect the course of study in both school and college . The preparatory school , however , in consequence of its raised standard , now finds it easy to meet and even to go beyond the require/ ments of any college ; and such adjustments as are still occasionally necessary touch no principle and are of slight moment . With the high schools it is different . As they have recognized with increasing clearness their proper work in the school system of a city and their close relation to the State university , they have shaped their policy towards these ends and have accepted the necessity of abandoning academic studies and academic standards . I believe that they have chosen wisely , but we must face the consequences of the decision ; their pupils , often young men of character and capacity , are not prepared for academic study and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the intellectual advance of the college . If , on the other hand , the college seeks to build upon the admirable foundation laid by the preparatory schools , it must expect to hear , like a Japanese war-scare , the cry that it is becoming a place for rich men 's sons . That is , the democratic ideal and the intellectual ideal are here in conflict . A like conflict within the college is just appearing above the horizon . The American college has for a decade been prepared to give in its later years instruction equal to that given in the English universities ; and among its students are many who are so far advanced towards intellectual maturity as to be capable of profiting by instruction less rigid than the method of the recitation-room and more personal and stimulating than the method of the lecture-room . But this forward step , greatly to be desired as it is , can be taken only by making some distinction like that between honor men and pass men , and such a distinction is felt to be , and perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here again the best performance of the chief duty of the college seems to be obstructed by fear lest a secondary duty be neglected . But a conflict of duties is only apparent ; a clearer insight , if we can attain to it , will resolve the perplexity . To that end I will put the matter bluntly . A college which shall make knowledge its centre , which shall set before itself as  |p468  an ideal the duty of giving to its students the fullest measure of their intellectual heritage and shall recognize the obligation to respond to the more exacting standard of the intellectual life by more exacting demands upon its students , a college which shall seek to take , in its own sphere , the position which the best medical and law schools have taken , ? such a college will of necessity be costly in money and in effort . Its students will come largely from well-to-do families , and young men of limited means can receive its benefits only by the exercise of unusual determination . These are hard facts , but they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the attempt , within the little world of educational system , to deny or evade the large movements of social and economic progress ; they must be accepted , and not reluctantly , but with intelligent comprehension of their beneficent meaning . We can not maintain in a society of increasing complexity those particular forms of democracy which were suited to a simple and homogeneous society . And the most effective , because the most natural , protest that the college can make against harmful distinctions of class is to double its emphasis upon the intellectual . For in the intellectual world there are neither rich nor poor . If the working-out of the higher destiny of the college involves some loss and suggests the possibility of further incidental loss and limitation , it is always to be remembered that tendencies and currents of movement , though they may for the sake of clearness be described as if they were quite distinct , are not in reality unmixed and no single one of them will work out unchecked to what we call its logical conclusion . Some high schools will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universities may concentrate all their resources upon technical training , but others will maintain their college within the university ; on the other side , the preparatory schools are already establishing free scholarships , and it may be said with assurance that the time will  |p469  never come when lack of money will exclude a young man of character and purpose from even the most expensive college . But it is equally certain that the higher education of the country is shaping itself , both consciously and unconsciously , to meet the country 's need , not that need which finds vociferous expression , but that recurring need which results from permanent intellectual and social change . The deepening of knowledge , the ripening of culture , the broadening of view , difficult as it is to measure , silent , unorganized , is in fact a change of profound and lasting significance . The corresponding adjustment of the educational system has not been immediate or complete ; the retarding influences contain too much of good to be lightly set aside ; but the response has begun . The older colleges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in general selecting that alternative which leads towards the ideal of fuller knowledge and more serious intellectual purpose . And the advance may be hastened by a deliberate recognition of the effort which it will require . For the intellectual life is not , for the individual , a life of ease ; appreciations of literature and discriminating tastes and stimulating comprehensions are among its fruits , but it is fed upon dry facts , upon paradigms and chemical formula , upon names and dates and tables of statistics , and he who would enter this life , in which usefulness and pleasure are at one , must first read many dull books . As with the individual , so with the college : it must pay the price ; more work , less play .                     