@@487108

President Taft confined his message to Congress to a long review of our foreign relations , and to an exposition of the theory upon which he thinks they should be conducted . In all this there - is , let it be said at once , much that is excellent . Mr. Taft speaks of the successive steps by which it has been sought to rescue the consular service from the spoilsmen Tracing the movement back to President Cleveland , he shows how improvement steadily followed improvement , until the time came to seek to place the diplomatic service , too , upon a non-partisan basis . By an Executive order of three years ago , appointment to the lower grades was made conditional upon merit shown by examination , and promotion has since that time been made only for efficiency , as is now the case throughout the entire consular service . This represents a great advance ; and the President does well to urge Congress to make the reform secure by enacting some such measure as was before it last session for the purpose of firmly basing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the merit system . From political or military intervention in Mexico or Central and South America , Mr. Taft evidently shrinks . Specifically referring to the past year 's troubles in Mexico , which , as he points out , raised questions of extreme delicacy , he declares that his policy all through was one of " patient non-intervention , " combined with " steadfast recognition of constituted authority , " and at the same time " effort to care for American interests " The end now bids fair to crown the work ; and President Taft 's course throughout the Mexican disturbances  --  if we except the ill-judged and deceptive mobilization of American troops on the border  --  has been highly creditable . Towards other republics in the West Indies and Central America , he professes intentions equally benevolent , but in some cases these are - linked to plans for the control of those countries through the administration of their finances The Presidentagain puts forward the treaties with Nicaragua and Honduras , covering loans , and declares that if they had been ratified the recent revolutionary outbreak in Nicaragua would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political troubles were ever to occur in Santo Domingo , after our financial control was established there , but they have done so . Indeed , the treaty would have virtually obligated the United States to use force in Nicaragua , when demanded by our agents , just as it was used startlingly last summer . But the whole discussion is now barren . The treaties are dead . " If President Wilson stands to his guns and his pledges , " says the London Economist , " the whole forces of Protection will concentrate on the Senate . Will they succeed better than the bosses in New Jersey ? We hope not ; though free trade in the States would soon produce formidable rivals for British manufacturers . " We can imagine the indignation with which this will be read by any American protectionist . " What audacious hypocrisy , " he will say : " an Englishman pretending that he expects America to become a more formidable rival to England through free trade , and at the same time that he hopes we shall take steps towards becoming a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course , is the ruin of American industry for the benefit of the Britishers . " There is one circumstance , however , about the British free-trade attitude which our protectionist must fiat it hard to reconcile with this view . For forty years , or thereabouts , the protectionists of England , whether calling themselves " fair traders , " or " tariff reformers , " or " Imperial preference " men , have been trying to hammer into the free-traders ' heads the idea that British free trade , under which foreign goods come in free while British goods have to Pay big duties in other countries , is a one-sided thing . hurting England and helping other countries ; but stubborn John Bull has insisted that he is satisfied with the bargain . He thinks it a good thing for him to buy freely where he pleases , even though he is not allowed to sell freely . So that , after all , in saying that he thinks American freetrade would be good for America , and at the same time good for England in spite of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us a sample of his standard though silly free-trade talk . The zone-rate system of the parcels-post service which is to go into operation on the first of January flies in the face of the spirit of that post-office policy which is associated with the name of Rowland Hill , and which has governed postal management and postal progress throughout the world for three-quarters of a century . That distinctions and discriminations should be made only for important and adequate reason , that the gain from uniformity and simplicity is sure to be enormous , that a close reek-suing of expense , and adjustment of charges to it by minute classification , does not pay either from the standpoint of the post office or from that of the public  --  these are the commonplace presumptions of postal policy . From this it does not follow that there should be a uniform rate for parcels throughout the vast area of the United States . In the case of a five or ten-pound package , the expense of the long-distance transportation is very considerable , and in order to make a uniform rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to carry parcels for great distances at a heavy loss and to make the general rate so high that a large part of the advantage of the service for moderate distances would be sacrificed . For this reason , and also on account of legitimate commercial considerations , the parcels-post service should be conducted on some kind of zone-rate basis . But while a zone system of some kind is desirable for this country , such a zone system as that prescribed by the act of August 24 , 1912 , is not only unnecessary , but absurd . To divide the country tro into thousands of little quadrangles , and to make each post office the centre of a series of seven concentric circles by means of which the quadrangles are classified as belonging to the first , second , and so on to the eighth zone , is quite needless . Only a very rough adjustment is attained by the elaborate and highly inconvenient method of the present law ; and there is an extremely simple method which would serve the same end It may be desirable to start @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be called local service ; but apart from this the whole system should be based on the States as units . For the purpose of fixing rates , each State should be represented by its geographical centre ; and , whatever distances be adopted as a basis for the zone system , each zone , for any given State , should comprise the whole of any State whose centre is within the specified distance of the centre of the given State . Thus the Post Office Department would , once for all , make out , for each State , a list of those States which comprise its first zone , its second zone , etc. , and this one list would be all that anybody in a given State would have to consult in order to know the postage required on any Package Those in the habit of sending packages frequently would very soon know the zones by heart so far as their ordinary business is concerned . There may be practical politics , but there certainly is no social justice , in the proposal to force Mr. George @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understand the report that Mr. Roosevelt is to change his plans , and go to the Chicago Progressive conference expressly to stand up for his chief financial backer It is no doubt true that Mr. Perkins 's prominence in the new party was used to discredit it , particularly in the West . His name may , as some Progressives sorrowfully admit in private , have driven away thousands of votes among the rude Western farmers . But if all this was an injustice , as the Progressives all along said it was , is the party which is devoted to justice , whether it immediately triumphs m not , going to abandon a man simply because he was misunderstood ? Can it cling to a Flinn and throw over a Perkins ? At all events , Mr. Perkins is , we are glad to see , determined to stick . He has taken an oath to make this country a better one for his children to live in , and is not to be shaken by mere gossip . He will trust in the Progressive party though it slay him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He is as ready , nay , as eager , as Col. Roosevelt himself to be hereafter simply one in the ranks . If necessary , he will make his own the words of Lord George Bentinck , when asked to lead the Tory revolt against Peel , and say : " We have heard too much about leaders . I will be the last of the rank and file " The National Guard Convention at Norfolk is evidently to be used to push the plan for Federal pay for the militia We have already gone on record as wholly opposed to it , and sincerely trust that all the forces now combating the rapid growth of a military lobby at Washington , and of militarism generally , will promptly bring their influence to bear . Certainly , no such far-reaching measure ought to be passed without the most thoroughgoing public discussion . Primarily , it is another blow at States ' rights , and virtually means the final step in the Federal Government 's taking over the militia . Yet if there is one thing clear in the intent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the militia of the " several States " should be under the sole authority of the States . Moreover , since the militia system has been successfully carried on for 136 years as a voluntary and unpaid service , save when the troops are in camp , there is manifestly no genuine need whatever for pay . Col. Silas W. Burt , who died on Saturday in his eighty-third year , was one of the last survivors of that fine group or devoted workers to whom the country is indebted for the introduction and the successful establishment of the merit system in the Federal service , and , in a less but still very notable measure , in our State and municipal governments . The hard fight that the spoils system still makes to hold on to all that is left to it gives but a faint idea of the deathly grip it had on our whole political system when the little band , of whom Dorman B Eaton and George William : Curtis and Edwin L. Godkin were the most influential leaders , made their persistent assault upon it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to the reality and efficacy of the reform in the early years after the law was enacted . It was generally - looked upon , even by a large portion of the better class of newspapers , as a goody-goody sort of affair , which our red-blooded citizens would never allow to take the place of the stalwart American doctrine a at to the victors belong the spoils . It was largely owing to the practical embodiment of the new principle in the person of vigorous and virile men like Col. Burt that this notion was overcome . " City forest " may sound like a contradiction in terms , but it is the name officially given to an experiment that is under trial at Syracuse . As soon as announcement was made by the State College of Forestry at Syracuse University that the College wished to cooperate with woodlot and timberland owners in placing their holdings under scientific forest management , the Water Bureau of the city applied for aid in the care of 150 acres of second-growth timber . Evidently , there is no great amount of " town @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laid out over the tract in question . Each plot is treated differently . One receives a thinning for the purpose of getting rid of the old trees and trees that will not grow quickly into timber . On another attention is paid to favoring the natural growth on the ground . On a third , evergreens will be planted . One or two plots will be left untouched , in order to furnish a basis of comparison with Unattended timberland . Meanwhile , the timber removed from the tract is cut and put upon the market It is estimated that it will return within a reasonable time 21A or 3 per cent . compound interest . But the value of such an example of conservation as this seems to be is beyond mathematical calculation Colleagues and former students of Prof. Crawford Howell Toy , of Harvard University , have paid him a handsome tribute of affection and regard by contributing to a volume , entitled " Studies in the History of Religions , " the expense of which Mr. Jacob H. Schiff has generously- assumed . This Festschrift took shape @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in March , 1911 , in a small faculty club at Harvard , over which he has presided since 1891 . Six of the members of this club undertook the editing of the volume , or contributed to it ? Profs . F. N. Robinson , C II . Moore , G. F. Moore , Sheldon , Lyon , and Kittredge  --  and scholars at Oxford , Johns Hopkins , Yale , Bryn Mawr , Dr. W. H. Ward of the Independent , and others have gladly added to the imposing collection of articles . Dr. Toy was a modest soldier in the Confederate army , which he joined when a professor of Greek in Richmond , and afterwards he taught at Harvard for twenty-nine years , before retiring as Hancock professor emeritus . Always he has lacked the power to advertise himself . What could gratify such a man more than the willingness of associates and former students to lay at his feet the best products of their research and mature knowledge ? The teachers of Utah are determined that the children in that State shall love the flag whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will have no trifling with the subject on the part of any teacher who may lack faith in the efficacy of compulsory methods for instilling the sentiment of patriotism . Neither teacher , nor superintendent , nor school board  --  no , not even the Legislature  --  is to have any say in the matter if the recommendation of the Utah State Teachers ' Association is put into effect , for it calls for an amendment of To the remarkable series of convictions obtained by the District Attorney of New York the finding guilty of Hyde comes as a sort of triumphant climax . For there had been an almost universal expectation that this prosecution would not be successful . The crime charged was rare . The proof was technical and difficult to get before a jury . And Hyde had so long fought for delay , and had , at the last moment , produced what appeared at first to be so perfect an alibi , that even those who were fully persuaded that he had grossly abused his power as City Chamberlain felt that it would be impossible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of telephone records . The jury evidently believed Robin 's testimony against Hyde , and was as plainly impressed by the bank records laid before it . In finding a verdict in accordance with the evidence , the jury and the District Attorney 's office have rendered a public service as great in its way as the bringing to justice of Becker and the assassins of Rosenthal . The wicked newspapers are at it again . Not content with defeating Mr. information , " they are now overloading those same channels with false information in regard to that most beneficent of monopolies , the New York , New Haven &; Hartford Railroad . Fortunately , an unnamed director of the road is at hand to expose the whole dastardly business in this wise . " I am quite aware of the large amount of public comment the New Haven Road is attracting . I think if the newspapers stopped publishing these things and these lengthy reports , everything would come out right . The newspapers are at the bottom of half or all of this hue and cry . " Exactly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Legislatures , Mayors , ministers , and the great body of commuters as to compel them to denounce so unjustly this great railway . Investigation will , we are sure , prove-that those mass meetings of protest going on in Connecticut were paid for and organized by the wicked press . In fact , we should not be surprised if it should appear that enterprising reporters had deliberately If there is any lingering doubt in anybody 's mind whether the Panama Canal is worth all it has cost , it will be removed by the announcement that the Government is to issue a special series of stamps in commemoration of the achievement . One reason why world 's fairs have long outlived their original usefulness is because they give such an excellent excuse for issuing new sets of stamps . We do not speak from the narrow position of the stamp collector . Where is the man with soul so dead as not to brighten up at the sight of the most unwelcome letter bearing a blanket stamp with a picture of some historic event ? During the period when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unattractive advertising matter are carefully preserved until the stamps have been inspected , on the chance that some one about the house or the office may not have seen the new one-cent or five-cent design . Mr. Donal . Law , as - leader-  in the HOuse of Commons of the party which to-day asserts that it represents more truly than ever before " the gentlemen of England , " continues to illustrate in his speeches what Mr. Asquith has charrecently to a great party gathering , Mr. Law professed to be holding himself under severe restraint . His real thoughts about the Liberal ' Ministry he could not trust himself to express , and so he contented himself with mildly calling them " a Government , of gam- blers and adventurers , which , if it is allowed to carry out its programme , will lead this country headlong to ruin . " But the Conservatives are not only the party of the aristocracy and of gentle breeding , they are the party of law and order . Hence it was peculiarly fitting for Mr. Law to assert that he and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Parliament of Great Britain . He referred , of course , to the pending bill for Home Rule in Ireland . He fairly gave notice that he and his party would do their best to " wreck this bill in the House of Commons " ; and he added that , if i a law , " we shall wreck it then . " If a responsible Irish Nationalist had said this , there would have been a loud Conservative cry for a Coercion act . The fourth Russian Duma , which met in St. Petersburg on Thursday of last week , apparently belied predictions in electing for its president a candidate supported by the Centre and the Left against the reactionary Right , by a vote of 251 to 159 . To strengthen its grip on the representatives of the people , the Government had resorted to the usual manipulations of the electoral law which have hitherto been so successful in restricting the vote to an inconsiderable fraction of the Russian people . The second and third Dumas were known as " Landlord " Dumas . For the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strength of the clerical element among the Deputies . Up to the last moment it appeared to have obtained more than it bargained for . An actual majority of priests or deputies under clerical influence seemed probable , and the Government faced the possibility of having to do business with a body of reactionary Deputies more royalist than the King . By what supplementary tinkering such an outcome has been averted the dispatches have not told us . What is plain is that the Czar has now as docile a Parliament under his control as the last one , and that the chances of thorough reform are as remote as they were a year ago .                     