@@487132

There were thousands of people who felt themselves roused to indignant sympathy with Mr. Taft , at the time of Mr. Roosevelt 's malicious attacks - upon him in the primary campaign . Such people , even when they belonged to the Democratic party , drew considerable gratification from the reviving activity of - Mr . Taft 's campaign a month ago . They were willing to concede to him a certain share of the political advantage which accrues to an existing Administration from the return of prosperity to the country as a whole , and they accepted as part of the political game the President 's public statements , asking voters whether they wanted to " change things " when their business affairs were moving so satisfactorily . Had Mr. Taft been content to rest on this general argument , he would have ended the campaign with dignity , even if it ended with his defeat for reelection . In 1908 , Mr. Taft began his autumn swing round the circle with a defence of the judiciary 's rightful powers in labor cases , and with an attack on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him the applause and respect of conservative men , even among his political opponents . When , however , he reached the old Protectionist battleground of Indiana , he began to tell his audiences how the Wilson tariff bill of 1894 brought on the country " the worst financial disaster it has ever seen " ; and having thus pointed out the antecedent causes of the panic of 1893 , he asked his South Dakota audiences to recall " that great tariff measure , " " under the influence of which wheat went down below 50 cents . " The feeling which those absurdities created in the minds of thinking men was expressed by a well-known lawyer , who declared , in a letter at the time , that the public man who resorted to such arguments either believed them , in which case he was too foolish to be a fit President of the United States , or else did not believe them , in which case he was intellectually too dishonest for that of-fice . The criticism was severe , and we imagine that Mr. Taft himself felt its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his campaign of 1912 , comes Mr. Taft again with this jewel of economic reasoning , in his written appeal to the farmers of Minnesota : ' - It is not necessary to jog the memory of the older farmers of your State as to what happened when the Democratic party passed the Wilson tariff bill . Wheat went down to 40 cents a bushel , corn to 21 cents , oats to 18 cents , potatoes to 27 cents We do not know that any formal ai gnirent against the high protective tariff school could be more convincing than this illustration of the condition to which its doctrines bring a mind that has shown itself capable of grappling courageously and honestly with other problems of the day . Gov . Wilson 's words concerning the importance that would attach , in the event of the party and the new President would be placed in a position in which they would have a full opportunity to show what they can do for the country Large promises have been made , of which no one can demand the immediate fulfilment , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the other hand the country has a right to hope for some clear results actually achieved , and some significant beginnings of results to be Against any these regards , serve as a convenient answer ; but with both Houses Democratic , Mr. Wilson would find the field really open for car-lying out the great policies of improvement that he had outlined .. That opportunity he would eagerly welcome , tremendous as is the responsibility which it would place upon him . And it looks as if it were by no means improbable that he will get it . - For some years Chicago has been endeavoring to decide whether it wanted voting machines or not . A few months ago it purchased a number , which were used in a city election with varying success . Now an effort is made to prevent their employment in this election . Theobject of attack is the legal limitation upon the voter of one minute in which to cast his ballot , it being contended that this time is insufficient for arranging a " split " ticket . This contention is apparently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Experts succeeded in splitting tickets in forty seconds , but others fell far behind that record . The president of the Citizens ' Association of Chicago , who has been a prominent figure in reform politics for many years , required above two minutes to vote , making several mistakes in the process . A street-car conductor was a little longer , and a reporter , strangely enough , was the longest of the three . Those who are opposing the machines for the approaching election assert that 30,000 voters will be disfranchised if they are used . Part of this result will be due to the one-minute limitation , and part to mistakes which will invalidate the machine-cast ballots ; while , judging by experience , many voters , owing to their unfamiliarity with this method of voting , will stay away from the polls altogether . A taxation reform of unusual interest and importance is involved in one of the Constitutional amendments ? Amendment No. 3 ? to be ' submitted to the people of New Hampshire for ratification at the coming election . It is urged upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Society for Protection of New Hampshire Forests , which sets forth both the glaring inequalities of the actual method of taxing forest property , and its inevitable effect in promoting the lamentable destruction of the trees Under the existing Constitutional requirement that all property be taxed equally and proportionally every year , the growing crop of timber  --  if the requirement is obeyed  --  must be " taxed at its full value over and over again " ; and the practical consequence is a twofold , evil . On the one hand , the law is not fulfilled and its mitigation , results in all sorts of inequities and abuses ; and on the other hand , even this mitigated enforcement of the law is sufficient to compel forest owners to cut down forests so as to avoid further taxation , long before they otherwise would do so . The proposed amendment will permit the Legislature to provide a special system of tax assessment for forest property ; the intention being that an annual tax shall be levied on the land value as such , irrespective of the growing crop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only at the time of felling , and then at a proper and adequate rate . It is to be hoped that this salutary reform will be adopted . The preservation of the New Hampshire forests is a matter of acute interest far beyond the confines of that State . There are some supporters of the " Oregon system " who declare that a trap has been set for it this year by the Legislature . The citizens of that State are to vote on thirty-eight different laws and amendments . The proposal which the friends of direct legislation regard as dangerous is in the form of an amendment to the Constitution calling for a majority of the votes cast " at the election , " instead of the majority of the votes cast " thereon , " to carry any future amendment . In this the radicals see their pet scheme used against itself . They are opposing its passage tooth and nail , as also the passage of a proposal of similar tenor in regard to " initiative " measures . Other important provisions among the thirty-eight proposals , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income taxes , to provide a " blue sky " law and to abolish contract prison labor , make it plain that , for the student of government , Oregon 's action at the polls will be well worth watching . The establishment , through the gift of Mr. James B. Brady , of a Urological institute in connection with the Johns Hopkins Hospital , is the third of a series of foundations made in recent years by special endowment at that great institution . The other two are the Henry Phipps Psychiatric Clinic and the Harriet Lane Home for Invalid Children . All of these special establishments serve the double purpose of hospital and research institute , and , working in conjunction with the admirable staff of the Johns Hopkins Medical School , form an important addition to the country 's resources for the advancement of medical knowledge . It is notable that , in these and other ways , themedical side of the activities initiated at Baltimore a generation ago through the tar-sighted munificence of Johns Hopkins has been liberally promoted by men of wealth from a distance ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has received generous support from Baltimoreans , has had very little pecuniary aid from the country at large . The difference is doubtless largely due to the personal experience through which donors have become acquainted with the merits of the medical activities . The busy news collectors in Mexico who began announcing the imminent fall of President Madero even before his election , have laid stress on two fatal circumstances . In the first place , Madero was a dreamer and theorist who was unequal to the practical exigencies of his position . In the second place , a national spirit was totally lacking in Mexico . The actual course of events , has shown that in Madero the Mexican people has found a leader of extraordinary resourcefulness , of courage , and of tenacity . When Orozco 's army was carrying everything before it in Chihuahua and the anti-Maderist press was announcing that at Torrefin the fall of the Government would be signalized , Madero refused to give way to panic and bided his time until his forces were in a position to strike a decisive blow . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent history . The situation was a trying one . Besides Orozco , there were the Zapatist forces in the vicinity of the capital to be reckoned with , and in Mexico City there was discontent and disloyalty . Porfirio Diaz himself could not have dealt with the situation more effectively . Then came the fiasco of Diaz at Vera Cruz , and it was demonstrated that Madero did have behind him the good will of the bulk of the nation . The walls of Mexico City did not tumble down at the magic sound of the name Diaz . The confidently predicted defection of Federal generals and troops did not take place . The expected upheaval of the entire countryside at the signal from Vera Cruz did not come off . It has been shown pretty conclusively that the Mexican people is not tired of Madero and that it is by no means convinced that he has badly failed in his work . Theman who can hold his own against the powerful influences brought into the field by the supporters of Porfirio Diaz , who can command the obedience of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can keep order in the capital and deal pretty effectively with the marauding bands of so-called revolutionists in the provinces , seems to be quite the right man for his place . Madero 's prestige to-day is higher than at any moment since he took office . The break in the Borden Cabinet , made by the resignation of F. D. Monk , has been expected . The retiring Minister feels that , as his colleagues do not intend to submit the proposed new naval policy to the people , he will be put in the position of violating his preelection pledge in the matter . Now , it may be perfectly proper for this particular official , under these particular circumstances , to give up his seat at the council table , but he can not be blind to the gravity of the precedent he is setting . What would happen if officials in general were to act upon it , and resign rather than share the responsibility for the violation of preelection pledges ? Mr. Monk 's act , we suppose , is dictated by the new spirit that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time-honored course for him to have followed was to explain to his constituents that the preelection pledge was , in fact , and despite appearances , being fulfilled to the letter . If this was absolutely impossible to " carry off , " then he should have resorted to the ultima ratio of the politician . Ex-Representative " Jim " Watson of Indiana could have coached him . Facing a convention in his district during the McKinley Administration , shortly after he had voted upon a measure contrary to the expectations of his supporters , the sagacious Congressman struck an attitude , and declaimed in words like these : " But when I saw ranged on one side all those grand leaders of the grand old Republican party , William McKinley- " Here the cheering told him that the argument had gone home . At a convocation held - for the purpose of renominating Dr. Charles B. Heberden , principal of Brasenose College , Oxford , to be Vice-Chancellor for a third year of office , we read that the Vice-Chancellor " delivered the customary speech ( for the first time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last year he raised the question of abandoning the time-honored custom of employing Latin for this speech , and on the whole he considered that the use of English was better . " Many will feel a pang of regret on reading this announcement . The change is not of vital importance , and a few severely practical reasons can be advanced which seem to make it desirable . Yet the abandonment of that " time-honored custom " signifies the breaking of another link in the chain which connects Oxford so intimately with the traditions and usages of the past . It may , of course , be pleaded that many of those who listen to the Vice-Chancellor are unable to follow him in Latin ; but - the quality of ambiguousness is by no means confined to speeches delivered in a dead language . Occasionally , too , there may be an element of the grotesque in the spectacle of a scientific or mathematical Vice-Chancellor wrestling with uncomprehended Ciceronian periods , and stumbling deplorably over his Latin quantities ; certainly , after the event , there is scholarly , if unhallowed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But these are small incidents , and if we began to eliminate from Oxford all the forms and ceremonies that contain for modern eyes something of the grotesque , it would be difficult to know where to stop . The chief argument in favor of the " time-honored custom " prescribing that the Vice-Chancellor shall address Convocation in Latin is that it emphasizes the continuity not only of Oxford 's history , but of the history of learning . When the Vice-Chancellor delivers his Latin oration he is using the medium of speech that made learning possible in the early stages of our present civilization , the lingua franca of scholars throughout the world , by means of which the thoughts and researches of the wisest of Europe were made the common property of all . In an age when books were rare and hard to come by , it was no small thing that the scholars of every nationality were able to write and to converse in a common tongue ; when travelling in a foreign land was a difficult and hazardous adventure , it was of great solace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chainof houses in which he could enjoy both hospitality and conversation . BERLIN , October 25 ? The growth of cities at the expense of the country is responsible for the German meat famine , Chancellor Bethmann-Hollweg told the Diet to-day Tariffs and taxes have nothing to do with it , - he asserted . He suggested the draining and colonizing of the moorlands with the Government 's financial aid as a palliative , but declared that the only sure remedy is an increase in the number of farmers . The cable may not have done full justice to Herr von Bethmann-Hollweg , but we very much fear that it has reported him pretty accurately . Yet in any other domain than politics or economics , such nonsense could not go down for a moment . You keep foreign meats out for no other purpose under the sun than to enable home producers to get good prices for meat , and then You turn round and saY that the price would be just the same if you had done nothing of the kind . As for an " increase in the number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase in twenty-four hours by simply letting the farmers of Argentina , and Australia , and any other country that desires to sell meat , come into the German market . And if the Chancellor disdains such simple and " doctrinaire " considerations , the favorite " historical " method of German thinkers might come to his aid . Does he think that the cry for cheaper food , three-quarters of a century ago , in another country which was rapidly developing its manufactures , should have been silenced by the assertion that tariffs made no difference ? Does he think England was acting under a sheer delusion when she abolished the corn laws ? To take one possible explanation of the unbroken series of Turkish defeats , is it probable , as some correspondents are now asserting , that the Turkish soldier has lost his fine qualities of the past ? Instead of the splendid fighting animal , whom religious fanaticism made indifferent to death , and who won victories in rags and on an empty stomach , we are now asked to regard the Turkish soldier as indifferent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The change is too startling to be credible . It is belied by the showing made in the Greek war of 1897 , and only the other day against the Italians in Tripoli . Nor is it reasonable to suppose that the long years of training under capable German officers have gone to waste . We must adopt the more plausible explanation that the Turks have so far been numerically weaker in the field than their opponents , and decidedly inferior in equipment . When Turkey 's standing army was balanced against the armed forces of the allies , the important factor of mobilization was not sufficiently taken into account . Constantinople has to draw its reserves from Asia Minor , Armenia , and Arabia , Whereas the allies are virtually fighting in front of their own doorsteps . When we speak of the rapidity of the Balkan armies ' advance , we must bear in mind also that distances are small in the present field of hostilities . Adrianople is less than twenty-five miles from the Bulgarian frontier ; Scutari is about the same distance from Podgoritza , where the Montenegrin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from ten to thirty miles to oc- ' cupy the towns of Novibazar , Prishtina , and Kumanovo ; the Greeks have moved forward about thirty miles to reach Serfidze . Over such short distances the first impulse of an offensive attack is enough to carry an invading army . All doubt about what happened to the Czarevitch , and how , he is getting on , has been dispelled by the following statement made by the Marshal of the Court of Russia : An accidental fall suffered by the Hereditary Grand Duke will keep his Imperial Highness in bed for some time still . You can place entire confidence in the statements of the official bulletins . Even in countries whose governmental arrangements are less perfect than those of Russia , it is well known that official statements are always absolutely truthful  --  though some have suspected that the author of Pinafore intended a little mischief when he made Sir Joseph Porter , K.0 B. , say that in his happy country " official communications are invariably regarded as unanswerable . " But whatever may be true of less favored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has ever been known to be other than strictly accurate . We only wonder that the Marshal of the Court should have gone so far as to recognize that there may exist persons so depraved as to require his assurance that the official bulletins are orthy of entire confidence .                     