@@486025

CHRISTMAS is truly in the air when President Harding , the Pope , and Anatole France join hands to urge relief for the Volga famine sufferers . Communist , Catholic , and Protestant President have not actually signed a joint appeal ? though such extremes come near to meeting in the famine campaign in New to Russian relief , that the Pope has given $160,000 and plans to give more through Mr. Nansen , and that the President of the United States urges the Congress to appropriate money to buy 10,000,000 bushels of seed-corn and a million bushels of wheat for the same purpose . The blockade of human sympathy is lifting . We can only urge our readers to be as generous within their means , and give them three addresses : American Federated Russian Famine Committee ( distributing through Soviet Russian Red Cross ) , 110 West 40th Street ; Russian Famine Fund ( collecting for distribution by the Quakers ) , 15 Park Row ; and American ( Hoover ) Relief Administration , 42 Broadway , all New York City . Choose which you will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sweeping defeat for conservatism rather than in a victory for liberalism . The differences between the Liberals and Conservatives are not very much more important than those between the Republican and Democratic parties in the United States ; but at least the Liberal landslide may result in tariff reduc-Lions and in a more friendly policy toward the United States  --  which American protectionists do little enough to encourage . The interesting feature of the election was the geographical cleavage shown in the result . The Liberals swept the East , winning all of Quebec 's 65 seats , while the Progressives , representing the organized farmers , made tremendous gains in Manitoba , Alberta , Saskatchewan , and in Ontario as well , establishing themselves as the chief opposition party . The present Government party , the Conservative , fell to third place , nine of their ministers failing of reelection . What will come of the new alignment it is hard to say . W. L. Mackenzie King will have , to be sure , a divided opposition , but his support will be local rather than national , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dissatisfaction from the West . N India the British Government seems definitely to have abandoned its comparative tolerance of the non-coopera-tion movement in favor of rigorous suppression . Lajpat Rai has been arrested . Motilal Mehru , ex-president of the Indian National Congress , has been sentenced to six months ' imprisonment . Mr. Tandon , chairman of the municipal board of Allahabad , has been sentenced for eighteen months . These are only the more famous of the non-cooperators who have been sent to prison . The wife , son , and sister of Mr. C. R. Das  --  the president-elect of the forthcoming session of the Indian National Congress , which appears to have been proscribed  --  were arrested with more than fifty others for selling homespun cloth from house to house . It was alleged that under cover of these sales they were advocating a hartal ( general strike ) for the day the Prince of Wales visits Calcutta . More than 260 picketers were arrested in Calcutta for advocating a boycott of that visit . With these wholesale arrests and sentences has gone no charge that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to secure the peace of India or an enthusiastic welcome to the Prince of Wales , and he at least ought to be a good enough sport to know it . To imprison men for peaceful non-cooperation is to invite violence . Perhaps the British raj thinks it would be easier to deal with that than with Gandhi 's tactics . WHO was the last President of Haiti who took office by force of arms ? " Senator Jones asked Georges Sylvain of the Haitian Patriotic Union at the opening hearing of the Senatorial Commission at Port au Prince . " The present President , " M. Sylvain replied ; " he holds office by virtue of the armed forces of the United States . " Whereat the subject was abruptly changed . But the incident is typical of the spirit in which the Senators began their task . Senator Jones , to be sure , was new to the job , replacing the late Senator Knox ; but even Chairman McCormick appears to have had no adequate conception of the seriousness of the situation in Haiti . Martial law still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the military authorities received no guaranties of protection  --  instead Senator McCormick 's proclamation gratuitously warned                     