@@430496

One of the features of recent international relations most to be regretted has been the substitution of suspicion and ill-will for the confidence and cordiality which for so long existed between Japan and the United States . Officially , intercourse is as amicable as ever . On the part of Americans and Japanese who really understand the relations between the two countries there is little tolerance for the fomenters of the present unrest . But in the case of the great uninformed public , in both countries , it must be recognized that , in recent years , a change in sentiment has taken place . The traditional friendship of the United States and Japan is unique in the story of the contact of East and West . During the fifty years between the opening of Japan by Perry 's firm but kindly diplomacy , and the close of the great Russo-Japanese struggle , the diplomatic relations of the United States and Japan were notable for the sympathetic attitude of the vigorous power of the West and for the apparent appreciation of the rising nation of the East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe the attitude of America stands out in sharp relief . And so in this period when Japan modelled her army on the French and German lines , and her navy on those of Britain , she turned to America for suggestions in education , in banking , and in other great productive fields of development . American missionaries and teachers performed services that were most appreciated by the eager Japanese . And in America the little that was written about Japan and her people was almost without exception penned in glowing terms . Then came the war with Russia . American public opinion , so far as any might be said to exist , at once made the cause of the Japanese its own , and followed with satisfaction the unbroken record of success . But with the peace a change was manifest . The press which had scored the Muscovite so bitterly now found words of sympathy for the humbled Christian , and soon " public opinion " became less fulsome in its praise of the new world-power . Within a year the immigration problem had arisen and war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five years have at frequent intervals seen the name of our old friend and protege written in scareheads as our adversary in an unavoidable war . Two years span the change from admiration  | to suspicion . What explanation can be given for such a phenomenon ? Mr. Kawakami , whose new volume entitled " American-Japanese Relations " is a vigorous endeavor to right some of the wrong already done , dismisses the idea of jealousy , or of fear , or even of war-talk spread to sell warships and guns . The explanation which he offers is that Japan 's commercial advance in the Asian continent has alienated the western world . This may account for the mercantile interests and for their representatives in Asia , but it surely does not account for the rapid change of heart of " the man in the street , " or for his willingness to read , even if not with entire conviction , the reckless statements of the mischief-makers . No explanation so simple as that can really explain . Many factors were present during those critical years . The first wave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Americans always have for " the under-dog . " Russia aggressive and intolerant was very different from Russia humbled and contrite . People had time to remember the friendship of the Czar in 1863 , and to realize that for the first time since the fall of Constantinople Asia had beaten back Europe . After this period of indecision came the San Francisco school-children incident , which was magnified into an international question ; and then the time was ripe for articles inspired by commercial rivalry , by military expediency , and even by missionary policy . Many of these highly-colored preachments would have aroused little discussion if the reading public had been prepared properly to evaluate the arguments presented . But , as Mr. Kawakami remarks : " Meanwhile , belligerent words continue to be spoken , and alarmist notes continue to be sounded . The average American , by reason of want of unbiased information , is apparently inclined to listen to the counsels of jingoes and alarmists . Thus the cloud of misunderstanding is growing thicker every day , casting its gloom over American-Japanese relations . " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ misunderstandings that the present volume was written . Three great questions are discussed , as the source of the more serious difficulties . The Manchurian Question is treated in seven chapters , which deal with the relative interests of Japan , China , Russia , and America in Manchuria . Ten chapters are devoted to the Korean Question , explaining why Japan annexed Korea and narrating the work of the Japanese before and after annexation . And , finally , six chapters deal with the Immigration Question on our Pacific Coast . As eleven of the chapters originally appeared in American and Japanese periodicals , the treatment is suggestive rather than profound , while in its moderation and in its endeavor to be fair it compares very favorably with certain recent discussions of some of these topics . In discussing the Manchurian Question , Mr. Kawakami emphasizes the price in blood and money which Japan paid for her present position in Manchuria , characterizes China 's attitude toward Japan as " one of ingratitude and insincerity , " criticizes Mr. Knox 's neutralization proposal and recent American railway schemes in Manchuria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japan has scrupulously observed the " open door " policy . So , too , in the case of Korea , charge after charge that has been brought against Japan is considered and explained . It would be too much to expect that Mr. Kawakami possesses complete information as to the future plans of his government , but he is in a position satisfactorily to refute many of the criticisms which have of late been current . The chapters on the Immigration Question do not make pleasant reading for unprejudiced Americans . Japanese immigration , before the passport agreement , is discussed , as to its extent , its nature , and its comparison with European immigration . Two chapters bear the title " Denis Kearneyism Once More . " There is much truth in this summary , though other factors were present : " Thus it was that the anti-Japanese agitation on the Pacific Coast of a few years ago began and subsided . It was the old story ? some one wanted to go to the Senate or the House , or some one had the gubernatorial bee buzzing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his paper , or some one wanted to make a living by levying upon the innocent laborers , or some ' interests ' wanted to control Japanese labor for their exclusive benefit . " The agitation began in 1905 , and yet the next year Japan subscribed more than half the total foreign subscription for the relief of the fire-swept city . In October the school-children case arose , and later the assaults upon Japanese business men and travellers . If the means employed were wretched in the extreme , the end gained was a most desirable one . By the agreement of 1907 Japan voluntarily restricts her emigration to our shores by means of a rigid passport system . Mr. Kawakami asserts that " the Japanese feel that , viewed in the light of the real status of Japanese immigration , such a drastic  | measure of exclusion as was adopted by the two governments is not justified . " This is no doubt the case , but , granting the existence of a strong prejudice against the Japanese on our Pacific Coast , this endeavor to remove irritation until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring about , has been reached , seems eminently proper . Finally a plea is advanced for the naturalization of resident Japanese . Mr. Kawakami 's book deserves a wide circulation . No doubt he over-estimates the real influence of the " jingoes and alarmists , " for their outcries at times excite more consternation in Japan than among our own people . But his efforts , and those of other Americans and Japanese , will do much to restore the old relations which were so long a credit to America and Japan .  |                     