@@486998

The Democratic national platforms of 1900 , 1904 , and 1908 each contained a declaration in favor of the election of United States Senators by direct vote of the people . That public sentiment in support of this project has been steadily growing in the past ten , years is undeniable . In the next Congress , the House of Representatives will be fully in the control of the Democrats , and the Senate will be so constituted that a majority can be easily commanded by them upon any proposition which could have the support of the progressive wing of the Republicans . Of course , a majority is not two-thirds , but the time will have arrived when a proposal to submit to the States a constitutional amendment providing for the direct election of Senators by the people will be in all ways opportune . Indeed , if the amendment were put forward by the Democrats , the Republicans in the Senate could not oppose it without furnishing to the other side a very acceptable bit of campaign material for the impending Presidential campaign . Campaign pledges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , party expediency , therefore , all conspire to point to this move as part of the coming programme of the Democratic party . From the very centre of Southern manufacturing industry , from Birmingham , Ala. , the Pittsburgh of the , South , comes a clear-pronouncement for a " tariff for revenue only . " In addition to declaring for this principle , Representative Underwood adds that in his judgment such a tariff would cover " the difference in the labor cost of most manufactured articles at home and abroad . " As for protecting profits , Mr. Underwood declares that he is opposed to it , " believing that to protect profits means to protect monopoly . " His position as ranking Democratic member  --  after Champ Clark , the leader ' of the party  --  both in the Committee on Rules and the Committee on Ways and Means , gives special importance to this statement of position , made so promptly after the election which gives the Democrats the next House by a large majority . Thatmatter of the difference in cost of production , which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for their tariff system , has got to be taken up before long by the Democrats . It is therefore worth noting that in this early utterance on the subject , by a man in a position of great influence in the House and representing a district which may be supposed to be more protectionist than any other in the South , two points are made that look away from the revised Republican doctrine . In the first place , Mr. Underwood indicates that industries must take their chances under the tariff-for-revenue plan ; it is only " most manufactures " for which the difference in labor cost would be covered by the tariff , and the others must make the best of what they can get . And secondly , he declares that protection of profits is not entitled to any consideration at all . Judge Baldwin of Connecticut is bearing himself as well after election as does Gov. - elect Dix . The citizens of New Haven desired to make a public demonstration in honor of Judge Bald-win 's election , but he announces that his personal wishes are against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friends should wait till it is seen how he discharges his duties as Governor . He still clings to his purpose to " teach an ex-President some law , " but the main thing he has on his mind is preparation for his official labors . All told , Judge Baldwin is exhibiting all of the dignity and good sense that were to have been expected of him . One thing to his credit is that he refused , though a man of means , to contribute a large sum to his own campaign . He gave a total of $4,000 , which compares favorably with the $20,000 expenses sworn to by Gov . Lilley of Connecticut , and the even larger amounts paid out by other candidates for the Governorship . One ' Republican victory has escaped due notice in the turmoil of the disasters which the party suffered elsewhere . The election of Robert P. Bass as Governor of New Hampshire was a significant triumph for Winston Churchill . His campaign of reform , begun in the summer of 1904 , has thus received anemphatic and decisive endorsement . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been for the persistent work of Mr. Churchill , there would have been a Democratic victory in New Hampshire . The success of Bass means the fulfilment of Mr. Churchill 's ambition " to clean up " the Republican party in New Hampshire without disrupting it . In a speech at Portsmouth three years ago he announced , to the dismay of the machine leaders hoping for his final discouragement , that he was engaged in a crusade to which he was willing to give twenty years of his life . Gov . Carroll of Iowa , himself a stand-patter , just reelected by a greatly reduced majority , has naturally turned to his own faction of the party for a Senator to succeed the late Mr. Dolliver . In appointing Mr. Young , the editor of a Des Moines newspaper which has strongly and consistently opposed the Iowa insurgents , the Governor has certainly not made a conciliatory move . He might have sought a neutral man , not active . ly identified with either element  --  if such a man there be in Iowa . Of course , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end elect , and presumably will not elect Mr. Young , unless he should experience a change of heart . In any event , Senator Cummins will remain at the head of his party in Iowa , and will be in a position to push his avowed candidacy for the Presidency . Mixed feelings will be aroused by the defeat of Senator Beveridge in Indiana , but , on the whole , his retirement will cause little regret . He voted against his party on the tariff bill , but in Beveridge 's insurgency there was always a suspicion of acting and of expediency . His attitude on the other great public questions which came up during his two terms in the Senate often lacked the appearance of settled conviction and entire sincerity ; while his inordinate vanity and constant thrusting of himself to the front , along with the iterative drip of his oratory , had caused most people in Washington to become very weary of him . That sense of fatigue seems also to have reached Indiana . Even Roosevelt , before rushing to the scene to eitend his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the lesser evil " ; and the people of Indiana appear to have become much more sure of the evil than of the lesser .. Neither cost of living , nor tariff , nor Roosevelt , nor Republican extravagance was in the minds of the Tennessee voters , the absorbing question there being the issue raised by Gov . Patterson in his pardon of the slayer of Carmack , the insulting defiance of the Supreme Court of the State with which it was accompanied , and the subsequent coercion which he attempted when some of the judges came up for renomination . The depth of feeling which this conduct aroused was manifested by an alliance of protesting Democrats with the Republicans , in support of Hooper , the Republican nominee for Governor . So formidable did this alliance show itself to be that Patterson , who had been nominated by the regular Democrats for reelection , voluntarily withdrew from the contest , and his place on the regular ticket was taken by Robert L. Taylor . But this move , after the Democratic indignation movement had got full headway , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fold . The rebuke had been earned , and they were determined to administer it , whether to the original culprit or his proxy . The outcome at the polls showed plainly enough that Patterson would have been snowed under if he had remained in the field . When Tennessee elects a Republican Governor in token of its resentment for abuse of the pardoning power and for disrespect to the courts , it is evident that the spirit of independent citizenship is confined to no section of the country . State lines do not coincide with natural divisions , and the census might be made to tell interesting stories that now lie concealed , if figures were massed according to other divisions . That the population of Iowa has declined by 7,000 in the past decade is remarkable enough ; but a more striking result appears when a geographical ratuer than a political area is considered . Bounded by the Mississippi on the east , the Missouri on the south , the Missouri and the Big Sioux on the west , and the southern line of Minnesota on the north @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nearly one-third larger than all New England . It comprises the entire State of Iowa and the northernmost forty-four counties of Missouri . There is probably no other portion of the United States of equal extent which contains a larger proportion of good farming land . The last decade has been one of exceptional prosperity  --  yet in this entire region there now live 1,00,000 fewer people than resided there ten years ago . Outside the cities of more than 26,000 inhabitants the decrease in population since 1900 has been upwards of 140,000 . This is a kind of story that the boldest prophet would not have ventured to predict as a possibility a quarter of a century ago , and it is well worth the careful attention of political students to-day . The narrow escape in New York from a general strike ought to be the occasion for serious thoughts ' about the possibility of preventing such industrial disasters . In France , the Prime Minister has announced his purpose to follow up the recent railway strike with legislation designed to do away with such a throttling of the nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is not possible that the country should go on exposed to the same dangers , year after year . Such problems must be thoroughly looked into . The government intends to study them carefully , and will not rest until it has found a solution which will protect the land from such perils at the same time that it leaves essential liberties untouched . " Of course , the task in France is somewhat easier since it is so largely a question of dealing with public employees ; but there appears to be a general tendency to bring all- employments " affected with a public interest " within the scope of laws forbidding either a strike or a lockout without due notice or efforts to settle the matter by arbitration . This was the principle of the so-called Lemieux law of Canada , enacted in 1907 . It appears to have worked well . " All in all , the experiment of employing colored enumerators , while it involved much extra work for the Census Bureau , has been entirely successful and reflects credit upon the colored people , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than 2,000 colored enumerators were put to work , and that in only one case , where for lack of white enumerators colored men counted tha whites , was there any real difficulty . A comparison of the work of the white enumerators who counted colored people with the work of the colored census men shows that the latter took more pains with the members of their race , particularly in the matter of differentiating employments . Hence there are high hopes that the new census will throw more light on the industrial position of the colored people in the South than any , heretofore . The Southern Workman adds that a number of Southern cities have for some time past used colored men in increasing numbers in taking school censuses . Finally , those who , like the Nation , have long been urging colored constabulary for the South to deal with negro crime and prevent race friction , are certain to be encouraged by the success in official positions of the census enumerators . The Harvard Alumni Baletin laments that the autumn meeting for the award of academic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inerest in scholarship . Most undergraduates , it seems , have remained away- to scoff , and the recipients of the prizes have felt that the flush of achievement was somewhat chilled by the long postponement of recognition . It is therefore proposed to make the ceremony part of the commencement festivities . Whether this will do much to temper the admitted artificiality of the occasion may be a question . There will always be a killing lack of spontaneity in things of this sort ; a meeting of the Phi Beta Kappa , or of the Poets ' Guild , is a riot of enthusiasm in comparison . These at least are forms of organic self-expression ; the other , from certain student points of view at least , nothing but a fussy faculty notion of fostering infant industry . An undergraduate class is prouder of its real scholars than faculties sometimes realize . It is usually the mere mark-getter , with slight claim to distinction in humane society beyond a certain sheepish impulse to press forward along the indicated path , who fails of being borne aloft on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reward for such successful mediocrity will greatly alter undergraduate opinion on this point , for here at least it agrees perfectly with that of the world . All good Americans will be greatly relieved by the explanation from Professor Miinsterberg 's friends of the real significance of the fifteen-to-one ratio against him in the number of minutes during which the Kaiser chatted , respectively , with him and with Professor Smith of the University of Virginia . That explanation is so simple and yet so notable as another triumph of the new psyChology that the wonder is only over . the delay in its production . The monarch 's chat with Professor Smith , while extended , was merely academic . His words to Professor Miinsterberg , while few , were intimate and at the same time international in their scope . It can not escape notice that this explanation does not come from the Emperor , but we hope no doubt will be cast upon its validity by reason of this fact . One of the real literary wants of this nation is a Thanksgiving Proclamation - " form . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the devising of . one Presidential and forty-five State proclamations , there is the present defect , positively pernicious in its influence upon American literary style , of the English that Governors in particular delight to employ in their announcements of this annual festal day . Here , for instance , is the summons of the Governor of Indiana , disrespectfully cut by the leading newspapers of his own capital to we know not *What percentage of its original length . But the fragment is enough . We have no quarrel  --  just now  --  with his conventional " never-ending procession of the seasons , " " the common parent of us all , " and " the corn and wine and oil of fertile fields and fruitful vineyards . ' We remember that Indiana is a literary State . But the spectacle of Indiana bowing " again her forehead to the ground " does give us a start from which we are hardly recovered by the assuring words , " and to the end that all may renew their allegiance and give thanks to our country 's God , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also fail to see the altruism of the concluding clause , in which the people of the State return thanks " for that he hath not so far dealt thus with any people . " One reason why the English Liberals are looking forward to a general election with more confidence than the Con-servatives is that in recent by-elections the Liberals have scored notable successes . They carried South Shields by an increased majority , and in the Walthamstow division of Essex , where the new Solicitor-General , Sir John Simon , has just been reelected , his majority is greater than it was last January . Then it was 2,195 ; on November 1 it was 2,766 . This figure was attained in spite of the fact that the suffragettes and the Labor voters were against the Liberal candidate . Yet it is noteworthy that the Walthamstow poll was reduced . The decrease in the Liberal vote , as compared with the general election in January , was 1,053 , while the Conservatives fell off 1,624 . But the result is taken as good proof that the budget is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against free trade . It is partly in view of this latter fact that the Spectator once more calls upon Joseph Chamberlain to announce that , if the Conservatives are successful , they ' will do nothing to introduce the protective principle into English fiscal legislation . The appeal will doubtless be in vain , but so , it is generally admitted , must be any hopes which the Conservatives entertain as they face a general election . The admission of " fashionable ladies , actors , and descriptive writers " to the Crippen trial is defended by a writer in an English newspaper , who saw no evidence in their faces of want of appreciation of the gravity of the case . He clinches his point by relating how he sat next to a celebrated actress , who remarked , " This is our real dramatic school . " Such models of justice as this particular case seems to have been would never do for our stage , any more than for our criminal courts , however it may be with the British . To hold the mirror up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and our temperament demands excitement . The result is a mad race on the part of the drama to keep even with the more animated moments of our not undramatic civilization . It is no wonder that it sometimes overleaps itself . But it was in another period of spacious times that our dramatic models were produced . Something must be wrong besides our temperament . There is either lack of the creative imagination or sad misdirection of its powers . The sudden shock of the contrast of American manners with those of the high-bred Spaniards who had gone before in the Philippines , is regarded by a correspondent of the London Times as having " contributed largely to the first failure of the Americans to win the respect of the natives . " And in his endeavor to deal with the misunderstanding " without hurting susceptibilities , " he suggests the possibility of such Americanization of the Filipinos that in a few generations they will become aware that " a spirit of hustle and downright dealing , if at times a trifle uncouth , is better than an elaborate courtesy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , it is " not of good omen that the interchange . of social courtesies between the better elements of native society and members of the American community is still growing less and less frequent . " Well , all that our Imperialists can say is that our little brown brothers are too impatient . The very fact of their caring for courtesy and having a desire for premature display ' of our sincerity of purpose , is evidence of their sad backwardness . Even if we have introduced complications into the situation , that does not excuse the presumption of their official announcement that " the Philippine nation , being positively convinced that it possesses the actual capacity for self-government as a civilized nation , aspires ardently to be independent . " Until our impetuous colonizers are convinced of that , all this will pass as sheer impudence . The latest traveller to report war with Japan as imminent is the son of a Standard Oil magnate . He has been in Japan ? Oh , dear , no . He has been hobnobbing with French and German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Japan will attack us before the Panama Canal is finished . Two hundred thousand troops are to be landed in San Francisco for the little jaunt to Washington  --  by airship and balloon doubtless  --  and , of course , ruin and defeat will be the consequence . There is only one thing to do , avows this young militia captain , and that is to introduce at once a three yearlif compulsory army service as they have it in France and Germany . And he is going to begin to get compulsory service at once .                     