@@487200

PRESIDENT WILSON might complain that his address to Congress had been covered with contradictory praise . It pleased Lord Northcliffe , but it also delighted Lord Lansdowne . It heartened the Tory Morning Post , but it likewise cheered the Radical Daily News . It won a deep " Amen " from Theodore Roosevelt , but had the tribute of another one from Scott Nearing . Does this prove that the message was as comprehensive as the truth , so that differing souls might find their own in it ? It does not greatly matter . The thing of really high significance is the almost universal acceptance of the President 's moral point of view . In all the heaped-up comment from France and Italy and South America , this is the unifying conception . Mr. Wilson so stated the right attitude towards the war and , in the main , towards the peace that must follow it as to command the assent of the most diverse minds , and to erect a sort of world-tribunal before which all the belligerents must stand and have their motives and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Allied cause need not shrink . Compared with their German adversaries , they are thrice-armed in justice . This is not to say that Germany is all black and her enemies all white . It is not to assert an exclusive German responsibility for the war  --  the Russian General Staff was not blameless  --  or to affirm that all the misdeeds , all the diplomatic intrigue , and the unholy bargaining , of the war had their inspiration and guilt in Berlin . But the original indictment of the rulers of Austria and Germany as those who sent the ultimatum that caused the war , who first took the aggressive , and who violated territory which they were sworn to respect , stands very much as it did in August , 1914 . No subsequent revelations or palliations contain anything that can be pleaded in arrest of judgment upon the criminal provokers of the war . This fundamental fact must never be lost sight of . It is not a question of " punishment . " No adequate punishment , in the strict and retributive sense , could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nor could they be reached by visiting death and destruction upon their subjects . The world is swinging round to President Wilson 's position that there should be nothing " vindictive " in the terms of peace to he insisted upon . But this does not mean that our moral standards should be surrendered ; nor that the indignation at a wanton plunging of the world into the flames , and at the cruel wrongs done to the men and women and children of Belgium and France , should at any time cease to burn in our hearts . We do not cry for vengeance . But we do crave justice . It is not a man of war , it is a Catholic prelate , the intrepid Cardinal Mercier , who declared that the desire to see great public criminals brought to justice is of the very essence of the Christian religion . It certainly is of the essence of the Allied cause , to which the conviction of right on its side is worth more than an army with banners . It is only a hasty reading of history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conclude that the better cause must surely and quickly win . The world has too often seen iniquity triumph , and right on the scaffold . There is an element of truth in the saying that God is on the side of the stronger battalions . For that matter , Germany 's course has been such as to arouse the stronger battalions against her . On a purely military trial of strength , she appears the weaker . Those who are warring against her have no occasion to despond even if it all came down to a question of men and money and guns and ships . They that be with us are more than they that be with them . But what animates and propels the physical strength at the disposal of the Allies is the knowledge , of which fresh tokens come to them every day , that they have the approval of the moral judgment of mankind . Confirmation of this fact is the most gratifying thing in the echoes which President Wilson 's message has waked round the earth . To the high moral note which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America every thought of conquest or gain . He left the door wide open for peace , but pointed with inexorable finger to the conditions upon which alone the Teutonic Powers could enter it . They must relinquish their booty . They must repair their wreckage . They must agree to undertake to do full and impartial justice to all nations , great and small . This is the position of the President which the world is acclaiming . It is this kind of moral gravitation which is drawing support for the enemies of Germany from the ends of the earth . Before the international judgment-seat the German Government has been brought face to face with the serene and all-judging conscience of the whole world , and has been tried and condemned . This is the fatal German handicap . This is the chief asset of those who have taken the sword against the Kaiser . President Wilson 's address to Congress was not closely knit . It covered many topics , giving the impression of having been written in sections , frequently revised . and put together with the joints @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then , for singling out the " objectives , " to use his own phrase , which he had in mind . These are manifold , but the chief ones may be analyzed as follows : ( 1 . ) The President sought to make a direct impression upon Congress and the country . He desired both to emphasize and to promote the unity and strength of the nation in the prosecution of the war . In this there was a suspicion of rhetorical over-strain , but that is the way of orators . Mr. Wilson frankly admits that there is not entire agreement in this country . But he would either ignore or overbear it . The first part of his message is devoted to the thesis that this nation is " united in spirit and intention , " and that " every power and resource we possess " will be freely given to the winning of the war . Mr. Wilson is a sufficiently skilled rhetorician and a statesman astute enough to know that one good way of bringing about what he wants is stoutly to assert that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the message was to speak a word to the Allies . The President does not call them our allies . To him , they are merely " our associates . " This is correct and also highly suggestive . The hand of this nation is free . Our Government is at liberty to say what it thinks without waiting to hear from Paris or London . And President Wilson says several things which were plainly meant for Allied reading . Ample cooperation , hearty support , from America he promises , but he adds something which has not entered into the hearts of all Allied statesmen : " the war shall not end in vindictive action of any kind " ; " no nation or people shall be robbed or punished because the irresponsible rulers of a single country have themselves done deep and abominable wrong " ; " the wrongs committed in this war . . . can not and must not berighted by the commission of similar wrongs against Germany and her allies . " These words were plainly intended for fireside reading in Downing Street and the Quai @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President . He apparently believes that she is the weakest member of the Teutonic Alliance . Mr. Wilson no doubt has fuller information than the public of the exhaustion of Austria-Hungary , and of that Empire 's intense desire for an early peace . By now making her rulers sensible that they can not longer avoid responsibility for their subservience to Germany , that if they go on in submissive alliance with Prussian militarism they will be warred on by its enemies , we presume that the President hopes to augment the pressure for peace which has already been so strongly exerted at Vienna . This would be consistent with Mr. Wilson 's declaration that this country has no thought of fighting for the dismemberment of the Austrian Empire . On this point , at least , he does not follow M. Cheradame ; as on it he breaks with Mr. Roosevelt . ( 4 . ) Much in the President 's address was obviously intended for Germany . To Prussian pretensions and intrigue Mr. Wilson opposes a bold front . He tells the Hohenzollerns what they " must " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will " never " consent to in the plans and demands of the German Government . But this firm and even threatening attitude towards the German rulers , the President unites with a direct appeal to the German people . Their independence is not assailed . Their future , political and economic , is in their own hands . They have but to get a Government that will renounce conquests , repair the inconceivable injustices done , submit to the judgment of the whole world , and they will he admitted , unfettered , into the partnership of nations . Nor does Mr. Wilson omit to tell them plainly what will befall them if they go on placidly subjecting themselves to " ambitious and intriguing masters interested to disturb the peace of the world . " ( 5 . ) Greatest of all the President 's objectives is that of stating the aims of the war and thus showing how peace can be made . This is not done explicitly in any single passage of his message . It is , rather , subtly interwoven throughout it . We agree with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Wilson was as clearly bent as Lord Lansdowne upon restating war-aims so as to make it easier for Germany to seek peace . But the American President did it infinitely better than the British statesman . He did it without a suspicion of despondency or war-weariness . Spokesman for a fresh and proud country of unmatched resources , ready to give its all for what it believes in , he based his peace terms at once upon our national disinterestedness and our national ideals . And it is simple truth to say that Mr. Wilson is more specific , at the same time that he is more generous , than Lord Lansdowne or Mr. Asquith or Lloyd George . What must be exacted he does not conceal . Belgium to be freed and restored ; Northern France to be given up ; every forcible annexation of conquered territory to be relinquished . These are the absolute minima . And the President beckons the whole world on to a new era in which popular rule shall be more pervasive than ever before , and in which the intercourse and friendly rivalries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new sanctions of public law and strengthened impulses of humanity . Perhaps later on he will find time and opportunity to state the terms he desires even more exactly , so that the Germans will have not the slightest excuse for alleging doubts on any point and can then only refuse them at their complete peril . The Treasury Report and War Finance T HE Secretary of the Treasury 's annual report , sub- mated to Congress last week , contained much information in regard to what had been done in the Government 's war finance . Its detailed summary of the war loan subscriptions could add little to what was already known , but it completed the record up to date . Some important particulars were set forth concerning the formal arrangements in our loans to the Allies , and the character of their own securities deposited in exchange . Our present partial embargo on gold exports from the United States was briefly explained , and it was stated that negotiations were under way " having for their purpose the substitution of arrangements which , while avoiding the necessity for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the United States and neutral countries . " The neutral Governments have " entered on these negotiations in a cordial spirit of cooperation " ; but nothing was said as to what the proposals are . The work of the Federal Reserve Banks was briefly reviewed . From these sections of the report , the public will get a clear idea of the numerous financial policies , measures , and expedients which the war has necessitated . Yet we suspect that most thoughtful men will complete their reading of the report with a sense of disappointment . From first to last the note of leadership , of broad-minded study of the country 's financial problems , of suggestion for new financial legislation and forecast regarding the financial future , is absent . If it be said that preparation of the revnue bill is in the hands of Congress , the answer is that the proceedings of the last session showed a most urgent need of strong and intelligent initiative from outside its own doors . If it be objected that no official sagacity could be expected to see far into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the legislation of the present session must be based on some kind of theory as to financial conditions as they will exist a year from now . We need only point to the strong and lucid treatment of these very questions by Secretary Chase , in a year of such financial uncertainty as 1863 . It is hard to imagine Secretary Sherman or Secretary McCulloch or Secretary Fairchild or Secretary Gage dealing otherwise , in a Treasury report , with the problems which exist to-day . Mr. McAdoo 's report contains , for instance , no discussion of the possibilities of an intelligent budget system , whereby the delay , confusion , and misunderstandings of the past session 's revenue legislation may hereafter be avoided . Even the President 's reference to this question in his message confines itself to suggesting a single appropriations committee  --  which would doubtless help , but would not solve the problem of intelligent action on the war taxation . The Secretary does indeed state it as his conviction that the country " should be permitted to readjust itself to the new revenue laws before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burdens , " and expresses hisbelief that bonds can be sold on such reasonable terms that we may " escape additional revenue legislation at this session . " We regard this position as sound ; but the report ought surely to have gone further into the question . That " we can not regard without concern serious declines in the general value of fixed investments " is unquestionably true ; yet the Secretary 's statement would have been vastly more effective if he had clearly explained the reaction of ill-distributed taxation on the general investment fund , and the reaction of needless disturbance , of the kind referred to , on the Government 's own financial plans . Mr. McAdoo suggests that " some form of regulation of new capital expenditures meaning new security issues other than Government war loans should be provided . " He intimates that suggestions to that effect may be submitted to Congress later . But this by no means attacks the evil of ill-distributed taxation at its source . So of the loans to our allies . The report states that in granting these large credits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to November 1 , and for which about $500,000,000 per month will be required hereafter  --  the Secretary 's judgment " has been determined very largely by what was represented to him as the actual necessities for the purchase of supplies and materials and other requirements in carrying on the war . " It is possible that these were indispensable war needs of our allies . But , without in the least doubting the wisdom of financing our allies to the full extent of our national ability , it is surely right to inquire also into the scope of our own economic capacity in the task . There may be some limit to our power of efficiently providing for foreign needs as well as our own  --  especially if we are financing " other requirements " as well as " purchase of supplies and materials . " All things considered , however , the Treasury report is a faithful picture of a period of immense financial achievement , and of an adaptation of our national resources to financing the war which has been efficient as well as disinterested and courageous . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grave mistakes in the revenue legislation . But it is not too late to correct them . The Government and the Railways T HE confusion of mind on the Stock Exchange and elsewhere regarding the Interstate Commission 's proposal for the railways , was caused partly by the unexpected nature of the recommendations and partly by misunderstanding of their purport . They deal with a situation which had already occasioned plain official intimations that the great east-and-west-bound trunk lines , at any rate , must be operated as a single system . In some respects , but not in all , that situation does not differ from the conditions which have arisen at more or less frequent intervals in busy autumn seasons of the past . The " freight blockade " has resulted on such occasions from the fact that the movement of a large grain harvest to the seaboard coincided with great increase in the movement of all other kinds of merchandise . It was usually an incident of periods when , as so often happened in this country , a season of trade reaction was suddenly followed by revival @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prepared with rolling stock and motive power . But in the present instance the congestion was made a much more serious matter , first by the very urgent demand of Europe for the foodstuffs and munitions produced in the interior , and secondly by our own Government 's large requirements of war munitions and ships , with the resultant additional demand for transportation of raw material to the mills and of the finished products to the points of delivery . Delay in any of these deliveries , such as freight blockades would cause , would gravely handicap the war plans . The nature of this situation must be understood in order to understand the sweeping recommendations of the Interstate Commission . The Commission recognizes the rightfulness of the request for higher railway rates in view of the rapidly mounting cost of operation , but it recognizes also that such increase in rates will not solve the whole dilemma . Therefore it urges that all railway facilities must be " unified " and " mobilized . " This simply means that a central authority shall be established , under whose direction the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best able at the moment to transport it and deliver it quickly . A shipper of merchandise might prefer to send his goods by a given railway ; but if that railway 's tracks are already overcrowded and its terminals congested , then the shipment must be arbitrarily diverted to another road whose facilities are in better shape . Carried to its full extent , this rearrangement of traffic might logically go so far as to withdraw one class of business  --  grain , for instance  --  entirely from one road and distribute it to others . This re-distribution process might be effected under the united management of the railway officers themselves , or it might be done in exercise of the Government 's war powers , through the assumption of governmental control over all the railways The second recourse would not mean Government ownership ; it would not even involve operation by Government bureaus or officials . In England , where a similar plan was adopted early in the war , the railways are still conducted by their former managements , but those managements are subject to the orders of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the other hand , the process of unification were left in the hands of a joint committee of the managers , without direct control by Government , then , as the Commission points out , it would be necessary to suspend the Federal statutes prohibiting railway combinations . For the " pooling " of railway facilities in this manner would clearly be a combination of parallel and competing lines , and , in theory at least , it would amount to suppressing competition . These proposals of the Commission , especially that in regard to the Anti-Trust law , have led at once to some very loose editorial talk of its belated repudiation of the principles of restriction . We are even told that , since what is good for the railways and the country in war must be good in peace , therefore the whole body of restrictive interstate commerce statutes ought to be swept away forever . It is not difficult to imagine that , if such a proposal were to be seriously made , the railway managers would be the first to protest against it . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was supplemented by the law which prevented the old-time " cut-throat competition " such as repeatedly threatened ruin to the railway industry in the " unrestricted " days . The intelligent man will also surely perceive that adoption of a drastic expedient because of war conditions doesnot prove the desirability of perpetuating it on return of peace . To concede that principle would be to assume that the fixing of maximum prices for steel , iron , and copper , and the guaranteeing by the Government of a minimum price to the farmer for the next season 's wheat crop , ought to be permanently embodied in our legislation . It is possible that we shall learn much from our war-time experiments in the grain and steel and railway industries which will lead to wholesome revision of policies in the future . But , in the one industry as in the others , what is now being done or proposed has its basis , as the Interstate Commission points out , in the fullest utilization of our industrial resources for the national defence ; which wholly supersedes , in the railways @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the public against unjust or unfair treatment by the carrier . " Congress will have to choose between the alternative of unified administration by the private managements , with the " anti-combine laws " suspended for the railways , and administration under direct governmental control . We do not hesitate to say that , until it can be shown to be less advantageous or less efficient in achieving the paramount war-time purposes , the private administration is far more in consonance with American traditions . Houdon and a Modern Instance H ISTORY seldom repeats itself ; but sometimes it amuses itself by making analogies . In 1785 Houdon , the great French sculptor , the Rodin of his day , came across the ocean , at behest of the Virginia Legislature , persuaded thereto by Jefferson and Franklin , then in Paris , and made a portrait statue of Washington . Most of us , seeing only the completed work , are inclined to forget the things Houdon purposely overlooked in his sitter . Fresh from the cultured land of France , he chose to see in the Father of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demigod of an orderly and successful revolution . Yet Washington , like Lincoln , was , in his time , something of a frontie ; character , and could employ , on occasion , very strong and undiluted language , and his hands  --  and it may be presumed also his feet  --  were , says Lafayette , the largest ever seen on any human being . If Houdon had been Barnard in temperament , what a representation of the rude man of power , the primitive power of an elemental people , we might have had ! But the men of those days supposed that internal power need not necessarily show itself in externals . Houdon came over with his various implements and took accurate measurement of Washington and a model of his features , and then went back to Paris and made the statue of the great gentleman in the Richmond State House , who is not the less a leader of men by reason of his perfect grace and dignity . We are fortunate in having a bit of contemporary information of how Washington himself felt on this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been more self-effacing and modest . There was a prevailing fashion in sculpture of the time which ordained that public men should be portrayed in classic garb . The Father of His Country wrote to Jefferson : In answer to your obliging inquiries respecting the dress , attitude , etc , which I would wish to have given to the statue in question , I have only to observe that , not having sufficient knowledge in the art of sculpture to oppose my judgment to the taste of connoisseurs , I do not desire to dictate in the matter . On the contrary , I shall be perfectly satisfied with what may be judged decent and proper . I should even have scarcely ventured to suggest that perhaps a servile adherence to the garb of antiquity might not be altogether expedient , as some little deviation in favor of the modern costume , if I had not learnt from Colonel Humphreys that this was a circumstance hinted in the conversation by Mr. West to Mr. Houdon- He was perfectly willing to appear before posterity in a toga and powdered hair , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not have that layman 's formula by heart , of knowing what he liked , whether it was good art or not . Fortunately , in this instance , he had put himself into the most trustworthy hands . Both Jefferson and Franklin had an equal confidence in Houdon and were determined that he should be hampered neither in money matters nor in facilities . " There is no question , " writes Jefferson from Paris , " as to the sculptor who should be employed ; the reputation of Monsieur Houdon of this city being unrivalled in Europe . He is resorted to for the statues of most of the sovereigns in Europe . . . " And " Monsieur Houdon . . . was so anxious to be the person who should hand down the figure of the General to future ages , that without hesitating a moment he offered to abandon his business here ; to leave the statues of kings unfinished , and go to America . " Happy age that could produce so perfect a combination , an immortal hero , an artist worthy to commemorate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's work ! Washington has been fixed for posterity . No Bolshevik sculptor of future times will be able to represent him , according to later economic theories , as the arrogant leader of the capitalists of his time ; no " young Washington , " exhibiting him as a great splay-footed , raw-boned , long-legged frontiersman , will ever get a grip on the popular imagination . That calm , graceful , but commanding figure will withstand all the raids of all the fads that Time can muster against it , and not lose one whit of dignity . Lincoln was not so fortunate . His personality remains the plaything of every artist who wants to take a hack at him , and will remain so until a sculptor comes along of such calibre that he can efface from the public mind the more eccentric conceptions of lesser craftsmen . It is a pity that some of the people who are now spending so much money and energy on these replicas of the Barnard statue did not take time by the forelock and , following their ancestors ' example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to make a portrait of Lincoln for London , Paris , and Washington . Unfortunately , that opportunity is now past beyond recall . Meanwhile Americans , anxious to show their friendship for nations allied with us in the struggle for democracy , might give suitable expression to their sentiments and at the same time avoid a breach of the world 's artistic peace if they had replicas made of this statue by Houdon and pre- sented. them to the nations in question . Modern experiments in realistic idealism seem only to lead to terrible casualties in a time when everybody already is sick of broken heads . Had Congress of more than one hundred years ago carried out its project of giving Houdon an order for an equestrian statue , then there would now be two masterpieces to choose from . But , as our forefathers were shortsighted , and perhaps somewhat strapped for funds , the second piece of sculpture was never executed , and so the equestrian Washington has been left to smaller souls , who have produced nothing worthy of replica in foreign capitals .  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          