@@486340

The land is full of confident election prophets , but none of them is ready to give the last full measure of belief in his own predictions . William Cobbett was . In 1819 he went on record against Peel 's Act , as follows : Now then I , William Cobbett , assert that to carry the Bill into effect is impossible ; and I say that , if the Bill be carried into full effect , I will give Castlereagh leave to lay me on a Gridiron and broil me alive , while Sid-mouth may stir the coals , and Canning stand by and laugh at my groans . This kind of thing would add much to the verisimilitude of the bald predictions of our election experts , and would gain them much more credence . Col. Harvey , for example , is now telling us of a coming majority of 145 or so for Hughes in the Electoral College . Why not clinch the matter in the Cobbett style ? We can not imagine Col. Harvey flinching from any test of his infallibility as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the event , to let Mr. Roosevelt shoot him full of deadly adjectives , while George W. Perkins turned the leaves of the dictionary to find new ones , and Col. Watterson stood by to laugh at his groans . A careful examination of the Outlook 's symposium of Mexican sentiment towards Mr. Wilson shows plainly why the Democratic National Committee undertook to make a campaign document out of what certain headlines have made into an indictment of Wilson by Carranza , Obregon , Gonzales , and Aguilar . Criticism of Mr. Wilson 's ' policy there is , to be sure ; but does that mean Mexico 's preference for a policy such as Wilson 's opponents would advocate ? One or two rhetorical passages about open hostility being preferable to insincere friendship are balanced by statements like the following : Carranza : Among the finest things that any American President has ever done was Wilson 's refusal to tolerate the tyrant Huerta . It was such a noble act as one would expect from an emancipated and democratic people , and it was an inspiration to all Latin-American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Knox , Henry Lane Wilson could have prevented the assassination of Madero . . . We are grateful to Wilson for understanding that this is a social revolution . Aguilar : The Mexican people are grateful to Wilson for understanding , as President Taft did not , that the revolution in Mexico is a genuine social movement . . . They are grateful to Wilson for his intelligence and courage in refusing to recognize Huerta . Gonzales : I can not say whether Mexico can expect from the Republican candidate any better treatment than she has had from the Democratic President . In view of these men 's gratitude for Wilson 's action with regard to the two capital facts of recent Mexican history , recognition of the revolution as a social movement and the elimination of Huerta , how shall we explain the charges against Wilson , ranging from vacillating friendship to concealed enmity ? We can explain them only to the extent that we can explain the well-known Carranza temperament , the irritating obstinacy and pundonor which insisted on seeing only the apparent infringement of Mexican rights in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid embodied in those acts . When Americans speak of Wilson 's policy , the only issue is whether Wilson has sacrificed too much of our national interests for the sake of Mexico 's welfare , or whether the sacrifice was justified . When Carranza and Obregon speak of Wilson 's policy , it is on the assumption that an American President might go to any limits of forbearance , an assumption which they know in their heart of hearts to be impossible . They insist on speaking of Pershing 's expedition as an invasion , though they know that the alternative to that was war between the two countries . They speak as the strategy of their position in Mexico dictates , and all this talk about preferring the Republican scorpions to the Democratic whips should be interpreted accordingly . Mr. Hughes is seeking to do at the end of his campaign what he should not have lost a moment in doing at the beginning . We mean , of course , endeavoring to set himself straight on the issue of alienism in American politics . His formal speech of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this respect . What the Nation felt about it at the time was thus stated : One would have thought that it would be easy for Charles E. Hughes to say : " I am a candidate for the Presidency , and , of course , I want all the votes I can get . But nobody ought to vote for me under a misapprehension ; and if any German-American believes that I would not have been even more resolute than President Wilson in arraigning the German Government for its crimes against American citizens , he does not know the kind of American . I am , " Mr. Hughes , after long silence , has finally spoken in something like that sense . Here are the words which he has used : As to any person whose allegiance to our flag is not single and complete , who would not instantly champion the rights and interests of our country against any country on earth , who wants impunity for foreign aggression , or who would have the power of this nation held captive to any foreign influence or swerved by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Of this we can only say that it would have been much more satisfactory if it had come earlier or been more specific . Held back all these months , Mr. Hughes 's belated statement has now the air of having been forced from him by the revelations about the O'Leary Teuto-Celt plottings . If the thing was to have been done at all , what was required was a prompt and straight hitting from the shoulder . In this matter , President Wilson showed to great advantage compared with Mr. Hughes . Mr. Wilson seized his first opportunity , and in his speech of acceptance said flatly : " I neither seek the favor nor fear the displeasure of that small alien element among us which puts loyalty to any foreign Power before loyalty to the United States . " That was not only a statement to the country , but , in effect , a challenge to Mr. Hughes to make his position clear . But till last week he did not seek to do it . What was going on he knew as well as the next man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nondescript groups of men who proposed to punish Mr. Wilson for having upheld American rights against Germany . This thing was not done in a corner . It was all along giving distress to many of Mr. Hughes 's supporters . They wondered why he did not speak out . He was repeatedly urged to speak out , but never got beyond his empty talk about " America first . " At last , he is much more explicit . Perhaps he could not now reasonably be asked to go further . But the fact that his statement has inevitably the appearance of being dragged from him by events , instead of being the voluntary expression of his indignation at an un-American conspiracy , is but one more evidence of the misfortune and mismanagement which have dogged his campaign . Much may be forgiven a candidate whose speeches run into the hundreds . But Mr. Hughes is certainly not adding to his reputation for accuracy by some of the statements he is now making . True , he is interlarding his speeches with such phrases as " I am told , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in-'formed , " " I have it on the highest authority , " like a newspaper in fear of a libel suit . This gives the appearance of dodging that " strict accountability " which he says he would have applied in the case of Germany . It really shows that in his striving to make points he is grasping at anything anybody may tell him . There is no criticism , however dubious its source , that he does not seem willing to accept , and the more the criticism has passed current the better he seems to like it  --  perhaps on the theory that the public prefers to read what it is saying itself . But it does seem as if when it comes to a matter of figures of common knowledge some one ought at least to blue-pencil his speeches in his own interest . Thus , when he says , in his attack on the militia , that he is informed that in the Eastern Division alone it should have produced 135,000 men on the call for service , somebody might have reminded him that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but 121,000 ; that it had never been required to recruits to the new war strength of 1,800 men to a regiment prior to the call of the President . How could the militia system on a moment 's notice , without warning , . produce thousands of additional men for a war strength just enacted into law ? Of course , Mr. Hughes , stuffed as he has been by some passing informant , presumably a regular , does not stop to talk about the regulars or to say how short they are of their quota when he criticises the militia because its ranks are not up to war strength by 50,000 men . How many are the regulars Short ? They have not even raised the 25,000 additional men authorized by Congress in an emergency act last March , and are by just that number short of their authorized strength to-day . Yet Mr. Hughes has the audacity to say that if Mr. Garrison 's recommendations of 1914 had gone through , we should now have a regular army sufficient to take care of the Mexican situation and should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! Wherein does he find the slightest basis for this assumption , in view of the fact that there are fewer men in the regular army to-day , after all the excitement over preparedness and the possibility of war in Mexico , than there were a year ago ? Yet he thinks nothing of daily risking his reputation for sagacity and judicial firmness in just this way . In the vote on election day , the bigger your majority the better ; but that is not at all the case in a straw vote . Even in the case of so big a straw vote as that mentioned in an Ohio dispatch to the New York Times , the circumstance that an overwhelming majority is shown for one candidate not only adds nothing to the force of the conclusion it points to , but actually takes away the significance of the vote almost completely . A straw vote which " gives Wilson 28,502 and Hughes 18,237 " votes in Ohio is evidently very far from being a true sample ; and if it is so far from correct as certainlyto require @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for supposing that it does not require still more correction , and enough to reverse the result ? If the vote mentioned were a true sample , Ohio would give Wilson on November 7 a plurality of 225,000 . But the most enthusiastic of Democrats will hardly expect more than one-third of this figure ; and if so big a cut has to be made , why not a little more ? The best of straw votes is none too good a reliance , and those that are the most emphatic in their showing are , as a rule , the ones that are least entitled to consideration . There are plenty of straws that really do show that the wind is blowing Wilsonward , but they can be seen and felt rather than counted . " Honey Fitz " has won a victory before election , although it is a victory in which his opponent , Senator Lodge , shares . The names of the two men appeared at the very end of the ballot . This was too much for the pride of a new-fledged candidate for the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Should voters be compelled to run their eyes down the full length of the ballot in order to find the noblest name on it ? Besides , there was a candidate for the State Senate named John I. Fitzgerald , and it was barely possible that a few voters , even in Massachusetts , might mark one name in the belief that it was the other . Fitzgerald 's protest has resulted in the transfer of his name and that of Lodge to the top of the fourth column . They thus come after the names of candidates for State offices , despite Fitzgerald 's insistence that the precedence should be the other way around . This question of the order of names of candidates has caused so much trouble ? in Chicago men have stood in line all night so as to get the name of their candidate first on the ballot  --  that some party or other should spring the issue of a circular ballot . It would capture the candidate vote at a stroke . " Shall We Go Cotton Mad Again ? " asks the Montgomery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is afraid , as many Southerners are , of the effect of twenty-cent cotton on the imagination of planters . The danger of overproduction of cotton  --  or rather of the abandonment of the policy of diversified crops which has made such headway in the past two years  --  is striven against by many influential individuals and organizations in the South . An article in The Nation 's Business , a periodical issued by the United States Chamber of Commerce , states that " to guard against this danger the cotton States bankers have already planned a campaign to begin this month , to last ten to twelve weeks , " and that " the agricultural colleges , the agricultural field forces , merchants , manufacturers , bankers , and , above all , Southern newspapers , will bend every energy toward a continuance of the safe and successful methods of the last two years . " Whatever may prove to be the degree of success of these efforts , there is one consideration at least in which some comfort may be taken as to the whole experience . It can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thickest-headed farmer that what determines the price of cotton is not plutocratic conspiracies or unjust laws or lack of circulating medium , but demand and supply . With cotton going a-begging at seven cents three years ago and soaring up to twenty now , the notion that the weal or woe of the cotton-planter is determined by a parcel of blood-suckers in Wall Street will presumably not have much standing for some time to come . To New York 's roster of well-housed collections another will be added when the Museum of the American Indian  --  now cramped in East Twenty-third Street  --  is moved to the building for which ground has just been broken near the Hispanic Museum . The site is given by Archer M. Huntington , and the structure will be paid for with $250,000 raised by friends of George G. Heye , the founder of the collection . Mr. Heye has been responsible for the dispatch of more than thirty expeditions for arcImological and ethnological research , and the 400,000 specimens which he has gathered from the two Americas are said to be worth a half-million . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directly interested in the subject , and its situation beside the building of the American Geographical Society and that of the Hispanic Museum should attract to it general attendance . It was formerly private ; the transfer of its administration to a board of trustees is taken as meaning that it will now be wholly public . The city has reason to be grateful for a collection that will mean much to specialists , university students , and the many with a natural interest in the early history of American races . Approval by various European statesmen of the general principle of the League to Enforce Peace , in favor of which both President Wilson and Mr. Hughes have declared , has been known for some time . Viscount Grey 's recent speech is of note as showing the weight , attached abroad to President Wilson 's address on the subject , and as containing some statements which led the London Daily News to characterize it as an " invitation . " It is hopeful to find him saying that the League is a work " to which we should all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I believe that the best work neutrals can do for the moment is to try to prevent a war like this from happening again . " It will encourage those who wish to see the plan made as practical as possible to find him emphatic on the point that national sentiments must be thoroughly enlisted for its objects . The discouraging feature is the partisan tone of some of his remarks , as when he says that " the Allies must have guarantees for future peace , " and that German statements demand guarantees against future attack , without clear definition of what those guarantees may be . Peace terms favorable to the Allies , of a sort that leave hatred against France , Russia , or Italy rankling in territories taken from the Central Powers , would not constitute a peace which neutrals would be glad to band together to enforce . The French success on the Verdun front , of importance as an achievement in itself when measured by the number of prisoners taken , and for its possible effect on the situation on the Somme , is perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the side of the Allies in the west . It has been the custom in German quarters to speak of France being bled white , and nearing collapse , and this in spite of the fact that France was supposed to have been bled white a year ago . That the blow around Verdun should have been delivered at the same time that the heaviest fighting of the Somme campaign was under way , by German accounts , argues that French resources are not yet exhausted . Whether Gen. Nivelle 's advance was the result of a surprise attack or came after the usual preliminary bombardment , German resistance has been apparently weakened along the line of the greatest German effort during the first half of 1916 . Mackensen 's pursuit of the Russo-Rumanian forces in the Dobrudja was at a pace to which the only parallel is the pursuit of the British from Mons to south of the Marne , when the British fell back a distance of about 170 miles in fourteen days , or at the rate of twelve miles a day , though the actual marching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rear-guard battles . The Allies in the Dobrudja have fallen back about 75 miles in six days , or since October 21 , when the battle south of the Constanza railway terminated in favor of the Teutonic forces . Constanza was taken on the 23d . A day later the armies were sixteen miles northwest of that town . On the 26th , according to Petrograd dispatches , they were on an average of fifty miles north of Con-stanza . The difference between the retreat to the Marne and the Russo-Rumanian retreat is that the former was the falling back of a great host , whereas the forces Mackensen has pursued are probably a part only of the Allied forces he defeated , the remainder having made their way across the Danube by the bridge at Cernavoda , which they destroyed behind them . The battle in the Dobrudja and its aftermath may be visualized a little more clearly if we translate the geographical terms . We may substitute the Hudson for the Danube and the Poughkeepsie railway bridge for the bridge at Cernavoda over which the railway from Constanza @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ &; Albany . The battle was fought about fifteen miles south of the railway . Of the defeated forces , as they fell back , part crossed the bridge , part continued north until they stood , translating again , not far from Albany . Whether Mackensen has likewise divided his troops , detailing part for the forcing of the Danube and part for the pursuit to the north , we have no means of knowing . But quicker profits lie in the latter direction . At the point where the armies are now , the Danube widens out into a great estuary which makes difficult crossing for a retreating army . It so continues for sixty miles , and then turns sharply east in a similar course of confused river channels and marsh . A resolute pursuit promises the bagging of large numbers of prisoners . For the Allies the only way of escape , unless strongly reinforced , is into the constricted corner where the Danube makes its great bend at Galatz . The dressing of a wolf in sheep 's clothing is nothing beside the Turkish Foreign Minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Armenians . Were it not for the terrible tragedy in the background , there would be something humorous in his account of himself and other Ministers as fast friends of the Armenians , benevolent advisers against an uprising till the Armenians " are sure we are lost , " and regretful executors of measures which lie mildly groups under the term " deportation . " For all his impudence , Hall . Bey does not make out a plausible justification for his Government . All the world knows that the " deportation " included unprecedented massacre and outrage , but over this he glides without a word . Even he does not pretend that the alleged rebellion occurred outside a " single district , " and has to explain that the terribly perfect organization of the Armenians made " a sweeping measure at the first hint of an uprising " necessary . What actually was regarded as this " first hint , " as we know from American missionaries and sources reached by the Bryce Commission , was nothing or next to nothing . The first outrages began under the baseless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the deportation  --  at which Halil Bey weeps crocodile tears as causing Turkey economic loss ? occurred organized murder and torture on a scale unknown since the Middle Ages . The Turkish Minister 's defence of the atrocities can have no other effect than that of stirring afresh the world 's indignation . The threatened strike on the Canadian Pacific , averted apparently by the company 's grant of important concessions , is interesting for the light it throws on one defect of the Lemieux Industrial Disputes act . It is hardly true that , as one newspaper remarked , the employees " spurned " the act . The difficulty is of two and a half years ' standing . In 1914 the Government , at the request of the men , appointed a board of conciliation which , as required by the act , made its recommendations and was then dissolved . The recommendations were largely unfavorable to the men , and after long deliberation they voted to strike , this vote being followed by renewed negotiations between men and company . The right of an employer to lock out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a board is unquestioned , for the Board has no power beyond what it exerts on public opinion . The Minister of Labor never flatly asserted the illegality of the proposed strike . But he did say the question might reasonably be raised whether an inquiry conducted two years ago , when conditions were different , complies with the provision of the act requiring a board of conciliation before a strike . Clearly , the Lemieux act is in need of some amendment definitely stating the time-limit within which an investigation may be held to make a strike legal .                     