@@466677

NAPOLEON is hardly to he blamed for having placed little dependence on what medical offi-cers could do toward strengthening his armies . Voltaire 's vi-sion that " to conserve is almost as good as to make " was still seeking realization as far as the legions of the empire were concerned . In those days the best way of keeping an army efficient , even if it kept it diminished in numbers , was to imitate the behavior of the Zulus , who hit a sick man on the head with a club , and push on . To guarantee healthy , vigorous men for a commander to push on with is the only service a medical corps can render a military machine , considered solely as such , and it was not in the days of Napoleon , or of Grant , or of Von Moltke , or even in the Spanish-American War , but now , within the past decade , that medicine , through its methods of prevention , has done just that thing . By keeping troops free from diseases which formerly made noneffective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essential and integral ally of force . It may even decide wars . Baron Takaki , once Director-General of the Medical Department of the Japanese Navy , used to say that he won the Chinese-Japanese war by keeping his country 's seamen in a condition to fight . Previously berriberri kept all ships ' crews in those Eastern waters constantly on the sick list . By strict dietary regulations , imposed in the face of Oriental superstition , Baron Takaki kept this powerful ally of the enemy clear of the Japanese ships , with the result that China , which NoTE. ? Since this article was written , special units for the treatment of nervous and mental diseases have been organized and equipped by a committee of medical men . These arc destined to be attached to base and other hospitals of the military services of the United States . exercised no such precautions , opposed full Japanese crews with her own crews half useless through a paralyzing disease . Figures derived from the medical department of our Army offer a striking contrast between the old and the new ways of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all large collections of men , has prac-tically ceased to exist in controlled com-munities . During eight months in 1898 , the time of the Spanish-American War , nearly one-seventh of the United States Army was rendered useless by typhoid infection . There were 20,926 cases with 2,192 deaths , out of 147,745 regulars and volunteers . During the year 1915 there were eight cases in the total American Army , and during the period between May t , 1916 , and October 8 , 1916 , Colonel Chamberlain informs us , among 170,000 troops which served in border camps throughout the Southern Department and in Mexico there were only 24 cases , with no deaths . The medical measures which to-day maintain an army 's fighting strength are the sanitation of camps , screening against flies and mosquitoes , ventilation of sleeping quarters , the use of preventive serums and vaccines , and the enforced prophylaxis against venereal diseases . All of these are of the utmost military significance , because they insure officers and men for duty , and also because they save time and resources which would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effectiveness becomes readily apparent on comparing the current report of the Surgeon-General of the United States Army with the reports running through the past ten years . In 1915 the non-effective rate for the entire Army from all causes was 25.22 per 1,000 ( for disease alone , 20.85 ) , while in 1906 it was 47.86 per 1,000 . The falling off in the number of men applying for treatment to the medical department for the entire Army shows the same thing . They were ' 088 per 1,000 in 1906 , but in 1915 had sunk to 726.19 per 1 , o00 . But while army strength now-is being conserved by the prevention of physical diseases , military authorities have been backward in grasping how seriously mental and nervous defects among soldierskripple effectiveness , and in taking steps to eradicate this blight , which , from its tendency to elude observation until the damage is done , is all the more dangerous . The purposes of industry are not satisfactorily met unless there is some method of rigid exclusion of all those not mentally fitted for it . Such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the fewer men who break down , the fewer there are to count out , take care of , and to pension . It is , therefore , if only from these two latter points of view , highly important to consider how seriously nervous and mental diseases and defects concern the solidarity of an army , and the means of avoiding them . The class of nervous and mental diseases of regular incidence in armies includes epilepsy , which , during our Civil War , occurred in four out of every thousand Union soldiers ; chronic alcoholism and drug habits ; delinquency , so frequently of mental origin and intimately connected with questions of discipline , especially as regards desertion and , in war-time , cowardice ; and neurasthenia and hysteria , which show such a tremendous increase at the front . But as insanity is the principal disorder concerning which statistics stand most ready to hand , it may be taken to serve as an index of frequency of the whole class . Insanity is the most frequent single cause of discharge for disability of enlisted men in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It causes one-fifth of all disability discharges . Approximately one-third of all men invalided home from the Philippines in 1915 were invalided home for some mental disability ; and of 474 discharged for disability during that year , from the Letterman Hospital in San Francisco , the largest general military hospital , 125 were so discharged for mental alienation . On the list of diseases which cause the greatest amount of non-efficiency in the Army , insanity holds the third place . The world over , insanity is rated as being approximately three times as frequent , even under peace conditions , in the Army as in the civil community . Those who see nothing but evil in armies may construe this as proof that army life produces mental disease . But another explanation seems nearer the truth . It seems a more reasonable hypothesis that the army demonstrates constitutional incapacity and weakness rather than creates mental disease ; that , under a service which requires a robuster mental stability than do some of the varied opportunities of civil life , slightly unbalanced persons , who might get along fairly well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not fully fit for an army , and so are discharged from it . A large percentage of the soldiers who break down mentally had , before recruitment , already either passed through nervous episodes which required sojourns in sanatoria , or through periods of mental distraughtness which interfered for a time with the usual routine of their lives . That these interruptions in activity are symptoms of constitutional unsoundness rather than initial attacks of mental disease , is borne out by the fact that the recovery rate from insanity in soldiers is nearly twice that in civilians . Inferences drawn from statistics to be informative must be considered with some knowledge of the purpose for which the statistics were gathered and the way they were collected . For its own safety , a military organization must , sooner or later , identify and count its undependable persons . In civil life there is neither demand nor opportunity for such a minute survey of mental health . Civil communities only count the insane who actually require confinement , and so even in the best-surveyed States , the registered insane are well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inadequately for the insane , and keep them herded in almshouses or jails classed as paupers and criminals , the insanity rate falls far below the normal rate of one insane person for every thousand of adult population . But , obviously , a rate so arrived at is untrue and misleading . The army rate of insanity , 3 to every 1,000 , high as it seems , only remains at that level under peace conditions and only then when the troops stay at home . Foreign service causes it to go up , even in peace . For example , there is more insanity among our troops serving in China than in those stationed at home . Under war conditions , the normal rate rises . This can not be entirely explained . by the actual hardships of war . It must be partly explained by the same emotional factors as those which upset civilians . The outbreak of war , like the occurrence of such allied catastrophes as earthquakes and conflagrations , dislocates all mental operations . To be harmonious , mental actions must be in accord with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and violent readjustment to new conditions the mind undergoes severe tests of its resistance . Some can not make the adjustment to war-times at all , as is shown , at the outbreak of war , by the increased number of old persons who die , by the increase in apoplexy , and by the fact that many persons who were able to maintain their equilibrium under ordinary conditions find their way , as though called by the clarion , to asylums . In countries such as England and America , in which three years ago war seemed like some legend , war brings with it to many a collapse of moral support and a complete transmutation of ethical values . They are suddenly told to renounce their cherished belief that the world has reached a point of perfection where wars are impossible . They become much depressed , and face the alternative of making some personal adaptation to the new and ugly condition , or of going mad . Some find their relief in believing that this marks the end of all thought-out destruction ; in others the early distress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the actual peril or humiliation of their own country . They thus construct for themselves psychological defenses of some kind , although few who are not actual combatants can do so completely , as is shown in the falling off in all original work not directly connected with the national defense . The compensation most commonly arrived at is the sinking , for a time , of personal considerations . National interest absorbs all others . Under its stimulus , professional and social differences fade away and exclusiveness becomes less a goal . Even butlers find their long-deferred opportunity to converse . There is an emotional desire for action , to do something for the common cause , to help at no matter what personal sacrifice . In Germany , at the outbreak of this war , the luxurious sanatoria lost most of their wealthy patients , and in one prison the complaints of the prisoners diminished by half . Under the steady daily routine of discipline and service and sacrifice , as organization replaces enthusiasm , these emotional reactions become less conspicuous ; and as war becomes a grim business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accepting its hardships and sorrows more and more as a matter of course . That people live with more temperance and less leisure may explain the strange contradiction that the admissions to civilian institutions fur the insane , which go up at the beginning of war , sink below normal finally . The struggle to attain a personal adaptation , which disturbs the civil population , Must also in a measure account for the increase in insanity among soldiers at the outbreak of war . It is greatest during the earlier months ? that is , during mobilization and training , before the fatigue and exposure and exhaustion of continuous fighting . With the exception of campaigns carried out in foreign countries under unusual climatic conditions , ' insanity is noted most at the main bases and diminishes with an actual approach to the front . Under the exactions of discipline , of prompt obedience , of giving up or doing without what he prizes , the individual who is physically and mentally sound usually experiences a distinct benefit from the new form of life . But such measures are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They may think themselves unjustly treated , feel they are persecuted , or may find themselves falling short of the expected , and thus he brought to a fuller realization of their own inadequacy . They become much In the German Army , during the Boxer campaign , the insanity rate attained 50 per 1,000. depressed in this way , and their minds become troubled , less over the present situation , perhaps , than over past problems of their own , which in civil life , with its protection and possibilities of avoidance , they were able to compensate for . i It has been noted over and over again in this war that soldiers , in their mental distress , referred less to immediate issues than to defects in their own past conduct and relationships . The figures which show a threefold increase during war of a disability which strikes harder at military effectiveness than any other medical disability , are drawn from the cases of actual insanity only . They by no means express all that armies suffer by reason of mental dis-ability . Among other conditions which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , both in causation and effects , are two well-known neuroses , neurasthenia and hysteria . Of eighteen United States Army officers retired for disability in 1915 , four were for neurasthenia . It is never possible to define exactly the limitations of these two neuroses , but they are generally understood as indicative of mental worry or of anxiety , or of shock ; they are essentially recoverable and do not correspond to the general symptoms of insanity . They are always frequent in armies , even during peace , and are more apt to arise at the front than are cases of actual insanity . By hysteria is usually understood a mental state which , more or less independently of consciousness , arouses physical symptoms or dictates some specific behavior for the purpose of obtaining a personal advantage or avoiding a disagreeable situation . The it , i hysteric , without en-tirely realizing t , shams illness for an end , under the various circumstances which make illness an asset rather than an incubus , and which changes the normal impulse to get well into an impulse to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In civil life it is found in many of the ailments of children , among plaintiffs who are suing for damages for personal injuries , and is a classical means for one party to a matrimonial contract to keep the other in hand . Armies have always had to contend with it as the soldier 's way of signifying his unwillingness to endure longer . It even gets into his slang , as when he says " he is sick of it . " The appeal for relief is expressed , not in words , but in physical terms of the situation itself . Hysterical blindness is a mute way of stating unwillingness to look any longer at horrible sights , deafness a refusal to hear any longer the explosions . The paralytic refuses to stand up or go , and the tremors , speech defects , and other symptoms of hysteria . are a way of saying , " Do n't you see how ill or badly injured I am ? " It can be shown that there is no physical interference with the nervous structures which preside over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but in the willing . Experience proves that these states are actual mental disorders , with the motive only half conscious . They present a sharp contrast to insanity by their symptoms , but especially for the reason that they are so much more certainly curable . They are not curable , however , while the conditions under which they arose persist . They are only curable under a treatment primarily psychological , which more or less disregards the physical symptoms which are the most conspicuous features . Patients of this kind in civil life rarely , if ever , recover in general hospital wards , and in military hospitals they may be counted on to get worse , surrounded as they are by the physical disease which they copy . Such suggestive surroundings fix nervous symptoms of this kind rather than lift them . But under the routine of a hospital personnel and equipment especially organized for the purpose of combating abnormal mental trends , such patients do surprisingly well . A physician from one of the special French hospitals reports that it happens over and over again that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months in general hospitals without improvement , recover in a few weeks in a special hospital , and are returned to the front . An English surgeon especially interested reports that he returns 36 per cent . of such cases . It will be a long time before the medical statistics of the present war are available , but everything seems to show that cases of this kind , including most of those of " shell shock , " have been extremely numerous . They overwhelmed both the English and French medical services , which were unprepared to take care of them . In the autumn of 1914 a special English officer was sent to France to arrange for them , and England was forced to make rearrangements of the whole medical service . Two " clearing " hospitals were established for the purpose of assorting and classifying , and neurological sections were created in all the territorial general hospitals in England , Scotland , and Wales . It was not until 1915 that the French Neurological Society urged the Government to establish special hospitals for such cases , and then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point of view of efficiency and humanity cases of the hysterical class merit the most intensive consideration , for the reason that the patients recover when suitably treated , but , neglected too long , become incapable of resuming military service , or even remain unfit for civil life . The question of alcoholism , in many respects a mental question , is too comprehensive to be considered in detail in this place . It may be said , however , that alcoholic insanity , which is something quite different from intemperance and a totally disabling affair , becomes especially conspicuous under war conditions . In the Russo-Japanese War , one-third of Russian officers who became insane became so by reason of alcohol . The scientific consideration of delinquency is inseparable from psychiatry , for it is being more and more firmly established that a considerable percentage of individuals who constantly break rules , who do not profit by punishment , who are in trouble over and over again for infractions of law , are mentally unsound . This mental unsoundness is sometimes due to actual disease of the brain , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a constitutional inability to find adaptation . Such disability may not appear from a direct examination of mentality , but becomes a conclusion from the persistence of a characteristic motiveless , abnormal behavior . Individuals with this disposition , the despair of philanthropists , do not profit by experience , however frequent or drastic it may he . It dues not teach them . Nothing does . Every chronic military delinquent falls under the suspicion of being a person who can not be courageous and can not be taught to obey , because he is mentally incapable . This condition of psychopathic personality finds full recognition at the United States Disciplinary Barracks at Fort Leavenworth , Kansas . Delinquent soldiers are classified by the psychiatrist stationed there , Major Edgar King , in accordance with their mental qualifications , determined largely by their be-havior . It may result from the work now going on at Fort Leavenworth that some place , even if not on the firing-lines , may be found for sub-normals in the Army . In view of the burdens which all the various mental disabilities put upon armies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without a part of its medical department being devoted to their recognition and treatment . Yet in the past little provision of this kind has been made . The first military psycopathic hospital was established by Russia at Harbin , in Russia 's war with Japan . It consisted at first of one building with fifty beds , but soon developed many dependencies . Through the central building there passed , incidental to the siege of Port Arthur , 1,740 insane patients . The experience taught that patients do much better when immediately treated in special base hospitals than when sent on long railway journeys . It was even found necessary to establish small hospitals along the Trans-Siberian Railway , where patients could rest for two or three weeks . This Russian initiative was not followed until the present war , and then only under the stress and hurry of an urgent necessity . Our own Army has been poorly provided with men specially trained in nervous and mental diseases . Few psychiatrists enter the Army . One officer is detailed every two years to be trained at the Government Hospital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough to provide for the needs even of such a small army as we have had . Yet it is quite evident that the frequency of nervous and mental diseases justifies the same quality of special organization for an army as has been found necessary in civil communities . As things are now , insane soldiers are unwelcome guests in the hospital ward , where they disturb other patients and take time on the part of orderlies and physicians , to no special purpose , or else they are kept in the guard-house , sometimes in steel cages , or in a prison ward , not because they are delinquents , but because it is the easiest way to protect them from injuring themselves or others . As prisoners they are not allowed to work out of doors as sane prisoners are , and thus are deprived of such ordinary privileges as fresh air , sunlight , and exercise . A military organization of psychiatrists promises more than the actual care of the insane and of those suffering from neuroses . If the service of psychiatrists were fully utilized at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevented . In the Navy , recruits who pass preliminarily are accepted for a probationary period of six months before final enlistment . At any time during this period they may be summarily discharged if they do not promise to turn out good men . That no such probationary period exists in the Army makes it even more necessary for the examination as to the mental caliber and ability of recruits to be painstaking and thorough . When the examinations are not thorough the individual always turns out badly , and especially so in the event of overseas operations . A large number of Canadian recruits had to be returned to Canada immediately after their arrival in England from Canada . Recruits in the United States Army who become insane in the Philippines have to be returned to this country for discharge , as no discharges are made in the islands . These expensive round trips are avoidable . But psychiatry could do more than supply immediate military needs . An army should aim to educate its soldiers in the ways of meeting life . It may be remembered that Charles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the Civil War taught him more than his four years at Harvard . It is the principles of education of that kind which psychiatry , better than any other branch of medicine , is able to i develop and foster . From its intensive study of individuals it is rapidly drawing many socially useful conclusions . It is becoming more exact in its identification of the different types of individuals , in determining the numerical distribution of these types throughout a community , and in knowing beforehand what these different types , under certain conditions , may be counted on to produce in the way of behavior . Psychiatry takes life as it finds it and insists that , of the policies which concern men , the wisest are those based on the broadest knowl- edge of humanity . Although its chief activity is among persons who do not succeed , its very familiarity with failure has i made it able to advise how best to avoid what interferes with success . It does not underestimate the importance of physical health ; but it insists that physical health , without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and self-denial and recognition of authority , which an army demands for its own sake , are indispensable for the upbuilding of a stable personality and for the assurance of happiness . In our country , in which the Army had become too small to be a feature in our society , where uniforms had practically disappeared from the streets , where few people had relatives or friends in the Army or any association with it whatsoever , we had rather lost the idea of what a large military organization might mean to society . We have spent so much time discussing the evils of armies that we have failed to grasp fully what a great factor for good they might be . We have failed to see that many of theundoubted evils might i be obviated if there were a closer touch between the army and the public at large . An army is created for the purpose of maintaining what we think best worth maintaining in our civilization . It is , therefore , an integral part of our civilization and as such must serve the high purpose of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before character is fully formed , when passions and general activities are at white heat , when habits are in the making , and when crippling diseases are most likely to be contracted . The army takes such young men ( the years twenty-one and twenty-two are the favorite ones for enlistments ) and keeps them for three or four years and then hands them back to society . Among enlisted men , soldiering is hardly a profession . It is rather that soldiers during a tempestuous period give themselves over to the guidance and control of a powerful and dictatorial organization to be trained after its standards . This organization should so fashion and shape them that when they return to society they will be healthy and better instructed to meet the varied conditions of civil life . Army officers recognize this in full , but complain , and with justice , that they are not met half-way by civilians . As regards venereal diseases alone , which have the highest rates both as to non-effectiveness and as to admissions , methods of prevention arc at hand by which these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large percentage of soldiers will continue to acquire , as soldiers always have done , diseases which cripple their military usefulness and which , years later , when they have become members of the civil community , will make them dependents . But many of the civil population take the stand that such things should not be recognized ? and attack the Army for trying to keep its men physically clean . The question of alcoholism requires an even heartier cu-operation between the Army and the civil community . Alcohol has always flayed armies . In addition to the inefficiency and disease which it causes during the soldier 's service , it beguiles him at the period when practically all habits are formed . Army organization might be an efficient aid in the campaign against alcoholism . It does what it can . It excludes alcohol from its barracks and camps , but it meets with very little co-operation on the part of the civil community , as is shown by the drinking resorts which collect in the neighborhood of military posts . Drinking should he made impossible near large points @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along the Mexican border , Texas had a local restriction regarding alcohol which forbade the sale after 9 P.M. Even such a restriction was a great- benefit and resulted in there being little alcoholism among the troops serving along the Rio Grande . With the proposed enlargement of our Army , and especially with the establishment of a compulsory military service , the Army becomes a more important factor in our education than ever before . Perhaps no one inexperienced with large groups of human beings gathered from all parts of the country can picture how much instruction the average young man needs in the simplest matters of life . A vast proportion of the world 's physical deterioration would be prevented if youth only knew what an army , better than anything else , is in a position to teach . The improvement in the health of recruits , even after a few months of service , shows plainly how far they , as civilians , had been falling short of their physical possibilities . From scattered sections of our country young men come to the Army who are ignorant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one State 's regiment on the border last summer were found to be infected with hook-worm . They were cured of this shortly after entering the service , and the gain in weight of that regiment was estimated in thousands of pounds . They went home wearing shoes . Soldiers who receive lessons in adaptation to life become an immediate asset to the nation . They go back as missionaries to the remote communities whence they came and disseminate the knowledge acquired through military experience . In this way an army becomes an active agent in spreading throughout the whole country the kind of education best calculated to conserve and improve mental health .                     