@@487053

SIR : The remark made by Professor Alden , in the interesting preface to his " Readings in English Prose of the Eighteenth Century , " to the effect that most of the ills thought to be characteristic of the present age were also subjects of complaint in the writings of the period represented in his book , is capable of repeatecL.illustration . For example , any one who is slightly familiar with the tracts of the Elizabethan . Period knows that the present hue and cry over the high cost of living is a mere echo of many a complaint voiced in those magazines of an older age . The mood which has led to the moral upheaval of recent years is accurately reflected in that passage in the " Colloquies " of Erasmus , in which he observes that " He that steals a little money must be hanged ; but they that cheat the public of their money and impoverish thousands by monopolies , extortions , and trickery and cheating are held in great esteem " : while the scandal about the " embalmed beef @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ led to the enactment of " Pure Food " laws would have served as illustrations for the text , " They that poison one person are hanged for it , but they that poison a whole nation with infectious provisions go unpunished " In lighter vein is the anticipation , in the " Colloquies , " of the modern suffragette . A convention of women is called , at which Cornelia preaides and complains that men have ( political ) organizations but not women In her speech she is constantly interrupted by other women , whereupon she loses her temper , though in the next paragraph she argues with unconscious humor that since men always disagree or fight over politics the time demands that women shall show how such things may be managed peacefully The true inwardness of this early movement for the emancipation of woman is seen in the provision that no woman should be permitted to mention her hus-band Other parallels suggest themselves , but one of the most amusing , in these days of attacks upon our Germanized scholarship , is to be found in that delightful compound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Folly " : Thus when their employment is only to rehearse silly stories and poetical fictions they will yet think themselves wiser than the best experienced philosophers . . Add hereunto this other sort of ravishing pleasure : when-any of them has found out who was tile mother of Anchises , or has lighted upon some old unusual word . . or can , after a great deal of poring . spell out the inscription of some battered monument , Lord ! what joy , what triumph , what congratulating their success , as if they conquered Africa or taken Babylon the Great ! When they recite some of their frothy bombast verses , if any happen to ad-mire them , they are presently flushed with the least hint of commendation , and de-voutly thank Pythagoras for his grateful hypothesis , whereby they are now become actuated with a descent of Virgil 's poetic soul . Nor is any divertisement more pleasant than when they meet to flatter and curry one another ; yet they are so critical that if any one hap to be guilty of the least slip , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , and then to it they go in a tongue combat , with all the fervor , spleen , and eagerness imaginable . This violent attack must have ? been written near the end of a college term , a time when the discouraged professor finds satisfaction neither in his efforts to make scholars of freshmen nor in his own " original contributions to scholarship , " undertaken , according to his critics , primarily to win promotion for himself . Only the passage about reciting original verses needs excisicin to fit the satire fiir present use , for , of course , professors who are ambitious for scholarly reputation condescend nowadays to no such " popular " employment as writing verse . The one ray of comfort to-day for the struggling fraternity who live by literature is that the present output of the presses is so great that only a few searchers for doctoral dissertations know that everything has been said long ago . - One trembles at the thought of what might happen were publishers and editors to- find out that any material they need , from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in ancient books , refurbished as to style and proper names , pointed with local allusions , illustrated by some famous contemporary artist , and published and advertised in modern style , thus saving all expense for author 's fees and royalties . E. A , GREENLAW . Adelphi College , December 10 . COMMERCIAL REFORM AND LEGAL JUGGLING . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : Sir : Recently the president of the National Civic Federation , Mr. Seth Low , sent to twenty thousand representative business men of the country a list of questions concerning their views on corporation legislation The purpose of the inquiry is to procure suggestions looking towards the enactment of constructive laws , dealing with the business situation as it relates to the Sherman Anti-Trust act . And what will be accomplished ? Statements touching abuses sought to be remedied , and requests for individual opiniong as to how best to correct them , make it certain that the Federation will collect a great variety of original matter ; it will discover , in all probability , that it has gathered more than it can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will find itself more confused , concerning the subject in hand , than it is at the present time . " Too many men in public and business life , " writes the editor of a daily journal of high standing in the middle West , " are blindly endeavoring to find some way to adjust to the Sherman law corporation con- fictions which have grown up within the few years last passed They are trying to so arrange matters that fictitious capitalization may be continued , and mergers and extensions made on this basis . Probably the National Civic Federation would like to have legislation which would not interfere too seriously with the development of big holding companies . " No reform in corporation business will ever come about until there is an end made of watered stock  --  this may be set down as final . When each and every share of stock in a corporation is made to represent actual value , we shall have fewer holding companies , and less opportunity and desire for monopoly . When money invested in an industry must be employed in that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the business , then there will be few complaints regarding the scope and size of corporations  --  nothing can be clearer As to legal Jugglery , it is out of this that commercial indirection and dishonesty has grown , and continued to grow . Dequincy , I believe , wrote of murder as a fine art ; the United States , it should seem , treats it as a means of testing legal acumen . In almost every State in the Union an indictment for murder  --  or any other indictable offence  --  contains words enough to fill a column of an ordinary sized newspaper , and sounds like the incoherencies of an imbecile . Here is an example : That the said AB C a certain pistol then and there charged with gunpowder and leaden bullets , which said pistol he , the said A. B , then and there in his right hand had and held , then and there unlawfully , purposely , and of deliberate and premeditated malice , did discharge and shoot off to , against , and upon the said D. C , with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the force of the gunpowder aforesaid , by the said A B C. , with the leaden bullets aforesaid , out of the pistol aforesaid , then and there shot off and discharged as aforesaid , him , the said D. C , in and upon the upper right side of the back of him , the said D. C , then and there . ' . The example is genuine , and is n't quite as meaningless as it looks ; it expresses , in part , the theory of justice alluded to above , which turns a murder trial  --  or the trial of any weighty cause  --  into a game of skill between opposing lawyers . The slightest variation from statutory form loses the game , and no fact is better known than the fact that crimes of the most heinous character have many times been set aside solely on account of trivial verbal omissions in the indictment In Canada they do things differently  --  and the doing stands to their credit . An . indictment there reads like this : " The jurors of our lord the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day of May , one thousand nine hundred and ten , at the city of Winnipeg , in the Province of Manitoba , murdered D. C. " Here the procedure concerns itself with the offence , not with the possibilities of legal sport . J. H. ROCKWELL . Springfield , Ill. , December 9 . JOHANNES VAHLEN . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : On November 30 there died , full of years and honors , Johannes Vahlen , professor of Latin at the University of Berlin . Countless Americans have sat at his feet ? he continued his lectures to within two weeks df his death  --  and it seems , therefore , proper that the passing away of one of the greatest classical scholars of our time should receive becoming notice in the columns of the Nation , . Vahlen was born of humble parents in the university town of Bonn , September 27 , 1830 . When only eighteen years of age he matriculated at the University and at once came under the inspiring influence of Ritschl , then in the plenitude of his powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wonder of his fellow pupils At the age of twenty-four he edited fragments of Ennius , and in the same year he became Prwatdozent at Bonn In 1856 he was called to Breslau as professor extraordinary , two years later he went to Freiburg as full professor , and in the very same year to Vienna , where he remained for sixteen years . On the death of M. Haupt in 1874 he became his successor at Berlin . In 1893 he was elected permanent secretary of the Berlin Academy of Sciences , a post which he relinquished only a few weeks ago . He was also a member of the famous Ordre pour le in4rite and Dr. mils honoris cause of the University of Berlin On the completion of his seventieth birthday his pupils honored him with a volume of essays , and on the occasion of his eightieth anniversary a marble bust was presented to him , the funds having been provided by friends and pupils in Europe and America . His lectures covered a wide range of authors , preferably Sophocles , Aristophanes , Plato , Aristotle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Catullus , Horace , Virgil , Ovid , and Juvenal . They were exclusively exegetical and text-critical , apart from the elaborate introductions , but were stylistically so carefully elaborated as to be a source of perpetual delight . Many of the accompanying translations were so admirably done , in verse and prose , that we hope to see them printed for a larger public But the chief influence upon his pupils Vahlen wielded in his seminary , which for nearly a generation was unmatched in Europe as a philological training school , save that of the Bonn Dioscuri , Bucheler and Usener , fellow-students of his under Ritschl and his lifelong friends Since O Hermann , certainly no European scholar spoke and wrote Latin with equal purity and facility , but quite unlike that great philologian , Vahlen also wrote his native tongue with singular grace and lucidity . Especially distinguished among his numerous publications are his editions of Aristotle 's " Poetics , " with the famous commentary separately published , and his Ennius , which in its revised issue will remain the definitive edition of this author , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than mere fragments of the father of Latin poetry . - If it be asked what was the specific achievement of his life work , we may say that he was the foremost champion , if not the inaugurator , of the conservative method in textual criticism , which insists on a penetrating exegesis of the text , in form and content , as the condition precedent to any Justifiable conjectural restoration . In proof whereof he demonstrated with matchless skill and acumen that numerous Bevelled emendations generally accepted and , indeed , quite dazzling at first glance , often flagrantly violated the author 's meaning or were incompatible with his well-ascertainable stylistic usage . Vahlen was withal a philologist of the old school , fast disappearing , if , indeed , he may not be called its last illustrious representative . - The classics were to him a vitalizing force , elevating their devotees and enabling them to rise triumphant over the sordid and materialistic tendencies of our day . He clung with an almost pathetic fervor to the ideals of his youth . Though not blind to the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adage he deliberately refused to accept . And I believe he was right . For had he yielded to the strong anti-humanistic pressure exerted upon him , had he compromised with opportunism , certainly the inspiration of his life work would not have been bequeathed untarnished to so many pupils . ALFRED GUDEMAN . Munich , December 4 THE CONCORDANCE TO WORDSWORTH . TO THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : Sin . Your sympathetic review of the " Concordance to Wordsworth " ( Nation , December 7 ) could not fail to gratify those who helped to prepare the volume , or the members of the organization that helped to publish it , yet several of the statements seem to be misleading The work was not originally announced by the Concordance Society , but by the editor , in an independent paper read before the Modern Language Association The Society did not undertake to provide its share of the subvention until the copy was ready for the printer The reference to the reading of proof is likewise inexact . The burden of examining the proof-sheets fell upon the editor , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by paid assistants of his own Three friends each generously re-read about one-sixtieth of the whole , by way of testing the accuracy of pages already corrected . At no time was the thought entertained of adopting for the purposes of the Concordance the order of any of the texts in which a chronological arrangement of Wordsworth 's poems is attempted  --  for the reason that , judged by a scientific standard , such attempts thus far have been failures . When the excerpting was begun , and as Professor Dowden agreed , the only possible choice lay between the last edition issued by the poet himself and the edition of Mr Hutchinson which was selected . Wordsworth uses the word nature , not about 550 times , but 396 times . The reviewer probably includes the possessive nature 's in his estimate . But confining ourselves to the singular number , we may note that Wordsworth uses soul 401 times , mind 540 times , man 696 times , and love 761 times . So far as such Statistics show anything , they go to prove that Wordsworth 's main @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man . The inference is borne out in many ways ; for example , by the sub-title of " The Prelude , " namely , " The Growth of a Poet 's Mind " LANE COOPER . Ithaca , N. Y .. December 11 . Professor Cooper 's first point is well taken . In - regard to proof-reading , however , it was not clearly evident from his Preface just how that labor had been divided among himself , paid assistants , and volunteers . It was not suggested that he should have used a different text of Wordsworth . And the reviewer mentioned the number of times the word nature occurred , not for the purpose of indicating that the poet was more interested in external nature than in man , but merely to illustrate how the Concordance might help a student of Wordsworth to trace variations in the poet 's usage. ? Tna REvmwES . RETIRING TEACHERS . TO THE EDITOR Or THE NATION : SIR ' There has been an unseemly attack by a New York newspaper upon a distinguished scholar in public life , who some time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universities , and , after twenty-five years of educational work , presented to the Carnegie Foundation an application for a retiring allowance As is well known , the trustees of the Foundation , until some months ago , granted such retiring allowances to any reputable teacher who had completed twenty-five years of service at an accepted institution , and who for any reason had withdrawn from active educational work . One reason alleged for the recent advance of the age of retirement to sixty-five years , except in cases of disability , is that the number of applicants for retirement on the old plan would impose too great a burden upon the resources of the Foundation -. mat is a question of fact with which at this moment we have no concern . But there is in a good many quarters a feeling that the administration of the Foundation is somewhat lacking in flexibility . The average college teacher in America is held very closely to his work , and is obliged to sacrifice many of his scholarly ideals to classroom routine . Teachers of this kind may be capable of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but they are commonly debarred from bringing it to a conclusion , for the reason that they have not the leisure to devote uninterrupted effort to the task . If they must wait till they are sixty-five , they are likely to be too petrified to produce much that the world would care to preserve Very few college teachers can save much out of their salaries , but they may , perhaps , succeed in putting aside enough to maintain a modest existence for " a few years ; and more than one would doubtless be glad to live on a pittance for the sake of finishing the scholarly work to which he had devoted his scanty leisure . Why could not the Carnegie Foundation encourage scholars of this type by telling them that after they have Completed twenty-five years or more of service they have in effect earned a paid-up life insurance policy , entitling them after reaching the age of - sixty- five to an annuity for the remainder of their days ? In the vast ? majority of cases the best work that a college teacher does in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of service , and before the age of sixty . He should , at all events , have the choice at that age as to whether he will continue in ordinary college work or devote himself to the further investigation of the subject to which he has given his life . This aspect of the situation has received far too little attention , and may well be considered by the trustees of the Carnegie Foundation . WHY Nam ? Middletown , Conn , Decembei 13                     