@@493056

The Note as Americanism WHEN Mr. Wilson 's note to the belligerent Powers was published on Thursday of last week it was received by an important section of American public opinion with a gasp of astonishment and incredulity . The great majority of those Americans who are most interested in the war are habituated to consider it exclusively from the French and English or the German point of view ; and they were rendered breathless by the spectacle of the President of the United States who dared to do anything or say anything about the European war except in response to the initiative of one of the belligerent nations . Yet the shock , sharp as it was , was not sufficient to make them swerve from their hyphenism . They looked at the President 's proposal , as they have looked at every other issue or event of the war , exclusively in its effect on British , French or German interests . The pro-Germans rejoiced , because they hoped its effect would be to improve the chances of favorable peace terms for Germany . The pro-Allies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their French and English friends , but chiefly because they were unable to conceive of American policy in relation to the war , except as determined by the interests of the Allied Powers as belligerents . It was a perfect exhibition of instinctive and undiluted colonialism , and naturally the most officious of the colonials were men , like George W. Perkins , who expatiate most volubly about Americanism but fail to recognize it when they see it . They cry to the heavens for national leadership and then repudiate it when it is offered to them . In truth , President Wilson 's note takes a long step towards the formulation of something which unhyphenated Americans have been groping after since the beginning of the war . It is a move in the direction of a positive national policy , which in so far as it can be made to prevail , will create for the American democracy a living and serviceable relation to the ultimate issues raised by the European war . And this policy , although aggressive and national , is not exclusive . It is aggressive only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is national in the sense that it brings certain national ideals a little nearer to realization . No matter how resentfully it is received in the beginning , it will in the end win the understanding and support of democrats and liberals throughout the world . They will welcome it for what it is ? one of the most courageous and intelligent attempts made by any government to bring into existence the kind of international community which may provide for democracy and liberalism a more gracious climate and a more fertile soil . The European war aroused thoughtful Americans from a condition of dangerous ignorance and inertia . It has compelled them to consider the problem of readjusting the traditional relation occupied by their country to Europe . In the past the chief object of our European policy has been to avoid European complications . We even proclaimed ourselves willing to fight , if necessary , in order to prevent the two Americas from being treated as an arena for the exercise of European nationalistic aggression . We were , moreover , justified in assuming this atttitude . The Monroe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We were right in separating the American political system from that of Europe , not because Americans possessed any superiority in manners or morals , but because our geographical situation emancipated us from the necessity of participating in the perils and distractions of the European international system . We were under no necessity of forming any part of a European balance of power or of associating ourselves with its responsibilities . But this attitude , justified as it formerly was , has had the foundation knocked out from under it by a radical alteration in the mere physical facts of our relationship to Europe . The geographical isolation was impaired by improved processes of communication . The two Americas were brought so near to Europe and united to it by so many bonds of intercourse that political separation became unnatural and costly . Pan-Americanism would be obliged eventually either to make terms with the European balance of power or guarantee its own continued isolation by armaments comparable to those of Europe . This dilemma has been brought to the surface by the war . Since August , 1914 , the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the European belligerents . The traditional fabric of international law , upon which the American government had depended for the safeguarding of its citizens during war , was wrenched to pieces . Dangerous controversies with European Powers ensued , and as a consequence of these contentions , the nation was persuaded to increase its armaments and to make vigorous preparation for an impending war . These preparations were at first explained as a measure of self-defense ; but what we were really defending was not our territorial inviolability but , as public opinion soon began to realize , our traditional Pan-American foreign policy ; and the question was immediately asked , how far it was profitable to arm for such a purpose . The relations between the mutually exclusive American and European political systems would have to be determined by some kind of law , and it was precisely the existence and sanction of any law of nations which was being made precarious by the war in Europe . A Pan-American system of inoffensive nations could not preserve its own peculiar advantages in case the rest of the world was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the law of nations to their own interests as actual or future belligerents . An American system , as the first condition of its own security , would have to use its influence on behalf of any promising attempt to organize security in Europe . Thus what the United States needed to bring about was a positive and responsible adjustment to the European system in place of the existing negative and irresponsible adjustment . How could this be done without abandoning the most precious aspect of our traditional foreign policy ? the tradition of keeping free from the clash of conflicting national interests , known as the European balance of power ? " Very easily , " answered the American spokesman of the Allies . " Let the United States join the combination against Germany . Great Britain and France are fighting for the security of all nations against aggression and for the sanctity of international obligations ; and these are the principles upon which American foreign policy has always rested . " Public opinion in this country so far accepted the truth of this argument that participation in the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the side of Germany it became inconceivable . American neutrality waxed unmistakably benevolent . Yet benevolent as it was , it did not entirely cease to be neutral . Although the contention of the Allies that they were fighting in part for those international purposes which had always informed American foreign policy was accepted , we could not accept the generous inference that they were fighting only for these objects . The war had originated in one of those conflicts of national ambition between Russia and Germany from which Americans have always sought to steer clear , and before this country could commit itself to the Allies it needed to know how in the event of victory they proposed to accomplish the declared object of organizing international security . Would it be by a treaty of peace which would place a substantial international law and organization behind international security , or by a treaty of peace which merely sought to readjust the former balance of power ? If the former the American nation would have every reason , based on the best tradition in its foreign policy , to abandon its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ structural work either at the end of the war or , if necessary , during the course of the war . But if the Allies proposed to vindicate international law by substituting for a balance of power which was tipping in favor of the Central Powers , a new balance more favorable to France and Russia , they would merely be perpetuating the old feuds . Then the American nation would find it wiser , even at a heavy cost , to preserve its freedom of action , until the Allies were prepared to pay a better price for its assistance . It is this ambiguity in the policy of the Allies which constitutes the great difficulty of the attempt to readjust , in the light of new needs and conditions , the relation of America to Europe . Mr. Wilson 's note to the European belligerents seeks to clear it up . It is intended to bring out whether or not the " new Europe " which the Allies propose to bring into existence is based on an honest attempt to provide a legal structure for international co-Operation , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe ? one in which Germany is deprived of the security and the outlet for her national energy which is guaranteed to the other nations . It is intended to bring out , also , whether or not the Central Powers are willing to enter such an international system and if so , what proof they are willing to give of good faith . The immediate purpose of the note is to exert pressure on Germany to offer extremely moderate terms and to announce definitely what kind of an international system she will enter and what guaranties she will give for good behavior . But its more remote effect will be to exert pressure on the Allies to accept German readiness to enter an international system under adequate guaranties as a sufficient proof of the probable accomplishment of the objects for which they are fighting . Thus the President is practically asking them to accept an even break plus a cooperative international organization . It would be peace without victory for either side , and peace without victory seems desirable because a victory would provide both contestants with an irresistible temptation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ redressing a precarious balance of power in their favor . The dispatch of Mr. Wilson 's note would be an impertinent interference by the American government in the business of other nations were it not for one fact of overwhelming importance . For the first time in the history of the country , an American official document has made European business American business by offering to abandon the isolation of the past and form a responsible part of a European international system . The note expressly declares that the American people " stand ready and even eager to cooperate " in the protection of weaker nations against violence " with every influence and resource at their command . " For this reason it may well count as one of the outstanding documents in the history of the political relations between America and Europe . It is an explicit offer to use the new world , not as Canning said , to redress the balance in the old , but for the better purpose of lending to the European balance the influence and power of a disinterested outsider and by so doing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concert . The offer may fail in its intended effect , but Europeans , and least of all Englishmen and Frenchmen , do ill to receive it churlishly and resentfully . Surely they must recognize that a mere victory over Germany which did nothing to reform the balance of power as a system of international relationship would not serve to bring into existence a new and better Europe . They must recognize that without American help the difficulty of bringing a new Europe into existence looks insuperable . Should they reject that help and treat Mr. Wilson 's note as a well intentioned but intolerable interference with their immediate business they will be alienating American sympathy and support , and confirming the American nation in its old suspicions of Europe and its old practice of irresponsible neutrality and isolation . If they claim the interference to be ill timed and ask us why we do not postpone our interference until the end of the war , when it will be much more welcome , the answer is only too obvious . It will be something like this : " Gentlemen , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us wait . By the very fierceness of your hostility to your enemies , you are depriving us of the little shelter for a neutral still provided by the traditional structure of international law . If you insist upon a decisive victory and propose to use it for the purpose of emasculating your enemy , Germany will feel justified in pulling out every weapon in her armory for the defense of her position in Europe . She will use her submarines so far as possible to cut off all communications between Great Britain and the rest of the world . How far such a policy would be successful we do not know , but one thing we do know . Its adoption would so intensify hatreds and suspicions that neither of the contestants would submit until he was utterly undone . It would convert the ocean highway , on which Americans must move or perish , into a belligerent domain on which a neutral could not travel without becoming a belligerent . It would force the United States into a war whose only results would be to leave the schism of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do nothing to secure and everything to imperil the creation of that international order upon which the future security of great nations as well as small depends . Ignore us and flout us if you will , but in that case do not get angry when we arm exclusively to protect our own interests and when we on our part smile sceptically and wearily when you continue to talk about fighting for international right . "                     