@@430671

 | IN June , 1914 , MCCLURE 'S MAGAZINE published an article describing , under the head of " Painless Childbirth , " a new procedure developed in the women 's clinic of the University Hospital in Freiburg , Germany . For many thousands , probably many millions , of years , the infant of the human species had entered the world only at the cost of unimagined agony to its mother ; now we learned , for the first time , that there was at least a possibility that this suffering was to end . This announcement had an immediate interest for two classes in society . Inevitably it ap- pealed strongly to all women , in themselves nearly half of human-kind . It also attracted the attention of that small minority of men , the doctors , whose business it is to assist women in the greatest ordeal of their lives . Naturally , the women welcomed this announcement . In a few weeks the whole lay world was discussing the news . It was about the only subject not smothered by the European war . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the keenest disappointment . The newspapers began to report , and the word was passed from  | mouth to mouth , that the whole thing was a humbug . We were amazed to learn that the Freiburg method was nothing new ? that wide-awake American physicians had tried it years before , and dismissed it in disgust ; that not only did it not relieve pain , but that it frequently killed both the mother and the child . The entire performance , we were told , was an especially vulgar and criminal advertising dodge ? a scheme of two German doctors , Kronig and Gauss , to entice American dollars out of the pockets of hysterical American women . What had so suddenly changed American opinion ? The explanation was simple : authority had spoken . Many important medical journals in the United States had denounced the Freiburg Twilight Sleep in almost vituperative terms . Gradually , however , the situation changed again . Scattered pieces of information began to leak through to the public . Newspaper items announced that medical societies were discussing the Freiburg idea . Moreover , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statements ranged all the way from utter scorning to suggestions that there " might be something in it " and reports that  | certain doctors were actually making progress with this method . Medical journals which had been most forward in their denunciations began to print articles describing the successful use of Twilight Sleep . Several of the very doctors who had tried the method years before , and discarded it , now declared that , after all , it seemed to work . The professional attitude was still deprecating and judicial . Only under exceptional circumstances , we were told , could painless childbirth be realized ; the procedure was for only the most skilful operators , working under extremely favorable conditions ; the method of its introduction was a shocking case of sensational journalism and an indecent violation of medical ethics . Still , Twilight Sleep was not a demonstrated fraud , and Kronig and Gauss were not a new edition of Dr. Friedman , of turtleserum fame . Has Twilight Sleep Made Good in America ? What , then , is the present situation ? Has Twilight Sleep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are its successes and its failures ? What , according to  | American experience , are its limitations ? What are the chances that , in the hands of trained physicians , it will supplant the family doctor , the midwife , the forceps , and the other traditions of the lying-in chamber ? It was , perhaps , not surprising that the scientific world received this announcement so unfavorably . As the medical journals said , the method was not new . In fact , its present appearance is the third in the last twelve years . Medical men first learned of it in 1902 . Scopolamin-morphine had already been demonstrated to have a distinct value in general surgery . An injection preliminary to ether or chloroform robbed these established anesthetics of many of their terrors ; it quieted the patient , removed the apprehension with which the average man or woman anticipates an operation , and abolished many of the unpleasant after effects . In 1902 , however . von Steinbiichel of Gratz suggested a new and startling use for these drugs . He had tried them in twenty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diminished the agonies of childbirth . Von Steinbiichel 's work has little practical importance now , as he had developed no available technique . He  | sounded one warning , however , that still has particular value . He insisted that , because of the special knowledge required and the close attention demanded , scopolamin-morphine could not be used in general practice . Steinbuchel 's method was not a twilight sleep : he was not attempting to destroy pain , but merely to diminish it ; he had a wholesome respect for the dangers of the drugs , and so gave very small amounts . The obstetricians in Germany and Italy who tried Steinbuchel 's procedure aimed at the same goal : while several obtained results more or less satisfactory to themselves , their reports inspired little general confidence and remained for many years in the dusty pigeonholes of scientific literature . Why American Doctors Failed with the Scopolamin Treatment There they would probably have rested forever had the scopolamin idea not enlisted the interest of Drs . Kronig and Gauss of the Frauenklinik of Freiburg , Germany . In 1906 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of scopolaminmorphine in one thousand cases of childbirth . These papers have had a remarkable  | history . According to the facts set forth , Dr. Gauss had succeeded in inducing a psychological state which he called Dames merschlaf ( usually translated Twilight Sleep ) in a very large majority of his cases , and this without injury to the mother or child . Dr. Gauss ' professional eminence , and that of his superior , Dr. Kronig , attracted general attention to his announcement . Obstetricians in Germany and the United States immediately began to act on the Freiburg suggestion . The strange part of the story is that , while they professedly adopted Dr. Gauss ' scopolamin-morphine idea , nearly all ignored his technique . All that the Gauss followers gathered from his writings was that he used scopolaminmorphine , and had success ; they proceeded to use these drugs in ways of their own , and had discouraging failures . We lay due emphasis upon this point here , because these same experimenters are now crying peccavi . Dr. John Osborn Polak , of the Long Island College @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of obtaining this condition , he obtained , in an uncomfortable number of his cases , narcotized or asphyxiated babies and delirious mothers . " These results were not so much the result of the method , " Dr. Polak says in the Long Island Medical Journal for December , 1914 , " but of the individual using it . The children and women were morphinized . " Another American obstetrician who used the Gauss suggestion without the Gauss prodecure was Dr. Ross McPherson , of the Lying-in Hospital of New York . This is what he says now ? we quote from the American Journal of Obstetrics for October , 1914 : " A phenomenon as interesting as the Twilight Sleep itself is that detailed descriptions of the technique which have been followed closely in this study have lain idle in the literature for six years , with no one taking advantage of them . Those who did make trial of this procedure wandered far afield both in method and in the object to be obtained . " Freiburg Statistics Meet with Savage Incredulity European scientists had similar experiences . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used the Gauss method and duplicated the Gauss success . Practically , all the other continental savants , however , followed techniques devised by themselves . Their reports made discouraging reading . Hocheisen of Berlin , whose statements had the widest publicity and practically destroyed Dammerschlaf in Germany ( that is , outside of Freiburg ) , declared that the drug was a terrible poison , and that it interfered with the later development of the child . All this explains why American medical journals and medical societies denounced this resurrection of a discarded practice . Still , there was another remarkable circumstance . In 1914 Kronig and Gauss said , in scientific journals , that they had had nearly five thousand cases of Twilight Sleep , with eighty per cent of successes . Just consider that number of cases ? five thousand ! Scores of medical discoveries have been pronounced successes on a fraction of this evidence . It took only one operation to convince Dr. John C. Warren , of the Massachusetts General Hospital , in 1844 , that ether was a success . Both Kronig and Gauss were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Flexner of the Rockefeller Institute announce that , based upon an experience of five thousand cases extending over nine years , he had discovered a cure for cancer , scientists would at least give his claim respectful consideration ; his position as a scientist and a gentleman would cause a presumption that he was telling the truth . But the medical profession here received the Freiburg statistics with savage incredulity . Gauss Technique the Secret of Success In order to understand the situation , we must keep firmly in mind this fact : there is a system of scopolamin-morphine anesthesia , and a system known as Twilight Sleep . The former fails wherever it is tried ; the latter , in all reports made since the Kronig and Gauss publication , has succeeded . Merely injecting scopolamin-morphine into the system of a parturient woman will not produce a painless childbirth . The Gauss technique , in nearly eight thousand cases , has , however , accomplished this result . I n reality , Twilight Sleep is not a method of anesthesia at all . The word " anesthesia ' was devised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condition induced by the inhalation of sulphuric ether . It is derived from the Greek , and means  | " without feeling . " An anesthetic person is unconscious , both mentally and physically ; his ego receives no impressions ; his muscles likewise are quiescent ? temporarily paralyzed . An anesthetic woman could never give birth to a child , since the entire pelvic musculature must be actively at work . There is another physical condition , known as analgesia . In this the patient , although she may or may not be conscious or partly conscious , has no sensibility , or has a greatly reduced sensibility , to pain . There is still another condition , known as amnesia , in which the woman , although she may receive certain reflex impressions of pain , does not consciously perceive them , and immediately forgets them . This is the psychological state now so widely known as Twilight Sleep . It is apparently the only state in which anything approaching a painless childbirth can be attained . Scopolamin-morphine , used in these cases , is not an anesthetic : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , lay and professional , have insisted that this treatment does not actually abolish pain , but merely makes the patient forget it . From the beginning , however , the German  | experts have described their method as both painlessness and forgetfulness . The title of Kronig 's famous paper , " Painless Childbirth in Dammerschlaf , " clearly accentuates this claim . The twilight condition , indeed , does not represent the deep insensibility of anesthesia ; in most cases , however , there is so great a diminution of pain that the birth process loses its distressing character . Stcinbuchel 's original treatment failed because he gave such small doses that the patients received very little relief . Gauss ' American successors , in 1907 and 1908 , failed because they went to the other extreme and tried to secure absolute painlessness ; hence their large doses and the consequent bad effects on mother and child . The Freiburg experimenters , however , discovered the half-way station ? the condition that was neither complete consciousness nor complete unconsciousness ; the state in which the mind received impressions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it perceived particular objects , but made no mental associations ; in which it felt , but in  | greatly diminished degree , the pangs of childbirth , but instantaneously forgot them . The process , so far as pain and other sensations are concerned , is a continuous realization and a continuous forgetting . The one practical fact is that , if the doses are skilfully regulated , there is no appreciable loss of muscular power . In the first stage , the machinery really works more rapidly under scopolamin-morphine than under normal conditions , since the woman , in her twilight state , does not consciously attempt to hold back the contractions . This , then , was the Twilight Sleep : a condition which the obstetricians who made such failures a few years ago did not understand . Likewise , they did not understand the sign that marked the attainment of this crepuscular condition . We can read most diligently the scientific papers put out in this country in 1907 and 1908 without finding any reference to what is now the distinguishing feature of the treatment ? the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ago as they do now that their whole method stood or fell by this  | memory test . The drugs affect different women differently : a small dose induces Dammerschlaf in one patient , while another requires a dose considerably larger . Any physician who seeks to standardize the treatment comes to grief . How , then , is he to know that his patient has reached the twilight stage ? It is purely a question of remembering or forgetting . If the patient remembers , the Damrnerschlaf is not complete and other doses are required . If she forgets , then this mental condition has been attained . The test is as elusive as it is decisive . Other mental symptoms are not safe guides . The patient may seem fairly conscious ; she may ask rational questions , quietly follow the attendant 's spoken instructions , and still have lost all faculty of memory . It is only when she fails to remember an object shown her a short time before that the drugs have filled their appointed mission . Doctors Have Ignored Important Details The American and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other details which the Freiburg doctors had carefully described . The method demanded absolutely pure and stable preparations of the drug ? something which , at that early date , the physicians did not possess , perhaps because it was so difficult to obtain . They took no trouble to secure quiet surroundings ? to darken the room , to cover the patient 's eyes , and in other ways to separate her senses from the external world . They did not wait to give the drug until the labor pains had regularly set in and had continued for appreciable periods ? an absolutely essential point in the technique . Perhaps their most serious mistake was to give more than one injection of morphine . This is the drug ? not scopolamin ? that , in overdoses , results in asphyxiated babies . According to the Freiburg technique , only one injection of morphine is given , except in unusual circumstances . The American doctors sometimes gave several . Any one who wishes more detailed information concerning the numerous ways in which Dr. Gauss ' immediate successors ignored his instructions can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medical press . The fact is that it was not until the latter half of the year 1914 that American obstetricians gave the Freiburg treatment a genuine trial . American Women Demand Twilight Sleep In the last six months , however , Americans in all parts of the country have been doing this . The pressure came from the women themselves . The wide popular exploitation had precisely , the effect which the medical profession had so greatly feared : it prompted women to demand the treatment . Considerably against their will , therefore , medical societies began to debate the new procedure . Physicians , sometimes almost under the compulsion of their patients , began to sail for Germany . At one time the hotel corridors of Freiburg were fairly jammed with medical men from this cduntry . Energetic and unprejudiced obstetricians , here and there , attempted to deliver women in Twilight Sleep . Apparently the Jewish Maternity Hospital , in New York , was the American pioneer . Its early experiments carry their lesson . They illustrate that detailed knowledge is essential to success , and that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first fifteen cases proved failures . The drug used was unstable and deteriorated , and the practitioners erred in other ways . When these mistakes were corrected , success proved almost continuous . The first report published was that of one hundred cases at the Jewish Maternity and Lebanon hospitals in New York . In eighty-three cases there was amnesia with analgesia ? complete forgetfulness with diminished pain ; in eight there was analgesia without amnesia ; and in nine the drug did not produce the desired effect . This first experiment , therefore , gave more than ninety per cent of successes . Two babies died ? both from causes in no way connected with the drug . The Jewish Hospital has since reported two hundred cases , in which the general percentages of success remain about the same as in the figures already given . Three Thousand Scopolamin-Born Babies in America In the last eight months there have probably been three thousand scopolaminmorphine babies born in the United States ? one third as many as Freiburg has had in ten years . In all the largest cities ? New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Atlanta , San Francisco , Philadelphia , Cincinnati , Milwaukee ,  | Baltimore , Boston ? representative obstetricians are using the method . New York is unquestionably the center of interest . The greatest hospitals there are conducting Twilight Sleep cases almost every day . They include the Lying-in Hospital , the Sloane Maternity , Gouverneur , Long Island College , Manhattan , Svdenham , Harlem , and the Jewish Maternity . Up to this writing , only five hospitals in New York and elsewhere have published their scientific ' reports . Before taking up these in any detail , it may be well to quote the conclusions of several representative Americans . The most interesting statements are those of Dr. John Osborn Polak of the Long Island College Hospital , Dr. Ross McPherson of the Lying-in Hospital , and Dr. W. H. W. Knipe of Gouverneur . Their testimony has great value , not only because of their scientific reputation , but because they were among those who tried scopolaminmorphine a few years ago and abandoned it . Both Dr. Polak and Dr. Knipe went to Freiburg last summer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our observations both here and abroad , " says Dr. Polak , " we are convinced that there is no reason why Ddmmerschlaf should not be given to all women who show the physical signs of active labor , provided that the woman is under continuous and intelligent observation . . . . In our private and pubic  | clinic at Long Island College Hospital , we have been using scopolamin and narkophen a form of morphine in all labors , unless the patient has refused the treatment . . . . In our cases , fifty-one in all , there have been no failures . " Since this publication Dr. Polak 's experience has increased . Up to date , he and his assistant , Dr. Beach , have brought a hundred and seventy-five Twilight babies into the world . There has not been a single death or untoward circumstance . Dr. Knipe on Twilight Sleep " Since my return from Freiburg , " says Dr. Knipe in the Medical Times for December , 1914 , " we have given to every patient in labor at Gouverneur Hospital , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this has required considerably more attention of the staff physicians and nurses , we feel justified in devoting sufficient care to these cases because of the excellent results obtained both for the mother and the child . We may say that , under proper conditions , the method is practicable , and the difficulties are to be met by training physicians or nurses in the special method , and by the establishment of central hospitals for these cases . So we may maintain that Dammerschlaf has a place in obstetrics ? a place that will become larger as the method in its proper form becomes better known and as the development of suitable hospitals provides a haven where patients may be properly cared for . Dammerschlaf , because of the increased care necessary for its induction , will therefore raise the general standard of obstetrical knowledge . The physician who is not interested in obstetrics as a scientific branch of medicine will give way to one who undertakes a labor case with the same thoughtfulness as one would give a major operation . Dammerschlaf not only has a place in obstetrics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the number of artificially induced abortions , because there will be a lessened fear of motherhood . It is also not unreasonable to assume that there will be an increase in the number of children of the intelligent families . And , just as anesthesia and asepsis have been the great factors in the advancement of general surgery , so may Dammerschlaf and asepsis be the great factors in the approach to the millennium which is attainable , according to the Shavian School , only through the conscious endeavor to produce the greatest number of the best offspring . " Dr. Ross McPherson 's Conclusion " Undertaken rather in a spirit of skepticism , " says Dr. Ross McPherson , " the present investigation was begun by us several months ago . Doubtless many others have shared our recent experience in being the recipients of inquiries on account of recent sensational articles in the lay press on painless childbirth . ' The first attitude was to ridicule the whole matter as preposterous . . . . We feel assured , however , that we have in this a valuable method of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in from sixty to seventy per cent of cases ; and we believe that , in conscientious and painstaking hands , by strictly adhering to the above-described technique , the possible dangers may be foreseen and avoided . " No other American surgeons of high standing have published exhaustive reports . Several medical societies , however , have printed the notes of their sessions on scopolamin-morphine . The several meetings of the New York Obstetrical Society and the Sloane Hospital for Women may be cited as showing the course of current discussion . Dr. E. B. Cragin , one of the greatest authorities , believes that the method has advantages as well as disadvantages . " Twilight Sleep , " he says , " makes the first stage in labor more comfortable . Even if the method is not employed as a routine measure , it is perfectly possible that it can be used during the first stage to give relief from that trying period , and then the second stage might be conducted in the ordinary way . " The reports continue as follows : " Dr. Cragin thought Twilight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it required not only obstetric skill , but experience in the use of the drugs employed . " " Dr. G. L. Brodhead said that his experience with this treatment was limited to a few cases at the Post-Graduate and twenty at the Harlem Hospital , and that it was impossible to draw conclusions from so small a number . . . . The results were very satisfactory so far as the mothers were concerned , as the method makes labor very much easier . "  | Statements of American Physicians " Dr. O. P. Humpstone stated that as a student of the ' Twilight ' method he had had enough experience to wish to take back what he once said condemning the method . h had its uses and its limitations . Thee had about one hundred cases in Brooklyn , and he had personally observed nineteen cases through labor . Any one who has ever done so will know what this means . It is said that a guard standing watch over the dead body of a king can not stand it for more than half an hour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one will be able to watch a sufficient number of Twilight cases outside of a hospital to make a living , without killing himself . This at once shows the impracticability of the Twilight method for the general practitioner and the midwife , who do most of the obstetrics in this country . It will never be generally used outside of a hospital , except possibly by the wealthy . The chief advantage is the lack of nervous shock , the shortening of the first stage . Then , these pateints look differently : better the morning after labor than patients who have not had the ' Twilight . ' " " Dr. James A. Harrar said that .. . any harm that came to the child under this treatment would be the result , not of the scopolamin , but of bad obstetrics . Even better obstetrical knowledge and judgment than usual was necessary . " " Dr. Robert S. Dickinson of Brooklyn said that it was evident that the method had a place , but the patient should be in a hospital , for but few patients could pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The time was coming when this method would be applied to every primipara a woman giving birth to her first child . " " Dr. Samuel J. Scadron said that he had had under observation about 250 cases in which the Twilight Sleep had been used , and had seen no untoward effect on the mother or child from the use of scopolamin . " " Dr. Alfred M. Hellman said he had gone to Freiburg rather prejudiced against the Twilight Sleep , but that he was rapidly converted and had become very enthusiastic ; and the enthusiasm of the women who had received the treatment would rapidly convert one to champion its use . . . . They did not suffer from the great exhaustion as did those who had been through a long labor . It was claimed by many that the danger to the child was greater in Twilight Sleep , but the babies can all be revived , and Kronig believes that the delayed breathing was often valuable , because it prevented breathing before birth of the head . " * Some Adverse Opinions On the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? such as that of a New York physician who said that " his mother and others of her day had managed to get along without painless methods , and childbirth is no joy-ride under any circumstances " ? merely illustrate stand-pattism in medicine . Dr. James J. Walsh of Fordham University , New York , has made the most remarkable discovery of all : that , " as a matter of fact , for most women the pains of labor are not very severe , and with proper dispositions are borne quite easily by the great majority of women . " Dr. Barton G. Hirst , professor of obstetrics in the University of Pennsylvania , says that the treatment exercises a kind of hypnotic influence upon the patients . The women , " being told that they had no pain , left the institution impressed with that belief . " In the main , however , those who have not accepted the method are keeping an open mind . Thus Dr. Joseph B. De Lee , ' professor of obstetrics in Northwestern University , gives very qualified indorsement when he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a specially equipped maternity hospital , with an abundance of trained assistants and nurses , the dangers to mother and child may be reduced to bring them to a point where one may well consider that the advantages and disadvantages more nearly balance each other . " Certainly we can not criticize this statement as lacking in scientific caution . Dr. E. Gustav Zinke , professor of obstetrics in the University of Cincinnati , says that " the objection in this country to this treatment of labor cases lies , probably , not so much in the method itself as in the manner in which it has been brought before the profession of late . . . . Personally , I am very much in favor of giving the Freiburg method a thorough test . I think there is something in it . "                     