@@465485

certain moments in the history of human culture the destiny of the race , the secret and hidden springs by which it moves , the very goal whither it tends , seem to throw off their strange disguises and welcome us with a smile of encouraging confidence . We live in a century that loves the material ; but , " while loving it , conquers it , masters it , and with more passion than any pre-ceding age has shown ; in a century that would seem consumed with desire to com-prehend matter , to penetrate , enslave it , possess it , once and for all , to repletion , satiety ? with the wish , it may be , to ransack its every resource , lay bare its last secret , so as to free the future from the restless search for a happiness there seemed reason once to believe that matter contained . " To-day we have learned to believe , to know , that " the old beauty is no longer beautiful , the new truth no longer true . " There seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall startle the world with its significance and its immensity . A Whitman sounds raucously the new note of collective , inchoate beauty ; a Kipling VOL. taxi ? No. 725. -1 11 5voices the mighty throbbings of what Coleridge unwittingly phrased as the " material sublime " ; and a Maeterlinck , mystic of mystics , deems it worth his while to set forth in exploration of the kingdom of matter . If we may grasp some fragment of the meaning of modern life , and perhaps catch some prevision of a new wstletie , shall we not best succeed by considering some form of material beauty ? indestructible , immemorial ? that has caught the fancy of man in all ages , that is linked with the dreamy visions of poets , the martial deeds of warriors , and the researches of men of science ? Let it not be seine contemporary marvel like the submarine boat , the wireless telegraph , the aeroplane . These things are too new and strange for man as yet to grasp their meaning . They seem to come , not linked with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explosively ? like some sudden primrose outflowering of human , almost superhuman ingenuity . Nowhere in the material world do we find so significant , so continuously enthralling an image as that of a bridge . From the dawn of creation the bridge was ? coeval with man , contemporaneous with the individual , as with the life of the race , reflecting in all its minute and countless changes all the minute and countless changes of human civilization . The secret forces of its life , its ceaseless pangs of stress and strain , its defiant endurance in face of the pressure of matter , the ravages of the elements , the wearing weight of time , make . of it an object ravishingly pictorial , inspiring , provocative . The bridge is a symbol ? the symbol of the race , its evolution , its straining life , its stalwart soul . One day I stood upon a roof-top and beheld a great suspension-bridge . For a moment , with narrowed , half-closed eyes , I saw the stupendous cables and interwoven superstructure take on the guise of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ web across the great barrier of the waters . Nor did the beauty fade when I looked again with clear gaze . But it was a new beauty that I saw ? a beauty of perfect fitness that seemed to come like a revelation . The massive piers , soaring aloft like mighty towers , were them to support the hurrying throng that passed and repassed forever over those everlasting spans . With all the splendid inertia of careless strength , the great cables held aloft in their mighty arms a palpitating segment of the living world . Shore is linked to shore by a dense-packed , swaying ribbon of traffic . W i t h. suave and nonchalant strength , man 's ingenuity meets and conquers the wild and ungovernable force of the waters . Under the spell of that picture the meaning of modern life seemed to unfold itself as if of its own volition . One unconsciously throws around times long past a pc. ' culiar magic and glamour ? as if the ages of wonder were irrevocably past and gone . In the image of the bridge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men and angels ever ascended and descended from earth to heaven ? comes a sense of the real meaning of life , the life that is so peculiarly and inalienably our own . To-day man communicates with man in a thousand devious and intricate ways , more magic , more secret , more romantic , than were ever dreamed of in the most mystical epochs of the romantic past . Soul speaks to soul along the quivering thread of the material ; the minutest intonations of the human voice sound across the chasm of space ; the depths of the sea and the eying clouds are explored by instruments of man 's wonderful invention more wildly real than ever flitted in fancy across the imagination of Captain Nemo or that of the mythical waxen-winged Icarus . Continent is linked to continent with bonds of matter almost sentient with the burden of human interest , passion , and concern ; even the ocean of the air is charted with wireless channels of communication along which fly the messages of hope and fate ? a ration 's destiny or a soul 's despair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fellows man has overleaped all barriers of space , stretched out invisible arms through all elements , morose , sullen , implacable , and with infinite finesse lifted the inert burden of matter , overcome the malign powers of Nature herself . The whole meaning of progress is summed up in the bridge ? at once a daring symbol and a splendid reality . For it is only in spanning the impassable , in bridging the chasm of the unknown , that man moves forward to that greaterspiritual work which is itself a. bridge from the material to the sublime . Man seems at last to be touching the very hem of the garment of the Archangel of Matter . As Maeterlinck says : " The utilization by our intellect of every unconscious force , the gradual subjugation of matter and the search for its secret ? these at present appear the most evident aim of our race and its most probable mission . " In our struggle for the gradual subjugation of matter , our search for its ultimate secret , man does and must ever hold aloft a pure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beauties ? poetic , aesthetic , sublime ? upon the very verge of which the age itself seems to tremble , If by some miracle of spiritual concentration the modern soul could rediscover Peter Ibbetson 's wonderful secret of " dreaming true , " and with another , " fair to scan , " move unheeded down through all the ages of time , how magically they could trace the evolution of the idea of beauty as witnessed in the varying forms of the bridge ! And what wonderful pictures of the development of human genius and invention they could seize ? if only they might take a camera with them ! The prehistoric man , momentarily hesitating upon the brink of a stream , would rise to view ? throwing great boulders into the stream , or , were it too deep , felling a tree so dexterously that it would bridge the chasm and assure him passage . There would be no age in which was not practised the art of directing the great sources of power in Nature for the use and convenience of man . Thousands of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arch had begun to rear aloft its graceful supporting curve . At Nikko , in prehistoric Japan , the fabulous Shogun bridge would emerge as the first cantilever of recorded history . Crude arches bear their solitary burdens in ancient Nineveh and Babylon . And even the voussoir is lost in the mist of antiquity . Before the rapt gaze of the visitants sweep ? the martial conquerors of the world , bridging the recalcitrant floods in searchof conquest and spoliation ? Darius crossing the Danube , Caesar the Rhine , Alexander the Gauges , Xerxes the Hellespont . Upon Trojan 's column at Rome one may still discern the outlines of those early Roman arches with spans of memorable extent and graceful curve . First wood , then wood and stone together , then stone alone ? gradually the massive structure takes its ponderous shape . How well the Roman engineers built ? for these men , the most skilful builders of roads the world has over known , knew the secret of the materials with which they worked . How high were the requirements for the architect of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ master of classic Roman architecture , Vitruvius : An architect should be ingenious and apt in the acquisition of knowledge ; - .. . he should be a good writer , a skilful draughtsman , versed in geometry and optics , expert at figures , acquainted with history , informed on the principles of natural and moral philosophy , somewhat of a musician , not ignorant of the sciences both of law and physics , nor of the motions , laws , and relations to each other of the heavenly bodies . " With grandeur and durability the Roman engineers stamped their bridges ; and they seemed to grasp the fundamental principles of esthetics ? with that pleasing arrangement of an odd number of spans with the central opening as the largest . Time itself seems to he defied in these massive structures of simple art ; so vast their conception , so noble their design , so perfect their execution that Rome still has nothing more memorable in artistic engineering than her bridges and her aqueducts . To the bridge the Saracens add grace and fineness of line . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shoulders of the Brethren of the Bridge , the order founded by St. Benezet of blessed memory . Under their regime the arch first takes on its elliptical shape . Gradually and by almost imperceptible degrees art and science unite in joint construction of the bridge . The decorafive and the useful go hand in hand in intricate and elaborate design ? bridges adorned with sumptuous buildings , fronted with marble porticos , and castellated with majestically towering Gothic spires . In turn the stone of the Romans gives place to the more ornate marble of the Italians . Row has Italy ? and that fair-. est jewel in her crown , Venice lived and lived again in the dreams and visions of the poet and the artist ! That Ponte dei Sospiri , which spans the narrow Rio del Palazzo and connects the Ducal Palace with the prisons , was , as Ruskin truly says , " the centre of the Byronic ideal of Venice . " Chiide Harold is memorable alone for the unforgettable lines : " 1 stood in Venice , on the Bridge of Sighs ; A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from out the wave her structures rise As from thie stroke of the enchanter 's wand : A thousand years their cloudy wings expand Around me , and a dying glory smiles O'er the far times , when many a subject land Looked to the winged Lion 's marble piles , When Venice sate in state , throned on her hundred isles ! " This fair city , with its gondolas and canals , its vistas and its horizons , over ? whams the visitant with the pearly richness and architectural beauty of its bridges . Nowhere else , perhaps , may one so perfectly realize that a bridge is not a mere mechanical device of man for crossing a stream , but a thing of beauty and a joy forever . And I can not but recall that the sublimated temperament of a Henry ; Tames found Venice in a bridge . " When I hear , when I see , the magical name I have written above these pages , it is not of the great Square that I think , with its strange basilica and its high arcades @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with the stately steps and the well-poised dome of the Salute ; it is not the low lagoon , nor the sweet Piazzetta , nor the dark chambers of St. Mark 's . I simply see a narrow canal in the heart of the city ? a patch of green water and a surface of pink wall . The gondola moves slowly ; it gives a great smooth swerve , passes under a bridge , and the gondolier 's cry , carried over the quiet water , makes a kind of splash in the stillness . A girl crosses t he little bridge , which has an arch like a camel 's back , with an old shawl on her head , which makes her characteristic and charming ; you see her against the sky as you float beneath . The pink of the old wall seems to fill the whole place ; it sinks even into the opaque water . Behind the wall is a garden , out of which the long arm of a white ; Tune rose ? the roses of Venice are splendid ? has flung @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side of this small waterway is a great shabby facade of Gothic windows and balconies ? balconies on which dirty clothes are hung and underneath which a cavernous-looking doorway opens from a low flight of shiny water-steps . It is very hot and still , the canal has a queer smell , and the whole place is enchanting . " It was Michael Angelo who characteristically avowed " A bridge ought to be built as though it were intended to he a cathedral , with the same care and the same inaterial . " Classic decorative art gave way to modern necessity and economy in the latter part of the eighteenth century . The use of east iron marks the first displacement of the materials ready furnished by Nature with such lavish hand . In America , where spans were vast , obstacles immense , and supplies inexhaustible , came the boldest and most comprehensive applications to bridge con-struction ever known in history . Came cast iron , wrought iron , and then steel . To-day is the day of a new romancethe Romance of Steel . A bridge typifies the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And in an age of material accomplishment. the age when America takes its place as the world 's greatest factor in the material and constructive advancement of modern civilization , steel as material and applied mathematics as tool became the two great instrumentalities in the development of the bridge . Those strange forces within insentient material which go by the name of stresses demanded gentle and delicate treatment ; man must beware how he looses these unknown powers of nature . And it is nothing short of amazing that the design of bridges was not placed upon the firm foundation of a systematic mathematical analysis until almost the middle of the nineteenth century . Within the space of a lifetime the science , or shall we say art , of bridge-building , " has attained to a perfection and a final standard that is comparable with the progress of architecture through all the centuries since the time of the pyramid-builders . " Until the inventive genius of man shall wrest from nature some new material to displace steel , the bridge will remain as it is to-day ? a vast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the cunning of art and man 's device . And its mechanism has been studied with such arduous intelligence , and in such complex minuteness of detail , that little seems left to do save a more exhaustive study of the actual internal forces in the materials employed . Nothing is left out of account by the bridge-builder of to-day -- all is considered ? the forces of stress , strain , and shear , of torsion and deflection , in each separate element of its composition ; the force , impact , and vibration of stationary and mobile loads ; the vast and well-nigh irresistible changes of expansion and contraction in the monstrous mass of metal under the influence of summer sun and winter cold ; and even the hypothetically predicable effect of , winds and storms which come and beat upon the bridge from out the Boreal regions . In this Age of Steel , in this vast country of America the new word for the new beauty is demanded . It is time for man , in the words of Nietzsche , to say Yea ! to all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the modern soul sings of science and the man . The - glorious and militant confidence of the age is summed up in Wright 's reply to the curious visitor requesting the privilege of assisting at his " experiment " in aviation : " Sir , it is not an experiment : it is a demonstration ! " Shall we of today find no new fingering for the aesthetic keyboard , no new word for the poetry of achievement and the beauty of efficiency ? The great inventor , the great scientist , the great captain of industry , is the great poet of the century , achieving masterpieces of material accomplishment as Shakespeare achieved a perfect sonnet , Michael Angelo an eternal sculpture . Milton an immortal epic . The great invention is , in the new conception , man 's method of expressing the human spirit . And to that invention , to that humanly expressed ideal , go all the aspiration , all the idealism , all the passion of the great artist . The steel bridge lacks the external beauty of the marble arch ; the cantilever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cables that might support a battleship , can never hope to rival in artificial beauty the magic of a Venetian bridge . But about these stupendous structures of steel there is a beauty that is none the less real because it is elusive , suggestive , inherent . We must learn the new language of the new dispensation . " The fact that the language of the machine is a new language and a strangely subtle one does not prove that it is not a language , that its symbolism is not good , that there is not poetry in machinery . " Goethe was inclined to believe that the more incoinrnensnrable a work of art , the greater its chances of immortality . This is the beauty and the greatness of the bridge as the symbol of the age . the beauty of the incommensurable ideas ? of art , of science , of space , of time , and of infinity                     