@@486144

Dispatches from Washington on Tuesday indicated that the Austrian reply to the second American note on the Ancona may be received by the State Department at the end of this week No official forecast of the contents of the reply has been given out in advance of the receipt of the note . Both in Vienna and in Berlin , where the temperate character of the last American note is recognized , opinion in regard to prospects of a settlement appears from the dispatches to be hopeful . Whether or not this is based upon an assumption that the way has been opened for a lengthy diplomatic discussion , as in the case of the Lusitania , remains to be seen . In Washington the opinion seems to persist that no such prolongation of the discussion will be tolerated . The tenseness of the situation existing between the United States and the Central Empires is not mitigated by the pertinacity of the latter in continuing to attack passenger-carrying liners , according to information available as we write , without warning . News came on Thursday of last week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Japanese Liner Yasaka Maru in the eastern Mediterranean , happily without loss of life . According to a report received by Secretary Lansing on Monday from the American Consul at Port Said , the ship was sunk without warning and no attempt to escape was made . One American was on board . The nationality of the submarine has not been established . A similar obscurity veils the identity of the submarine which , on December 24 , torpedoed , again without warning , according to present information , the French steamship Ville de la Ciotat in the Mediterranean . Eighty of the passengers and crew are reported to have lost their lives . It is stated that no American was on board . Dispatches from Washington last week professed to throw some light on two of the other questions outstanding between the United States and Germany . The settlement of the Lusitania case , it was stated , was originally delt.yed on account of the high state of public feeling in Germany . With the lapse of time and the German successes on land , feeling had calmed down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was again irritated by the dismissal of Copts . von Papen and Boy-Ed . Consequently the matter is again postponed . Publication of Germany 's latest note on the question of the Frye , the full text of which has been received by the State Department , has been withheld on account of Its possible bearing on the open issues involved in the cases of the Lusitania and the Ancona News of Teutonic conspiracies in this country has been comparatively meagre during the past week , the outstanding event being the indictment by the Federal grand jury , on December 23 , of Paul Koenig , the " special Investigator " of the Hamburg-American Line , on two charges : the one of having organized a " military enterprise , " the purpose of which was to destroy the Welland Canal ; the other of having organized an enterprise to obtain military information in Canada for the German Government Col Edward Mandell House sailed on Tuesday for Europe , where he will visit London , Paris , and Berlin as the personal representative of the President . Col House 's diplomatic tom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of peace , and to be solely for the purpose of interpreting American sentiment to American diplomatic representatives . The second convention of the Pan-American Scientific Congress opened in Washington on Mcnday . The delegates were welcomed by Secretary Lansing , and Pan-Americanism was the theme of all the speeches of the opening day On December 24 Secretary Daniels made public the report , hitherto not disclosed , submitted by the General Board of the navy on July 30 last . The report recommended that the navy should by 1925 be made equal to the most powerful maintained by any other country in the world . Events in England appear to be hastening to a governmental crisis The situation is not perfectly clear as we write , and it is possible that a decision may have been reached by the time these lines appear in print . The facts , however , are tolerably obvious . TTndercurrer is of dissatisfaction with the Coalition Government , as at present constituted , of which the most open manifestation has been found in the papers controlled by Lord Northcliffe , have recently been brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The first was the now famous " too late " speech made by Mr. Lloyd George in the House of Commons on December 20 ; the second was the failure of Mr. Asquith last week to fulfil expectations by announcing in the House of Commons the results of . Lord Derby 's recruiting scheme . The first aroused the public to a realization of deficiencies displayed in the conduct of the war ; the second awoke well-grounded suspicion that the proportion of enlistments of unmarried men had proved disappointing . Other newspapers , therefore , have joined with the Times and Daily Mail In calling on Mr. Asquith to fulfil his pledge that , if the response of unmarried men to Lord Derby 's scheme should prove insufficient , other measures would be taken to compel them to come in . The issue , therefore , is the direct one of conscription . That the Cabinet is divided on the question is evident , and Mr. Redmond last week stated squarely in the House of Commons that the measure would be opposed by the Nationalist party by every means in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves : the present Cabinet , still under Mr. Asquith , may adjust its differences , deciding definitely either for or against conscription ; the Cabinet may be reorganized , with Mr. Lloyd George , for whom there seems to be a strong popular demand , as Premier ; or the question may be put before the people in a general election . Omitting disclosure of the results of Lord Derby 's recruiting scheme , Mr. Asquith madea full statement on the military position of the , Allies on December 21 , in introducing a supplementary estimate providing for the raising of the numerical strength of the army from 3,000,000 to 4,000,000 men . The bill was passed in the House of Commons , without a division , on the following day , as was also the bill to prolong the life of the present Parliament an other eight months . Further changes were announced last week in the British high command . Lieut. - Gen . Sir William R. Robertson , Chief of the General Staff in France , has been recalled to become Chief of the Imperial General Staff at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Dardanelles to succeed to the command of the First Army in Flanders , and his place as British commander at the Dardanelles is taken by Sir Archibald Murray , who was formerly Chief of the Imperial General Staff . Evidence of a split in the Socialist party in GrEl many came on December 21 , when nineteen Socialists ( later rumors by way of Zurich have stated that a number of Socialists also abstained from voting ) voted against the new war credit of 10,000,000,000 marks which the Government had requested . From the Balkans little news of importance has come . There have been rumors that the Teutonic forces were preparing to develop an attack against the positions of the Allies at Salonica , which , according to Gen. Castelnau , are now impregnable , but these reports have nct been confirmed by later news . Unofficial dispatches from London on Monday announced positively that King Constantine had informed the Central Powers that an invasion of Greek territory by Bulgarian or Turkish troops would not be tolerated , but here again there is no confirmation Following the example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , gave an interview to an English journalist in which he defended the position taken by Greece . The interview is Interesting , and M. Skouloudis makes a good plea for his country , and is just in some of his censure of Allied diplomacy . An important omission , however , is any explanation of the fact that M. Venizelos , as the duly elected representative of a majority of the Greek people , may be presumed to have expressed the people 's will in the policy which he advocated , and which was thwarted by the action of King Constantine . The " peace ship " of Mr. Henry Ford , of Detroit , has apparently encountered difficulties internal as well as external . There have been numerous reports of dissensions on board and certain of the pilgrims have retired from the enterprise . Mr. Ford himself , who is stated to be ill , is on his way home to America The enterprise , however , has not been abandoned . Dispatches from Peking , under date of December 24 , told of the outbreak of a revolutionary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government in China , under the leadership of Tsai Ao , formerly Military Governor of Yunan Fifty thousand troops have been sent to the scene by the Chinese Government .                     