@@493060

Zhe New REPUBLIC A Journal of Opinion VOLUME IX New York , Saturday , December 23 , 1916 Number 112 WALL street placed the correct interpreta ? tion on the answer which Lloyd George returned to the peace proposals of the German Chancellor . At first the speculators bought stocks on the assumption of an uncompro ? mising rejection of the overtures . Later when they realized that a loop-hole had been left for further negotiations , they unloaded with still greater zeal . Finally a cooler examination of the loop-hole made it look exceedingly small , and they wearily bought back some of their stocks . The promise of peace offered by the interchange of discourtesies which is now taking place between the two groups of belligerents is in truth a small plant of very tender growth , but at least its life is not yet extinguished . It is being nourished by so much weariness of war , by such an oppressive sense of the ghastly futility of the terrible sacrifices and by so much human blood and suffering that it may still survive . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? estly it is negotiating for peace . or how far its dominant object is to revive the fighting spiritof its own people . A truculent overture which rehearsed all the fighting phrases of Germany and celebrated German victory has received an equally truculent response , which refuses absolutely to ad ? mit defeat and which repeats the war cries of the Allied Powers . Yet the negotiation is carried one step further by a demand for terms and by a statement of certain very general conditions which these terms will have to satisfy . The real nego ? tiation , if there is to be any real negotiation , will now begin . That it will result in a treaty of peace in the near future is utterly improbable be ? cause both groups of belligerents are insisting on terms which imply at least the partial defeat of their opponents . It may , however , bring about a conference , which will help to convert the war cries into vehicles of communication and restore the neutrals and both groups of belligerents to habitation in the same universe of discourse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answer . Lloyd George has very properly refused to accept a conference until a common understanding is reached . He pro ? poses as the basis of further negotiations an agree ? ment on the part of the German government to make reparation for the past and to provide se ? curity for the future . The phrases look sufficiently unpromising , but they furnish a better platform for future negotiation than would a program of specific changes in the map of Europe which would necessarily ignore the realities of the existing mili ? tary situation . The words restitution , reparation and security may , indeed , have been used by Lloyd George in a sense which will subsequently make all discussion unprofitable except with a Germany which has been " knocked out , " but the German government does not need to interpret them as im ? possible and offensive . Although the words resti ? tution and reparation almost certainly imply con ? cessions which Germany will not consent to at present , yet she may be willing to promise meas ? ures of restitution which , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rejected . The other proposals would , of course , turn upon the final phrase of Lloyd George . The Germans can convert the demand for sufficient security into the basis of really promising negotiation with the Al ? lies . Candid Germans are now admitting that the behavior of Germany during the years before the war and at the outbreak of the war itself justified apprehensions on the part of its neighbors . If so , one indispensable condition of a satisfactory peace must be an honest attempt to allay these appre ? hensions . The spokesmen of the Allies contend that their fears can be allayed only by the emascu ? lation of German military power . The German government is in a position to demonstrate the falsity of this contention by proposing to the Al ? lies an international league organized expressly for the purpose of guaranteeing security to all its members . The Allied governments could not re ? fuse to consider such a proposal and its considera ? tion could not fail to result in an illuminating dis ? cussion , official and unofficial , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war . If Germany sincerely desires peace and general se ? curity , if she is ready to adopt a policy of live and let live , she has a sufficient opportunity of pro ? moting these objects . WE earnestly hope that the conferences now in progress between the brotherhood and railroad representatives will be successful in de ? vising a way by which the controversy over the Adamson law can be settled out of court . The Adamson law was never intended as a permanent settlement . It was a modus vivendi , pending in ? quiry and experiment . The railroads should look upon it in that spirit . It is possible that the bill , hastily framed as it was , and dealing with a wage schedule of extreme complexity , does not in legal effect do what it was intended to do . It is barely possible that the Supreme Court might declare it unconstitutional . But no one who bears in mind the events of last September can have any doubt that what Congress meant to do , and what the Brotherhoods thought it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ railroads the alternative of reducing hours of work to eight and leaving wages as they are , or of working the men more than eight hours and paying proportionally for the excess . It should not be difficult , given the good will , to reach an agree ? ment which would carry this purpose into effect . It is true that the railroads did not agree to the law when it was passed . They have considered that it was forced upon them , and that they are entitled to take advantage of technical defects and possible constitutional restraints to defeat it . But both railroads and men will soon stand before a Congress determined to devise as far as possible a permanent safeguard against a repetition of last summer 's threat of industrial paralysis . If either side manifests an unwillingness to cooperate with Congress , to assist in the experiment from which Congress hopes for enlightenment , it can expect little consideration either from the Goethals com ? mittee or from Congress , or , for that matter , from the public . We believe that the railroads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the spirit of the Adamson law , and discontinue their attempts to have it invalidated . TO let the controversy over the Adamson law pursue its present course in the courts would at best be unsatisfactory . The law goes into effect January 1st . Argument before the Su ? preme Court will not be heard for more than a week after that date . Further time must elapse before the court comes to a decision , for the con ? stitutional questions involved are so fundamental that no hasty disposition of the case will be pos ? sible . In the meantime the country will be in a state of grave uncertainty . If the Supreme Court sustains the law , only part of the difficulty will be solved . The detailed interpretation of the law , and its application to the actual wage schedules , will still be in controversy . That is a question which is not before the court , and it is unlikely that the court will step out of its way to decide it . If the law is declared unconstitutional , the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will only have served to embitter the op ? ponents . Moreover , the constitutional issues pre ? sented to the Supreme Court are of such supreme importance , determining , perhaps , the whole method of approach to the railroad and labor problem in the future , that the court should not be asked to decide them in a hurry , on the basis of a hastily drawn bill . Congress should be given time to present a carefully considered and well rounded law , manifesting an intent to assume full public responsibility for wage and working con ? ditions on railroads , and a determination to safe ? guard the public against the abuse of unrestrained power by railroads or men . It is inconceivable that such a law would be annulled by the Supreme Court . WHATEVER confidence Congress or public opinion throughout the country ever had in the present Chief of Staff of the army will be destroyed by General Scott 's recent testimony be ? fore the Senate Committee on Military Affairs . He may be a good soldier , but he should be for ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? chievous folly of his political opinions . In his of official report published a few weeks ago he was ready to guarantee the security of the country with an army of 1,500,000 men . Now he suddenly discovers that twice 1,500,0oo trained men are indispensable to national defense . Why ? Because it is necessary for us to arm against a combined attack from Great Britain and Japan . But why not add France and Russia to the combination and deduce the need of an army of 6,000,000 trained men ? It is easy to penetrate the object of these calculations . The most formidable obstacle which American commonsense has raised to universal service is the query : Why train so many soldiers when we do not need them ? In the past a million trained men have been considered sufficient to de ? fend the country against any probable expedition ? ary force ; and no one has demonstrated that such a force could not be raised under a voluntary sys ? tem . A really intelligent plan has never been tried . In order to reenforce the argument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequently , on the necessity of arming against a Power which could land an indefinitely large number of troops on this continent and whose control of the sea could not be disputed . Great Britain is the only Power which fills the bill . She could use Canada as a base for military attack on the United States , and her control of the seas would be unassailable . So General Scott has the abominable levity to pro ? pose that we adjust our military preparations to the necessity of fighting Canada and the British Commonwealth . Let us thank God we are still governed by civilians . HOWEVER small the chance of ending the war in the near future , public opinion in all the chief belligerent countries except , perhaps , Russia , is slowly adjusting itself to peace . The earlier unanimity has become seriously impaired . An organized opposition is gradually coming into existence which has ideas of its own , different from those of the government , as to how the war should be conducted and upon what terms peace should be made . In Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slaughter and the government has begun negotiations for the purpose either of satisfying this craving for peace or of reconciling the nation to the costs of prolonged fighting . Whether it succeeds or fails , it will have to deal with active and serious domestic discontent . In France no less than one hundred and sixty-five deputies have refused a vote of confidence in the new government . How far the minority dis ? sented because it believed in a war and peace pol ? icy different from Briand 's , and how far the lack of confidence is personal , does not appear , but such a large minority vote proves the emergence in France of an increasingly formidable resistance , with which the government will have to count . Finally , the government of Lloyd George will be the first British Cabinet since the beginning of the war to be confronted by an organized opposition . The dissenting Liberals will be cautious in the be ? ginning about embarrassing the government . They are likely to play the part of a candid friend rather than a consistent enemy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official leader of the Liberals has been excluded from the government . A predom ? inantly Tory government will be confronted by an exclusively Liberal opposition which will increase in energy just in so far as the policy of the Cabinet clearly compromises the future of liberalism in the United Kingdom or elsewhere in the world . PARLIAMENTS originated in Great Britain and were borrowed by France . Yet ten years from now the publicists who are analyzing the working of these parliamentary institutions during the war will find that they have stood the strain better in France than in the United King ? dom . The Chamber of Deputies has throughout retained much more effective control over the French Cabinet than the House of Commons has over the British Cabinet . The English House has practically abdicated . Its recent authorization of a semi-dictatorship consummates a long series of self-denying ordinances . The French Chamber of Deputies , on the other hand , has succeeded in be ? ing more independent and self-assertive because it was not paralyzed by the coercive discipline of a two-party system . There were always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but which insisted upon checking its work . They criticized in secret session , but still they criti ? cized . It is a remarkable triumph for the Republic , a flattering tribute to its vitality . The French , who were supposed to have a weakness for dictators and who could not get along without them in all national crises , have fought the most costly , trying and dangerous war in their national history with ? out going as far as Great Britain in setting up a dictatorship . ALTHOUGH the offensive section about polit ? ical offenders has been considerably im ? proved , President Wilson would be fully justified in vetoing the immigration bill . The strongest ground he can take is that it is n't statesmanship , it is n't commonsense , to enact a rigid barrier based on literacy at a time when no two people are able to agree as to whether immigration after the war will be large or small , or where it will come from . The literacy test is of the same order of thinking which produced the Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a shriek for protection before any one has had a chance to find out what the danger is . The true procedure in this matter , as in regard to the tariff , is to create an administrative commission with power to regu ? late the ebb and flow and the distribution of immi ? grants in accordance with the country 's power of absorption at any given period . Peace Without Victory IN the last year or so the Allies have often been urged by their friends to state the objects of the war in terms that could be written into a con ? ceivable treaty of peace . " Prussian militarism " and " crushing Germany " might do as recruiting formulas , might serve to keep the nation in fighting trim , but as a guide to statesmanship they were futile . They meant everything and nothing , a new heaven and sometimes a new hell . As defined by a company of Englishmen which included Lord Curzon , Mr. Horatio Bottomley , Mr. Leo Maxse and Mr. H. G. Wells these battle cries would mean among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parade of victorious Cossacks in Ber ? lin , weird and wonderful amputations upon Aus ? tria-Hungary , a reform of the Prussian electoral system , dethronement of the Hohenzollerns , dis ? solution of the German Empire into its principali ? ties , the surrender of the German navy , and so on in a series without end . It has been evident for a long time why it was difficult for the official spokesmen of Great Britain to say what they were fighting for . They were fighting for victory , not for terms . They did not seek territorial gains for themselves , what they wanted was a " knockout . " That is why all but a bare minority have been content with fighting phrases which helped them wage the war and al ? lowed them to forget the difficulties of framing a peace . So the war dragged on , fresh allies were brought into the field by promises hard to fulfil , old allies were held tighter by dangerous com ? mitments , and all the while the world saw an en ? circled and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grew . The Britain of Northcliffe , the Britain of the new ministry , knows that if it accepts a negotiated peace , no matter how moderate , the British Em ? pire emerges from the war a less imposing thing than it was . And empires exist chiefly by being imposing things . Neither love , nor actual physical force , but prestige is the life of a successful empire . And no one can deny , no matter what his sym ? pathies , that British prestige has been seriously lowered . It was to retrieve the loss , to erase the impression of blunder and muddle , to gather Britain together for another blow which might be a knockout , that Mr. Lloyd George was made Premier . And this is the moment that Germany selects for what is no doubt an inconsiderately lib ? eral offer . Germany is offering imperial Britain peace without victory . Unless the recent effectiveness of German di ? plomacy has been an illusion , unless the virulent conservatives require too much placating , the terms proposed will be moderate . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that Germany 's greatest and most enduring conquest in this war is that of her own allies . Without an ? nexing a foot of invaded territory , she is mistress of an empire which she has led and organized from Hamburg to Bagdad . Germany can per ? fectly well afford to restore the Serbian kingdom and the Rumanian . Both of them will inevitably come within the German orbit , for while it is pos ? sible to restore their technical independence , it is not possible to restore their faith in Russia as protector of the Balkans . If peace is made now , small nations adjoining the Teutonic empires are likely for some time to be pro-German in policy , whatever they may be in sentiment . Central Europe exists . At Gallipoli , at Saloniki , from Rumania , three times the Allies have tried to cut it apart , and failed . This Middle Europe is no empire won by conquest , to be assimilated merely by force . It rests on the strongest kind of economic foundation and is welded by the ex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace , her reported willing ? ness to enter a league of nations , is a request for the acknowledgment and guaranty of Middle Europe . Many signs indicate that after prolonged vacillation , extending back many years before the war , Germany has at last settled on Middle Europe as her destiny . She holds that to-day . It pre ? sents enormous opportunities to German talent , and that is why there is statesmanship and not merely propaganda in Germany 's increasing wil ? lingness to take up liberal as opposed to militarist ideas . The organization of Central Europe re ? quires a peaceful world . But the existence of Central Europe destroys completely the British theory of continental politics . The theory said roughly that there was to be a balance of power on the continent with Britain hovering over it and prepared to redress it by decisive intervention . It was a role that permitted British diplomacy to exert a maximum effect with a minimum of force . To-day Britain finds herself engaged with all her resources , one among a large aggregate of allies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the German group would be irresistible . The continental balance of power is                     