@@487209

AFTER a visit to the Allied War Salon at the American Art Galleries , stay-at-home Americans will feel that through the vivid pictures drawn by men who have been part of the actual drudgery and routine of war , the great distance has been swept away and the war reaches to our very door-step . The drawings , grouped under the heading of " War Drawings of the Official Artists of the United States Army , " picture every imaginable phase of the war . A gloomy cellar with a group of haggard French and American , officers absorbed in their maps , tired sentries and a guttering candle expressive of the hurry and strain ; a tremendous shattered barn standing bleakly in the sunshine , disgorging masses of golden hay on to a rutted road ; an empty gaping chiateau in a wood , the former headquarters of the German Crown Prince ; French farm-yards with American trucks , American soldiers , French children , and French chickens all one busy mingled group  --  all these drawings create in the beholder the feeling of being no longer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with an understanding of its life . The most brilliant drawings are those by Wallace Morgan . They are beautifully and surely done , they have humor and truth , and they are quite unforgettable . There is a sketch called " Washing Up " ? a splashing gay scene at a village fountain , the Americans en deshabille , scrubbing every part of themselves with great thoroughness , and an audience of small French boys standing by utterly absorbed in these energetic gods from over the seas . Another of Mi . Morgan 's drawings shows an artillery division on its way back from the front , after days of hard fighting . It is rumbling through bare woods , the men limp and inanimate , the horses with trembling knees and barely force left to reach their billets . There is still another amusing scene in a wood near the front , where each man had his own dug-out , and all one could see was a jaunty head and a pair of hands above ground , with the soldier reading a magazine or sleeping , cleaning a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spell the artist . A collection of Mr. Pennell 's fine lithographs of ' war industries has an imaginative quality that makes thundering factories and vast shipping yards regions of romance : The sick horrors of George Bellows offer little . In delightful contrast are the humorous sketches by George Wright , of awkward young sailors learning their very complicated vocation ; desperately attempt-. ing to wig-wag ; a whole boat-load trying to row together , with an immaculate young officer in icy despair at the tangle of oars . Many of the American war posters were collected , among them Raemakers 's cartoons , revealing a patriotism so anguished that ? it sears . Clifford Beales 's painting of Fifth Avenue caught the spirit of ecstatic ringing joy that swept through the city from the pavements to the very tip of the skyscrapers . W. Music The Philadelphia Orchestra T " privileges of musical New Yorkers are many , and the visits of the Philadelphia Orchestra with Leopold Stokowski as conductor are stimulating additions to the , winter 's feast . The execution and spirit at the last performance were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opened the programme , was finely played with singing'rhythm and beautiful tone , which found its leadership in the violins , and with great clarity of phrasing and structure , as satisfying as the balanced pattern of an old garden . Stokowski seems to listen to his orchestra as well as to instruct them , and to depend on and expect intelligent playing . His attitude is not that of a rigorous pedagogue sustaining his dependent disciples . Rather it expresses a high expectancy of the best they can offer , and consequently it evokes stirring response . After the symphony , Ossip Gabrilowitch played the Rachmaninoff concerto in C minor and h4 musicianship , the masterly sensing of harmonic changes , the interplay between orchestra and soloist worked gradually to a climax in the last movement which was like the sonorous boom of a tremendous wave . The entire performance made one regret that Gabrilowitch should be conducting in Detroit and Stokowski in Philadelphia , and that New Yorkers should have the privilege of their visits only occasionally . Joseph Bonnet THE announcement of an organ recital by Joseph Bonnet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John 's Church in Washington last winter , when Bonnet , with the magic of ancient melodies , pure-toned organ , and dim church , interpreted all the pageant of the centuries through his gay and serene music . But an organ recital in Aeolian Hall is a very different matter . M. Bonnet had concrete difficulties to overcome in the crass pinkness of the walls and ceiling , never sinking to neutrality , and in the unfortunate form of the hall , crushing down from above , and insistently preventing the detachment which a musical audience seeks . The programme began with a prelude by Henry Purcell graciously reminiscent of his songs , and went on to Bach 's Christmas Song and the famous Toccata and Fugue in D Minor . M. Bonnet then played a magnificent Fantaisie and Fugue by Franz Liszt which fully justified the note appended to the programme , expostulating with all the world for adoring Liszt as virtuoso and ignoring him as composer . The enthusiasm of the audience served to confirm Saint Saens 's judgment that the Fantaisie and Fugue was " the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bonnet is a musician with real inspiration , vivid imagination , and richly colored variety in his playing , and is alisays a joy to hear .                     