@@487098

Events have swiftly belied the prediction made in these columns the other day that the Progressive party would be defined in the text-books of the future as a party with the Chicago habit . The national headquarters of the new party have now been removed to New York , and social justice can hereafter bb pronioted without excessive expenditures on railway fare . Chicago will remain , in all probability , the religious - capital of the new movement , but the political seat will be located in immediate proximity to the Perkins war chest and the Munsey State Department , and at no great distance from the headquarters of the First Army Corps under Gen.eral Flinn at Pittsburgh . All militant movements prefer to post themselves on the frontiers of the enemy 's country . The proud distinction - which New York State held for so many years in respect to Mr. Bryan it will now uphold as against the Colonel . Armageddon is thus definitely localized . The forces of evil may do their worst in the Supreme Courts of Idaho and points east ; but their overthrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ awaken to the light . It is noted that Congress is getting jar fewer petitions and memorials than usual . This is Said by Washington experts to indicate that the people are " sick of politics . " It may , however , merely prove that they are sick of petitions . Yet the persistence of that way - of endeavoring to express public opinion and to influence legislation has been remarkable . In only the rarest instances could it be , shown to have any direct effect , but it has been persevered in surprisingly . The CongTessional Rec-ord has often been lumbered up with the mere enumeration of the petitions presented in House or Senate . The - " right to petition " has thus been firmly upheld , even if it is futile in 99 cases - out of 100 . Doubtless , the flow of petitions to Congress will soon be resumed . But that again would not conclusively show that the people are tremendously interested in politics Just at present , there is plainly a sort of lull or truce . One party is passing out of power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Moreover , the generally prosperous state of industry and business has had the usual effect of diminishing active discontent and of busying people more about their private affairs than about saving the country But no one need fear that the sway of politics will not in good time reassert itself . Highly complicated issues were iniolved in the coal-road suits , decided by the Supreme Court on Monday , and it is somewhat difficult to understand the attitude of the judges towards all the matters argued before them . It has been hastily said , for example , that the deci-sion makes waste paper of the " commodities clause " of the Hepburn lawtne clause , that is , forbidding railways to transport coal from mines owned by themselves . But in reality the Court merely says that many of the acts complained of in the Government suit were committed before the passage of the Hepburn act . Its applicability to other like acts was dismissed without prejudice . That is to say , the Government is left free to bring other suits directly under the Hepburn law . Similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coal road by a competitor , through stockholding devices . This , too , is left for the Department of Justice to deal with in the future as it sees fit . The Court held that on the general charge of an unlawful combination among the railways , the Government had not made out its case ; but it had no hesitation in pronouncing illegal the contracts made by the roads with independent producers , and also found the defendant companies guilty of unlawfully combining , through the Temple Iron Company , to shut out competing lines and in other ways to restrain trade . We think that the more the decision is studied the more satisfactory it will be found . Plainly , the judges sought in this case , which was begun in the lower courts five years ago and which the Supreme Court has held under advisement for more than a year , - to render a decision fully in line with that in the Standard Oil suit . They takepains now as then to show that the law does not strike at all trade agreements , however " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by being monopolistic and oppressive in their effect upon the public . If one wishes to be strengthened in his conviction that the sooner the indirect election of United States Senators is done away with , the better , he has but to look at the Baltimore papers nowadays . The Governor has made an interim appointment for the vacancy caused by the death of Senator Rayner , but the Legislature of 1914 will have the filling of that vacancy to March 4 , 1917 , besides electing a Senator for the full term of six years from the expiration of Senator Smith 's term , March 4 , 1915 . Consequently , the pot has been boiling with much fury , thirteen months prior to the assembling of the Legislature . There is , indeed , a system of Senatorial primaries in Maryland , but , quite apart from any criticism to which it may be open as a mode of determining a party 's choice , it is impossible for mere primaries to attain the result which direct election by the people would procure . Voters at the general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to legislative candidates or their preference upon the Senator-. ships , whenever these two come into conflict . And it is plain that the professional politicians in Maryland are having just the kind of advantage in plying their trade that such a complication between unrelated things is calculated to give . The immigration figures given in Secretary Nagel 's report are decidedly interesting . The impression is widely current that the country receives , through immigration , an accession of about a million a year to its population . In point of fact , the net immigration into the United States  --  excess of aliens coming into the country over aliens going out of it  --  in the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1909 , was 544,000 ; in the year 1910 it was 818,000 ; in 1911 it was 512,000 ; and in the fiscal year which ended June 30 , 1912 , it was only 402,000 . These figures have not the character that is often attributed to them . Of course , the immigration of the ' 50 's bore a vastly higher ratio to the home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 80 's , when the change from Northern and Western to Southern and Eastern Europe had already in a great measure taken effect , was probably much larger in proportion to the home population than that which we have been getting in the past few years . Ohio 's amendment of her Constitution encourages Tennessee to start the machinery for altering hers . The chief thing in question is the method of amending the instrument . At present , it is necessary for two-thirds of both houses of the Legislature to pass a proposed amendment at two successive sessions before it can be submitted to the people . The Tennessee Constitutional Convention League would enable 10 per cent . of the voters to obtain by petition the submission of any amendment As in the case of Ohio , there will probably be a convention , not for the purpose of drawing up a new Constitution , but to submit a series of amendments which can be voted on separately . It is also proposed that delegates shall be chosen directly by the voters , the names of candidates to be placed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course , must be endorsed by two successive Legislatures , so that at best a new Tennessee Constitution is hardly in sight . The colored people of this country are to be heartily congratulated upon the great services rendered to them by the Honorable Cole Blease of South Carolina . As it was said of John Brown 's execution that it made all men take sides on the question of slavery , whether for or against , so Gov . Blease 's performances in- Richmond have made every one in the South speak out for or against upholding the law The other Southern Governors at Richmond were compelled by his very appearance to go on record against lynching with greater force and earnestness than ever before . If any one doubts how great is Gov . Blease 's contribution to law and order , let him read the leading journals of the South , and particularly those of his own disgraced State . They make it plain that hereafter any one in the South or North who favors lynching , either directly or indirectly , degrades himself to the level of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Blease or his kind speaks for the sober sentiment or the chivalry of the South . Readers of the article on " Rising Prices , and the Public , " by Prof. John Bauer , in the Popular Science Monthly for December , will find several things that are well worth thinking about ; all the more because they relate not to the causes , but to the effects , of the lowered purchasing power of the dollar . If your income , as measured in dollars , hasa , advanced along with prices to such an extent that you can make the two ends meet just as you used to do , and also put by for a rainy day just as much as you used to put by , do n't flatter yourself that you are doing as well as of old On the supposition , for example , that prices have risen 50 per cent . all round , and that in former times you regarded $1,000 a year as the proper amount to save , or $10,000 life insurance as requisite for the protection of your family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $15,000 , respectively . As for the actual facts in the different classes of the population , Professor Bauer recites broadly what is generally recognized ; especially emphasizing the fact  --  forecast by economists a priori. verified unpleasantly by thousands a Posteriori  --  that , while wages have lagged somewhat behind prices , salaries have been vastly more inert than wages ; Professor Bauer says they have " remained almost unchanged . " There is some comfort  --  which Professor Bauer cruelly abstains from giving  --  to the salaried man in the belief that , when salaries do get revised upward to conform to the high prices , they will stay up a long time after the prices go down , for their inertia works both ways ; and a similar reflection should somewhat dull the edge of self-reproach on the subject of savings . But , as nobody knows when , if ever , prices will go down , it will not do , after all , to set too much store by these considerations The American Academy of Arts - and Letters may fairly be said to have weathered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The disclaimer of any intention to rob posterity of one of its most precious privileges by arrogating immortality to Academicians may be accepted without any quibble . Nor does the name " Academy , " which seems to be a challenge to some democratic spirits , signify anything more than the difficulty of hitting upon a suitable title . Nevertheless , if those belonging to the Academy are content to leave the question of their own literary immortality to the future , they are bold in affirming their loyalty to the immortals of the past . In the present-day welter of vague Futurism and specific vulgarism , they dare to be orthodox There must be many old-fashioned persons still who will welcome the sounding of this note . To them it will require no argument to prove that " the recognition of permanence and vitality in the ideals of arts and letters " is a highly proper aim ; they will accept as axiomatic the statement that a body of persons interested in literature should stand for the discouraging of " the trampling of our noble English language with the hoofs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criticism , of the mistaking of hysteria for originality , of the admission that the only way to be American is to be provincial , and in general of the notion that taste is an outworn test of art . The architectural profession in this country and abroad will rejoice in the recognition which has come to William Rutherford Mead in the bestowal upon him last Friday of the gold medal of the National Institute of Arts and Letters . Mr Mead 's native modesty long kept him in the background , so far as the public was concerned , which knew well his brilliant partners , Charles F. Mr.Kim and Stanford White . It was known to some , also , that Mr. Mead was the balance-wheel of the firm , who attended to the business side and the practical details , and , remembering this , they overlooked too often the fact that in Mr. Mead there is a rare artist , a designer of first rank . The present award will help to let the public understand what the profession so well knows . Under Mr. Mead 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still one to conjure with . The new forces within the office are living up to the finest traditions of the three founders , and are giving to the country many superb architectural monuments . " To tax and to please is as impossible as to love and be wise " The truth of this saying of Burke 's is now being brought home to the English protectionfists . The Conservatives hope to return to power before long , and their programme calls for protective duties . These , to be consistent , must include duties on grain and meat , but on the question of such food-taxes the Conservative leaders are doing a sad amount of wriggling . First , they said that they would never levy a tax in such a way as to increase the cost of living . Driven from this absurdity , they said that higher wages and increased prosperity would more than make up for a slight rise in the-price of food . This not being meekly accepted , they said that , anyhow , they would not levy a food-tax until after taking a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to wriggle away from this promise . 1VIr . Bonar Law explained on Monday that any scheme of food-taxes would be arranged only as a part of an Imperial preference plan agreed upon with the Colonies . But with what face could the English negotiators say that they must submit the agreement to the voters ? Mr. Law 's ingenious plea is that for the Conservatives to adhere to their pledge about the referendum would hamper them in high and mighty Imperial negotiations : hence the pledge must be torn up . Yet they say that the English are a plain , blunt people , and do not like statesmen who indulge in subtle refinements of reasoning ! M. Jaures , leader of the Unified Socialists in the French Chamber , has at last brought forward the scheme of army reorganization which he has been challenged to produce whenever he has risen in Parliament to criticise the present army system . The Socialist leader does not share the anti-militarist views of M. Gustave Herv6 . If anything , his proposal is to bring the military ideal into closer touch with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ army . Instead of calling recruits to the colors for a continuous period of two years , all French male citizens between the ages of twenty and twenty-five are to undergo a six months ' period of service supplemented by occasional periods of training . But the central point of the scheme is that which provides for a permanent officers ' force of only one-third the number required on a war basis , the other two-thirds to be drawn , when the need arises , from civil life . That would do away with the " aristocratic " spirit which at present animates the commissioned ranks of the French army , in the opinion of the Socialists , whatever may be the opinion of foreigners regarding the extraordinarily democratic relations that prevail between French officers and privates . Coming at the present time of crisis , the proposal certainly argues the courage of the Socialist leader 's convictions . The death of the oldest living sovereign in Europe , the Prince Regent Luitpold , removes one of the few remaining figures historic in the founding of the German Empire . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handed to King William of Prussia the letter inviting him to assume the Imperial crown . This he did after having duced his crazy nephew , King Ludwig II , to let Bavaria take the lead  --  a proposal to which Ludwig was at first violently opposed . But Luitpold 's great Popularity throughout Germany was founded on other things than this . He was a man of the simplest tastes and devoted to his people . They always remembered his kindly heart and many generous deeds . His love of hunting , which never forsook him  --  to it he yielded when in his ninetieth year  --  particularly appealed to the Bavarians . It was on these trips that he freely fraternized with his subjects of the mountains . Assuming the regency at sixty-five , he was then so fixed in his desire for a simple , unostentatious life , and so out of touch with things political , that it was not possible for him to become either a real statesman or a leader of the people . He was just a fine , rugged character , symbolic of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politicians and cleridals fight out the country 's future for themselves . This they have done with the result that the Catholic Church is more firmly intrenched than ever , and sees in the rising tide of Socialism the one force that menaces its domination . This clerical control has not come about by any deliberate design of the Prince Regent . True , he looked on all Liberalism with suspicion , but even the Liberal newspapers , in reviewing his career at the celebration of his ninetieth birthday , admitted that his political shortcomings were due more to age and ignorance than to any other causes . From his successor not much more is to be expected . Prince Ludwig , whose extremely popular wife died but recently , is hardly the man to grapple vigorously with the problems confronting Bavaria . Grave issues there are which are not on the surface . But all the evils of a priest-ridden land lie underneath . Marriage is made difficult , with the result of an amazingly high percentage of illegitimacy ; the lack of education is equally startling , and conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is in the saddle , and the curse of the heavy beer-drinking rests on the land . It is useless to turn from this picture merely to say that Luitp old was a splendid patron of arts and sciences , that his charities were great , that under him Munich grew to be the wonderful and beautiful city it is , and that the aged Prince was , as the Kaiser declared , " the incarnation and model of all the princely virtues . " Germany 's war on tuberculosis is , in the opinion of our Department of Commerce and Labor , entitled to the adnnration of the entire civilized world as the first and most successful of its kind . From an average of 23 deaths per 10,000 of population from this cause in the quinquennium 1895 to 1899 , the i ate was reduced to 21 during the following five-year period , and to 18 45 during the one ending with 1909 . The expenditures on account of tuberculous wage-earners have gone up steadily . Commencing with an annual amount of $240,000 in 1897 , the figure rose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . $4,000,000 in 1909 . The economic results of institutional treatment are carefully followed by means of a special inquiry for a t Period of five years subsequent to the patient 's discharge . By " economic results " is meant restored wage-earning capacity to the extent of at least one-third of what it was originally . These results are somewhat better in the case of women than of men The improvement in these results is measured by the advance from 68 per cent . of patients discharged with their earning capacity ( in its legal sense ) restored in 1897 , to 83 per cent . so discharged in 1909 . The whole story , in its general tenor and in its particulars , is a tale of the swift triumph of applied science in a field that preceding generations had not thought of entering .                     