@@465763

THE American public school is an efflorescence of political democracy . With the extension of the franchise at the end of the eighteenth and the beginning of the nineteenth centuries came the demand for universal edtcation . Working-class parents were willing to sacrifice the financial value of their children in order that , through learning , their children might rise in the world . Propertyowners were willing to pay the necessary taxes , partly because there were those among them who had faith in democracy , but principally because of the wide-spread distrust of the illiterate mob . Illiteracy was identified with barbarism , and in a nation of barbaric voters what security could there be for property ? Approaching the subject from opposite points of view , both groups were agreed that in a political democracy it was the business of the public school to make literacy universal . Since its establishment , however , unforeseen social and economic changes have arisen which are to-day causing both property-owners and the members of the working-class to demand an extension of the school 's activities . To-day the conflict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so radical that the attempt to reconcile them has placed the school in a peculiarly perplexing dilemma . The difficulty , Iike so many of the difficulties of contemporary life , is chargeable to the industrial revolution . When the public school was founded , the apprentice system was still almost universal . Industrially , it was still the age of the freehold home , the small workshop , the independent journeyman . The skilled artisan was a " master " worker ; he not only worked for hire , but he also taught the rising generation how the work should be done . His understudy , the apprentice , attached himself to the master , not only to earn a living , but primarily to learn a trade in order that he in turn might VOL . CXXV - No , 716 , - 27 the Public School W. BR ERE become a master and hand down the cunning of the craft . Every man owned his own tools . A nation was to be built , work was abundant , and what a man earned was , as a rule , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skill . But the triumph of the power-driven machine has destroyed the apprentice system . Under the old regime the public hired the workman directly ; to-day he must sell his labor to the owner of the machine . His tools have been taken from him , and with them has gone a large measure of his economic freedom . The capitalist manufacturer to-day requires a moderate number of highly trained technical experts to invent and improve machines ; a moderate number of skilled workmen to make the machines and keep them in repair ; a moderate number of superintendents and foremen to get the maximum product out of the machines ; and a vast industrial army of operatives , who need have no skill beyond the ability to touch the lever or feed the loom ? child 's work , with the wages of a child . The machine contracted the demand for skilled workers . The master workmen of the earlier generation , in terror of the clamoring crowd of unskilled operatives , gripped their limited market tight by forming laborunions to limit the accessions to their ranks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the machineowner , who wanted more skilled workers and lower wages , nor to the unskilled , to whom it meant the closing of the door of equal opportunity which the school had promised to open to him and his children . The unskilled worker has grown bitter at a system that tends to force him into the vagrant ranks of the unemployed , while it forces his wife and children into the service of the machine in order that the family may live . Here and there the school has been able to reconcile the interests of the machine-owner and the organized skilled workers by establishing trade and industrial schools for a narrowly restricted number of pupils ; but it has been unable to meet the exigencies of the vast army of the unskilled , who demand not only that the school shall educate them to the stature of men , but that it shall free them from economic bondage . The machine - owner does not demand universal industrial education , because it is expensive and his need of highly trained workers is limited ; the skilled workman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would flood the market and destroy the basis for collective bargaining . The unskilled workman demands universal industrial education , because without it he sees ahead of him and his children the fate of helots bound to the machine as his Spartan predecessors were bound to the soil . Literacy has discovered to him the possibility of joy in life ; and he is unwilling to remain forever in the primal ooze . The problem of industrial education for the vast army of the unskilled is at once the greatest and most perplexing problem confronting the public school to-day . Most of us who have gone through the academy and university , especially those of us who are teachers by profession , come slowly to an appreciation of the paramount importance of this problem . It is to the questions inside the schoolroom , the questions that entice the ingenuity of the pedagogical expert . that our cultivated minds are principally alert . We are distressed by the difficulty of giving children in the mass-formations of the public school the degree of individual attention essential to their spiritual awakening . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Maria Montessori , that promise , like those of Froebel and Pestalozzi , to save our methods from fossilization ; the invention of Binet , that gives us an approximately accurate index to the psychological anomalies of the backward child ; the researches of Crampton , that suggest that the age of the child must be determined by its degree of physiological maturity rather than by days and years ; and the theory of the late Francis W. Parker , that the very best ability is required in the elementary grades , andthat to use the child at its most tender and impressionable age as laboratory material for young and inexperienced or inferior and low-paid teachers is to defeat the ends of education by warping the child mind at the start . Because sick children are not good scholars , and because an uncontrolled epidemic might stop the educational process altogether , we welcome the school nurse and the school doctor . We organize special classes for atypical and defective chi ' , dren because their presence in the regular grades clogs the school mechanism . We encourage classes where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anemic children are fortified against tuberculosis . But it is not until we put our heads out of the window and hear the tax - paying manufacturer clamoring for skilled workers and see the bread - line forming in the slums that we begin to realize that the world has changed since the school was built , that the home which has lost its workshop and its master workman can not live by literacy alone , and that the very existence of the school is involved in the ability of the masses to keep themselves healthfully alive . Why , we begin to ask , does the State need to hire policemen to keep the children at school ? All of our internal problems of pedagogical technique begin to appear relatively unimportant when measured against this problem of hitching education up with life . Industrial education as a function of the public school is not a new idea . As early as 1642 the Court of Massachusetts , " taking into consideration the great neglect of many parents and guardians in training up their children in learning and labor and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . ordained that the selectmen in every town should have power to take account of all parents and masters as to the children 's education and employment . They were to see that the children could read and understand the principles of religion and the capital laws of the country , and that they were put to some useful work . " Industrial schools for poor or dependent or delinquent children have for generations been the objects of philanthropic and governmental solicitude . Here and there industrial schools have found their way into the public-school system . Frequently , as in the case of the Milwaukee trade school for boys and the Manhattan trade school for girls , they have been founded by philanthropists and later taken over by the municipality . Philadelphia established such a school with public money in 1906 . The object of these public trade schools is to teach the trades in their entirety ? their technique as well as the principles underlying it ; in other words , to take the place of the old-time apprenticeship . Organized labor has pretty generally opposed these schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that , in times of strikes , they are likely to become " scab-hatcheries " ; and manufacturers have not been satisfied with them , because their instruction is not definitely related to the specific requirements of particular concerns . The most important objection to them , however , is that , unlike some of the philanthropic schools , they do not enable the student to g , et , a living while he learns . As a result they attract principally the children of the more prosperous workingclass families , and where they have been most successful they have shown a tendency to become preparatory schools for technical colleges rather than broadly democratic institutions for the vocational training of the working masses . To circumvent the labor-unions and at the same time to enable the student apprentices to support themselves , various great corporations have organized apprentice schools within their own establishments . One of the best known is that of the General Electric Company at West Lynn , Massachusetts . In explaining the existence of this school an officer of the corporation has epitomized the history of industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ An industrial situation arose , " he says , " in which the supply of skilled labor proved inadequate to the demand . Industrial leaders could not command a sufficient supply of all-round skill to guide the large industrial army of machine operatives and instruct them in the various processes ; to design and build the complicated machinery which the specialization of manufacture necessitated , and keep it in good order and repair ; and to develop the leadership which the expanding industries must depend on for their existence . " To meet this situation the General Electric Company and certain other great corporations and great railroads maintain apprentice schools to train workers for their particular needs . But except for certain highly specialized concerns like Hoe &; Company , manufacturers of printing-presses , and the Solvay Process Company , manufacturers of soda ash , crystals , crown-fillers , and the like , the lesser manufacturers have apparently not considered it good economy to support such schools . Moreover , except in the case of the very powerful corporations , the opposition of the laborunions has been an effective bar to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accepted the advantages of these corporation schools in a spirit of unqualified gratitude . In describing the apprentice school of an important railroad , the United States Commissioner of Labor summarizes the objections of the workers . The schools of this railroad offer a four years ' course . The boys are a highly selected group . They must have passed through at least five grades in the public school . They must stand the test of a rigorous physical examination , and they must be approved both by school-instructors and shop-foremen before they are accepted . " This apprenticeschool system , " says the commissioner , " has won the approval of the officials . Parents have in the main been very favorably disposed toward it . The men , however , have shown some opposition , not especially to the school feature creasingly apparent that it is with this leave the problem of the vast army of the unskilled operatives entirely untouched . At every turn it becomes in-a small group of privileged workers ; they they are doing regular journeymen 's work at apprentices ' pay . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their third and fourth years , But again the radical fault of these as such , but to the whole system , be-cause of the proportion of apprentices to journeymen ; and the apprentices them-selves have made some protest , because a very large part of the shop product is turned out by them , and they feel that , army that the public school as a democratic institution must be principally concerned . But to serve them it must overcome the antagonism of the tradeunions , for the aristocracy of labor have votes ; it must overcome the objection of the manufacturers , because the manufacturers pay the school tax ; and , above all , it must overcome the poverty of the vast army of the unskilled themselves . Following the direction of least resistance , the educational authorities have usually turned to the evening school . In city after city night classes have been opened , and in certain instances laws have been enacted making attendance upon them compulsory for children who have gone to work without completing a certain minimum of grammar-school work . Always , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and general ; the opposition of the skilled workers has been avoided by keeping clear of the attempt to turn out finished journeymen . Besides . children who have worked all day do not make the most alert of students , and the night school has accordingly not grown in favor with educators . Despairing of the night schools , various States have made efforts to induce local authorities to operate trade or industrial-training schools by day . But whether , as in Connecticut , where the State has established industrial schools directly with State funds , or in New York , New Jersey , and Massachusetts , where the States co-operate with the local authorities in the maintenance of day industrial schools , the seine obdurate difficulties have arisen ? the objection of the unions to complete trade training , the objection of the manufacturers to general trade preparatory training , and the inability of the unskilled and low-paid parents to sacrifice the financial aid of their children beyond the compulsory school age . The Cincinnati Superintendent of Schools sums up the situation . " We found , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the apprentice ; even when the apprentices came , many of them soon dropped away . We came to see that the apprentice is distinctly a day-time proposition , and that his education must be given , not in addition to his work , but in place of a part of his work . " And as a result of this discovery , Cincinnati is trying out the latest and the most widely heralded of our experiments in industrial education ? the so-called co-operative continuation school , where , through an alliance between manufacturer and school , apprentices continue their education by day without loss of wages . The experiment originated with Dean Schneider , of the engineering department of the municipal University of Cincinnati . In 1904i Dean Schneider made an arrangement with certain local manufacturers , by which his students spent alternate weeks , summer and winter , during a period of five years , in college class-room and commercial shop . By this device the university saved the expense of equipping laboratories with costly and perishable machinery , the students got their training in a normal environment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of technical ability . Soon after this scheme was launched , certain manufacturers of Fitchburg , Massachusetts , hearing Dean Schneider describe it , decided to adapt it to the high schools of their city ; and it is for this reason that the experiment as applied to high schools is frequently spoken of as the " Fitchburg Plan . " In 1009 , however , upon the initiative of certain prominent manufacturers in the Cincinnati Metal Trades Association , this same extension of Dean Schneider 's idea to the high school was made in Cincinnati . The manufacturers agreed that if the school directors would furnish teachers , building , and ordinary school equipment , they would supply at least one hundred and fifty boys out of the ranks of their apprentices for four hours in each week without docking their wages . For three years , now , the experiment has been under way . The school runs forty-eight weeks in the year , eight hours a day , and four and a half days a week ; several hundred apprentices are in attendance four hours a week , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the instructors spend visiting the boys in their workshops , counseling with their foremen , and getting materials for their class-room use . The cooperating manufacturers are enthusiastic ; they have found , they say , that the four hours a week spent by the boys in school , so far from decreasing their commercial output , has in many cases actually increased it . This result is in part accounted for by the systematic training of the boys , but in part also by the fact that the school-instructor , by working with the boys in the shops , frequently helps them to solve problems that have stumped their foremen . For the sake of the boys ' education the city furnishes expert counsel to the manufacturers free of charge . - Under the pressure of public opinion , the laborunions of Cincinnati through their central body have indorsed the school , but the United States Commissioner of Labor in his study of industrial education gives evidence to show that the attitude of organized labor generally is not so cordial as this local indorsement would suggest . In 1909 a committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it had been put into operation at Fitchburg , on the ground that the basis of co-operation placed the school entirely under the dominance of the employers . " The manufacturer is not obliged to take any boy , " runs the committee 's protest , " or to keep any boy . . . . No matter how much a father may desire such a training for the boy , the city is helpless to do anything , as under this plan the veto power over the boy 's right to public industrial education is in the hands of the manufacturer . . . . With a teacher too soft on the side of the manufacturers , we shall see , for the first time in a public-school system , a spirit new in evil power ? a class of school-boys trained under a thoroughly un-American system of private selection of pupils , based on no public or competitive method , unless the manufacturers so permit ; a system which needs no check in prejudicing its favorites against the large excluded class of their schoolfellows and , later , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characteristic expression of the attitude of the organized skilled workers ? the aristocracy of labor ? toward practically all attempts that have so far been made to convert the public school into a training-ground for apprentices . That it is sound from the point of view of those who desire to keep a monopoly of the skilled labor-market is beyond dispute ; but neither is it questionable that the American Federation of Labor has made no suggestion for a scheme of education that will include the vast army of the unskilled . On the other hand , it is impossible to discover how the co-operative continuation school of Cincinnati , which within its field is probably the most effective that has been devised in this country , can , as at present organized , meet this fundamental objection ; like the old-fashioned trade school and the apprentice school of the great corporations , it holds out no hope to the vast army who must serve the machine as ordinary operatives . In discussing this defect with experts one finds that their enthusiasm for Dean Schneider 's idea is largely based upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will eventually unfold its opportunities to all boys and girls who enter industry in whatever capacity . And they point to a step which has already been taken in this direction in Ohio itself . In 1910 a compulsory education law was enacted , under which all children not otherwise employed are required to remain in school until they are sixteen . Moreover , the law requires all children who have not reached the eighth grade to continue their schooling until they are sixteen , whether they are employed or not , and continuation schools have been organized in which these working-children are compelled to spend at least eight hours a week , not in the evening , but between the hours of eight in the morning and five in the afternoon . The precedent for compulsory continuation schools , like the precedent for so many of our social economic experiments , comes from Germany . In the city of Munich compulsory attendance upon the elementary schools is followed by compulsory attendance upon industrial continuation schools for all boys and girls who do not elect the higher academic courses . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three years after they have completed the elementary grades . Side by side with the compulsory continuation schools are voluntary continuation schools for students who prefer trade or vocational training to academic work . Of the total school population of somewhat more than 100,000 children , about 20,000 are in these industrial continuation schools-9,400 boys and 7,500 girls under compulsion , and 3,700 girls as volunteers . The 9,400 boys are distributed into fifty-two trade and twelve general industrial schools . Every trade having as many as twenty-five apprentices has a school of its own . The twelve general schools are attended by about 1,100 unskilled workmen ? day-laborers , barrowmen , errand-boys , servants . The 7,500 girls in the compulsory classes are distributed into forty schools . All of these girls are taught the principles of homemaking in addition to the technique of their particular trades . There are several voluntary continuation schools for advanced apprentices who are ready to become full - fledged journeymen and masters . One of these is devoted to commercial apprentices , a second to painters , a third to the building trades , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a fifth to the wood - workers . The butchers ' trade school is operated in connection with the town slaughter-house . In short , the continuation schools of Munich are woven into the very texture of the city 's industrial life . In describing these schools , Dr. Georg Herschensteiner , Director of Education in Munich , says that attendance was made compulsory upon the children in the interest of the State , because " the youthful worker has more and more become an object of cheap labor , " and cheap and ill-educated labor is an unsatisfactory foundation for national efficiency . So the children are forced to attend , although attendance usually costs them a deduction in wages . Furthermore , " as long as the continuation school remains optional , thousands of employers will prevent their youthful workmen from making use of its opportunities , except at the end of the day 's work , when mind and body are fatigued ; and even in cases where some reasonable employers would be willing to grant their boys time for study , they would probably do it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest of their own trade . " And besides , Dr. Kersehensteiner goes on to insist , it is a narrow view that sees in the competent workmen the exclusive aim . of the industrial school ; industrial edu cation must regard " technical training only as a means for mental and moral training " ; its object must be the enlightened citizen of an industrial democracy who has a living joy in his work , and who " not only seeks to advance his own welfare through his work , but also consciously places his labor in the service of the community . " Accordingly , the student in the Munich continuation schools is " instructed in the historical development of the trade to which he belongs ; he is shown in the struggles of his fellow-workers the continually growing interdependence of interests among all citizens of a community ; concrete examples of devotion to a common cause are placed before him ; and so by degrees he is led to recognize how the problems arose which occupy town and nation to-day , and to understand the duties and rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan is a magnificent one . But one can not study the effects of this highly developed education in Bavaria without being struck by the fact that with their higher training and their lofty conception of the rights of the individual within the State , the workers are rapidly growing discontented with the traditional social and economic status of their class . They are demanding that the employer , too , shall " consciously place his labor in the service of the community . " Nowhere in Germany has the membership of the Social-Democratic party grown more rapidly than in Bavaria , of which Munich is the capital city , and the contention of these Socialists is that universal technical efficiency and an ennobled conception of the possibilities of joy in life are of little interest to the mass of the workers , unless their share in the increased fruits of their labor is sufficient to enable them and their children to maintain a worthy standard of living . As a result the workers of Bavaria are demanding in increasingly large numbers that the machines of industry shall be socially owned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " This is a fact abundantly worth noting , however skeptical one may be of the soundness of the socialist philosophy . And it is worth noting , too , that in America the nearest approach to a system of universal industrial education has been made under conditions in certain fundamental respects not unlike those to which the Bavarian workers aspire . The rural school is not ordinarily classified as an industrial school , but in its recent development it is an industrial school in a very genuine sense . Tho very existence of the rural school to-day is dependent upon the prosperity of the farmers ; accordingly , its instruction is being shaped more and more with specific reference not only to the spiritual , but also to the economic needs of the farming population . Everywhere corn clubs are being organized to train boys in scientific agriculture . Home-making and garden clubs have been formed , not only to teach girls how to keep house , but to enable them to increase the profits of the farm by growing and preparing fruit and vegetables for market . Through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the field to co-operate with the rural school in the scientific education not only of the boys and girls , but of the parents as well . Because of this practical bearing of the new rural education , the rural school is making phenomenal progress . But this progress would not be possible if the farmer worked for wages and received of his increased crop barely enough to keep his family together with the aid of his wife and children . The farmer may have his difficulties with the commission merchant , or the transportation companies , or the produce exchanges ; but , as a rule , be has this great advantage over the industrial worker , that he owns the machine which he operates ? the land is his , and the reward of his increased efficiency reverts in the first instance to him . No one who has traveled among the rural schools and met the farmers in the school assembly-rooms can doubt that this economic fact is principally accountable for the recent phenomenal development of rural education . Whether the demands of national efficiency will ultimately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in our industrial centers ; whether the solution of the city school 's dilemma depends on the social ownership and operation of the machinery of production and exchange , so that the industrial workers may enjoy through co-operative ownership the advantage which the farmer enjoys through his individual ownership of the land , must remain a matter of surmise . But it would be a serious error to ignore the fact that it is in this direction that the workers , especially the vast army of the common operatives , are looking . Social ownership as a means of securing to the workers increased opportunities for education and a fuller life is not the programme of the Socialists of Bavaria and Germany alone ; on all hands it is being preached by the Socialists of America , whose party membership has increased threefold within the past three years . In a more radical form it is being preached by the syndicalists , who not only inspired the great strike of the coal-miners in England , but organized the unskilled and low-paid operatives in the recent strike in Lawrence , Massachusetts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has the growing unrest of the wage-working masses behind it , and it is like to break out in action unless those who are now in charge of our institutions find a wiser way of solving the school 's dilemma .                     