@@487104

tariff readjustment . But the point to observe is , that even such incidents as these are , judged very largely in the light of the stock market 's actual condition , and a market 's condition is bound to be in the main unfavorable when money is hard to borrow . Just now , all the European banks are guarding their reserves with a view to the large external demand for gold  --  a consequence both of the recent war disturbance and of the prosperous trade throughout the world Our own market , straitened by the demands of the prosperous interior at this month 's climax of trade activity , can not resort to Europe for relief . This hampers the interests , large and small , which buy stocks on the market , but it does not restrain the sellers . That very largely explains the violence of the recent declines , on news which , in a normal money market , would have been taken with equanimity . On such occasions , something always happens to give special ground for a market 's apprehensions and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Balkan disputes and Supreme Court decisions , it is undeniable that the financial atmosphere , so far as regards Wall Street itself , has been further obscured by the proceedings in the " Money Trust " investigation . It must frankly be admitted that at least a part of such apprehension as may actually have existed over that inquiry was due to the fact that some unpleasant truths were publicly brought out this week . Wall Street itself has certainly not been unobservant of the tendency in the matter of progressive consolidation of banking resources in this city . That movement , in a sense , stood by itself . But Wall Street has also chafed under the programme of stockmarket manipulation on a prodigious scale , conducted with utter disregard cf all ulterior consequences except the manipulators ' personal winnings . It has seen even the Bank of England publicly oppose the indirect placing of English capital at the service of such-undertakings . It has indulged in a good deal of angry muttering , when some of the most offensively notorious of these manipulations were known to have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trust and responthbility in the banking and credit field . These considerations were so well known that most of the Washington testimony was to Wall Street nothing more than a thrice-told tale . Sooner or later , every serious-minded man knew that there must be a reform which would at least abate the worst of these financial abuses . But the particular uneasiness with which this week 's public evidence was received arose from the circumstances under which it was this time told . It was elicited when the public mind had been so inflamed , by a long series ofsweeping and irresponsible declamations in the yellow newspapers and the cheap magazines , that the people at large had seemingly become unable to distinguish between real evils which can be and ought to be abated , and imaginary dangers which do not exist , and for which there is therefore no cure The outgivings of the La Follettes , the I.indberghs , and the Henrys , on their conceptions of the " Money Trust , " have been so wildly extravagant that the simplest and plainest incidents of finance , wholly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been instantly ascribed to gigantic conspiracy A policy of very doubtful wisdom for imposing compulsory charges on collection of out-of-town checks ; the practice of disciplining ill-managed banks through clearing-house supervision ; the exercise of necessary powers by the Stock Exchange in refusing quotations to securities ; the use of Government deposits to relieve a highly dangetous money crisis on the stock market as well as in the general field of credit  --  all of these things , which were perfectly ordinary incidents of banking , were imputed to unprincipled and wicked motives . Unhappily , the nature of the committee 's earlier cross-examinations was such as to add its own constant insinuation to that effect . All these occurrences were made to bear the mark of the Beast , precisely as , in last spring 's Congressional debates , the fall in cotton and the rise in wheat were the work of the malign Money Trust , and precisely as , in the Populist party 's day of the early nineties , the Money Power was declared to be supporting the gold standard of currency merely to enslave the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is a mixed bundle of inferences , many true and many entirely fallacious , which hardly fit either committee or Congress or the public to approach the general question properly today . Yet , of all problems in the world , the problem of dealing with the banking , credit , and Stock Exchange machinery of the nation is the most delicate , and calls for the largest experience and practical wisdom , if we are not to walk the path of futility and blunder . This being so , it is fortunate tnat the political situation , in the last weeks of an expiring Congress , is such that no one expects a serious effort to take the matter up now for legislation .                     