@@493213

prohibited from uniting with Germany except by leave of France ( which would be inconsistent with the principle of self-determination ) the Treaty , with delicate draftsmanship , states that " Germany acknowledges and will respect strictly the indePendence of Austria , within the frontiers which may be fixed in a Treaty between that State and the Principal Allied and Associated Powers ; she agrees that this independence shall be inalienable , except with the consent of the Council of the League of Nations , " which sounds , but is not , quite different . And who knows but that the President forgot that another part of the Treaty provides that for this purpose the Council of the League Must be unanimous . Instead of giving Danzig to Poland , the Treaty establishes Danzig as a " Free " City , but includes this " Free " City within the Polish Customs frontier , entrusts to Poland the control of the river and railway system , and provides that " the Polish government shall undertake the conduct of the foreign relations of the Free City of Danzig @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city when abroad . " fors I placing the river system of Germany under gn control , the Treaty speaks of declaring international those " river systems which naturally Dr ? vide more than one state with access to the Sea with or without transhipment from one vessel to another . " Such instances could be multiplied . The honest and intelligible purpose of French policy to limit the Population of Germany and weaken her economicalsystem is clothed , for the President 's sake , 1.1 the august language of freedom and interna- , tional equality . But line deleted of his mind was when at last , to the pelnlay of his advisers , he allowed himself to be linedeleted fairly regarded as " damage done to the NI " all population of the Allied and Associated froWers by German aggression by land , by sea and nni the air , " in a sense in which the other ex-a e sea of the war could not be so regarded . It was ? , tlon g theological struggle in which , after the re- Jqti fi of many different arguments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presithin 8 eQnSeierICe was still ict . In spite of everyg ) I believe that his tempntaerament allowed himto leave Paris a really sincere man ; and it is prob able that to this day he is genuinely convinced that the Treaty contains practically nothing inconsistent with his former professions . But the work was too complete , and to this was due the last tragic episode of the drama . The reply of Brockdorff-Rantzau inevitably took the line that Germany had laid down her arms on the basis of certain assurances and that the Treaty in many particulars was not consistent with these assurances . But this was exactly what the President could not admit ; in the sweat of solitary contemplation and with prayers to God he had done nothing that was not just and right ; for the President to admit that the German reply had force in it was to destroy his self-respect and to disrupt the inner equipoise of his soul ; and every instinct of his stubborn nature rose in self-protection . In the language of medical psychology , to suggest to the President that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ touch on the raw a Freudian complex . It was a subject intolerable to discuss and every sub-conscious instinct plotted to defeat its further exploration . Thus it was that Clemenceau brought to success what had seemed to be a few months before the extraordinary and impossible proposal that the Germans should not be heard . If only the President had not been so conscientious , if only he had not concealed from himself what he had been doing , even at the last moment he was in a position to have recovered lost ground and to have achieved some very considerable successes . But the President was set . His arms and legs had been spliced by the surgeons to a certain posture , and they must be broken again before they could be altered . To his horror Mr. Lloyd George desiring at the last moment all the moderation he dared , discovered that he could not in five days persuade the President of error in what it had taken five months to prove to him to be just and right . After all it was harder to de-bamboozle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for the former involved his belief in and respect for himself . Thus in the last act the President stood fo : stubbornness and a refusal of conciliations. 