@@487099

Something more than emotionalism enters into the profound effect on the public conscience of the disclosures made before the State Factory Investigating Commission regarding the canditions that still obtain among women and children in industry . At least , it is not a crude , blind emotionalism of the moment . The heart will always respond definitely to the story of babes toiling beside their mothers in tenement bedrooms or in the chill and dirt of canneries . Symbols appeal to the feelings , and the three-year-old child nodding in weary sleep over her work is such a symbol . But , after all , that sleeping child is a symbol only . Our pity is not restricted to the three-year-olds . To-day we feel that it is not only a horrible thing that children of three should be caught in the industrial machine , but that it is wrong for children of four times three to work , or for children of any age to work under conditions which rob them of their heritage of the happiness of childhood and the right to grow up into healthy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrong for women to be subjected to hours of labor which cripple them as individuals and as mothers . Our feeling is not merely indignation against a cruel system , but resentment against a stupid system . We do not say , " How sad this thing is , " but , " How criminally foolish and wasteful this thing is . " It is still emotionalism , but it is emotion conditioned by knowledge . " If this provision becomes a law , " argued counsel for certain manufacturers , in protest against a suggestion that all interior stairways in factories should be enclosed with non-combustible material , " most of the ' stairways in all of the factories of Utica would have to be rebuilt at great expense . " This plea , familiar enough a few years ago , rings strange to-day . To-day we feel that the alternative to the expense of rebuilding staircases in factories is the possibility of another Triangle building catastrophe . Presumably , it will take some time yet to impress on the selfish manufacturer and his legal representatives the fact that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a balance between human lives and profits The new doctrine of scientific management here reinforces the ancient doctrine of " Thou shalt not kill . " An industry that can be carried on only by exposing its workers to the daily peril of injury and death is an economic as well as a moral monstrosity . The manufacturer who pleads expense against the safeguarding of life will soon be regarded as a barbarous anachronism . It is not necessary to view this particular factory owner as a Simon Legree wielding his lash over the backs of women and children . He may not be altogether selfish . He may not be altogether stupid . Consider him as being caught himself in the wheels of the industrial machine . Make all allowance for the helplessness of an individual in the face of a system . Yet our sympathy can not go to the point of arguing that , because the duty which confronts the employer of labor is difficult , it is a duty which may be slighted . The pious wish that a better world may be brought about without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simply be faced that if fire-trap factories are to be rendered safe for the workers , it will cost some one a good deal , of money . If the exploitation of children is to cease , if humane conditions of labor are to be made universal for women workers , it means a possible cutting down of profits for some time to come . Some one has to pay the costs of progress until such a time as the costs - are redistributed among the community at laige . The factory-owner who protests that his interests will suffer is entitled to no more consideration than the lawyer who will suffer when the enactment of a workmen 's compensation law deprives him of the principal source of his income in the form of accident and negligence cases . The judgment of the day has declared for a workmen 's insurance , and the legal profession has to pay its part ' of the temporary costs of this forward step in social readjustment . It is this plea of unjust discrimination that every sincere effort at reform , outside of industry as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of course , be defended as a. simple matter of definition . But it can not be admitted that discrimination in itself is by definition unjust . To admit that , is to tie one 's hands forever . The advocates of child-labor regulation have had to contend with a vicious circle of opposition . Thus one State would welcome restrictive laws were it not for the fact that it would be put at a disadvan tage with regard to another State , where such laws are not to be put into force . The advocates of tariff reform have met the same argument . This schedule can not be touched because it will put a certam interest at a disadvantage with regard to another protected interest . To judge from the constant plaint against inequity of treatment , one might imagine that we are living in a world of perfectly adjusted privileges and rights , and that any attempt at change means the disturbance of a ' perfect equilibrium . Whereas the truth is that the social order is constantly changing , that society is always growing , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If child labor is to be done away with , if tariff oppression is to be reduced , a beginning must be made somewhere . The burden may fall a little more heavily on Smith than it does on Jones . Ultimately , the burden will be readjusted in fairness both to Jones and Smith . The stirring of the social conscience with regard to the protection of the workers , and particularly of the woman and child workers , involves an industrial readjustment which calls up for comparison the industrial revolution of the nineteenth century from which the present movement is a reaction . The dislocations and rearrangements which followed the use of the factory system fell most heavily , for a time , on the workers . To those English anti-machinery rioters , the introduction of the machine seemed virtually the confiscation of their chances of earning a livelihood . The same kind of error is committed by the factory-owner of to-day who cries out that the application of a higher standard of conscience to industry means confiscation . It must be left to time to teach him that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not demand the waste of women 's and children 's lives SAFETY IN RAILWAY TRAVEL . When Mr. J. 0 . Fagan writes on railway accidents as related to discipline and efficiency , what he says is pretty sure to make interesting reading . His letter to the New York Times in regard to the Westport wreck on the New Haven Road , and to the Interstate Commerce Commission 's report upon it , is no exception to this rule . Taking up the Commission 's statement that " the direct cause of this accident was a disregard by the engineman of the train , ' Second No. 53 , ' of signals and rules provided by the railroad company to prevent the occurrence of such accidents , " Mr. Fagan declares , in effect , that the direct cause was not this particular disregard of rules , but the system under which such disregard is constantly tolerated and men habitually guilty of it are retained in the service . In support of this , he cites , in particular , the bad previous record of the engineman who was killed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Westport disaster ; but , as he says , and as every one who has read the Commission 's report must now know if he did not know it before , the lack of real discipline exemplified in this particular case is not exceptional , but general . The peculiarity of Mr. Fagan 's remarks on this head is that he goes behind the blame cast upon the railway managers for using pressure to procure speed while not using like pressure to insure safety . The Commission , he says , has investigated this matter , but it has failed to investigate the " far more important " allegation " that for years pressure of the most palpable nature has been brought to bear on managers to compel them to retain in the service , the careless and indifferent workmen . " We are not prepared to say that Mr. Fagan 's views concerning this matter are in all respects sound . For instance , he asserts that , as a necessary corollary of the supervision exercised by the Interstate Commerce Commission over freight rates , equipment , train @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Work and both examine and license those employees who are directly concerned in the operating of the trains , in the same way as those who operate vessels on the sea are licensed . " But there is no comparison between these two problems , in point of complexity and difficulty . Nevertheless , we- are sure that in , again directing attention to the part played by trade-unions in obstructing wholesome discipline , Mr. Fagan is doing a public service . The Interstate Commerce Commission will not have completed inquiry into the causes of the lack of safety on American railways until this question has been cleared up . How the same thing operates in England is illustrated by the railway strike caused by the dismissal of an engineman for intoxication when off duty . Let the Commission , says Mr. Fagan , investigate the pressure on American railway managements to keep the careless man in the service ; and he declares that " it is absolutely useless to moralize the situation at the top if we allow it to be demoralized in this way at the bottom . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Fagan is both sound and important . But , as is natural in a man possessed with a dominant idea , or charged with a special mission , the point is overstated . However serious may be the part played by trade-union dictation in the matter , it is by ' no means the only source of the evil , nor is it impossible for the railway managers to procure great improvement in safety without waiting for the suppression of trade-union ' interference . The report of the Commission on the Westport disaster furnishes convincing evidence to this effect . It is not an undiscriminating indictment of the management . In particular , it gives the New Haven Company a clean bill of health on one matter which has been a conspicuous part of the newspaper arraignment . " The roadway and track conditions in the vicinity of the accident are good , " says the report , " and the construction of the cross-over was substantial . . . . At the cross-over practically all the ties were new and screw spikes were used , and the track conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in regard to the larger questions relating to safety is very severe , and fixes upon the management a kind of blame which can not be shifted . The Bridgeport disaster of July 11 , 1911 , says the report , " was similar in all respects to the accident now under consideration " ; yet the management of the road had ignored the recommendations of the Commission in regard to the increase of the length of the cross-overs , to the installation  --  or at least the serious investigation  --  of automatic devices for stopping trains , and to the introduction of a rule requiring fast trains to come to a full stop before taking the cross-over . And even in the enforcement of the existing rules , surely something more might have been done than has been done , without inviting any serious clash with the powers of trade-unionism . As for the relation between the railways and the unions concerning this matter , we are inclined to think that much might be accomplished by a bold policy of frankness and publicity . If the companies are submitting to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secure the lives of their passengers , we do not believe that they are helpless . The excuse for such submission has some resemblance to the excuse that so long was current among corporations generally for submitting to legislative blackmail . Bribery in our Legislatures could never have reached such dimensions , or been maintained through so many years , if corporations whose purposes were honest had refused to comply in secret with dishonest practices in order to effect those purposes . A little heroic resistance , an open appeal to the public , might have involved some inconvenience and temporary loss , but it would have resulted in emancipation for themselves and in immeasurable gain to the commonwealth . If the-coercion of railway managements for the benefit of unfit employees is as bad as Mr. Fagan represents it  --  and we do not deny that it is  --  the railways are not compelled to wait for an . investigation by the Interstate Commerce Commission to disclose it . A plain statement of the case would quickly bring the influence of public sentiment to bear in favor of whatever disciplinary measures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ travellers . HR . REID AND JOURNALISM . Despite the somewhat tragic circumstances of Whitelaw Reid 's death , his life was one rounded out with the honors which he sought and prized . The troops of friends which he won are hastening to pay personal tributes to his memory . His public position as an Ambirsa dor of long service has brought due acknowledgment of the loss caused by his death . But there must be still many to whom the chief interest and significance of his career lie in his years of labor as a newspaper man . The time during which he was a working ournalist. was one of great importance in the evolution of the American newspaner ; and when its history- comes to be written the part which Mr Reid played in helping to change the tendencies and the spirit of the daily press in this country will require ' special treatment . His rise in the newspaper world was not in , the least factitious . It was the normal result of hard work and broad-cuing ability . He was not one of our latter-day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buy and exploit newspapers to the top of their bent . Mr. Reid came up from the ranks . As country editor , as indefatigable war correspondent , as a Washington writer on public men and politics , then as editorial writer , he displayed the qualities which naturally brought him promotion . And when , after Greeley 's death , he came to be in control of the Ti ibune , his work in enlarging the news side of that paper , while retaining and procuring able and even brilliant men to collaborate in its special departments , showed that he knew what was demanded in the conductor of " a journal of civilization . " It is , however , the part played by the Tribune under Mr. Reid in the liberalizing movement which so powerfully influenced the American press in the years 1871 to 1877 , or thereabouts , that perhaps stands out clearest in his journalistic career . This was the period when the politically independent newspaper first began to set up a new standard , and to show that it could not only live , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few instances of newspapers that refused to bow down in the house of Rimmon . The Springfield Republican , under the elder Bowles , had made a reputation for itself as a paper free to speak its mind about men and parties . But it was the Liberal Republican agitation of the years mentioned that brought in the large breath of the new freedom . For a long time previous our newspapers had been , as a rule , grievously hidebound politically . Each one had to be a party organ , and politicians , no matter what they did , could count upon the support of the papers on their own side as regularly as upon the coming in of the tide . But there was a. great break-up in 1872 , and later . Party leaders were aghast at the spectacle of influential newspapers shaking off party fetters and boldly saying the thing they honestly believed . The Chicago Tribune took this independent and defiant attitude along with the Springfield Republican , and they were joined by the Cincinnati Commercial and the Louisville Courier-Journal . The editor of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slap-dash , of the meetings and doings of the independent editors at the Convention of the Anti-Grant Republicans in 1872 . Mr. Reid was there ; primarily , of course , in Greeley 's interest , but the Tribune was soon found kicking over the party traces with the rest of them . After the unhappy campaign was over , the Tribune maintained for a time its detached and critical attitude , and did excellent work in exposing the low moral tone which marked the second term of Grant . Later , as everybody knows , it went back and became a thick-and-thin party organ once more . But it had aided in showing the way to a new liberty ; and the American press never forgot the taste of freedom which it had in those years . Since that period the growth of independent journalism has been marked . All can grow the flowers now , for all have got the seed ; but the seed was largely supplied in that time of ferment when Mr. Reid became editor of the , Tribune . Since that day , American journalism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is the newspaper , not the personality of the man who happens at the moment to be editor , that people speak of . The reasons for this are plain , apart from the lack of commanding figures , if one chooses to insist upon that . The larger organization requisite in the modern newspaper inevitably causes any individual connected with it to wither , in comparison , while the institution as such becomes more and more . In this , we suppose , lies the explanation of the fact often verified that the mixing of an editor in politics , with the inevitable result that he appears , at least , to conduct his paper as an annex to his personal fortunes in public life , is a bad thing for the paper . That the Tribune suffered in this way when Mr. Reid began to turn his thoughts to political advancement , is not denied . We seem , in truth , to be setting up a journalistic tradition in this country against editorial office-holding . Abandon hope of political preferment , ye who enter here , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's room . This was not the old American practice ; it is not so strictly the rule in England to-day ; in France the custom is quite the other way . But its advantages are obvious . It is a part of the price that has to be paid for editorial independence . Andclearly illustrated in Mr. Reid 's experience , even with the great rewards and distinguished honors which he attained , that we may be pretty confident that such cases as his will hereafter be highly exceptional . " RATHER HARD ON TOM . " Mr. J. M. Barrie was in the chair at the recent meeting of the Academic Committee of the Royal Society of Literature . It was a gathering partly in commemoration of authors deceased within the year , partly to hail a rising star . The Polignac prize for the best work of imaginative literature during the previous twelvemonth was conferred upon Mr. John Masefield , for his poem , " The Everlasting Mercy . " Mr. Barrie had a few remarks to make upon the standards of style , which it was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible . For it was style that mainly made the difference between one writer and another . It was not the subject of the picture , but the way it was Painted . Except for this , there would be no difference between a Venus by Titian and a Venus by Tom Smith . To say this , Mr. Barrie admitted , was " rather hard on Tom . " It is , indeed , hard every way on the Toms who have no style . Even when they are conscious of this , and wish to find out how to acquire one , they are left very much in the dark . They can discover teachers to give them directions , but not to set them examples . Professors of rhetoric are not often successful practitioners . And the great practitioners either do not know haw they got their style or will not tell . Mr. Barrie referred to a mysterious thing in connection with all this . He had been lately in the company of a distinguished writer at a club where they were always talking about style . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was pressed for information , could give them none at all . The only man in the room who had a style had n't the faintest notion what it was or how he had come by it . This , too , it must be confessed , is rather hard on Tom . - The fact seems to be that good writing is as incommunicable as any other fine art . You can be taught what to avoid . Your blunders can be pointed out with a sure finger . On the other hand , the best models can be set before you . The great writers with whom you are to spend your days and nights may be put on a vest-pocket list . And incessant practice , self-criticism , the severest discipline at the desk , can be urged . But when all is done , the ultimate secret of style is not and , apparently , can not be imparted . This is the reason why the efforts of literary artists to explain their art  --  most of all , to explain their rise  --  are usually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ' sedulous ape " to this and the other mister , but it is all little but words to the uninitiate . Teachers and writers of literary confessions pluck off the petals of style , one by one , in their careful analysis , yet ordinarily leave the bewildered learner crying out at the end : " But where is the flower ? " Literary advice to Tom is something from which the well-advised would shrink . Yet an old English journalist recently gave a piece of it which is perhaps worth noting for its novelty alone . He was addressing chiefly newspaper writers , and those who have to keep steadily at writing tasks , year in and year out Their frequent sense is one of weariness and of being in danger of going stale . In such a mood , the advice of this veteran editor was to read over some of their own writings of two or five years before . His point was this . in their blackest discouragement they could find an occasional gleam of hope from what they had done in the past . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had written previously  --  something so much worse than their worst at present that they could at least thank their stars that they were no longer capable of that  --  or else some bit of good work which would cheer them with the belief that they had not always been idiotic and with the hope that they might again write in a way not to make them ashamed . Such an experiment has its obvious perils . As a rule , a man should preserve his old writings as he would his old love-letters  --  something to keep but not to read over . There is , to be sure , the example of Swift with his " My God , what a genius I had when I wrote that " but we believe that this dates from the time when Swift 's mind had begun to fail . Whether style can or can not be taught , the important thing for Tom and all the rest of us to fix in our minds is that it exists . Help may be given in attaining it , or writers may have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but either way it is the pearl of great price in literature . It is not necessary to waste words , or to endeavor to invent new phrases , about this , for we all know that style is the distinctive thing in authorship  --  the thing that it is known by and remembered for . Mr. Barrie made a brief hilt feeling reference to his friend , the late Andrew Lang ; and he said of him in all seriousness that all that he had left behind from the literary point of view was his style . Truly , it is " of the man himself " ; and if Tom-has got it in him , he may comfort himself with the thought that he may yet bring it out . HUMOR OF THE EYE AND EAR . Is the eye more easily tickled than the ear ? Do funny pictures have an ad. vantage over jokes conveyed by the printed word ? In a sense it is the mind to which the appeal is made in both cases , and the eye , too , which first apprehends it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every one who would appreciate it , whereas fun in print can be relished equally if it is ' heard read aloud , the distinction is sufficiently valid . It may be admitted at once that pictures have a fundamental advantage in the case of certain sorts of happenings . The mirth occasioned by seeing a person in the act of losing his balance , with coat-tails flying and hat askew , can be fully reproduced by a merely faithful picture of the thing . But narrate the incident to one who has not witnessed it , and you are apt to find that his first concern is to know whether any injury resulted . Grotesque details put in narrative form are presented too slowly . Here a very elementary kind of humor is involved , the success of which depends upon the suddenness of its attack . In a picture the eye gathers up the details almost as rapidly as in actual life . And having given way to the crude fun of the thing , one lingers over the artist 's peculiar touches . This in its lowest form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the small boy 's instinct to upset the next fellow 's equilibriun.a , it seldom gets beyond such superficial embarrassments as grandpa wakened by a firecracker or grandma in search of her teeth . Its special field is " practical " jokes . In literature exact equivalents of the comic supplement are not numerous ? " Tom Sawyer " and " Huckleberry Finn " go deeper  --  yet they do exist , and it is significant that several such books have come out within the past few months . The resemblance is so striking that one is tempted to believe that writers , aware of the success of " novelized " plays , have determined to make the comic supplement do similar duty . Here is a sample . A man at a house party looking for - his morning bath opens by mistake the door of a room occupied by an old maid . She , in the act of putting on her toupee , is startled , knocks down the curtain pole , which upsets a Louis Seize clock , which falls upon her poodle , who jumps through a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the window , through an opening in the conservatory , upon the head of the gardener . He brushes it off , and the next seen of it is months later when it is found entangled in the roots of a fancy tulip . Mistaken for a squirrel 's nest , it is lodged as a great curiosity in a museum . Significantly enough , the one thing that saves this story from utter flatness is a pictured illustration of the toupee on the gardener 's head . It is bound to provoke at least a smile , but it does at the same time drive home the lesson that certain things which the artist may use with some success , the writer would be wise - it leave alone . In ' the lower ranges of humor drawings can produce their effect quite cheaply . Many will recall how " Chip 's " block-headed little dogs in Punch were enough in themselves ? to give him a vogue . Ine artist 's individual style applied to an obvious situation  --  the special flirt he gives to a coat-tail or his particular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is possible , however , that the artist can be more poignant as well as more sweeping in his humor than the writer . These qualities are got by creating a suggestion of what can not be indicated explicitly . Words become too precise for the occasion , while an indefinite tilt of the head may sometimes speak volumes , Every one knows how in a great political campaign it is usually the cartoonist who can best fasten attention upon the big issues . For the " BigIow Papers " and the best of Mr. Dooley 's political satire there have been dozens of notable cartoons . Yet between high and low humor , in what may be called respectable every-day humor , graphic form is greatly limited Besides sharing with painting the power of dealing specially with only a particular moment of life , or , if symbolic , with only one or two broad reaches of thought , it has usually to confine itself to the fun of situation ; in short , to the farcical . ' The very medium tends to turn all humor into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressed in language is not visualized , when pictured becomes a definite spectacle , " programme drawing , " as it were . Humorous drawing , except for the matter of style , undoubtedly lacks the variety of verbal humor . What may he done in literature with one branch , 2P humor is shown just now by the London set . Shaw , Chesterton , Belloc , Max Beerbohm , to go no farther , get their fun very largely out of what is technically known as " wit , " or intellectual sharp practice . It is mainly formal logic applied to life . Touchstone knew the method . Says he to Garin : " Why , if thou never wast at court , sawest good manners ; if sawest good manners , then thy manners must be wicked ; and wickedness is sin , and sin is damnation . Thou art in a parlous state , good shepherd . " And the scandal of sheer logic by which the clown in " All 's Well " essays to comfort the Countess , Shaw has virtually elaborated into " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not out of human nature , but out of the dictates of logic , though logic worked with all its hidden tricks of ignoring the middle term . Chesterton 's essays have the same inspiration , and Belloc and Beerbohm are different only in giving freer rein to the incidental rollicking farce which their logic precipitates . Here the variety among the four men is not so much a question of individual style  --  the point which so often distinguishes humorous drawings  --  as it is a Matter eof emphasis placed on this or that element among the several of which wit is . composed. , This leads us back to the question whether the humor of the word , with its more varied possibilities , can ever de -- generate to the level of the comic supplement and gain a large following Yet until books of that kind are advertised as being among the best sellers , we with-hold our protest , hoping in the meantime that they will receive from the public every bit of what they deserve . THE JOINING HABIT . The S P. U. 0 . is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Useless Organizations . It has been founded by a handful of desperate citizens as a means of combating the ravages wrought by the fatty degeneration of the social instincts . Its motto is " Disorganize ! " Its emblem is a miniature portrait of John Hampden , the famous Englishman who-first-refused to pay dues . The charter members of the S. P. U. 0 . recognize the tremendous nature of the task that confronts them . It amounts to nothing less than waging war against a national habit which is older than the Consti-tution and will endure long after the referendum has been recalled . Hence the S. P. U. 0 . entertains no illusions as to the results it may obtain . Uprooting the joining habit is a hopeless enterprise . The Society simply wishes to save such individual feeling and thinking as still hold out above the rising tide of organization . In order to give vigorous expression to its ideals and its programme , the Society has adopted a Constitution in fifty-three articles and a complete set of by-laws The Constitution provides for the usual officers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Press and Periodicals , a Committee on Pulpit and Peace Conferences , a Committee on Recent Tendencies Towards Decentralization , a Committee on CoOperative Efforts in Relation to the Cost of Living , and several others The proceedings of the Society are to be conducted in accordance with Cushing 's Manual . In its prospectus the S. P. U. 0. , as we have already intimated , eschews all hostility to the principle of organization in itself . " We ' could not if we would , " says this interesting document , " and we would not if we could , do away with the valuable psychological trait which impels half a dozen Americans , whenever they come together , to form an association , adopt an emblem and elect officers , and proceed to carry through their meetings with efficiency and dispatch by a firm suppression of the minority party . " The prospectus goes on to say - that , for the purpose of giving effect to a policy , a reform , or a revolution , organization is indispensable . It would be idle to deny that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the year in the way of encouraging progress and alleviating human suffering by bringing the disjointed efforts of thousands of individuals into harmonious cooperation . But a distinction must be drawn between cooperation for the purpose of doing things , and cooperation for the purpose of seeing , enjoying , and believing things . A society for the suppression of tuberculosis needs no defence . But what shall be said of the mistaken social tendency which , revealing itself at first in comparatively harmless form in the organization of Browning Clubs , ultimately leads to the formation of a Society for the Appreciation of Late Autumn Sunsets , a League for Spiritual Relaxation , and an International Fraternity for the Development of the Individual ? The S. P. U. 0 . is encouraged to believe that it is not engaged in an altogether hopeless fight , when it considers that at present there is a distinct reaction in public opinion against the fetich of organization . It was seemingly only a day or two ago that all of us worshipped bigness and complexity . Today we are wondering whether some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousand less wheels , gears , valves , belts , springs , and buttons , and do just as much good . There are heretics now who question the efficacy of organization as embodied in the Trnsts . There are complaints heard to-day that the Church is over-organized . There are complaints that the schools and colleges are over-organized . There are complaints that our sports and vacations and holidays are over-organized . This does not mean that the tendency is all one way . The standardizing , organizing spirit is fighting back strenuously . There are still any number of people who want to organize the Home , who want to organize Child Life , Motherhood , Sleeping in the Open Air , Poetry , and the utilization of the ten minutes that are usually lost between going to bed and falling asleep . The organizing habit is still very strong in the land , but it is an enormous gain that it should be nb longer accepted without question . To-day it is no longer held as self-evident that it is better to do a thing in two hours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it in an hour and a half without one . The S. P. U. 0. , at bottom , is anxious THE WESTERN ECONOMIC SOCIETY . CHicAco , December 11 . The Society chose Commercial and Industrial Education as the general topic for its fourth conference , held at Chicago oniDecember 6 and 7 . The two sections of the conference devoted their more special attention respectively to commercial instruction of collegiate or university grade , and to the problem of industrial training in public schools . One group of speakers on the side of the public schools came to report the results of their actual experience . Among these may be mentioned James J. Sheppard , principal of the New York High School of Commerce ; James E. Downey , head master of the Boston High School of Commerce ; William J. Bogan , principal of the Lane Technical High School , Chicago , and Lorenzo D. Harvey , who spoke of the system of industrial education . in Wisconsin Miss H. Winifred Jevons brought word of the work of the , Apprenticeship and Skilled Employment Association of London . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prospect of widened opportunities of industrial training in the immediate future , and upon the question whether this training should be separately organized and administered or developed in the existing public schools under the direction of the present school boards . The most conspicuous advocate of separation was E. G. Cooley , who , under the auspices of the Commercial Club of Chicago , has embodied a proposal for separate industrial schools in a bill to be submitted to the Illinois Legislature . The opponents of such separation were represented by Prof. Ernest R. Dewsnup , of the University of Illinbis ; Prof. F. M. Leavitt , of the University of Chicago , and various spokesmen from the public schools ; and by Frank Duffy , secretary-treasurer of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America , in behalf of organized labor . The after-dinner speaking at the banquet of the Society bore mostly upon the industrial education of persons of common-school age . Miss Jane Addams emphasized the social need of training and guidance for the boys and girls who now seem to be sustained only by the saving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the surroundings of school children to the life of men and women in the working world . Prof. Charles Hubbard Judd , of the University of Chicago , in one of the most impressive addresses of the meeting , urged the importance and appropriateness of contacts with vocational life even in the primary schools . The German Ambassador , Count von Bernstorff , who was prevented by illness from being Present , was to have spoken on the German system of commercial and industrial education . On the topic of collegiate instruction in economic and commercial subjects Prof. L. C. Marshall , of the University of Chicago , provoked active discussion by his plan for the sequential arrangement and standardization of elementary and intermediate college courses . But perhaps the - most fruitful feature of the whole conference was the bringing together of the deans of various university schools of commerce to compare their problenis , their achievements , and their purposes . In this discussion the long-established undergraduate Wharton School of Finance and Commerce of the University of Pennsylvania was represented by Prof. Roswell C. McCrea ; the new Graduate School @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ F. Gay ; the Tuck School of Administration and Finance of Dartmouth College , by Prof. H. S. Person ; the Schools of Commerce in Northwestern University , the University of Wisconsin , and the University of Illinois , by Profs . W. E. Hotchkiss , W. A. Scott , and David Kinley , respectively . Prof. L. C. Marshall spoke for the College of Commerce and Administration of the University of Chicago ; Prof. E. D. Jones , for the commerce courses in the University of Michigan ; Prof. H. R. Hatfield , for the College of Commerce of the University of California . Whatever the other results of this interchange of experience may have been , it is certain that the auditors were impressed by what has already been accomplished in working out a scientific view of business , in winning the adherence of business men , and in progressing thus to wards a freshened and vitalized interpretation of even the more academic phases of economics . JAMES A. FIELD . 