@@493119

consolidation , and then in their consolidated state to compete more violently than ever . The most pressing and fundamental problem of all arose out of the insistent demand of labor for a larger voice in the management of the roads . It is no solution of this problem to turn the employees over to the tender mercies of the corporate employers , and bind them to their jobs by prohibiting strikes . Only fundamental and radical remedies can cure these defects , and Congressional leaders have been afraid of anything either fundamental or radical . The second reason for the Congressional fiasco goes to the bottom of our whole system of Con ? gressional government . A problem of such vast Complexity , involving so many powerful interested groups , can not be settled by a process of compro ? mise . There must be a single , organic policy , a clear conception of the end to be sought , and a consistent and unswerving subordination of details to that end . Congress had before it innumerable Plans , representing for the most part the divergent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do was to take from each plan the items which were least likely to create antagonism , and combine them into an incongruous compromise . Perhaps that Was inevitable in a legislative body in which there has been no leadership , and no contiuous relation between the nominal leaders and the experts in the administrative branch of the government . Until We reconcile ourselves to the fact that on a major ! question of complexity and importance the initiative in legislation must come from the executive , and until we effect some organic relation between the executive and the majority in Congress , we can not expect to make much progress toward a solution of the railroad problem . The railroad experts in the administration , Mr. McAdoo , and since his resignation , Mr. Hines , With the responsibility and knowledge of expert administrators , have recognized from the outset that mere tinkering and compromise could not s ? 11ve the railroad problem . Eleven months ago they erY Were warning Congress that the problem was f urldamental , and that the attempt of Congressional leaders to solve it offhand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been more signally vindicated. .11 this analysis is correct , the future is not too bright . The immediate financial menace may be alerted by a prolongation of federal control . But as long as present conditions in Congress continue , tha'ia as long as the Administration refuses to assume ae responsibility of initiating and driving through radical and organic railway policy , not much can 13 ' hoped for . Either House and Senate will re- in regime deadlock , and we will drift along under a of repeated prolongations of Federal con ' trol or Federal guarantee , or there will be a further compromise between House and Senate , and some combination of the House patchwork and the Senate patchwork will be evolved , a compro ? mise which will be financially workable , if at all , only by virtue of some government guarantee . To the railroad employees , and to those who agree with them that no permanent solution is possible which does not embody the three major elements of the Plumb plan , governmental respon ? sibility for capital financing , unified non-competitive operation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trol of management , the situation brings with it a great opportunity . Let the Brotherhoods so amend their plan that public interests are com ? pletely and adequately safeguarded . Let them press for its adoption persistently and wholeheartedly , even to the extent of . organizing or joining a new political labor party if the old parties prove hope ? less . Time will work in their favor , for the present legislative impasse is merely a reflection of the underlying fact that today only a radical solution of the railrOad problem is possible , and that such a solution neither Republican or Democratic leader ? ship is capable of achieving . WITHIN the past few weeks there have assembled two conventions of American political and economic progressives . The first con ? sisted of a large number of representatives of organized labor and of the several allied move ? ments , which assembled in Chicago for the purpose of forming a " labor party . " The second consisted of a smaller group of middle class " liberals , " many of them formerly associated with the Progressive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of planning future political organization and agitation . These two groups both called conven ? tions or conferences because their convictions made it impossible for them to affiliate either with the Republican , Democratic or Socialist parties . They believed in the introduction of changes into Ameri ? can economic and political institutions so radical that neither the Republican nor Democratic party would consider their program , but they did not believe either in the class struggle or in any of the other revolutionary Socialist formulas . They felt the need of a new political party , composed of thorough-going progressives , and dedicated to per ? suading the American nation to associate the ful ? fillment of its national life with the cure of economic abuses and the creation of a more humanized in ? dustrial organization . These conventions of progressives were essen ? tially experimental . The two groups , one consisting chiefly of wage-earners and the other of profes ? sional and business men , did not assemble so much for the purpose of actually devising a machinery of partisan action as for that of finding out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which would unite the several discontented economic groups and which would convert this economic dis ? content into a working policy , a popular agitation and a living faith , essential to the political af ? firmation of progressive ideas . An old party which arouses traditional loyalties and is held together by the prospective advantages to its membership of success does not depend for its effective unity chiefly on its platform . But a new party must start on its career as the spear head of a group of living ideas which are capable of arousing enthusiasm and of accomplishing desirable changes in the in ? stitutions of a nation . The progressive ideas must contain sufficient variety and flexibility to be success ? fully applied to many varied and complicated questions of policy , while at the same time they must be united by a fundamental integrity of pur ? pose . The Federalists , the Democrats , the Whigs and the Republicans all represented in the beginning such a group of ideas ; and in all these cases the ideas were the reflection of the economic needs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the existing party organizations and economic policy of the nation . A progressive party which is to survive must satisfy these requirements . The program of the group of wage-earners which assembled at Chicago tried to meet these requirements in one way and the program of the St. Louis assemblage tried to meet them in another way . The platform of the proposed Labor party is not either a carefully considered , a coherent or a stirring document . It contains some thirty-one planks , which deal with many existing economic and political abuses and some , perhaps , which do not exist . It is an exhaustive schedule of mis ? cellaneous economic and political reforms , com ? piled for the purpose of assembling on one com ? prehensive platform as many discontented groups as possible . But the length of the platform makes it unwieldy and its occupants are of unequal merit . Some of the proposed political reforms are , to say the least , doubtful . In advocating the election of federal judges for short terms , the proposed Labor party has adopted one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , viz. that the election of judges for short terms increases the disposition of the judiciary to take account of human interests in decisions which involve political and economic issues . The elected judiciary of the states have been less upright and at least as in ? different to human as contrasted with property rights as the appointed federal judiciary . Again in advocating the abolition of the Senate , the labor platform proposed a change in the Constitution which would destroy it as a working instrument and which it is futile to consider except as part of some general plan of constitutional revision . Some of the economic clauses call for analogous criticisms . If adopted into the permanent program of the party they would become a source of weakness rather than of strength . Notwithstanding these drawbacks , however , the platform of the Labor party contains the raw material or rather the half-prepared material out of which the party can eventually forge the needed instrument of progres ? sive agitation and legislation . It is a clear , ever ' if unwieldy and blundering , expression of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political organization neglects , the class of the wage-earning worker . It insists on a method of satis ? fying those needs which , if carried out , would pro ' foundly modify the relation among all the classes in American life , but which seeks finally to bring about a class concert rather than a class struggle ' The virtues and defects of the platform of the Committee of Forty-eight are wholly different from those of the platform of the proposed Labor party ' It possesses one enormous merit which is whollY unprecedented in the history of American Pro ' pressive platforms . It is extremely short and who11Y definite and uncompromising . It provides merely for public ownership of transportation , of all public utilities and of the principal natural resources . it declares against the holding of land and patents out of use for speculative purposes . It demands equal rights irrespective of sex and color , the mediate and unqualified restoration of all civic liberties guaranteed by the Constitution , and the effective abolition of injunctions in labor cases . " endorses " the effort of labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to organiie and bargain collectively of its own choosing . There are , we believe , defects in this particular forma ' lation of American progressivism ; but its merits far outweigh its defects . It is an honest atteraPt to penetrate to the roots of American economic t abuses . It traces those abuses to one of their chic sources , to the appropriation by private of public utilities and limited natural resources which give to their proprietors an essentially Priv leged position in the competition of the market . It properly demands the withdrawal of these Pri% leges as the essential condition of a democratic December 31 , 1919 THE NEW distribution of political and economic power . This succinct statement of one fundamental cause of American economic abuses will eventually awaken a lively and wide-spread response among the small business and professional men of America . It will appeal to essentially the same traditions and inter ? ests which were expressed by the progressive move ? ment of 1910-12 and which have dominated the Peculiarly American radicalism from Jefferson to the present day . That tradition consists in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? portunities for making money . It looks towards the creation of a commonwealth of small property-owners , none of whom will have any advantage over the others in adding to his wealth except that derived from his ability . This ' formulation of progressivism contains , however , a defect which , if it is not remedied , will Prevent the party which possessed the power to carry it out from being successful in its enterprise . It relies too much on the remedial magic of the mere fact of government ownership of public Utilities and natural resources . Public ownership is ? Ile thing . Administration of the trust and the Power in the public interest is another thing . The Prussian government owned the railroads of that country , but public ownership did not prevent the rate structure from favoring the cartels . The em ? phasis in the program of public ownership has the disadvantage of proposing to confer on the govern-41 " a huge increase in power and responsibility 1.1tve a the very moment when liberals all over the world bureaucrats and public officials . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the obvious objections t0 it and without endorsing the proposals to pro- , et the public and the workers against bureau- : tic dictation and an excess of state power by h a plan as that which is associated in this country with the name of Mr. Plumb . The problem of introducing social democracy into A merica , although it requires for its handling 0 ? rogratti of public ownership , is less a matter tilec ? nomic mechanism than the St. Louis platform implies and more a matter of popular re-education . dePiralism , as it has developed in this country , has intPrived labor and work of intrinsic dignity and erest . It has created on the one hand a class of 4 llual labor which has no sufficient inducement in andirig loyalty to its job or interest in its work chi on the other hand a class of administrative art who are much more preoccupied with the efi . c ) f salesmanship and profit-making than in cleat production . The fundamental problem of social democracy is to restore dignity and interest to labor . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the poor and among those who are neither rich nor poor which need to be put to work as well as idle land and idle patents . Neither government ownership nor the substitution of small business for big business will of them ? selves give the needed dignity and interest to labor . That can only come , as it now seems , from some such modification of the wage-system as is exempli ? fied by the Plumb plan . The St. Louis platform looks in that direction when it endorses the " effort of labor to share in the management of industry , " but in the discussion of the platform which the Committee has issued with it they ignore the need of reorganizing production and administration or re-educating labor , and dwell exclusively on changes in the mechanism of capitalistic control . The labor plank was , from the point of view of the writers of the platform , merely a concession to another discontented group rather than an integral part of their plan of industrial reconstruction . In this respect the platform will require modification . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existence of privilege in the mechanism of wealth distribution , but the elimination of economic privilege among property-owners will not be suf ? ficient to create a socialized democracy . That de ? pends upon the recognition of the worker quite as much as on the property-owner as the foundation of the democratic state . The object of its policy should not be to transform the worker into a property-owner but to attach to efficient work such dignity , security and prosperity that property-owners them ? selves will test their value to the community by what they do rather than what they own .                     