@@487091

Uruguay . By W. H. Koebel , Author of " Argentina Past and Present , " " Portugal Its Land and People , " etc. , etc . With a map and 55 illustrations . New York . Charles Scribner 's Sons . $3 net . The numerous writers who during the last few years have given us so many books on the South American republics , their economic prospects , as well as their history and politics , have mostly passed by Uruguay , or , as it calls itself , the Banda Oriental . It is small , the smallest of all the republican states in the Continent . It has neither the immense material resources of Argentina and Brazil , nor the antiquarian interest and the striking scenery of Peru and Bolivia . It has not played a part in the general history of South America comparable to that of Chili . Nevertheless , it is in many ways an attractive country , a land which evidently makes an agreeable impression upon travellers , while it inspires its own children with an unusually ardent patriotism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work which undertakes to present to the American reader a complete account of both country and people . Mr. Koebel has published several other books on other Spanish American countries and gives evidence all through of a familiarity with their conditions and ways of life . He writes easily and pleasantly , evidently liking the people and desiring to take the most favorable view of their character which loyalty to facts will permit . This is a condition it is necessary to remember , for both investors and immigrants have been sometimes beguiled and misled by roseate pictures . His account falls into three sections . There is a sketch of the history of Uruguay from the first Spanish settlements on the Rio de la Plata down to the present day , a sketch which is pretty full for the period of the War of Independence , but much more brief when he approaches our own time and has to mention living politicians . There is a description of the principal cities and centres of commerce , with some remarks on the scenery and agricultural conditions of different regions ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the manners and customs and character of the people are touched upon , while in others the resources of the country are considered , and estimates of its probable financial , industrial , and com. - niercial progress are made Some useful figures bearing on these'last-mentioned topics are collected , in an appendix . The numerous illustrations taken from photographs help to give a good impression of the aspect of the towns and the features of the life of the people . Few countries have so large a part of their surface available for productive industries . In Uruguay there are neither deserts like those of Peru , Bolivia , and parts of northern Chili and northern Argentina , nor lofty ranges like those which fill large districts in - all the above named countries , as well as in Brazil and the republics which lie to the south of the Caribbean Sea . As the land is mostly undulating and comparatively clear of large wood , it is available both for stock raising and for agriculture . The former industry has been up till now the mainstay of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exported , the recent introduction of fragoraftcos , or cold storage processes , having much enlarged the business . Tillage has advanced relatively less than in Argentina , but the soil is well fitted for nearly all the cereals . Both wheat and maize are crops of increasing importance , while the culture of the vine has been introduced in some districts and promises well , Brazil being rather too hot for vineyards , and most of Argentina unsuitable , as too fiat or too dry . Thus Uruguay , which is behind the other republics in mineral wealth , has an assured and indeed more permanently promising industrial future in her agricultural , resources . The increase , both in stock raising and in tillage , has been much accelerated by the construction of a railway system which is , for so new a country , remarkably complete and efficient . The capital which has gone to the making of the railway lines and to the establishment of the great ranching and meat packing establishments has been mostly European , but , in recent years , the American Beef Trust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Mr. Koebel , who devotes a useful chapter to the cattle business , new developments may now be expected in this line of business Nature has favored the country no less in climate than in soil The heat is seldom excessive , even in the sub-tropical northern border , for the proximity of the sea and the easterly breezes give coolness , even in middle summer The extremes of temperature are much less marked than in Argentina , and in summer large numbers of rich people flock from Buenos Ayres to bathing places on the Uruguayan coast . Locusts , the scourge of the Argentine farmer , occasionally appear , but as the welfare of the land depends more on cattle than on tillage their ravages are here less de structive . With a fine soil and aehealthy bracing air , the people of UrugUay have two of the chief requisites for well being . Athird is found in the fact that they are of predominantly European stock , with an almost imperceptible infusion either of native Indian or of negro blood . Mr Koebel is less clear upon this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , both from his book and from other sources of information , that there was comparatively little inter-marriage between the early Spanish settlers and the aboriginal tribes . The latter were not numerous , and the most vigorous among them , the Charruas , seem to have been almost exterminated in their wars with the colonists The Gaucho , both in Argentina and in Uruguay , seems to be a product rather of conditions than of race mixture Like the mountaineers of east Kentucky in the United States , he is a European who has reverted to a wild , rude way of life , under the influence of an environment which belongs to a semi-civilized - time , and which the progress of civilization is now destroying in South America , just as it is destroying the less marked type of Western cowboy , n this country . The Gaucho is , in fact , something like a Canadian trapper , or a Wyoming cowboy , though somewhat rougher , having ranged the Pampas for a longer time , and in a more complete independence . He is now , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a peon or laborer of the civilized order , but he retains his love of fighting and his readiness to take part in a revolution at the shortest notice . This taste has frequently opportunities of gratifying itself in Uruguay No part of South America has had a more continuous record of wars and revolutions . Mr. Koebel has enumerated one hundred and four battles During the first two centuries after its settlement , its possession was disputed by the Spaniards settled on the rivers Parana and Uruguay and the Portuguese established on the " coast of Brazil . The troops employed were few , but the fighting was obstinate , and though more than once the Kings of Spain ceded the land to Portugal by treaty , whenever hostilities broke out afresh , the first effort of each Governor of Buenos Ayres was to recover this northeastern province . Even when the War of Independence of the early part of the last century had ended by the defeat and expulsion of the Spanish forces in 1814 , and it was clear that they could not recover the country , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Uruguay . A fresh and fiercely contested struggle ultimately compelled Brazil to recognize , in 1827 , the independence of the Uruguayan . Republic . But so far from bringing peace , this was the beginning of a long series of intestine wars between various military leaders who had come into prominence in the previous years of strife , wars which lasted down into our own ? time . Thus the Uruguayan , so long accustomed to fighting , has come to regard it as the normal state of things , and quickly responds to an appeal to take up arms for his party . Since 1835 there have been two parties in the country , the Blancos and Colorados ( whites and reds ) . They are so called because in a battle fought in that year the adherents of one general carried white pennons on their lances ( then the favorite weapon of the country ) , and those of the other red pennons . These parties were at first merely personal , the generals standing for nothing but themselves . Like other parties , however , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least tenets , on their way ; so that of late years the Colorados have come to be the party of the townsfolk and of " advanced ideas , " while the Blancos are friendly to the Church and find their chief support in the rural districts . So lately as November , 1910 , the Blancos , apprehending , not without reason , that the Government was going to manipulate the elections to the Legislature in such a way as to procure a majority which would then proceed to elect as President a particular Colorado leader , organized a rising which lasted for some weeks , and was attended with considerable bloodshed . Where , as in not a few South American republics , the Administration " takes care " of the voting , revolution is the natural recourse of an Opposition , and as the Opposition , if and when it becomes the Government , pursues the same method , the habit of making revolutions perpetuates itself . The remarkable thing is that these very unsettled political conditions have had comparatively little effect on the prosperity of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bonds are , for the time being- , sent down in the market , but ranching and wheat-raising go on much as usual , except that traffic on those roads and railways which traverse the disturbed districts is stopped . It may , however , be remarked that revolutions have tended to be less and less formidable in recent times . The Colorados have now held power continuously for more than forty years , and the extension of railways , enabling the Government to move its troops quickly to threatened points , puts insurgents at a disadvantage Though political assassinations have been pretty frequent , and party bitterness remains intense , war is conducted with less ferocity than in the old days . The Uruguayan has many fine qualities , like those fighting races of the East , the Albanians in Europe and the Afghans in Asia , of whom he reminds us . When the energy he has shown in war is turned to the arts of peace , he may prove to be one of the most progressive among the South American peoples . Mr. Koebel is not the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his neighbors , the Argentine on the west and the Brazilian on the east And though he is of virtually the same racial stock as the Argentine , neither nation having absorbed much of that aboriginal Indian blood which has affected the Peruvian and the Chilean , and which predominates in the Paraguayan , he has acquired a national character of his own , which seems likely to become rather more than less distinctive in the years to come . Its influence is shown in the fact that the children of Americans and Englishmen settled in the country are proud to call themselves and feel themselves Uruguayans . CURRENT FICTION . The Fruitful Vine . By Robert lichens . New York : Frederick A. Stokes Co . If Mr. lichens would only learn to let well enough alone ' He knows his own range , which is confined to problems of sex , and he is seldom busied with an unreal problem . But he can never deal directly and simply with it . Or rather his instinct is to conceal the essential simplicity , not to say ingenuousness , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air of the oracle , or of the medium . With him , we breathe an air of mystery , however commonplace the topography of our surroundings And one listens to a voice consciously rotund , rolling on and on , around and about and before and behind the subject , until one fairly wishes the subject had been left alone . But there are readers who enjoy fiction as an interminable meandering in a moonlit grove  --  such readers as could enjoy every word of " The Garden of Allah " and presently found " The Old Wives ' Tale " stupid and long-drawn-out . The fact is , Mr. lichens has the knack of providing mildly voluptuous entertainment for readers of lethargically amatory temperament . Such readers do not care to be hurried over their pleasures Nothing which attracts the languid palate can be too long-drawn-out . And , indeed , prolixity is the chief fault which the undevoted reader will find in this book . Mr. lichens has never written anything with so little taint of mawkishness , with so large a measure of spontaneity . His theme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and fiction has hardly more than touched upon it It is the problem of the childless wife and husband who long for children . We ought to bear in mind , when we are making up our tables of " race-suicide , " that there are many such wives and husbands , especially among the finer-bred races and classes . The hapless pair in question are an Englishman , Sir Theodore Cannynge , and his wife , Dolores . They have been married eight years , are childless , and with both of them the desire for parenthood has reached the point of obsession . The woman dislikes all children because they are not her own , while the man devotes himself to the children of his friends , the Denzils Francis Denzil is councillor of the British Embassy at Rome , where the action takes place , and Sir Theodore has really settled in Rome to be near his friend . The Denzils have children , and Sir Theodore 's heart is gradually seduced by them Eventually , he becomes so shameless as to prefer romping with the Denzil infants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Sir Theodore becomes guardian of the children and is finally lost to Dolores Meanwhile from background to foreground steadily moves the figure of an Italian noble who has set himself to win the love of Lady Cannynge . He does not succeed , but wins her body , which she yields to him that she may become fruitful . She dies in child-birth , but the child lives to Ve demanded by the ruthless Italian , and Sir Theodore is left , doubly frustrated , alone upon the unhappy scene Mr. lichens , as usual , patiently labors to extract every drop of emotion from his theme  --  a process which betrays deficiency in humor . Yet his detail is often witty The Innocency of Father Brown , . By Gilbert K Chesterton New York : John Lane Co . Mr Chesterton has conceived the cleverest variant of Sherlock Holmes we have yet seen The miraculous analysist in these stories of mysterious crimes is a humble priest who has been made wise in the ways of wickedness through the confessions of criminals . For friend he has a superhuman virtuoso @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becoming a detective , seems suddenly to lose all his versatile faculties and so furnishes the necessary foil and confidant of Father Brown . The situations are in the highest degree original  --  to say that Mr. Chesterton is their author is to say as much . But we are not led through the steps of detection as skilfully as we were with Conan Doyle , and there is little or no excitement of the chase . Mr. Chesterton has succeeded , however , by his virtuosity in words in creating an enveloping air of evil and invisible forces working through the human brain , which grows darker as the book advances to a kind of gruesome and ghostly climax - The Price . By Francis Lynde . New York : Chas . Scribner 's Sons . Like the exhorter who insisted that he had been " called " to preach , but was thought by his auditors to have heard some other noise , Mr. Lynde appears to have mistaken the nature of his inspiration . On the solemn pretest of proving that he errs who robs a bank , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worked up a " rattling " story of a spectacular crime , a clean get-away , and the slow hunting down of the fugitive  --  the kind of story that is its own best excuse for being . Whether the dramatis personw be fox and hound , or criminal and detective , a chase , full of the hazards of flight and the tactics of pursuit , in which hunter and hunted alternately baffle each other , is the most widely acceptable of all themes . If the actors be human , and there be included in the caste with the sleuth and the law-breaker a self-possessed , virtuous blonde and an inscrutable brunette adventuress , we shall not greatly care whether the motives and the costumes are those of darkest Russia or our own dear Middle West . A good working knowledge of localities , types , and manners from New Orleans to southern Minnesota , and a smattering of the psychology of crime , have helped in this case to subdue the native hue of melodrama . As to this gentlemanly hero en mat who was " one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morbid over the economic side of the social problem , " we are inclined to regard him as merely very good bait for the serious-minded reader . OLD TESTAMENT STUDIES The Old Testament in the Light of the Ancient East Manual of Biblical Archaeology By Alfred Jeremias . English edition , translated by C. L Beaumont , edited by C H W. Johns . New York : G. P Putnam 's Sons Two volumes $7 net . This English edition is translated from the second German edition , but with such revision and additions by the author that it may be regarded , he says , as a third edition ; his general position , however , remains the same as in the former issues The work has been much discussed by specialists , the translation will doubtless bring it to the notice of -a wide circle of general readers . To estimate its value it is necessary to distinguish between its illustra tive material and the author 's theoretical explanations and constructions . There is a great wealth of citations from Babylonian and other sources bearing on the Pentateuch ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and on passages in the prophetical and historical books . Much of this material , of course , is not new  --  the ground has been gone over before  --  and not all of it is distinctly relevant ; still , taken all together , the citations may be said to be useful . The chapter on the political nistory of the States of Israel and Judah is illumining ; it brings out the relations between those little states and their neighbors clearly and fully Unfortunately , the greater part of the citations and parallels are so mingled with tral event . The exegetical method is simple  --  it requires no great ingenuity to discover in the tradition allusions to Babylonian and other myths , just as the early Christian writers found therein records of profound Christian doctrines . The citation of supposed astralistic hints is carried through the Old Testament with wearisome iteration , and it may suffice to give the treatment of Abraham as a specimen of the method pursued . The stories of the patriarchs , it must be premised , are regarded by Jeremias as historical , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are incomplete and idealized and must be filled out and interpreted from late Jewish and non-Jewish sources and by the insight of the critic . In ancient history the family is not an ethnological division ; Abraham was father of the family not in an ethnological but in a spiritual sense He was a warrior and a Mandi ( a man divinely guided ) , a- reformer whose migration from Babylonia was connected with a protest against existing religious error , perhaps against degeneration in moon-worship , perhaps against the cult of Marduk introduced by the Hammurabi dynasty  --  in any case merely a protest against polytheism , not a rejection of the astral system , as is evident from the astral mythological motifs introduced into the narrative of his life . These are specially prominent because he ( with Lot ) is the founder of a new era . His earlier name , Abram ( " the divine father is exalted " ) , points to the moon-god , Sin , who is often styled " father " ; the other name also , Abraham , " father of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " warrior of the gods " ; add that the name Sarai , " princess , " agrees with the title of the moon-goddess of Harran , and the name Milka ( Abram 's sister-in-law ) with an epithet of Ishtar ; and " Laban " signifies " moon . " In the stories of Abraham there are moon-motifs : the number 118 ( Gen. xiv , 14 ) is not historic , but a mythological construction  --  it is the number of days in the lunar year when the moon is visible and its light wars against darkness  --  so Abram has 318 companions in his battle with enemies . further , in Gen. xiv , the Canaanite kings serve the King of Elam twelve years and in the thirteenth year rebel  --  now , twelve days must be added to equalize the lunar year with the solar , the thirteenth day begins the new year , and Abram begins a new age ; and lie , like the moon , is a wanderer . If the astral theory were accepted it would add nothing to our knowledge of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the origin and nature of religious customs , the characters and functions of deities , and the course of religious progress , and it solves no historical problems . If the questions be asked whether Abram went down into Egypt , or Joseph ruled in that land , or the Hebrew tribes migrated thence to Canaan , we must look elsewhere for answers , as , in fact , Dr. Jeremias himself in certain points appeals to non-astralistic considerations . The " Teaching " gives merely the astrological and mythological setting of narratives  --  the details are regarded as inventions , though the tradition is assumed to be trustworthy . For the existence of the " Teaching " proof is not forthcoming . It is true that Babylonian astronomy and astrology passed beyond the bounds of Babylonia , and that there were in Western Asia , as in all the world , cosmogonic myths in which the gods and the heavenly bodies figured , and mythical stories of heroes in which the real and the imaginary were sometimes mingled . But for a system of historical writing in which persons and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is no evidence in the Babylonian or the Hebrew or any other literature . Since the Babylonians made careful records of celestial phenomena and constructed an elaborate science of divination by the liver of sacrificed animals , it would be hardly too much to expect , if such a system existed , to find references to it in the inscriptions , or at least some hint or recognition of it ; but nothing of the sort is known in Babylonian or Hebrew records . Cosmic myths there are in the Old Testament ( the combat of Yahweh with Rahab , for example , as in Isa. li . 9 , and elsewhere ) , and certain favorite numbers ( 7 , 12 , 40 ) may have been suggested by astral phenomena , though the origin of such numbers is obscure ; but the existence of these conceptions is far from warranting the assumptions of the theory under consideration . So as to the alleged expectation of a divinely guided redeemer . All over the world saviours of society have arisen from time to time , natural products of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up by some deity , but there is no sign that the expectation of such deliverers was a dogma of an ancient universal creed . Here , as in other points , Dr. Jeremias has taken some simple facts of ordinary human terrestrial experience , invested them with celestial clothing , and forcibly made them into a symmetrical , all-embracing , all-explaining , and universally accepted system of the world . It is obvious that he thus does violence to the proper method of historical investigation and misrepresents the course of religious development . Canon Johns in his introduction mingles warnings judiciously with praise . He goes as far as possible in the recognition of the merits of these volumes , sometimes , indeed , too far , but repeatedly cautions the reader against accepting the author 's astral theory at present . He appears to think it possible that additional discoveries may favor the theory ; he might have pointed lout its fundamental Vice , if such criticism would have been proper in an introduction meant to commend the work . The proofreading of the volumes is not good : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 119 ) and " sybilline " ( I , 131 ) , and " Gotterherrin " ( which is a correct translation of the Babylonian belt slam ) is rendered by " divine lady " instead of by " mistress of the gods " ( I , 9 ) . The History and Problems of Organized Labor . By Frank Tracy Carlton , Ph.D. , Professor of Economics and History in Albion College . New York : D. C. Heath &; Co . Professor Carlton has produced in compact and readable form a useful summary of a large amount of literature dealing with many important labor questions . The title of the volume will doubtless seem to many to be somewhat misleading . Four chapters , constituting about one-sixth of the book , do undertake to present the history of labor organizations , but in the United States only . Among the " problems of organized labor " discussed are the following , to each of which a separate chapter is devoted : Immigration , The Sweated . Industries , Child Labor , Woman Labor , Protective Legislation for Employees , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to he confined to a treatise on trade-unionism . They are , indeed , the chief social and economic questions which confront modern industrial society ; they may be called labor problems , but they are not problems peculiar to organized labor . The volume is designed primarily to serve as a text-book for college classes and is similar in scope to Adams and Sumner 's " Labor Problems , " which has hitherto enjoyed the advantage of having no competitor . It is to be frankly conceded that labor unions are not , and probably should not be , mere ethical culture societies . That militant unionism which- is so odious to the employing class aims above everything else at improving the economic condition of the working class , and no apology need be demanded or offered on that account , for employers and organizations of employers are equally concerned with their own narrow interests . So much the opponent of unionism may grant , but still protest that it is the methods , not the aims , of the unions that are anti-social and wholly objectionable . Professor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like nature against employers . Restriction of output , for instance , is shown to be a practice common to both employers and employees . Both are actuated by selfish motives ; both , of course , may be pursuing a shortsighted policy . The closed shop , also , is not exclusively a trade-union method . " The anti-union shop is closed to the union man . . . . - Many bitter opponents of the other forms of the closed shop are ardent advocates of the anti-union form of the closed shop . " The demand for a collective bargain in making the wage contract is not a demand for a privilege , but only for equality . " The refusal on the part of a superintendent of a large factory to bargain with representatives of his employees is as absurd and unreasonable as would be the demand on the part of the employees for direct negotiations with the stockholders of the company represented by the superintendent . " And as to coercive methods , " it must not be forgotten . . that employers are often as brutal as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more impersonal manner " The question of the validity of law , upon which democracy itself must ultimately depend , is quite neglected in such a balancing of charges and countercharges . Indeed , Professor Carlton simply assumes that democracy and trade-unionism are identical . Thus , his view of the significance of the labor movement is revealed by the following sentences from his closing chapter on Recent Tendencies : The industrial world is the last stronghold of the despotic principle . . The captains of industry are the industrial analogues of the enlightened despots in the political world of - the eighteenth century . . Exactly as our forefathers sought to break down absolutism in government , the labor unions of to-day seek through governmental interference and organized strength to break down absolutism in the industrial sphere . The significance of the present struggles between labor and capital is only clearly seen when looked at from this point of view Henry II : His Life and Times . By H. Noel Williams . New York : Charles Scribner 's Sons . $3.75 net . It was a real service thus to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems thus far to have appealed but slightly to either French or English biographical historians . Studies on Henry II are rare . Mr. Williams devotes the opening chapters of his book to a careful review of the vicissitudinary career of Francis in Italy and Spain , with its consequent bearing upon his young son 's future life , name ? ly , the Madrilene captivity and the al , liance with the great Florentine family . The long rivalry of Francis with Charles V is elaborately exposed , as is the treason of the Constable of Bourbon and the responsibility of Louise of Savoy for his desperate decision . It may well be objected that Mr. Williams is wont to be lenient with the women he describes , perhaps too much so , and that other experts in the minutia ; of that epoch would show these women in darker tones than he . This is undoubtedly true . Yet - he may be quite right in not accepting the dicta of all those who have written before him , and we probably do well in accepting his discrimination . Be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it were in a sort of composite historical photograph deduced from the works of those whose authority may be best accepted : in particular , the youthful Catherine de ' Medici , the plain , unpopular , submissive Italian girl who was to out-think them all , and her famous rival , Diane de Poitiers , whose name forever is to be linked first with Henry 's to the exclusion of her own , as we still see the H and D woven together on the escutcheons of many a Renaissance chateau in the valley of the Loire . The great judicial duel of Jarnac and La Chataigneraie , with its famous " coup " ? for all of which Henry and Diane were primarily responsible  --  illumined by full citations from contemporary documents , is here related in such fashion that we know much better who was infamous and who was not . The present rehabilitation of Jarnacthough by no means new  --  may go far toward correcting an opinion only too prevalent . But Mr. Williams 's reputation is so well established by his many earlier works that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ epoch treated is one in which he has previously shown himself thoroughly at home , but never has he borne himself with more self-control , yet with easy confidence , than in his " Henry II . " One feels throughout a certain balance and moderation , a breadth of knowledge and a sympathy which perforce commend it . John , Dennis ; His Life and Criticism By H. G. Paul , Ph.D . New York : Columbia University Press , Lemeke &; Buechner. $1 25 Dennis is chiefly remembered in English literature  --  so far as he is remembered at all  --  as one of the enemies and victims of Pope ; also in connection with the origin of a well-known phrase , as the man who invented a new kind of stage-thunder and then complained that it had been stolen from him . Perhaps Dennis 's best claim to remembrance is that he was one of the first Englishmen to set up as a professional critic In his " Philosophical Dictionary " Voltaire , after speaking with withering contempt of professional critics in general , says that there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for-sixty years at London and got a living out of it , too " ( A very thin living , indeed ; toward the end ) In the " Tale of a Tub " Dennis appears as a type of the snarling critic descended in straight line from Zoilus . In short , as Dr. Paul admits , Dennis has been mainly cited as a horrible example of a tribe that , as a whole , was under suspicion . In the past twenty years , however , Dr. Paul adds , something of a reaction has begun in Dennis 's favor . Let us hope that the reaction will not go too far . It should stop well short of the exaggerated and rather eccentric praise of Swinburne , who set Dennis as a critic above Addison , or of Landor , who set him above ' Dryden . On the very face of it , a man who allied himself with writers like : Gildon. and Blackmore , against writers like Pope and Swift and Steele , was lacking in critical tact and perceptiVeness . The best thing about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrast agreeably with the duplicities of Pope . In the first half of his hook , which is devoted to the life of ' Dennis , Dr Paul is , as he says , breaking new ground His careful investigation adds not only to our knowledge of Dennis , but throws light on the literary manners of the time . The account of the endless squabbles in which Dennis engaged confirms the impression one gets from other sources that these manners were uncommonly bad In fact , if England has had a truly Augustan age , an age on which the imagination can dwell with some satisfaction , it is the age of Johnson and Reynolds and Goldsmith rather than that of Pope The second half of Dr. Paul 's book is devoted to Dennis as a critic . In his analysis of the main critical currents of the time and of the general background , Dr Paul has followed closely , too closely in the reviewer 's opinion , Dr. Spingarn . For example , he has , like Dr. Spingarn , failed to distinguish between logic and common sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject , especially into the treatment of Rymer . Common sense , as , Dr Johnson says , is intuitive , whereas Rymer , though he lays claim on several occasions to common sense , is extraordinarily lacking in every kind of intuition . What Rymer really stands for is logical thoroughness ; he is the one consistent Aristotelian formalist in English criticism . He applies unflinchingly to the English drama the Aristotelian ideas about the all-importance of the plot and the closely allied notions of rational probability and poetic justice . Next to Dryden , he is the most important figure in English criticism at the end of the - seventeenth century , not only in himself but by his actual influence Dr Paul errs in assigning this superior position to Dennis . Dennis is very far from being like Rymer , consistent with himself . His . criticism shows many of the same contradictions as that of Dryden , from which , as Dr. Paul says , it , is largely derived . The main points of view that conflict more or less with one another in Dryden are evidently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writers ? " the giant race before the flood " ? and their unfettered imaginative activity ; ; second , respect for the French formal ists and literary casuists , for what one may term the school of rules ; third , regard for the school of wit and taste and good sense ( Moliere , La Bruyere , Boileau , etc. ) that had succeeded the school of rules in France and was attacking its surviving representatives ( Chapelain , etc. ) as pedants . Now the same contradictory elements are found in the criticism of Dennis , except that as he grew older he became more of a formalist than Dryden had ever been . Dennis is really a survival of the age of Dryden into the age of Pope and the quarrels in which he became involved , so far as they have other than personal or political grounds , illustrate the divergent points of view of two literary generations . The Queen Anne wits , like the great French wits whom they imitated , waged war , above all , on pedantry ( why , by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . Like the French wits also they had a faith in the unaided tact and intuitions of the man of the world that was a menace to sound learning . And so iu the crusade of the wits against the pedants and the " dunces " better men than Dennis had to suffer ? Bentley , for example . Pope 's attitude toward Dennis was similar to that of Moliere toward Vadius . At least as good a case could be made out for the Abbe Menage , the original of Vadius , as Dr Paul has made out for Dennis . Dryden could on occasion defend the somewhat romantic spontaneity of the English imagination against both the wits and the formalists , and Dennis at least aimed to follow him in this particular . For his contemporaries Dennis was , above all , the apostle of poetic rage . We may doubt , however , whether Dennis hearkens back very effectively to the " giant race , " or , as Dr Paul contends , anticipates the modern romanticists . The normal neo-classical attitude toward inspiration is well expressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poet 's " mind must always be serene that he may discern when to let his muse run- mad and when to govern his transports " This ridiculous neo-classical notion of madness with a string attached to it , of fury that is governed by rule , of raging in cold blood , is not sufficiently discountenanced by Dennis 's theory , and is certainly illustrated in his practice : What divine Rapture shakes my Soul ? What Fury rages in my Blood , And drives about the stormy Flood ? What makes my sparkling Eyeballs rowl9 See , see the Goddess of the Lyre Descending in Tempestuous fire : Hence ye Profane , be gone , retire . The poet , according to Dennis , is to be enthusiastic , but under eight heads . The excess of talk about fire over fire itself Was so evident in his writings that he was accused by one of his satirists of being " by Inspiration furiously dull . " He is certainly less readable than itym er , with whom one most naturally compares him . One of the sources of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nickname ? Sir Tremendous Longinus . However , the generous and appreciative temper that Longinus recommends in criticism is less conspicuous in Dennis than in Addison . Dr. Paul 's book , like nearly all books in English , is not sufficiently careful in its printing of French words ( e. g , " les bons sens , " p. 119 ; " la quarrelle , " p. 151 ; " Desmaretes " for Desmarets , p. 121 ) . Dr. Paul also misquotes an important sentence of Milton : " What decorum is , what are the great masterpieces to observe , " instead of " which is the grand masterpiece to observe . " The book has an index and a careful chronological list of Dennis 's writings , but no table of contents .                     