@@486263

Carranza and his obstinate representatives at Atlantic City would do well to take to heart the lesson of Mr. Wilson 's reelection . Precisely because the verdict at the polls must be accepted in large measure as an approval of the President 's patient Mexican policy , it is also a ratification , in advance , of Mr. Wilson 's course if the President 's patience should come to an end . If so long-suffering and hopeful a friend of the Mexican people is driven to drastic action , this country will feel that there was no other way out . Of the President 's good will Carranza has had proof these many months . He now has proof of this country 's good will , of its abhorrence of any dreams of conquest , and of its earnest desire to remain at peace with Mexico . If Carranza persists in making the immediate withdrawal of Pershing 's forces the first condition of an agreement , he will be straining at an empty point of prestige to the imperilling of his own vital interests . He must know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better than to withdraw Pershing 's troops if order and security in northern Mexico could be reestablished , or even if an earnest move were made in that direction . For Carranza up to election day there is this much to be said : that in spite of the friendship of the Wilson Administration and the American people , there was no telling What would happen to Wilson and what to American sentiment if Wilson was defeated . If Carranza had acquiesced in the retention of Pershing 's troops , and Mr. Wilson went out of office , this would be the danger confronting the de facto President as he saw it : he would have created resentment at home by yielding on the matter of " national honor , " he would thus have supplied a handle for Villistas , Felicistas , and other enemies , and he would be facing in Mr. Hughes 's Administration possibly an enemy and certainly no friend willing to help him out against his rivals . But that possibility no longer exists . Carranza must know that Villa , Felix Diaz , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American people . Carranza must know that without support from this country his enemies in the long run can not maintain themselves against him . The Secretary of War , in his memorandum on the functions of the General Staff of the army , takes a broad view of the proper functions of that body , at variance with the opinion of Gen. Crowder , the Judge-AdvocateGeneral . Thus in interpreting the recent legislation of Congress which prescribed that General Staff officers should not be assigned to administrative duties , Mr. Baker is certain that this was merely a reinforcement of the act creating the Staff , whose functions Secretary Root described as " correlating , informing , supervising . " This may be good , albeit narrow , law , but we are inclined to think that if he had been longer in Washington Mr. Baker would not have gone contrary to Gen. Crowder and assumed that Congress went out of its way merely to reenact the original act . For Congress has been alarmed about the General Staff ; it has not only been worried by the fear that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would pass to the General Staff , but it has bitterly resented the influence over legislation which General Staff men , like the other officers on duty in Washington , have sometimes sought to assert . Gen. Wotherspoon , on his retirement , begged his associates to keep away from Congress . Against this tendency Congress has twice acted , in making it impossible for a General Staff officer to serve again on the Staff without service with troops , and permitting no officer to serve more than four years at a stretch in Washington , D. C. Hence one can not but feel that Congress had some other purpose than Mr. Baker discovers . It is bungling so to legislate that four months later no one knows just what was meant by a simple provision like this . Unfortunately every move that is proposed for full preparedness still is opposed by a blatant crowd of pacifists , slackers , kickers , and traitors , who against good causes know how to fight very vigorously ! The curse of our country to-day is its motley crew of bad citizens . Another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Against these ball-and-chain influences forever dragging on the Ieg of Progress , one must fight . Who is it who thus knows out of his complete and divine wisdom just who are good citizens and who are bad ? Why , the American Defence Society , of course . Yet , while it weeps over the motley crew who are in its eyes bad citizens because they refuse to agree with it that the way to preserve peace is to Prussianize the United States , it has not lost courage . No , indeed . " Our cause , " it says , " is gaining ground  --  no doubt about that ! " and to consolidate the ground won , it asks a beggarly $30,000 for the coming year 's work ? $30,000 , where last winter it was getting money by tens of thousands of dollars . Eighty-five thousand dollars , one canvasser alone reported , found its way into the Defence Society 's treasury . Plainly , it is enormously to the Society 's credit that it still keeps its faith in us Americans when it is compelled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to finance its campaign for conscription . - Gen. Goethals 's observation upon slides in the Panama Canal , made in his final report to Secretary Baker , will have great weight with the public . His review of the situation and of the suggestions offered to relieve it is so comprehensive as to give his opinion special force , despite the evident feeling behind his words . He declares that proposals for checking the slides were carefully considered , and that the methods adopted were laid before the National Academy of Sciences , where " no suggestions were made which modified the plan in any way . " In particular , he scouts the theory that the bottom of the Canal in the region of Culebra Cut is a bog , which is constantly being pushed up . The slides there " are breaks resulting from deformation or crushing of underlying strata which , under changed conditions , could not bear the weight of the superimposed mass . . . . Final rest will be secured when all the material that is in motion has been removed . " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gases , which evokes sarcastic comment from Goethals , should be circulating in the authoritative form of a Senate document , to say nothing of the flood of interviews and magazine articles as ill-informed . In the positive announcement that there will be a Congressional inquiry into the use of money in the Presidential election , there is much ground for satisfaction . An investigation now could not be charged to the spite of a defeated party . If Hughes had been elected by a majority of two or three electoral votes , and a Democratic Congress had rushed a committee into the States most narrowly won , it could have been asserted that the move was that of a " bad loser , " and that an attempt was being made to go behind the returns and impugn the expressed will of the voters . No suspicion of that kind can be entertained to-day . Wilson is not expected to gain a single electoral vote by the proposed investigation . It may indeed be that the credentials of two or three United States Senators will be challenged  --  that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not to keep anybody out of office or put anybody in . What is intended is simply such an uncovering of the expenditure of large election funds as may lead to remedial legislation . This , of course , is wholly apart from the activities of the Department of Justice in running down sporadic election frauds . Two things are to be steadily aimed at in all this business of preventing the corrupt outlay of money in elections . The first is to limit by law the amount that may be expended in the election of a given candidate for office . The second is to prohibit all expenditure not officially made through a committee , and not fully disclosed in a public accounting . Here is the weakness and here the danger of our various State and Federal election laws . They go only a part of the way . But they will have to go the whole figure of the English Corrupt Practices Act before we can be sure that the scales in a closely contested election have not been turned by the corrupt use of money . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were raised and paid out by the National Committees . But how much knowledge have we of special funds in States or districts ? Can we be sure that suspiciously large amounts were not sent secretly to certain strategic points , to be secretly used by local politicians ? On this subject we do not pretend to have any specific information . Ugly rumors were afloat before the election , and have been circulated since . Perhaps not even a Congressional inquiry could bring out the truth , or all of it . But this whole dubious and shrouded field of the use of money in political campaigns ought to be looked into ; and the chief purpose should be not to expose any party or punish any individual , but to lay the foundation for statutes which shall more effectually remove the peril of purchased elections . Mr. Bryan 's suggestion that it would be better to have the vote for Presidential electors cast by Congressional districts , with the two additional electors chosen by the State at large  --  a propoSal that has often been put forward  --  comes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Electoral College , and the way in which the result turned on a couple of thousand votes in a single State , has been the occasion of a revival of interest in the question of a change in our method of electing the President ; but if the method recommended by Mr. Bryan had been in use this year , the uncertainty of the result would have been increased , not diminished . After all , we did know , two days after the election , except for a bare possibility of change in the official count , what the result of the election was ; but we do not yet know , two weeks after the election , which party will have a majority in the House of Representatives . Such doubt as there was , even on the first morning after the election , when the returns were still incomplete , related only to a very few States . Congressional districts might easily be close in scores of cases , scattered throughout the Union . Furthermore , in the case of the electors at large , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be reckoned with as it is now , over and above whatever closeness there might be in the separate districts . Germany seems as if driven by a malignant fate to make the ruin of her national reputation in Belgium . The original invasion shocked the world , and left a moral gulf between Germany and other nations which she has never been able to bridge . To this fact the German Government has shown evidence of being sensitive , and has sought to make its military administration of Belgium both efficient and respectable . But now come the wholesale deportations of the workingmen of Belgium to put Germany once more in collision with the humane sentiments of the world . No wonder that the worst suspicions are current , and that few believe the virtuous profession put forward in defence of this virtual enslaving of thousands of Belgians . Even if it be true that they will be set to no work directly military , they will take the place of Germans who will then be released for the army . No quibble can excuse an act which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war , but is necessarily attended by cruelty . Protests from the Pope and from neutral nations may not be able to stay the hand of Prussian militarism , but at least they can let Germany know what is the adverse moral judgment of men to-day , and what will surely be the verdict of posterity . Viscount Grey 's note on the blacklist is a masterly presentation of the British side of the case . So far as regards the question of international law raised in our Government 's protest , the answer of the British Foreign Secretary seems absolutely conclusive . So uncompromisingly is his position asserted on this aspect of the controversy that the tone of courtesy is preserved only through his expression of the conviction that our protest against the blacklist as a violation of international law must have been " founded on a misconception of the scope and intent of the measures which have been taken . " That citizens of the United States are entirely within their rights in attempting to trade with any of the nations now at war , as our Government 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , question for a moment ; but the legislation protested against does not deny that right , but merely asserts " the right of Great Britain as a sovereign state to pass legislation prohibiting all those who owe her allegiance from trading with any specified persons when such prohibition is found necessary in the public interest . " These persons , Lord Grey adds , are as free as they were before to carry on their business ; " the only disability they suffer is that British subjects are prohibited from giving to them the support and assistance of British credit and British property . " As an abstract question of national and international rights , it is difficult to see how any effective reply can be made to this contention . Such reasons for holding the blacklist measure a grievance as may have substantial merit rest not on a challenging of the right to resort to any measure of this kind , but on two other classes of considerations . In the first place , it has been felt that , granting the abstract right , a proper regard for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neutral nation should prevent its exercise by a belligerent unless clearly demanded by considerations of the highest moment in the prosecution of the war . And secondly , the charge has been made that under cover of the needs of the war this measure has been used to advance the interests of British subjects at the expense of neutrals . For this latter charge there has never been any basis worthy of serious attention ; and Lord Grey , besides emphatically denying its truth , points out that our Government , " even if willing to ignore the whole tradition and tendency of British policy towards the commerce of other nations , might be confident that self-interest alone would render His Majesty 's Government anxious not to place upon the statutory list the name of any firm which carries on a genuine bona-fide neutral trade . " There remains the other question  --  whether the policy of the blacklist is not a needless injury to our interests and offence to our feelings ? and upon this opinions will doubtless continue to differ in spite of Lord Grey 's representations . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case for the view that the circumstances of this war  --  the great part which the cutting off from Germany of all trans-oceanic aid may play in shortening the fearful conflict  --  justify resort to the measure objected to ; always provided , as he assures our Government is the case , that it is kept within the narrowest limits compatible with the purpose in view . That England is soon to imitate Germany in setting up-a Faod Dictator was virtually announced In Parliament on Wednesday of last - week . It is a measure born not of present distress , but of precaution for the future . The Government takes this way of notifying the people that they are in for a long period of war , and that they must make the necessary sacrifices , and neglect no step to economize the national resources . No mention was made by the President of the Board of Trade of the extraordinary appeal recently addressed to the Government by one thousand of the most distinguished persons in the kingdom . It was signed by a score of admirals , dozens of generals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , education , literature , and art . And what did they ask ? That the Government " withdraw all drink licenses throughout the kingdom for the period of the war . " The argument in favor of such a course is well known . It has often been put forward in England since the war brake out . Not simply the money-cost , but the labor-cost and the transportation-cost of the drink habit are dwelt upon . England has to strike the mightiest blow possible in the war , and finds herself weakened in both purse and efficiency by drink . The signers of the petition say that they are not " temperance reformers as such , " but they believe the nation is ready , and should be called upon , to do what France and Russia have already done  --  that is , take off " the brake of alcohol " from the energies of England . The resignation of Sir Sam Hughes by no means surprised Canada . The Government gave as the principal reason the fact that he had assumed powers " which in the judgment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government as a whole . " It is not only that he has assumed these powers , but that in the eyes of the careful Sir Robert Borden he has repeatedly been indiscreet in acting upon them . The chagrin of the Government when the recent inquiry was found necessary into the contracts let by the Shell Committee with the approval of Hughes was equalled only by its surprise that - the Shell Committee , later the Imperial Munitions Board , had with the Minister of Munitions insensibly come to exercise so much authority outside its purview . The creation of an Oversea Minister of Militia was designed to limit Hughes 's powers ; the appointment of Sir George Perley , unfriendly to him , to the post , and of Mr. McCurdy , also unfriendly , to office in. the Canadian Department of Militia , forecasted the request for his resignation . It has been reported that Minister of Finance White threatened to resign unless Hughes were ousted . And the man 's over-robust personality , which at first gave him a hold on the masses , has made him more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his threatenings against Germany and in his criticism of British methods , and a good part of the press has come to demand that " this modern Falstaff " cease his strutting on Parliament Hill . The dramatic sequel of the conscription fight in Australia is the split of the Parliamentary Labor Party , the expulsion of Premier Hughes by the anti-conscription majority , and the reconstruction of the Cabinet . The radical majority of the old party now calls itself the Official Labor Party ; the Government branch may take what title it pleases , and will have to carry on the administration with the assistance of the onetime opposition Liberals . For a long time a cleavage has been evident between the industrial and the political sections of the Labor Party . The former , intent upon advanced labor measures and clamoring for even the abolition of the Upper House , has been irritated by the Ministry 's tardy response ; the latter has gone slowly upon everything but the conscription measure . One aspect of the affair will reassure Australia . The fear has been expressed that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than to Parliament , but it is plain that Hughes will submit to no dictation from it . The Teutonic invasion of Rumania is making headway along the western half of the southern or Wallachian front . Falkenhayn 's attack on this front has been directed along three main lines : through Predeal Pass and the valley of the Prahova , through the Rotenturm Pass and along the valley of the Alt , and through the Vulcan Pass along the valley of the Jiul . It is on the last two lines that the Teutons have pressed furthest into Rumania , the presumption being that these are furthest removed from Bucharest and the Russian frontier , and consequently less easily reached by reinforcements from the capital or by the troops which must be coming in from Russia . The river Alt bisects southern Rumania in almost a straight line from north to south , and it is in the region lying to the west of the river that we may expect the Teutonic offensive to develop most rapidly . A railway parallels the Alt River on its western bank , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case that the Rumanians are compelled to abandon the region west of the Alt and attempt to hold the line of the river for the defence of the capital . Serious though the situation undoubtedly is , it is not yet desperate . The resistance which the Rumanians have been offering south of Predeal and in the vicinity of Campulung may indicate the presence of sufficient forces to hold the line of the Alt against an enemy advancing from the west until such a time as Russian reinforcements have been brought up in larger numbers or relief comes from the progress of events in Macedonia . The capture of Monastir by the Serbs and the French is the most dramatic achievement to the credit of the Allies since Brussiloff 's rush of last June and his capture of Lutsk . But Monastir has probably greater significance in that its fall was brought about , not by an unexpected blow and the smashing of an intrenched front , but by a mixture of straight fighting and the kind of flanking work of which the German leaders have so far been the only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Allies that the rushing forward of German reinforcements which has almost invariably been the signal for a bracing up of wavering lines was not effective at Monastir . It is now something of a race between the Allies advancing from Monastir and Falkenhayn pressing on . against Bucharest . The odds are still in favor of Falkenhayn , but not so decidedly as the distances on the map would indicate . If the Allies can drive home the stroke from Monastir northeast against the Bulgar lines , they need only cover the forty-odd lines in Babuna Pass before they will be seriously threatening the entire Bulgar line in Macedonia . Even the presence of an Allied army before Babuna would place them in the rear of the Bulgar centre , facing the British in the region of Doiran , and might compel a withdrawal of the Bulgar front which would notably affect the entire Balkan situation .                     