@@487215

AND now at last , after long estrangement , the Oversoul comes back . Again we are reminded that , whether we will or no , we are governed by the august law of moral action and reaction that prevails invariably in the universe . Our preoccupations of the past year have been our own ; we have chosen them and made ourselves their apologists . Now they are released to make their way into history , to be measured and judged by standards far different from those we have applied to them . Hitherto we have accepted for them the standard of the statesman , the publicist , the nationalist politician . Now they have passed on for final review at the judgment-seat of Jesus of Nazareth . These terms sound antiquated and theological , but they are deliberately chosen because they describe the fact . Our great adventure of the past year , its outcome , our motives and methods and expectations , must finally , beyond even the " verdict of history " which is the last hope of the statesman-politician be submitted to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The certainty of this conviction is not due to any leanings toward obscurantism or any superstitions about the qualities with which various theologies have invested his person . On the contrary , it is a certainty which sheer atheism , if such a persuasion really exists , might not escape . It has neither less nor more theological bearing than the certainty that fundamental problems in physics must finally be submitted to the authority of Newton . The collective experience of the race has shown that the physical order of the universe is as Newton said it was . His guidance is trustworthy . Those who accept it go right , and those who refuse it go wrong , and sooner or later come to grief . Collective experience has shown , too , that the moral order of the universe is as Jesus said , and that the way to keep safely and successfully in with it is the way he indicated . Hence on Christmas Day , we regard our achievements in a new spirit and from another point of view . Have we won the war ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the enemy 's weapons and in the enemy 's spirit , we have not . We have won the battles , true , but he has won the war . In so far as he has succeeded in investing us with the spirit of hatred , malice , and all uncharitableness , he has conquered us and made us his own . Have we been patriotic ? In so far as we have ministered to a narrow nationalism , what can we say ? The emblem of our nationalism has been draped in our very churches which are dedicated to the God " who has made of one blood all nations of men and sent his son to preach peace to them that are far off and to them that are nigh . " Have we maintained the ideal of human brotherhood and divine paternity , looking towards the establishment of God 's will on earth , as it is in heaven ? It is not easy to see that we have . Reflections like these crowd this particular anniversary and give it an unprecedented weight of seriousness . Nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our collective public business with the purpose indicated by the presence of Jesus on earth . That purpose is manifest . Through all the sophistications of theology and all the quarrels of ecclesiasticism , it may be made out beyond peradventure . Erasmus says : Jesus Christ came into the world to form unto himself a people that should wholly depend upon God , and , placing no confidence in any earthly support and comfort , should be afteranother manner rich , after another manner wise , after another manner noble , after another manner potent ; in one word , after another manner happy ; designing to attain felicity by contempt of those things which are generally admired . A people that should be strangers to filthy lusts , by studying in this flesh the life of angels . . . that should be wholly ignorant of oaths , as those who will neither distrust nor deceive anybody ; that make not the getting of money their business , as having laid up their treasure in heaven ; that should not be transported with vain-glory , because they refer all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as disposed , the greater they are , so much the more to submit themselves unto all men for Christ 's sake ; that should avoid wrath , much more revenge , as studying to deserve well of those who deserve ill of them ; that should be so blameless as to force infidels to speak well of them ; that should be born again to the purity and simplicity of infants ; that should live like the birds of the air , without solicitude . . . fearing neither death , tyranny , nor the devil , as relying on the invincible power of Christ alone . This was the picture of human society projected by Jesus , and it has had an immense power of attraction upon the ages since . Mankind can be permanently satisfied with nothing less . To realize it , Jesus gave an extremely simple method . The Sermon on the Mount , with its method of inwardness and pure individualism , is so simple that no one can fail to understand it . Its practical discipline is so difficult , however , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in spite of all , this discipline has made its way because men found that it could be applied to the circumstances of life in this present world , and that wherever it was applied , it was saving . Observers report from all over the world the curious quickening of the Messianic expectation . In Russia , in the Central Empires , in Britain and Italy and the Danube states , they hear the whisper , Christ is coming . And , indeed , Jesus may to-day be coming out of the heart of the peoples to express his preliminary of a social order in which it will be possible for a man to be as good as he wants to be and knows he should be ; and when this is done , his kingdom will be far on its way . The best possible use of this Christmas season is to make sure that we can abide the day of his coming ; and there are those who can help us to this rather better than the more fashionable prophets of the newer order , as they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Cambridge Platonists , the religious essays of Count Tolstoifelix ille , as Erasmus said of the Bible , felix ille guem in hisce litteris meditantem mors occupat  --  and others in the slender list of those who are usually disparaged under the name of " mystical writers , " can give us what we need . They are called impractical , but the times testify impressively that they are the most practical of all men that ever lived . William Law says in a passage of extraordinary grandeur : They are deeply learned in the mysteries of the Kingdom of God , not through the use of lexicons or meditating upon critics , but because they have passed from death unto life . They highly reverence and excellently direct the true use of everything that is outward in religion ; but like the Psalmist 's King 's daughter , they are all glorious within . They are truly sons of thunder and sons of consolation ; they break open the whited sepulchres ; they awaken the heart and show its filth and rottenness of death ; but they leave it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . If a man has no desire but to be of the spirit of the gospel , to obtain all that renovation of life and spirit which alone can make him to be in Christ a new creature , it is a great unhappiness to him to be unacquainted with these writers , or to pass a day without reading something of what they wrote . Getting Together on Russia SENATOR JOHNSON 'S outspoken demand for informa-k3 tion regarding the Administration 's Russian policy comes at a favorable moment . There are many signs that American public opinion is becoming a good deal concerned over the whole Russian imbroglio , and that it is ill-disposed to be put off much longer with silence , or evasion , or half-truths . To be sure , the press dispatches about Russia continue to be as fragmentary as ever , and the partisans of the Kerensky regime , or of any regime at all save the present one , go on denouncing the Bolsheviki and clamoring for military action . The American public has long since ceased to believe , however , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truth about Russia , and it is rapidly taking the measure of the special pleaders who talk the language of intervention and force . Meantime , the texts of a good many important Russian documents are being published , and the number of enlightening books and magazine articles by writers who know Russia from within is steadily increasing . The light is breaking , be it never so dimly . When , accordingly , Senator Johnson demands the reasons for the maintenance of American troops in a country which has done us no wrong and against which we have not declared war , and asks a long list of " Is it true ? " questions about our diplomatic dealings with Russia , he speaks to a public which is eager and anxious to hear . The reestablishment of friendly relations between two countries which have been estranged , however , is a mutual affair . There are misconceptions to be cleared away , misunderstandings to be set right , extreme or irritating statements to be explained or forgotten . What the United States needs to do in the case of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and for all , its thoroughly vicious policy of secrecy and tacit misrepresentation . It must open the cables and the mails and allow the whole truth about Russia to be known . It must wash its hands of connection with any enterprise , public or private , which plans the coercion of the Russian people or the exploitation of Russian resources . What is more , it must make up its mind to " do business , " politically speaking , with a Government which not only is differently constituted from our own , but some of whose fundamental conceptions , also , of how social well-being may best be secured are widely at variance with those generally accepted here . All this , clearly , the United States will have to do if Russia is ever to regard it as a friend . What , in turn , can Russia do to pave the way to a mutual good understanding ? There is no denying that Russia , if it really desires the friendship and help of the United States , will have to make some explanations and give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the revolution , little as we know the story in detail , has undoubtedly been such as to create , by manner as well as by matter , an unfavorable prejudice in many American minds . The phraseology of certain official documents , for example , with their bitter denunciations of capitalism , their flamboyant appeals to the proletariat of the world , and their apparent justification of violence , is anything but pleasant reading . Russian diplomatic language has often been , frankly , rude and irritating . Possibly the rudeness and violence are only on the surface  --  the angry outbursts of a people who are indignant at the outrageous treatment which they have received , and who , in addition , are almost as ignorant of us as we are of them ; but , thus far , no one authorized to speak has come forward with an explanation . There is a widespread fear , too , that the Soviet Government , if it succeeds in maintaining itself , will repudiate the old Russian debt ; and America does not easily have confidence in a Government which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American press of what purports to be a decree of the Soviet Government providing for the nationalization of women has probably done as much as any other one thing to offend the moral sensitiveness of the American people ; and while the authenticity of the alleged decree has not been established , the decree itself has not , so far as we know , been officially repudiated . These are some of the weightier obstacles in the way of a good understanding between Russia and the United States . So long as they continue to cumber the ground , the two countries are not likely to get together . The obligation to remove them rests , as we have said , upon both of the Governments involved ; it is idle for one party to talk if the other will not listen . So far as openness of mind in this country toward Russia is concerned , that , we think , is likely to be furthered very much if Senator Johnson persists in his demand for information . The case of Russia , on the other hand , would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accredit a suitable representative to Washington . Mr. Bakhmeteff , who for some unknown reason continues to be accorded diplomatic recognition by the Administration , is not a legal representative of the Soviet Government , and has neither legal nor moral right to speak for Russia or its people . Neither he nor any of the agents and puppets whom he controls should for a moment be accepted as a Russian spokesman . What is needed is an accredited intermediary between Russia and the United States  --  a sort of Russian Colonel House , perhaps  --  charged , not with formal diplomatic responsibilities , but with the friendly task , on the one hand , of telling the American Government and the American people what the Soviet Government is like and what it wants , and , on the other , of making known in Russia the real feeling of America regarding that distressed country . Such an informal spokesman  --  a Russian , of course , of high standing at home , well and favorably known in American business or professional circles , and acquainted with American conditions  --  could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could illustrate in his own person the kind of intelligent and cultivated men who are supporting the Soviet Government . He could tell us exactly what has been done in Russia , and why . He could help us to read between the lines of certain Russian official utterances , and to distinguish form from substance . He could tell us whether or not the Russian debt is to be paid , and , if it is , whether American advice and assistance in solving the problem would be welcome . He could tell us whether Russian women have been made by law the common property of Russian men , or whether the scandalous story is only another horrid lie . Doubtless the State Department would at first hesitate to receive him , and the Department of Justice would probably surround him with unwelcome attentions . He would certainly have as difficult a task as was ever committed to a diplomatist , but if he had constructive truth to tell and dignity and simplicity in telling it , a long step would have been taken towards bringing the two nations together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federation of Labor and the other " good " unions of the country managed to build up an extremely useful reputation for conservatism , sobriety , and solid patriotism . Their agents went abroad , pledged , as was officially announced , to " oppose the radicals under Arthur Henderson and the Socialists desiring immediate peace . " Samuel Gompers became a great popular hero  --  of the New York Times . In spite of occasional strikes and rumors of strikes it was generally held that labor had " turned good . " Now the war is over . From all parts of the United States come reports of unrest , of labor bitterness , of an uncompromising determination to cling to war standards in the face of economic change and the collapse of war activities . Labor , it appears , is tired of being good : As a matter of fact virtue is no longer profitable . The National War Labor Board , which during the war solidly backed the fundamental demands of American labor , was left , by the signing of the armistice and the consequent cancellation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have already given notice that they intend hereafter to deal with their own labor problems in their own way . As the protecting hand of the Government . is shoved aside , the value of virtue on the part of labor obviously becomes less marked . Other complications appear from day to day . According to reports received from every industrial section in the State by the Federal Employment Service of New York , the previously acute shortage of labor has within the last two weeks vanished and given place to a considerable surplus . A similar condition is reported in other parts of the country . The cancellation of wooden ship building and airplane contracts has thrown thousands of men out of work in factories and shipyards , and the lumber regions of the Northwest . In a telegram to Secretary of Labor Wilson the Portland Chamber of Commerce predicted that the cancellation of Government contracts might " easily spell anarchy for the Pacific coast , " and " throughout the country " Employment experts insist that the surplus of labor is only temporary , and will be readily absorbed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But experts also admit that the change from war to peace industries seems likely to proceed slowly . High costs and an uncertain market are causing employers to hold back . With ships from Europe bringing home thousands of men every week , and with demobilization from the training camps proceeding at the rate of 15,000 a day ; with winter upon us and no farm work or work on public improvements available ; with no system in readiness for the absorption into civil life of these thousands  --  labor may reasonably feel grim . Already signs have appeared of a changed spirit in the ranks of the organized workers . Samuel Gompers recently said , in plain-spoken response to the threat of lower wages made by William H. Barr of the National Founders ' Association : " What the devil does Mr. Barr and his type think we have made all these sacrifices in the war for ? The time is gone by when the working people of America can again be put in the shackles Oppressed labor where the flag of the United States flies is abolished , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to barter away the freedom we have gained after so many years I say with full knowledge of the responsibility which my words carry that the working people of the United States will resist and make any sacrifice which may be necessary to prevent the industrial barons riding on horseback over the masses of the people . " Another authoritative warning has come from Frank P. Walsh , recently joint chairman of the War Labor Board . " If those who talk glibly of getting back to normal wages , " said Mr. Walsh , " will but face the cold facts , they will understand that they are advocating a policy as inhuman , as atrocious , as destructive of human freedom as any of the crimes committed by the Imperial German Government . Even their own enlightened self-interest should show them the criminal folly of a policy which if carried out would ultimately plunge this nation into social chaos . " Even more outspoken are the warnings from the lower ranks of labor . An officer of the Machinists ' Union is reported to have said recently to an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to these conditions ? ? Workmen 's and Soldiers ' Councils ! " Union papers are beginning to echo the same note . The spontaneous rise of labor parties in various industrial centers indicates a growing sense of labor 's power and labor 's need . Everywhere in different words and through different agencies organized labor is crying , " The war is dead ! Long live the war ! " The tendency on the part of some important employers to face honestly the whole situation and to deal with labor in an intelligent and friendly spirit deserves recognition and encouragement . Organized labor in the United States has never assumed a position of theoretical dogmatism . Its manifestos leave the foundations of society intact . It is practical , opportunist , " on the make . " But revolutions are not made by principles and dogmas . The spirit of unrest in the United States is no less to be reckoned with because it arises from the deep source of resentment and fear and injured self-interest rather than from any political theory . The Railways ' Choice DIRECTOR-GENERAL McADOO 'S @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its present form be extended from twenty-one months to five years after the peace has recalled public attention sharply to the important question of permanent policy that we are facing . The President 's lamentable failure to make any recommendation does not release the Congress from its obligation to take prompt but considered action , though the situation is by no means wholly favorable to the making of a wise decision . The railway executives , at their meeting in Philadelphia last week , recorded their opposition to Mr. McAdoo 's proposal , voicing undoubtedly a large and important body of opinion throughout the country favorable to an early return of the railways to their former owners . At the same time the ordinary man , annoyed by the high rates and fares and other manifold inconveniences of war-time , is inclined to welcome any arrangement which promises to bring back the good old days , forgetting their evils . Under these conditions , our law-makers must envisage their problem clearly . They must see first that the question is at bottom one of public utility rather than of private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generously with the important private interests concerned , and this attitude should and doubtless will be maintained . Our primary duty is not , however , to return certain property to its owners , but to get the best transportation system we can for a rapidly growing nation of a hundred million people . All private claims must be judged equitably , but incidentally to this major obligation . From this point of view it is incumbent on those who would return the roads to put forward a definite plan that promises satisfactory results to the public ; the old system admittedly broke down . In order to get railways built , we naturally enough when land was cheap gave to the companies choice rights of way , terminal locations , and other land grants . With the growth of population and business , these privileges became very . valuable , and under the old system their further increase in value must continue to accrue to private owners and not to the public purse . The valuation controversy derives its importance in no small degree from this fact . Of more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Private companies almost necessarily make rates on the principle of maximum profits . This principle has not necessarily meant high rates or poor service , but it has throughout our whole history meant discrimination between communities , industries , and individual business concerns . It has meant the struggle of country against city , of farmer against elevator owner and packer , of independent refiner against Standard Oil Company . The whole history of railway regulation in this country is the history of an attempt to prevent the abuses of discrimination and financial mismanagement under private ownership . With increasing experience , we made regulation increasingly strict ; for we discovered that without strict control the abuses of private management were intolerable . But now the owners declare that regulation as practiced in the years just before the war was intolerable to them and was responsible for the check in the growth of railway facilities . We have seen suggestions that the Government return the roads , subject only to such regulation as shall prevent undue competition and financial irregularities and furnish satisfactory guarantees for investors  --  in other words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profit-making machines . Thoughtful advocates of private operation can not urge any such policy ; for the history of the past fifty years indicates clearly that if put into effect it would be overthrown without delay . The American people would not tolerate a return to the abuses of uncontrolled private operation . If the plan of regulation that was in process of working out by the Interstate Commerce Commission and the various State commissions , accordingly , is unacceptable to railway owners , then the sole chance of avoiding government ownership would appear to be the presentation of some alternative plan of regulation which will make possible the continuous , systematic , and coordinated development of railway and other transportation facilities in the interest of public service , and not simply in the interest of private profit ; which will guarantee equality of rates and service as between communities , industries , and individuals ; which will make it certain that private initiative in railway administration shall serve the public rather than prey upon it ; which will insure the making of rates on the principle of maximum public service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general will proceed on the theory that a railway is a public utility affected with a private interest rather than a simple piece of private property . So far as we have followed current discussion , the outline of any such plan has been conspicuous chiefly by its absence . Failing it , criticism of present conditions becomes a mere kicking against the pricks , and will avail nothing . The Jonnycake Papers WHAT treasures of literary invention are in this book , what na  --  ve wit and charm of style , what inexhaustible resources of narrative ! The story of the Quaker Almy , of the hanging of Mount , of Sally Brown 's courtship ; the recipes and dissertations on Rhode Island food and cookery ; the characters of Abe and Phillis , the sharp photographic studies of the local gentry  --  they are inimitable . Above all , how wholly is it in the best traditions of Rhode Island , where the principle of personal liberty and the right of individual opinion were vindicated and established two hundred ? years ahead of the rest of the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sturdy independence , a sense of natural justice , a hatred of sham and sanctimony , that in these degenerate days is almost inconceivable . For example , amid all the diluvial humbug about self-determination and the rights of small nations , how refreshing , how salutary it is to read an obiter dictum that the Great Swamp Fight of 1675 was instigated against the rightful owners of the soil , solely by the cussed godly Puritans of Massachusetts and their hell-hound allies the Presbyterians of Connecticut ; whom , though charity is my specialty , I can never think of without feeling , as all Rhode Islanders should , somewhat as Judge Potter has recently expressed himself in the Journal , and as old Miss Hazard did when in like vein she thanked God in the Conanicut prayer-meeting that she could hold malice forty years . This is the spirit which should be marching on Versailles at the present moment , a hundred million strong . Or , again , imagine the sheer delight of going through page after page of narrative like this : My father sent for Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Curtis ' Corner . . . . The excessive mortality among Sangrado 's patients was the real cause of his acquiring such renown in the art of healing , as about one in ten of his patients wholly or partially recovered , which of course was credited by an ignorant community to the skill of Sangrado , who attributed the death of the other nine to the virulence of the mortal malady ; whereas the truth was , as was in later years fully exemplified , the nine were actually slowly tortured to death by the physician , whilst the tenth got well in spite of his death-dealing practices . This Curtis ' Corner Sangrado was undoubtedly the rider on the pale horse referred to in the Apocalypse , who went about with his lancet and saddle-bags stuffed with mercury , jalap , Dover 's powder , opium , and other abominations , and his name that sat on him was Death , and Hell followed after him . The " Jonnycake Papers " were written in the seventies by Thomas Robinson Hazard of Narragansett and Newport , at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and printed in a newspaper . In 1915 they were republished by subscription , in an edition de luxe , comprising but a few copies , carefully copyrighted and practically unobtainable . We give this book editorial mention in the hope that some way will be found to soften the hearts of those who hold the copyright with a view to making the " Jonnycake Papers " accessible to a public from whom they are now withheld by what seems to be a lapse from the democratic traditions of the South County . Our native literature is scant and poor enough at best , and it is a pity that it should be judged without knowledge of the best it can do ; and a still greater pity for us to be kept from that knowledge by the device of a limited edition and a prohibitive price .                     