@@466726

EARLY two and a half million babies are born in the United States every year , of whom three hundred thousand die before they reach their first birthday . Apparently , that is , one out of every eight babies that first see light on American soil is sacrificed to the unfavorable circumstances surrounding its birth . Apparently , too , our first year of existence is the most dangerous in the whole human cycle . A man seventy years old stands a much greater chance of reaching seventy-one than a baby born today has to reach his first anniversary . Enough babies die in this country in ten years to populate a city as large as Chicago , a State as large as New Jersey , or to make up nearly the total population of Montana , Idaho , Wyoming , Colorado , New Mexico , Arizona , Utah , and Nevada . The United States which is notoriously wasteful of all the natural gifts with which nature has favored her , apparently feels that there is no need to economize in so potential a source of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural place alongside the destruction of our forests , our birds , our animals , and our coal ; these annual human sacrifices are merely another indication of a deplorable national habit . This is a serious charge to make against any nation , both from the viewpoint of humanity and efficiency . Previous generations have regarded infant mortality from a fatalistic point of view , as something which can not be helped and which it is therefore useless to struggle against . But modern science knows better . " Infant mortality , " says Sir Arthur Newsholrne , " is the most sensitive index we possess of social welfare and of sanitary administration , especially under urban conditions . " How , judged by this test , does the United States stand among the nations of the world ? We are not the worst country , though we are a long way from being the best . With a national infant mortality rate which , so far as the statisticians can determine , is 124 per thousand , our record is just a little better than Serbia 's . Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Denmark , Ireland , France , and the Scandinavian countries . The nation that makes the best showing is far-away New Zealand , a new and growing country like our own , which loses every year only 51 per thousand of her infants . The most negligent country is Chile , which loses almost exactly one-third of her babies . In all these melancholy statistics there is only one grain of consolation for the United States ? our record is much better than that of the nation with which we are now at war . The strangest paradox presented by Germany is her excessively high infant mortality rate ; this is 192 per thousand for the German Empire and 146 for Prussia . Here we have a nation which boasts that she has no slums and that her sanitary and general living conditions surpass those of any other people . Yet an indispensable accompaniment of kultur is evidently widespread mortality among babies . The fact that Germany has excellent sanitation and housing conditions and also takes unusual precautions against unemployment and poverty and yet loses her small children at this rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lie upon the surface . What laws regulate their taking off or their survival ? What precautions can a civilized community take against a national disgrace of this kind ? The matter was never so urgent as now , for our babies certainly constitute the ultimate line of national defense . Until the last three or four years the United States Government had shown no active interest in this question . Indeed , we Americans have been so negligent of our babies that we have made no wide-spread effort to register their birth . A few States , particularly New York , Pennsylvania , and New England , have kept these data for years , but in the larger number the citizen who forgets the year of his birth , or the one who wishes to establish the date legally , perhaps for important reasons , such as to qualify as the heir of property , has no way of doing so , simply because he was born in a community which had so little interest in his arrival that it made no permanent record of the event . Five years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Bureau , placing at its head Miss Julia C. Lathrop , for many years an associate of Miss Jane Addams at Hull House , Chicago . This bureau was a wholesome if somewhat tardy recognition of the part which babies and children play in the American social order . It aimed at the improvement of civic conditions at the beginning . And Miss Lathrop has attacked her problem in a fundamental way . She has spent a considerable part of the last five years in seeking an answer to the rock-bottom problem , Why do American babies die ? Clearly , we can do little in the way of upbuilding American childhood until we have the facts that answer this question . And the Children 's Bureau is studying the situation in practical fashion . In a series of typical American towns it is investigating elaborately the life history of every baby born in a particular year . It has already published the results of these researches in . Johnstown , Pennsylvania , Montclair , New Jersey , and Manchester , New Hampshire . Its agents have spent months in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ baby born in a particular year . They visit its home , make complete records of its living conditions , and talk to every mother ? in fact , they study all the visible circumstances of its history for the year following its birth . If the child year before its first birthday ? it is only the babies that die within their first year that ate included in statistics of " infant mortality " ? a complete record of the cause and circumstances of the death is made . This is probably the first time in any country that the question has been studied so scientifically . In all the places visited the influential public functionaries or organizations ? churches , women 's clubs , the police , the medical profession , chambers of commerce ? have responded to this universal appeal and co-operated in the work . A pathetic feature has been the intense interest shown by the mothers themselves ; of the many thousands who have been visited and questioned , many of whom ? probably the majority ? are poor and ignorant , not more than half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great interest in the investigation . In particular , of course , most people know the causes of infant mortality . That small babies die chiefly from intestinal and respiratory diseases is a fact which the activities of most American health boards have forced upon public notice . But Miss Lathrop ' s studies have not concerned themselves chiefly with the causes of death which are re-ported in the physicians ' certificates . They have been aimed rather at the underlying circumstances that , directly and indirectly , give the nation so unenviable a record ? housing , sanitary surroundings , earnings of fathers , employment , working hours of mothers , and the like . As a result of these investigations we now have accurate data upon practically every condition that can promote the death of infants . The city of Johnstown is one of the largest industrial centers in the United States . Its population of 53,0oo contains in mixture a large proportion of the immigrating races from southern and eastern Europe , and its Serbians , Croatians , and Slays represent those brawny races which have so abundantly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ town , because its location has made it one of the great steel centers in the United States , has developed rapidly and in rather hat. , - hazard fashion . The present city is really a conglomerate of many villages and towns , all of which have been incorporated with little attempt at coordination . For this reason the several factors that underlie social and sanitary conditions in any city ? sewerage , paving , refuse disposal , housing ? are not such as promote the highest physical well-being . These circumstances explain the fact that Johnstown has a higher mortality rate than the average of the whole nation . Its rate is 134 , against 124 for the United States . But this simple figure explains little by itself , for the infant death rate varies greatly in different parts of the city . One city ward loses only 5o babies per thousand in their first year , while another loses 271 . This latter district , known as Woodvale , is not the most populous , neither is it the one that has the largest number of births @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any other ward . It is the section where the poorest people live ; its family heads are the unskilled workers of the steel-mills and the mines , the larger part of whom are foreigners , 78 per cent . of the mothers under investigation having been foreign born . The whole section is poorly sewered , many of the streets are unpaved , in warm weather they are slippery and slimy with mud . If we trace the mortality rates of the other wards , we shall find that these conditions apparently exercise the greatest influence upon it . As housing and street pavements and sewerage facilities improve there is a steady decrease in the rate at which the babies die . " Improve the water-supply , " writes one authority , " the sewerage system , and the system of disposing of refuse ; introduce better pavements , such as asphalt , and at once there is a decline in infant mortality . " Certainly this careful study of conditions in Johnstown and in other cities emphasizes the truth of this statement . But Miss Lathrop 's force nave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They have presented elaborate tables showing the precise relation between the death rate of infants and all the circumstances surrounding their lives . Such details as the source of water-supply apparently had an automatic influence upon the death of the babies . The rate was much lower in the houses where water was piped in than in houses into which it was necessary to carry water from outdoors . The dryness or the dampness of the houses likewise influenced the physical welfare of little children . Completely compiled statistics showed that fewer babies died in dry houses , more in moderately dry houses , and most of all in those that were classified as " damp . " The bath-tub is apparently a safe barometer of infant mortality . Thus , houses that possessed these conveniences had a rate of 72 , while houses in which they were unknown had a rate of 164 . The rate rose and fell in accordance with the general cleanliness or dirtiness of the yards and houses . Babies born in crowded houses died much more rapidly than babies in homes less crowded . Again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who slept in a room with their parents than those who had to sleep in rooms that contained more than two persons . The rate increased greatly as the number of persons among whom the baby slept increased . The babies who slept in their own separate beds had a much more successful struggle for existence than those who slept in beds with other persons . Among the first the death rate was only 55 per cent. , while among the latter it Jumped to rod . These studies also show the value of open-window ventilation for infants , for here again the rate rose and fell according to the quantity of the ventilation . Perhaps the greatest lesson these studies among foreign mothers teach us is the effect of hard work upon infant mortality . The extent to which prospective mothers increase the family revenue apparently regulates the extent to which their babies die . These women add a few dollars a week to their husbands ' earnings , but they pay a dreadful penalty in the loss of their children . Among foreigners those nationalities which limit their women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Germans , have the best luck with their babies . Those peoples , such as the southern and eastern Europeans ? Slovaks , Poles , and Serbo-Croatians ? who regard their women almost as much as their men as family bread-winners , lose their infants to a much greater degree . And , as though in obedience to a hitherto undiscovered law , the races whose women work hardest pay the greatest penalties of this kind . Italian mothers , it is true , have a higher infant mortality rate than certain eastern Europeans despite the fact that , in the main , they are not heavy laborers ; but these women have poor physiques , and are thus not good natural candidates for maternity . The contrary is true of the Polish , the Slovak , and the Serbo-Croatian women . Their fecundity is well known ; the Polish mother , indeed , was the greatest enemy that Bismarck feared in dealing with his Polish problem , for the ability of the Polish women to produce soldiers he looked upon as a constant military menace to the German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , though the Polish and SerboCroatian birth rate is high , their infant death rate is likewise high . Miss Lathrop 's investigations present one startling paradox ? that is , that those foreign babies who , on strictly biological grounds , ought to have the best chances of survival , apparently have the worst . These are the Serbo-Croatians , who have the highest infant mortality rate264 ? of any nationality so far studied . It is the Serbo-Croatians , indeed , who give the Johnstown foreigners their exceedingly high rate and who are mainly responsible for the fact that the city as a whole has so discouraging a record . A mere glance at both the Croatian men and women immediately shows that nature intended them to be the progenitors of sturdy children . The men are large and powerful , and the women are big , handsome , graceful , and strong . They are so strong , indeed , and so proud of their strength , that they like to parade it recklessly . It is not uncommon to see them walking barefoot , with huge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even when they are approaching motherhood , and they work longer every day and work harder than their husbands . They do not labor in the steel-mills , but transform their homes into huge boardinghouses . They fill every cranny of their rooms with beds , which are rented to both day and night shifts of workmen , who also have to be served with meals at practically every hour of the day and night . There is thus hardly any moment when these Serbo-Croatian women are not working ; this explains the fact that , out of every four Croatian children born , at least one dies before completing its first year . The Johnstown study revealed other suggestive information . The fact , recorded by other observers , that girl babies have greater vitality than boys is substantiated here , for the death rate of the male children was considerably higher than that of the female . Why it is that boys have a greater tendency to die in the early months of life than girls is evidently an inscrutable secret of nature ; at least this record sheds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was also very much higher among women attended by midwives than among those attended by physicians . Babies of illiterate mothers had a higher rate than those whose mothers could read and write . English-speaking mothers had greater success with their children than those who spoke a foreign tongue . The death rate of illegitimate babies was twice that of babies born in wedlock ? probably because they were more likely to be neglected . Residence in the United States apparently exercised a strong influence upon a baby 's chances of survival ; thus those whose mothers had been in the United States for more than five years died at the rate of 156 per thousand , while those whose mothers had lived here less than five years had a rate of 214 . What is the most propitious age for motherhood ? According to Johnstown 's experience , it is from twenty to twenty-four ; at least children born to mothers between these ages stand the greatest chance of living through their first year . Infant mortality , strange to say , is higher in Johnstown among children of mothers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to thirty-nine . Any age under twenty , these records show , is an unpropitious age for maternity , while the highest rate of all , as might be expected , is among children whose mothers have passed their fortieth year . These investigations emphasize once more the great advantages of natural over artificial feeding . An inexorable Nemesis punishes the women who decline their natural office ? in the wholesale slaughter of their innocents Probably never before have carefullycompiled statistics brought out so conclusively this truth . But this factor affects children usually in the tenderest period ? the first few months of life . At the end of the second month the naturally fed infant has a mortality rate of 72 and the one who is artificially fed a rate of 236 ; certainly we could not ask more convincing evidence in favor of nature 's method . At the end of each succeeding month , however , this discrepancy disappears , indicating that the artificially nourished child , having secured an increasingly stronggrip on existence , is more successfully combating the disadvantages of its diet . At the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just as well as the nursling ? indeed , according to these statistics , somewhat better . Another factor that apparently regulates the death rate is the earning capacity of the father , the rate uniformly decreasing as his income increases . When the family head earns $521 or less a year , the infant mortality rate in his family is 255 per thousand ; when he earns $1,2oo or more , this death rate becomes 84 ? an extremely low one . In Montclair , New jersey , a rich and prosperous suburban city , practically the same factors regulate the taking off of children . Montclair , since it is not an industrial but a residential community , had no such death rate as Johnstown ; it was only 84 , much less tan that of the United States in general , and one of the lowest municipal rates in-the whole country . But Montclair has its poor section , and there the same circumstances of sanitary conditions , illiteracy , artificial feeding , employment of mothers , and the like influenced the rate at which the babies died @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , New Hampshire , a typical industrial community of New England . It is the unfortunate distinction of these New England factory towns that they have the highest infant mortality rates of all urban communities in the United States . Thus Lowell leads with a rate of 231 , followed by Holyoke , with a rate . of 213 , as contrasted with New York City which , with all its tenements and slums , has a rate of 129 , only slightly larger than that of the nation as a whole . Manchester loses , in the first year , 193 out of every one thousand babies born . We find this partly explained by the fact that Manchester 's chief industry is the manufacture of textiles , in which women are engaged in large numbers . The Serbo-Croatian women of Johnstown offered an opportunity to study the influence of the mother s excessive household drudgery upon the vitality of newly born children . Similarly the Manchester textile mills shed conclusive light upon the results of factory work . Indeed , this single investigation shows the wastefulness and the wickedness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gain a little economic wealth in the shape of spun cotton and textiles when , as Miss Lathrop 's work now con-clusively shows , this is at the expense of babies ' lives ? These mothers toil day after day in the cotton-mills , their average earnings amounting to f25o a year . They frequently keep at work almost up to the very days their babies are born , and the consequences are shown in the statistics now published . Among these gainfully employed women the baby 's death rate is 227 , while the Manchester rate , for mothers not so employed , is only 133 . Probably cold , hard-headed statistics never painted a tragic truth more eloquently than do these figures . The simple fact , of course , is that babies born under these conditions are robbed of the first primordial right of humankind ? a mother 's care . The mothers return to the mills soon after their children are born , with the consequence that their infants are artificially fed , and are generally neglected during those earliest months when their fate is decided . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most excitedly discussed questions of the time ? that of large families . Is the married couple with two or three or four children serving the state as completely as our oft - quoted great grandparents , who did not mind having ten or a dozen ? ? The bearing of large or small families upon the infant mortality rate is perhaps only one phase of this question , though certainly it is an important phase . Manchester furnishes an excellent opportunity to study this question , since one-fifth of its population is composed of French-Canadians . Parts of the city , indeed , are as completely French as sections of Quebec or France . Here the streets bear French names ? Notre Dame , Cartier , Alsace ; French is the language commonly spoken ; there are French newspapers , French convents , French churches , French orphanages , and the large department stores have to engage French interpreters . In the main , these people make valuable citizens ; they are generally thrifty , sober , and self-respecting , representing a much higher social and economic order than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the city 's population . Now these French-Canadians present a contradiction to practically everything i already said in this article . Their sanitary surroundings are good ; their homes are neater than those of the other foreign peoples ; their womenkind , for the great part , are not gainfully employed ; the father 's earnings are the highest of any of the foreign-born residents ; the French-Canadians , that is , possess all the advantages that should give them a low infant mortality rate . Yet the extent to which their babies die is fairly appalling . Whereas the English , Irish , and Scotch mothers lose only 66 babies per thousand the first year , and the Polish mothers , whose rate is high everywhere , igg , the French-Canadians lose 248 . It is this bad showing of the French people that gives Manchester its high rate as a city ; without it , the city rate would drop to 130 , which is i not much above normal in the United States . Artificial feeding explains these fatalities to a considerable extent . The prevalence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinguishes them sharply from other peoples . In Manchester there were 32 i mothers , in the year studied , who had had more than 12 children , and of these 3o were French-Canadians . This investigation clearly indicates ? what was also shown in Johnstown ? that the larger the family is the greater is its mortality rate . The interesting fact is brought out that the second-born child stands the greatest chance of survival . In Manchester families which have 3 children per mother the infant death rate is 148 . From this it steadily increases as the number of children increases until , in families of from 13 to 15 children ? not unusual among FrenchCanadians ? the rate becomes 241 . We know that , whereas seventy-five years ago native American families had large broods of children , they also had a high death rate , and we now understand that there was some connection between these two facts . The argument for small families is apparently pretty conclusively made . Certainly the experience of the Manchester French-Canadians is a sordid story of maternal martyrdom . Here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ typical American cities which answer the question , Why do the babies die ? But how can we prevent their dying ? Evidently any attempt to recast our whole economic and social order , which , at first glance , seems to be an essential preliminary to reducing infant mortality , is hardly feasible , at least immediately . Yet the experience of other communities which have deliberately attempted to preserve their children indicates many things that can be done . Let us turn , for example , to New Zealand , the country which has the lowest infant death rate in the world51 per thousand . What explains this excellent showing ? New Zealand 's death rate has always been low , but in the last ten years it has steadily gone down . The fact- is that New Zealand , as a nation , has consciously willed that its babies should be spared and has adopted the most energetic and enlightened means to preserve them . This nation of something more than a million people has been described as one large family , and certainly the interest which it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ description . It has the one fundamental preliminary to infant conservation -- something which , as already said we have only in certain parts of the United States ? a complete system of birth registration . A nurse in New Zealand , interested in preserving the life of babies , does not have to start on a tour of exploration through the poorer quarters in the hope of stumbling upon the newly born , as she does in many of the cities of our own country , but finds complete records in official places . The Government also keeps under the closest supervision midwives , maternity hospitals , infant asylums , and nurses . It teaches the science of motherhood at all times and in all places where it is most needed . In the public schools girls are instructed in the responsibilities of married life ; in the poor quarters expectant mothers are visited and advised concerning the care of babies . One of the most famous institutions of New Zealand is the so-called " Plunket nurse . " These are the field agents of the " Society for the Health of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great interest manifested in it by the governor-general and his wife , Lord and Lady Plunket , is generally known as the " Plunket Society . " The Government contributes to the support of this organization and also carefully supervises it . It is New Zealand 's great instrumentality for keeping down the infant mortality rate . The commonwealth is divided into a number of districts , each one of which is a field for the operations of a Plunket nurse , who periodically visits it and also keeps in constant touch in other ways , such as correspondence and the columns of the newspapers . Each district also has its local committee , which arranges for the visits of the nurse and makes it its business to see that her instructions are completely carried out . The nurse visits the schools , attends mothers ' meetings , enters the homes of expectant mothers or of mothers with small babies , gives demonstrations on all matters pertaining to infant health , and even takes live babies into schoolrooms for the instruction of school-girls ? New Zealand 's potential mothers . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be visited , and parents everywhere are encouraged to write freely for advice . She regards it as her first duty to encourage natural feeding , and makes unceasing war upon the long-tube bottle and the " dummy . " In all parts of New Zealand one of the most popular parts of the local newspaper is a column headed " Our Babies , by Hygeia , " which has this for its motto , " It is better to put a fence at the top of a precipice than to maintain an ambulance at the bottom . " VOL CXXXV. ? No. 809. - 92 The column also contains the address and telephone numbers of the Plunket nurses . This column , published once a week in nearly every newspaper of the dominion , contains the most modern , up-to-date advice on the care of babies as well as queries and answers to correspondence . The work of this society has had the greatest effect in reducing the infant mortality rate . The year in which it began operations New Zealand 's record was 83 ; in ten years this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 45,000 , makes the best showing of any municipality in the world . While Paris loses 120 babies per thousand in their first year , Berlin 15o , London too , and New York 120 , Dunedin loses only 40 . Making all allowances for the larger size of these world capitals and their complex human and economic problems , the record of Dunedin is fairly astounding ; it shows what the most enlightened educational methods can accomplish . We have proved the same thing in isolated cases in this country . Montclair , New Jersey , stimulated by the investigations of the Children 's Bureau , has introduced a " Baby Clinic , " with results that have become immediately apparent . This clinic meets weekly for consultation with mothers on matters of feeding and general infant hygiene . About the first attention each mother receives after the birth of her baby is a card inviting her to attend these weekly meetings . In general this clinic performs for this small city just about the same services that the Plunket Society performs for New Zealand . And the result has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority of clinic babies come from the ward in which the poorest people live and which has the sanitary conditions least conducive to good health . When the clinic began work this ward had the highest rate-13o ? of any section of Montclair ; now its rate is lower than that of the city as a whole-84 . Other communities are starting work of this kind . The one thing evident is that there is no natural necessity for the annual slaughter of infants in the United States , that it forms a blot upon our civilization which enlightened methods can ? and will ? remove .                     