@@466414

NOT many years ago an officer of our army , who carried a satisfactory string of service ribbons on the left breast of his fatigue-jacket and on his shoulders insignia considerably higher than the double bars of captaincy , experienced an interesting conversion . Of the elder school was this officer ? the old , Indian-fighting , up-andat-'em type , whose creed was a clean carbine , an easy saddle , and a competent quartermaster . Soldiers were made in the field , not in the class-room ; fighters could take nothing of profit from a book , according to his doctrine , bred of experience in Cuba , China , and the Philippines . He snorted disdainfully at the enthusiasm of younger officers for a school of instruction in the higher arts of war ; grudgingly he forwarded to the Adjutant General of the army each year the names of young fools of his command who desired to absent themselves from the regiment for the purpose of " book-grubbing . " But each young officer returned to his post a missionary of a new idea , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his conservatism , whiffied through his nose less loudly . At last he applied for permission to take the special three months ' course for officers of higher command in the Army Service Schools at Fort Leavenworth , Kansas . Then commenced the interesting processes of conversion in the hardened professional conscience of Colonel Shell-hack . He found himself all at once thrust into an atmosphere of tremendous effort , of perfervid zeal . Men of his own rank , as well as of lesser dignity , were going to school under instructors their junior in years and grade , were applying themselves in laboratory and under student lamp twelve , fourteen , six teen hours a day . Instructors , themselves of necessity students of the artsthey taught , worked harder than the men who sat before their lecture platforms . Old Colonel S. made , first off , a striking discovery : the habit of study slips far away from a man on the gloam- ing side of fifty . But the education of the seasoned campaigner , thus fairly grounded in humility , progressed satisfactorily within the limitations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only too glad to acknowledge ? not without a twinge of sadness ? that three months , instead of the year or two-year regimen pursued by younger men , was a limit set for such as he in wisdom . He went back to his regiment , convinced of the success of that institution whose object , according to the terse phrase of " General Orders No. 128 , " is " the better preparation of the mobile army for war . " Since his return to his command and one hastens to assure that Colonel Shellback 's is a composite photograph ? every bulletin , every book and treatise on the specialized theory of war issued from the press of the Service Schools at Fort Leavenworth has been made mandatory reading for his junior officers by orders of one of the Service Schools ' most ardent supporters . It was the Colonel 's peculiar privilege to attend for three months what is beyond doubt the most unique and least-known graduate school in the United States . Unique in that it draws its students from a class of men that have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their profession and with the school that gave them license to practise a memory of boyhood ; little known because of the civilian world 's complete ignorance of all matters pertaining to the two services . Yet since the foundation of the schools in 1881 nearly a thousand officers of the army have been entered upon the " Army Register " as graduates , the institution has grown from a single School of Application for Infantry and Cavalry , as designated by General William Tecumseh Sherman , its founder , to a group of five colleges with power to command the respectful interest of European war specialists . By the widening influence of the Army Service Schools the Colonel Shellbacks of the staff and line are being brought to appreciation of the fact that the most competent to command , whether a patrol or a division , is he whose familiarity with theory matches his experience in the practical , however wide . In a word , the Army Service Schools are making the personnel of the army 's commissioned force truly professional . " The better preparation of the mobile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the American army 's graduate college . The general staff is thoroughly aware of the circumstance that no science is moving forward to more infinite complexities than does the grim business of war , none developing new problems with greater swiftness . It looks to the Service Schools to keep the nation 's defensive atm abreast of advancing knowledge . Great has been the change in the character of the Service Schools and the capacity of their plant since Fort Leaven-worth 's post headquarters housed the first class in 188i . Then Colonel Elwell S. Otis , commandant of the post , found himself at the head of a teaching staff comprising five officers highest in rank of the infantry and cavalry detachments stationed at the post . Student officers from like branches of the service throughout the country were attached to the units stationed at Leavenworth and were expected to perform all their duties as company officers in addition to those of instruction . Rank of student officers was not to exceed that of lieutenant . " Correct reading aloud , with care and precision " ? this is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? " Writing a plain hand , easy to read , designed for the use of the party receiving " : two essentials of an officer 's higher education in the days when a raid by restless Indians constituted almost the sole military problem against the horizon . But with years came expansion . After the Spanish War , which , with the ensuing Philippine campaigns , caused a cessation of work at the Leavenworth schools for four years , came thereorganization , whereby the old Infantry and Cavalry School became , first the General Service and Staff College and , in 1911 , the present collection of five schools with a roll of seventy-five student officers , thirty instructors , and a curriculum embracing such subjects as the mobilization of national resources and the laying and repairing of ocean cable . On the heights above a crescent bend of the Missouri River , three miles north of the city of Leavenworth , stands the academic building , its clock-tower a landmark for the far hills behind Kansas City . Under the wide roof of Grant , Sherman , and Sheridan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ map-making plants , a library of thirty thousand volumes . Comfortable brick houses and bachelor fiats , scattered under the oaks and elms on the high lands over the river , provide quarters , one hundred and fourteen in all , for the student officers and instructors and their families ; these apart from the homes of the officers on duty at the post . Barring the stiff presence of certain cannon emeriti deployed about the flagpole , the prospect from the steps of Grant Hall might be that of some hallowed campus in New England . The basic school of the five at Leavenworth , and the one considered of most value , is the Army School of the Line , designed to give in a year 's course a general military education of the higher order to the student officer who is willing to apply himself to the stern exactions of the curriculum . Attendance upon this , as well as the four other schools of special character , is purely voluntary ; only men of enthusiasm and virile regard for the advancement of their professional standing can survive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Line ; shirkers who think to evade the monotony of post life by being detached for study in the graduate school at Leavenworth soon discover their grievous misjudgment . Competition dictates the selection of candidates for attendance upon the School of the Line , and competition of the keenest sort attends their every moment of application . One officer of grade not lower than captain and of not less than five years ' commissioned service is chosen from every regiment of infantry , cavairy , and field artillery not on duty in the Philippines ; the choice lying in the hands of the commanding officer of each regiment , subject to confirmation by the Secretary of War . Further restriction is imposed by the requirement that the number of field artillery officers for any one class be limited to five ; this because of the practical and specialized field instruction provided by the Field Artillery School at Fort Sill , Oklahoma . The rigors of competition for appointment , coupled with individual hard luck in being detailed for service in the Philippines at a favoring moment , sometimes brings to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the waiting . Tradition , growing out of the system at the Service Schools , has imposed upon all who enter the Line School a responsibility quite beyond the academic purview . Because a Staff College is designed to carry the instruction of the School of the Line through a second year of even higher specialization , and attendance is restricted to a percentage of those standing highest in the work of the broader course , every student officer in the School of the Line strains after the coveted honor of promotion to the higher school with all the resources at his command . Forty per cent . of the Line graduates are designated candidates for the Staff . For the reason that selection is put thus on a competitive basis , rather than because of the intrinsic value of Staff College instruction , " making the Staff " becomes a grim shibboleth among under-classmen . Achieving the distinction of the Staff is a matter more weighty than Phi Beta Kappa honors in a university ; competition has been forced to a maximum quite disproportionate to the practical benefits of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Line is of more value to the army than any of the four other Service Schools , " says Brigadier-General H. A. Greene , the present Commandant of the Schools . " Out of it the average student officer gets enough to make him a much better officer than he was when he came to Leavenworth , while with the Staff College there is a much smaller percentage of profit of the smaller class . " Student officers in the Line are prone to attach a false value to the Staff Collegebecause of the competitive-selection feature . " Hut " ? this with a pregnant smile ? " neither the false notion nor the competition especially the competition ? does anybody harm . " Not by any means negligible , however , is the reward of winning to the Staff ; its graduates are eligible to attend the War College in Washington , D. C. , which is the ultimate academic board of military training . Moreover , they are exempt from examination for promotion to higher rank during a period of six years after graduation . The Army Signal School @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the general scheme of the Leavenworth graduate college , have more limited courses and smaller classes than the basic School of the Line . In both instances admission to the school is by appointment of the chief officers of these two services in the regular army . The valuable laboratory of the Signal School , stocked as it is with instruments of demonstration in the magic of electricity , has been thrown open to a class of one hundred and thirty-five enlisted men of the Signal Corps , as well as to the fifteen or more commissioned students of the rank of lieutenant , or higher , assigned to study there . This departure from the rule of a school for officers only is taken because of the necessity of technical training for the rank and file of the army 's sadly inadequate " eyes and ears . " As with the Signal School , the fifth unit in the Service Schools is open to a wider student body . The Army Field Service School for Medical Officers , which has as an adjunct a correspondence school for medical officers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's medical corps , offers instruction in the care of troops in the field , sanitary equipment , and supply and tactical problems of hospital practice in battle . Each year six medical officers from the organized militia , approved by the Secretary of War , join the selected officers of the army 's sanitary arm at Leavenworth to share the benefits of the Army Field Service School 's instruction . The civilian visitor to the Service Schools , who shares the common and reverential awe of the lay brother of peace in the presence of the Templars of the Shoulder-strap , is not long in the atmosphere before he drops a persistent delusion and gains an impression of such impact as almost to amount to a shock . That delusion thrown overboard is one held generally by the lay mind ? that our vaunted Academy at West Point graduates finished and competent army officers . The percussive fact gleaned is that men twenty years away from hooks , from the ordered habit of study supposed to be exclusively the province of formative youth , can bring their unaccustomed adult minds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by any university . West Point education is purely preliminary " ; this from one of the officers of the Service Schools who through his executive eyes can measure the significance of their relation to efficiency in the army scheme . " Four years at the Academy lay an excellent foundation for subsequent education in the profession of arms ? and build character ; yes , that is half the value of Academy training . A boy graduates into service physically , mentally , and morally well prepared to learn the art of war ; but he knows little of things military , is not equipped for command . We believe the new second lieutenant has just commenced to master his profession ; the major part of his scholastic and all of his practical work is still ahead of him . " So the West Point graduate , you will learn at Leavenworth , really begins to go to school after he joins his regiment . The primary course he gets in the garrison school at his post , where from November to April each year a course prescribed by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high percentage of efficiency in certain subjects in the garrison school exempts him from examination in these subjects for promotion . For three years , often interrupted by active service in the Philippines , the fledgling officer goes to garrison school ; then he is prepared for his captaincy ? when a vacancy falls ? and that rank opens opportunity to enter the School of the Line or the three allied technical schools at Fort Leavenworth . At thirty-five or forty he completes his professional training , begun fifteen or twentyyears before at the school on the Hudson , or in high school or college . Even though the scholastic habit acquired at West Point is preserved in some degree by the quondam exercises of the garrison school , the student officers at the Service Schools are , for the most part , men in middle life who have been for many years away from the smell of the lamp ? in the jungles of Mindanao , on special duty in Cuba , marooned in the mesquite desert along the Rio Grande . Men they are whose interests have all been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ routine or bushwhacking the elusive Moro . Yet here is the marvel of it : they come to the Service Schools voluntarily and out of sheer professional zeal ; they hurl themselves at highly technical and knotty problems with the dogged enthusiasm of the college " grind " ; they whip their minds to acquisition of new facts twelve to sixteen hours a day , from September to the close of the term in June . " How do they do it ? " the incredulous civilian observer murmurs , knowing in his heart that Caesar at sight would be an impossible task for his atrophied and world-sodden intellect . " Self-discipline , " answers the director of the Signal School . " Self-discipline is so strong in the men who set their hearts on coming here that they can school themselves to the habit of study . A boy of eighteen entering the Academy knows nothing of life or of the capacity of his own mind for effort . But the man of thirty-five or forty has learned to direct his mind to effort as one governs a machine , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of it . " Undoubtedly another secret of this success at turning the adult mind back into forgotten channels of acquisitiveness lies in that spirit of combative competition fostered by the School of the Line . They will tell you out at Leavenworth of strong men " boning for tenths , " or , in translation , fighting for a tenth part of a point in a possible hundred . Instructors are so conscientious that , in appraising the worth of a test paper or problem submitted , they often utilize two decimal places in their marking . A tenth of one unit lost might mean for a student officer failure to " make the Staff , " goal of ambition and prize of a year 's battling ? a year 's boning for tenths . The average size of the Line class is forty-five students ; less than half of them may matriculate into the Staff College ; every man of the forty-five is determined that he shall be among the chosen ; for nine months , day and night , fight for preferment is merciless . So jealous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ averages that a few years ago the director of the School of the Line had to rule inviolable privacy for the records of examination papers and other tests ; for the triumphs and disappointments of individual students had become the subjects of tea-table contention and barracks gossip . Mrs. Captain Absolute struck Mrs. Captain Courageous off her invitation list because Captain Courageous was boasting he had beaten Captain Absolute in the examination on American campaigns . Under the present system only the general gradings ? A , B , C , D , and E ? become public ; nor does any man know until the end of the year how close was the issue with his rivals . Consider in this circumstance of warto-the-death the delicate position of the instructor , his responsibility . The staff of instruction is drawn exclusively from the graduate list of the schools ; each man has been through the grind , knows the brain tension and heartache of the game . A map problem is set for solution , following a series of " conferences , " or seminar discussions of some tactical profundity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ write his answer to the problem ; such an answer may cover ten or forty pages of legal cap , and upon its correctness may hang his record for the year . Not only must the circumspect instructor devote two or more hours to each submitted answer , but he must he prepared to argue the fine points of his decision ? for tactics is not an exact science ? with the boner for tenths . Indeed , the limit of capacity for the School of the Line is set by the endurance of the instructors , for they work harder than any of the students . The stranger in the academic building at Fort Leavenworth sees the intense spirit of application at its most graphic phase over a war game . Game it is called , but the antithesis of sport is thisserious business of working to scale the disposition of hypothetical units of flesh and blood . On a half-dozen tables contour maps drawn to large scale are disposed ; at each sits an umpire from the Staff College ? one who has worked this same problem himself and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a group to each table , into Red and Blue commanders of regiments or brigades . Bits of red and blue cardboard represent their respective forces ; a red chain of beads is a line of skirmishers ; a blue-headed pin , a scouting-patrol . The problem sets forth that a Blue brigade , retreating on Leavenworth after an incursion into Missouri , is seeking to seize and hold against pursuing Reds the bridge head at the Missouri River until escape can be made good ; will the Red brigade succeed in cutting off the invaders ? With the units of cardboard arranged on the map according to the stipulations of the problem at the opening of the engagement , the umpire at each table sends one set of commanders from the room while the others make their dispositions . Noting the line of the Reds , say , he dismisses these tacticians and , first sweeping from the map all their troops save those which , the contour lines show , would be visible to any part of the Blue forces , he summons the Blue commanders . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and feeling out , check and counter-check . Heads , some of them gray , are bent over the silly jumble of beads , pins , and cardboard . Cheeks still dyed by the Samar sun are anxiously honed in thought . The eyes you see are not searching a flat plane , scored by wavering contour lines , but scan the crests of green hills for the thin spindrift of volley-firing , probe the golden jungles of standing corn to discover advance patrols . " Captain A. , " says the umpire , " it is now four-seventeen o'clock . This company of yours on Hill Twelve here has been under cross-fire for ten minutes . Its losses have been heavy , and the men are showing signs of breaking . " Then Captain A. , with a nervous glance at his wrist-watch , gives the order which will bring an inch of cardboard on quick-time up from the reserve to strengthen the panicky defenders of Hill Twelve . Indecision can not be his ; the loss of a minute may be irreparable ; a wrong order may not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one man to whom outraged Missouri looks to avenge the raid by an enemy . But aside from the tactical realities of the game , the Captain senses the eyes of his fellows about the table upon him , knows that those contending with him will be quick to seize upon his smallest error . Here now must he summon every faculty to defend his reputation as a soldier ? to win over the other man by even so much as a tenth in the race for the coveted Staff College . Does he but hew by a fraction of strategy closer than his Blue rival to the " approved solution , " the nature of which neither may know until the map manoeuver is finished , Captain A. will have won . Because of their highly technical character , the layman finds himself baffled in an attempt to estimate , even roughly , the difficulties besetting the problems set for students of the Service Schools . One reads in the Signal School schedule , " Practical Exercise No. 25 : Manipulation of Mercury Arc Rectifier , " or in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Manchurian War " ; and even the kindly explanations of the Secretary of the Schools , acting as guide and expounder of mysteries , leave the visitor numbed and groping . Occasionally , however , dazzling simplicity seems to clothe some element of the curriculum , and just when the civilian mind has begun smugly to wrap itself about an understandable fact a distinct jar intervenes and confidence goes glimmering . One of the recently established courses in the Staff College , for example , is the Department of Staff Supply . Captain W. K. Naylor. instructor in charge , explains that the investigation conducted by students under him has to do with the mobilization of national resources , railroad and overseas transportation , the capacity and availability of our merchant marine , etc . Perfectly comprehensible ! Doubtless an entertaining and comparatively simple course , say you . " One of our problems , " explains Captain Naylor , " presupposes a declaration ofwar by the President , a call for volunteers , and the mobilizing of a brigade at an available point handy to rail and water transportation in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the problem a quartermaster in charge of the establishment of the mobilization camp . Now that would appear a comparatively simple problem ? " You blunder into the instructor 's snare ; you opine that all the quartermaster had to do was to see to it that the various units got off their trains and found their camp . Yes , decidedly simplel With a smile the Captain hands you the solution of the problem : thirty-three printed pages , with three accompanying maps . Reading , you will discover that the task of establishing a brigade cantonment involves such widely variant details as the price of 2q-inch wrought-iron pipe , advertisements for labor in the nearest local paper , and condemnation proceedings against required land . In the thirty-four years of their existence the Service Schools have demonstrated changing ideals in the education of an officer , as in the profession of arms itself . Of the original Infantry and Cavalry School , General Sherman wrote , in 881 : " The school should form a model post , like Gibraltar , with duty done as though in actual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drill , guard duty , and the usual forms of a well-regulated garrison . " Elihu Root , then Secretary of War , made this observation in his annual report for 1901 : " It is a common observation , and a true one , that practical qualities in a soldier are more important than a knowledge of theory . It is also true that , other things being equal , the officer who keeps his mind alert by intellectual exercises , and who systematically studies the reasons of action and the materials and conditions and difficulties with which he may have to deal , will he the stronger practical man and the better soldier . " At Fort Leavenworth they say Elihu Root , a civilian , struck nearer the truth than General Sherman , the soldier . Military events of the years 1914-15 have given incontrovertible proof of the soundness of the War Secretary 's contention . 