@@487103

The opening of the Winter Exhibition , of the National Academy in the same week in which the long-heralded Scandinavian pictures were exhibited suggests comparison . If nothing more , it brings up in passing the old question concerning the verity of the art of our-countrymen as a national product . A radical readjustment of the artistic point of view is necessary in order to take pleasure in both the Scandinavian Exhibition , dominated as it is by new and restricting conventions , and the National Academy , where that phase of art which makes for serenity and charm and adheres to the beauty of line and ' surface is still much in evidence . The Academy is not rife with restless experimentation just now , but a positive answer to the question as to the American quality of American art comes clear and unmistakable in many different notes . An obvious indication of this national spirit is manifest in the growing attention bestowed on the interpretation ' of Western scenery ; but , in truth , larger indications of the same spirit are not wanting . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bright , and clear  --  and their strongly decorative character expressed through this rarefied atmospheric medium , are of this country as of no other . And in the figures  --  particularly the portraits , of course  --  the national types are marked . In this latest Academy Exhibition , as in almost all miscellaneous collections , even the wayfarer may distinguish , without need of catalogue confirmation , the work of well-known artists . John W Alexander 's contribution is thus readily discovered . It is called A Meadow Flower , and is the portrait of a young : girl , painted with a subtly woven color harmony of great delicacy and beauty . Another easily recognizable picture is William Chase 's gorgeous still life , impeccable in its glitter of fish scales , its-splendidly placed lobster , and dark , rich gleam of copper . It is not so easy to-attribute to him , off-hand , the ponderous elegance and faultless technique of the portrait with which he has won the Proctor prize , but once the fact is known , it seems inevitable that he should have painted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ style by shifting from aspiring cathedrals and skyscrapers , enveloped in smoke and steam , to the low , broad-arches and strong horizontal lines of the Ponte Vecchio , with the soft romantic richness of an Italian sky . It is a joy to see again Wilton Lockwood 's Peonies , delicately pink and white and perfect . E. Irving Couse 's Indians are easy to ' recognize when once their acquaintanceout-of-doors . Hubbell 's English pre-Raphaelite children ought to awaken keener interest than they do , for there is good work in them , and the same thing is true , in a different way , of Barse 's pink girl called Youth , and of John Johansen 's Village Rider . They do not justify their size . Frieseke 's picture called Youth gives evidence of much skill in painting , in a high key , the whites of drapery and flesh , but the rococo effect of twisted lilies and many unrelated things mars , with a feeling of unrest , the pleasure it should give . Blumenschein , in the picture that takes the Isador prize for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet classically dignified rendering of the subject , Three Ages of Man , which he calls , however , Wise Man , Warrior , and Youth . Annie Traquair Lang 's Gray Kimono is extremely well painted as to textures , flesh , and tone . The interest of the picture is heightened by the American type of woman  --  nervous and anxious  --  that wears the Japanese garb . In Marines , Paul Dougherty has out-rivalled himself in his granite shore and quiet water that speaks the calm before the storm . Henry Snell and Frederick Waugh have - delicate color effects of water in contrast with the chalk cliffs of England , and the fiat wave-worn rocks of the Maine coast . John Benson expresses the resistless power of the waves and William Ritschel their softer aspects on the Monterey coast . In the many landscapes there is great cleverness ; much technical knowledge is displayed and usually a definitely decorative design is apparent . Sometimes this is attained by taking nature as the artist finds it , sometimes by selection and arrangement , and by one or another of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intensified for the ordinary observer . In spite of the disadvantage of crowded walls , and the many impressions that succeed one another too rapidly for real aesthetic pleasure , the excellence and variety of the landscape part of the Exhibition are very noticeable . Leonard Ochtman and Charles Rosen have delicate tones with feeling for nature 's quiet moods of Spring and Winter . Ernest Lawson 's Palisades is full of the poetry of evening . Charles Eaton Warren 's Among the Dunes gives a gray day 's dreariness with interest . Granville-Smith 's The Old Stone Bridge show% color organization and unity . A little timidity in handling does not keep the picture from having much merit . De Witt Parshall 's Abyss of Shadows gives the ghostly rock formations of the mighty Canyon of the Colorado with the shadows of night around them . He expresses by a suggestive glimpse more successfully than most , something of theawe which that- restless , illusive depth inspires in the mind of man . L. E. S. To the attractive " Little Books on Art , " published by McClurg , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Robert H. Hobart Cust , and " Rodin , " by Muriel Ciolkowska . Both are illustrated . Mr. Lust 's task reduces itself to the obvious and not quite grateful one of condensing the incomparable autobiography . This version may be useful to those who are unable to bear the moral shock of reading the original . Otherwise its utility is not apparent . The book , on Rodin is written in a spirit of unqualified adoration , is deal ? and fairly complete  --  an excellent short cut to the voluminous writing that gathers about the master of Meudon . It was perhaps hardly to be expected that an enthusiast should admit or even perceive the serious falling off in Rodin 's work in ? recent years . It still remains for criticism fairly to estimate this great and baffling personality in whom supreme sanity and soundest workmanship often lapse into the merely capricious or positively morbid . Posterity may well date this decadence from the Balzac . Unquestionably a work . of genius , it represents genius that has strangeiy lost its bearings . This is an informing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Romney , Turner , Constable , Landseer , and Watts are the themes of F. J. Rowbotham 's " Story Lives of Our Great Artists " ( Stokes ) . Here is a fluent and sufficiently agreeable compilation of an anecdotal sort . Why Landseer is in and Hogarth , surely the greatest of British artists , out , does not appear . It is a book for such as must take their art plentifully sugar-coated with obvious human interest . " The Colonial Homes of Philadelphia and its Neighborhood " ( Lippincott ) , by Harold Donaldson Eberlein and Horace ' Mather Lippincott , will naturally appeal most strongly to Philadelphians , but the general reader , too , will find it a book of great charm . The sketches are arranged geographically without any special effort to carry a connecting thread of narrative , or , to apply the remark of a Quaker , " They begin with Front Street and end with Laurel Hill , as all good Philadelphians should . " In Colonial days the built-up portion of the city extended no further west than Seventh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must look for the city hOuses dating from that period . In view of the many Years this region has been deserted by fashion and given over to offices , it is remarkable how many charming Colonial homes have remained . But they are gradually being cut into , and in a few years they will have disappeared . The old Cadwallader house , at Fourth and Locust Streets , has been purchased by an insurance company , in the few brief months since the authors have completed their work . Their book will soon therefore be most valuable as a-record . The revival of Colonial architecture will give it special interest to many , as the views , particularly the interiors , represent the purest and best types . Equally truthful are the descriptions of the social life in old Philadelphia in Revolutionary times . Dining in those days was tariff readjustment . But the point to observe is , that even such incidents as these are , judged very largely in the light of the stock market 's actual condition , and a market 's condition is bound to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ borrow . Just now , all the European banks are guarding their reserves with a view to the large external demand for gold  --  a consequence both of the recent war disturbance and of the prosperous trade throughout the world Our own market , straitened by the demands of the prosperous interior at this month 's climax of trade activity , can not resort to Europe for relief . This hampers the interests , large and small , which buy stocks on the market , but it does not restrain the sellers . That very largely explains the violence of the recent declines , on news which , in a normal money market , would have been taken with equanimity . On such occasions , something always happens to give special ground for a market 's apprehensions and misgivings , and in the present instance , quite apart from Balkan disputes and Supreme Court decisions , it is undeniable that the financial atmosphere , so far as regards Wall Street itself , has been further obscured by the proceedings in the " Money Trust " investigation . It must frankly be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may actually have existed over that inquiry was due to the fact that some unpleasant truths were publicly brought out this week . Wall Street itself has certainly not been unobservant of the tendency in the matter of progressive consolidation of banking resources in this city . That movement , in a sense , stood by itself . But Wall Street has also chafed under the programme of stockmarket manipulation on a prodigious scale , conducted with utter disregard cf all ulterior consequences except the manipulators ' personal winnings . It has seen even the Bank of England publicly oppose the indirect placing of English capital at the service of such-undertakings . It has indulged in a good deal of angry muttering , when some of the most offensively notorious of these manipulations were known to have been conducted by an individual placed in an office of high trust and responthbility in the banking and credit field . These considerations were so well known that most of the Washington testimony was to Wall Street nothing more than a thrice-told tale . Sooner or later , every serious-minded man knew that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worst of these financial abuses . But the particular uneasiness with which this week 's public evidence was received arose from the circumstances under which it was this time told . It was elicited when the public mind had been so inflamed , by a long series ofsweeping and irresponsible declamations in the yellow newspapers and the cheap magazines , that the people at large had seemingly become unable to distinguish between real evils which can be and ought to be abated , and imaginary dangers which do not exist , and for which there is therefore no cure The outgivings of the La Follettes , the I.indberghs , and the Henrys , on their conceptions of the " Money Trust , " have been so wildly extravagant that the simplest and plainest incidents of finance , wholly isolated in character from the abuses above referred to , have been instantly ascribed to gigantic conspiracy A policy of very doubtful wisdom for imposing compulsory charges on collection of out-of-town checks ; the practice of disciplining ill-managed banks through clearing-house supervision ; the exercise of necessary powers by the Stock Exchange in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to relieve a highly dangetous money crisis on the stock market as well as in the general field of credit  --  all of these things , which were perfectly ordinary incidents of banking , were imputed to unprincipled and wicked motives . Unhappily , the nature of the committee 's earlier cross-examinations was such as to add its own constant insinuation to that effect . All these occurrences were made to bear the mark of the Beast , precisely as , in last spring 's Congressional debates , the fall in cotton and the rise in wheat were the work of the malign Money Trust , and precisely as , in the Populist party 's day of the early nineties , the Money Power was declared to be supporting the gold standard of currency merely to enslave the world . The general result of this investigation , therefore , is a mixed bundle of inferences , many true and many entirely fallacious , which hardly fit either committee or Congress or the public to approach the general question properly today . Yet , of all problems in the world , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stock Exchange machinery of the nation is the most delicate , and calls for the largest experience and practical wisdom , if we are not to walk the path of futility and blunder . This being so , it is fortunate tnat the political situation , in the last weeks of an expiring Congress , is such that no one expects a serious effort to take the matter up now for legislation .                     