@@430658

 | A BLIZZARD is raging in the city and the classic , columned facade of the Stock Exchange is a vague wall , blurred and indistinct behind the fierce swirls of white snow . All about it rise the lofty bank and office buildings whose upper stories are lost in the storm . In the wind-swept streets are little black specks struggling thru the snow ? the busy denizens of the financial district , messengers , clerks , promoters , bankers , all muffled and indistinguishable save as tiny units , each buffeted by the elements . Some o the puny figures , as they dodge thru a revolving door into the ornate , electrically lighted , marble hallway of one of the great buildings , reveal themselves to be wrapt in costly furs and are impressive in personality . The uniformed elevatorstarters salute them respectfully . A moment ago , in the storm , in the world which Nature created , they were merely struggling human atoms . Now , in their world , they are dominating personalities . In a moment or so the doors of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the whole financial world will await the result of their deliberations . The scene changes . In front of the same group of bank buildings and financial institutions the melting asphalt yields a tarry odor , the white , columned facades are blinding in the sunlight and the furnace-like air is heavy and dead . The crowds in the streets cling along the shadows of the walls , languid and enervated with the stifling air , yet prest on to ceaseless activity by some invisible goad . Within the office buildings various executive committees , boards of directors , councils of trustees , the personnel of which is composed of these same men of vast wealth and influence , are from day to day meeting in spite of the heat of mid-July , and it is seldom that a quorum is lacking . What is the lure of the marketplace , greater than the lure of foreign lands or sumptuous summer home or the fascinations of travel or sport , which so appeals to these men who are already oversated with wealth , overweighted with power ? Their money , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surcease from the turmoil of commerce and relief from responsibility , has seemingly anchored them with golden weights to the never-ceasing round of business . Various high-sounding explanations have been given ? " the stimulating climate causes men to overwork themselves , " " the restless , indomitable energy of the American , " " his boundless ambition , " " we are a young nation and the hot blood of youth in our veins spurs us on to constant endeavor . " Absurd ! Meteorologically , psychologically , physiologically and sociologically absurd ! The Englishman of large wealth properly appreciates leisure and knows how to employ it , why not the American ? The American can employ Labor to the best advantage , wresting from it the maximum of effort and efficiency , he can employ Time so that every second is utilized , but as an employer of Leisure he is a decided amateur , paying the highest price , paying it grudgingly and receiving unsatisfactory returns . He realizes this and so , feeling his limitations , employs as little of it as possible . Why ? What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the American ? Comparatively few Englishmen have themselves amassed their fortunes ; comparatively few American rich men have not . In England , vast landed estates have been held in the same families , under the law of entail , for centuries , given to the founder of the house by the Crown for services . usually in wars of conquest . These great estates did not represent money and it took generations of cottage building and farm renting and town forming to produce the modern rentrolls . So the inheritors of these estates , whose solicitors , managers and agents have been in practical control . have for generations had opportunity to grow acquainted with the possibilities afforded by leisure , while the American has a chance at it only after the best energies in him and the best years of his life have been spent and he is disinclined to take up new things . However , these generalities are too vague . Let us interest ourselves only in the facts . Mr. A. , who began to support himself at fifteen by being a clerk in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three or four railroads , vice-president of a public service system and on the executive committee of several great industrial corporations . Why ? Because , in addition to fulfilling the regular duties in his bank , he had the energy to master the important features of certain great railway systems and manufacturing plants and absorb so many engineering , legal , scientific , geographical , financial and sociological details that , in comparison , the acquirement of a thoro mastery of the Greek language , with archaeology and chemistry on the side , would be , as a mental achievement , child 's play . Consequently his associates found his grasp on the principles and practise of business thoro , his ideas illuminating and his advice sound . He concentrated his entire nervous and mental energies upon this vast accomplishment and keyed his whole nature to a tension where , without undue strain , the greatest results were achieved . Thru the years of progress , his associates either lagged behind or fell from exhaustion , but he was always in perfect condition , never overwearied , always intensely interested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of affairs as he learned more and more about it . His enthusiasm was that of the scientist for the constant revelations of nature 's secrets . The wealth which began to roll in on him became more and more of incidental interest as his purview widened . Gradually , for his family 's sake , he acquired the accessories of wealth ? town and country homes , motor cars , a box at the opera , and gradually the growing demands of his family caused him to take occasional trips abroad , to pass more and more time in his hunting preserves or his seaside villa or aboard his yacht . But always his association with these things came after his own interests . The years of intense concentration had left their indelible marks and mental habits were too firmly fixed to be easily changed . A morning on the golf links was , of course , a refreshing change and so was an afternoon on the awning-covered deck of his yacht . It was delightful to look out over his sunken garden and realize that all that perfectly appointed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a certain monotony in it and his thoughts would soon turn wistfully to the city , where at various directors ' tables were gathering every few hours a group of his own peers , the associates which he and not his wife and daughters had chosen , the men whose minds and points of view he so well understood and admired . There they were , discussing the most fascinating of subjects , and he  | was absent ! He was missing something ! A railroad was perhaps about to float a new bond issue , a syndicate was forming to take over a large block of stock . Mr. X had just returned from a tour of inspection over a railroad and Mr. Y wanted to talk to him about opening European branches . These were all big things , the vital things of the world affecting the lives of uncounted thousands in various ways . Power ! That was the lure , Power ! Now that he had won his place , there was nothing in all the world quite so interesting to him as occupying it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to win his own way . After he left the university he found various places on boards made for him thru the influence of his father and the power of the family fortune . He was received " down town " with respect and it was flattering to be seated at the dignified council tables of these famous and efficient financiers . While he was in his twenties and thirties he found sufficient time for polo and yachting in the Mediterranean and tiger-hunting in India , but gradually his fellow sportsmen became either dissipated or lazy or bankrupt or absorbed in business . The young fellows just out of college were crowding him out of sports and those directors ' meetings were really very interesting after all . His fortune was not " landed , " as in England , and his investments required not only regular attention but knowledge and skill and all that did not come to him on the Riviera or in Florida . So gradually the world of affairs absorbs him and the world of leisure knows him less and less . These are two representative cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but they will suffice . One does not expect the famous portrait painter to throw down his brushes as he grows older and declare that now that he has won fortune he will enjoy himself . He does enjoy himself when he is in his studio as nowhere else in the world . As the twig is bent so is the tree inclined . Nature demands her payments for everything she gives . Prestige in any walk of life must be bought at the expense of a lessening interest in other walks . That is why the rich man works when he does not have to . It is not , save in exceptional cases , avarice and a desire for more money . It is for the same reason that a literary man always finds his chief delight in his study and the artist at his canvas . While a man is sturdy and sane , why should he not work ? And in comparison with the narrowing influence of some of the arts , these alert , wellpoised men of affairs are remarkably well rounded . Many are patrons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sportsmen , but all these interests are merely avocations , relegated to the background of their activities . Always , as a mother returns rapturously to her young children , the homing instinct is strong and when vacation is over they return to their work with new zest . The railroads , banks and corporations which absorb them are the children of their enterprise and energy , and so the lure of the market place is not that of mere money , but is primal in its origin and wholly normal and right . It is the appeal of Work to the man-soul.                     