@@430610

The second and concluding volume of the life of Nietzsche by his sister , Frau Forster Nietzsche , fully sustains the agreeable impression made by the earlier book . It is clearly and objectively written ( we notice only some muddle on pp. 147 and 153 as to the date of Nietzsche 's return to Genoa from Leipzig , which actually took place in November , 1882 ) ; if a sisterly estimate should sometimes tend toward favorable exaggeration , this is indeed a venial failing . In fact , the " Life " refrains from any critical estimate of the final place of Nietzsche 's work ? which , perhaps , is just as well : given these plainly-shown facts , they can be utilized at some later time . The English version is more free and lively than that of the first volume . To the eternal recurrence of the translation " false pathos " for falsches Pathos , which is quite a different thing , one has long since become resigned . Making all discount for Nietzsche 's merely pathologic vein , the charm of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was devoted to brooding on the deepest problems of life , is irresistible and perennial : some very sweet bells are here jangled . It is comforting to be able to moderate the popular impression that Nietzsche was a tortured invalid : even in 1886 he was " completely satisfied with his health " ; and although constrained to live in rather shabby lodgings or boarding-houses , and at times subject to distressing headaches and eye-strain , he was at least unusually fortunate in being always free to choose the most favorable place for living and . working . Even Nietzsche 's utter loneliness exercises the fascination which one feels in the man who tenders himself dearly , who painfully rends oldtime friendships rather than return to the beaten path . The tragic side lay in his super-keen sense of the immense cost of it all ? nowhere more than in his feeling for the desolation which would be wrought in human relations by blotting out Christianity . " It seems so foolish to want to be right at the expense of human love " : " I have no friend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of my task " ; " in the deeper sense , I have no comrades . " This aggressive thinker dropped out of the sight of Europe until discovered by Brandes , who gave a long series of lectures on Nietzsche 's philosophy at the University of Copenhagen in 1887 and 1888 . His wonderful creative power is measured by the fact that although he was compelled to give over almost all reading , his equipment of knowledge is lavishly shown on every page , often visioning a whole career or epoch in one pregnant allusion ? as in his compact characterizations of the seventeenth , eighteenth , and nineteenth centuries in " The Will to Power . " " Zarathustra " ( " Gelobt sei , was hart rnacht ! " ) was written in a freezing-cold room . He was , above all , to be envied for his mastering sense of a mission to humanity . As early as 1876 he feels called " to restore to mankind that repose without which no culture can arise or endure " ; " I have more weighty matters to think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time to lose . " This vision of his whole future developed rapidly into a religious fervor for the improvement of the type " Man . " The life-story is taken up from the time of Nietzsche 's spiritual breach with Richard Wagner in 1876 . Bayreuth , which he had hoped to find " a universal bath for souls , " proved merely " one more form of sport for the leisured rabble . " He considered " the pervading atmosphere of hothouse sensuality " the root of evil in Wagner 's productions . He even attributed the ruin of his own health to " that nerve-shattering music . " Parsifal , a transcription of Wagner 's actual Christian experience , showed him as " a reviler of life , an asserter of Nay . " Continued illness led Nietzsche , in 1879 , to resign the professorship at Basel , and with this he turns his back on the Greeks as philosophical guides . Thereupon began his alien existence in Italy or among the high Alps . In 1882 he began the free use of chloral as an antidote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a help during the remainder of this unsettled life . On the heights of Rapallo , near Genoa , in 1883 came " my beneficent Yea-assertion , " " Zarathustra , " in such phenomenal bursts of creative power that its author spoke of it as a direct revelation which transcended free-will . In finishing the third part a year later , Nietzsche exclaimed : " Who knows how many generations must pass before the coming of men who can fully realize what I have done ! " Its dark sayings are indeed uttered in parable , sometimes in rather revolting imagery , and in a style partly borrowed from the minor Hebrew prophets ) intense as galloping heartbeats , with a tonal art described by its creator as " the power which enabled him to fly a thousand miles beyond all that has hitherto been called poetry . " This " Bible " of youngest Germany makes the sharp division of all men into two classes , Commanders and Obey- ers . Men , inexorable as fate , become Fates themselves , and hardness is the supreme nobility . Zarathustra @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fighter and conqueror " : to carry out one 's own will is the only " virtue " ; that which " penitentialshifted body-haters " decry as " lust " shall prove for free hearts the Paradise of earth , for lion-willed ones the greatest heartstrengthener , the wine of wines ; " domineering " shall prove the earthquake shattering all that is rotten and hollow ; " selfishness " shall prove holy and wholesome when directed against slaves who will not protest for themselves . As a corollary , so-called " virtuous " folk are those who have never learned to use their fists , " soft rabbits , ink-fish , pen-drivers " ; temperance is the mark of mediocrity , abstinence is preached by impotence . War must be declared on all " small modesties and Podunk virtues . " " 0 my soul , I have taken from thee all servility , all knee-bending , all crying Lord , Lord ! ' " The " meek " are the priests , the exhausted ones , the woman-souled and slave-souled : for these shall come the Day , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be quoted from this morbid worship of brute-force on the part of an essentially gentle and suffering nature . " Verily my maw is the maw of an eagle , for it loveth , above all else , the flesh of lambs ! " ? this from a sweet-spirited , finely-grained , pastorate-begotten scholar , whose consideration for others was often so exaggerated as to amount to an impediment , and who literally scorned delights and lived laborious days . The doctrine of the " Eternal Recurrence , " which Nietzsche considered the chief conception of " Zarathustra , " is so little developed as to be negligible . " Beyond Good and Evil " ( 1886 ) " a school for gentlemen and aristocrats , " a variation of the main theme of " Zarathustra , " was contemporary with a small group of corrosive and cynical poems . The chief statement of his philosophy was held by Nietzsche to be contained in his " Will to Power " ( 1888 ) , a long collection of fragments in snapped-off Prussian-Major sentences , differing from the earlier works mainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fiercest assault ever directed against Christian ideals ) , as the most fatally misleading of all systems of falsehood , the chief token of human decadence , in that it opens the door of happiness to the poor in spirit , and has branded natural impulses as vices . " I will create a new order of higher men , from whom laboring spirits and consciences may gain counsel ; who live beyond political and religious tenets , and have even overcome morality . " The message consists of variations on the theme , " Be an egotist . " It would bring again to honor the words of Plato : " Everyone of us would wish , if possible , to be lord over all men . " The masses suffocate exceptional men , natural lords and masters . Let the weaker perish . There are no realities back of the old catchwords , Christianity , Revolution , Emancipation , Equal Rights , Philanthropy , Peace Advocacy , Justice , Truth . The work glories in militarism , in Bismarck and Bonaparte , as loftiest ideals . A great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and suspicion . In the organic world deceit is highly developed in the highest types , and lying is one of the chief weapons of superior men . The highest joy in life consists in subjugating whatever stands in one 's way : " all realms bordering on our own must be thought of as enemies " ? an ancient sentiment which the United States and their Canadian neighbors have overlooked for a century . The weak now prevail because of " sympathy " ; in two or three generations a race easily runs into such riffraff that it develops an instinctive opposition to all Privilege ? the very note of true nobility . No ordinary man should ever presume to pass judgment on what a great man may allow himself ? and vastly more in this vein , leading up to the ominous prophecy that " from now on , there will be favorable conditions for the development of the great predatory virtues . " The spring of 1888 found Nietzsche in Turin in fairly good health , and delighting in the joy of living in that very attractive city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ecee Homo " ( Nietzsche being the " Man " held up to view ) , a jumble of saucy deliverances upon all sorts of things . He knows neither sin nor remorse ; too petty for his notice are the concepts God , Immortality , Salvation . In his reading he returns continually to a small number of older French writers ; he believes only in French civilization , and considers everything else which passes under the name of culture in Europe as a counterfeit . He decides the ShakespeareBacon controversy by sheer intellectual grasp of the matter ( " What care I for the sorry chatter of American muddle-heads and lowbrows ? " ) , in favor of Bacon . He has never cared for honors , women , or money . Love in its methods is essentially war ; in its fundamental nature a deadly hatred between the sexes . The last utterance of the book is a bitter gust of hostility against the Crucified One .  | At the end of 1888 came a paralytic stroke , and from this time Nietzsche 's writings were but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so noticeably different , in form or content , from those which preceded this attack . There followed long years of helplessness , at first with intermittent periods of sanity . In 1897 the Weimar home ( now converted into the beautiful Nietzsche-Archiv ) was purchased , where every kindly ministration was loyally given by the devoted sister . After 1899 the invalid became gradually weaker , and in the following year the wearied body was laid to rest under the shadow of the little church of his fathers in Rocken . The sheer fascination which Nietzsche exercises upon his readers derives in no small part from his captivating style of writing ? or , rather , his styles . Often a mere trick of rhyme ( Hohlkopfe : Kohlkropfe ) , an incidental simile , a mint-new epithet ( " moralinefree virtue " ) , a smart paradox showing the full perversity of epigram : " Is mankind made better by civilization ? A comic question , since the opposite is self-evident , and is precisely that which is in civilization 's favor " ; " Virtue remains the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but plays endlessly upon a very few ideas . In his method of approach to vital problems , he shows a more than Rousseauian ignoring of mere facts . He never investigates or collects statistics , but draws all his sayings from the glowing depths of his inner soul alone . The pathological conditions of an insufficient organism account for the rambling structure of his works , doubtless as well for his sovereign contempt for the world 's accepted thinkers and scientists , and explain his estimate of himself . " Everyone who has had intimate relations with me has regarded it as an honor and a distinction ; I hold the same view myself " ; " with this Zarathustra I have brought the German language to perfection . After Luther and Goethe a third step had to be taken " ; " up to now there has been no deutsche Kultur " ; " before me there never was any psychology " ; " I am no man : I am dynamite " ; " I have the most varied range of styles that a man has ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thinker and worker in Europe . " It is in direct line with such utterances that we constantly meet with a proud sensitiveness about " being treated as a person of no account . " a voracious demand for appreciation . There is a constant apprehension of intrigues and " influences , " of treachery , deceit. meanness , and spite ? in short , a whole range of concepts such as one never encounters except by overhearing in public conveyances on Thursday afternoons . A is secretly setting B against N ; Frau Baumgartner has always to warn against the treacherous counsels of Frau Overbeck . Old confidences and friendships are continually undermined , and give way to suspicion and deadliest hatred . The real blemish in the biography is that it serves as the grosse Wasche for a mountainous German accumulation of household linen , accompanied by a lack of reticence which is simply incredible to the Anglo-Saxon . Let us , finally , be thankful to Nietzsche for his brave formulations : he has given a gallant banner to be displayed , and the battle now joined between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real Armageddon , beside which all noisy racial , dynastic , and economic warfares are merely episodes . We must reckon squarely with the conception of " a race that will conquer and dominate or die in the attempt " ; of the impossibility of culture except on a foundation of slavery . We must weigh fairly the doctrine , " any society that instinctively rejects war and conquest is on the decline , and ready for democracy and a government by shopkeepers . " No confidence is betrayed by the present reviewer when he remarks that the American consciousness stands hopelessly dazed before this philosophy . We regard these pinchbeck heroics as of a piece with the cubbish exuberance of halfgrown boys ; we wish for this New Gospel a swift and decisive collapse : " For the bed is shorter than that a man can stretch himself on it : and the covering narrower than that he can wran himself in it . "  |                     