@@465406

THE question of the atom is really one of the most interesting and informing in contemporary knowledge . It is so interesting because the mere question " Is there an atom ? " has been the ciisus belli of a fratricidal strife which for almost a generation has divided chemist against chemist , and it is so informing because it illuminates so clearly the workings of human nature in those cold regions of Science in which presumably , and ideally , human feelings have no place . The question " Is there an atom ? " has associated with it all the odium theologicum of medieval days , all the proverbial hatred of contending divines , and , when chemist meets chemist , because the attitude of each man is fixed , because it is a personal matter , it is as impossible to discuss in intellectual honesty as either politics or religion . This is of course sufficiently curious and wrong , but the wrongness of it is emphasized through the consideration that it is a fundamental matter in the teaching of chemistry . When about half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chemistry on the basis of the atomic theory and the other half refuse to mention the word atom , or mention it apologetically with a blush , and when , as is oftentimes the case , there is disaecord on the subject , and high de-hate , in any one instructional staff , it affords a poor prospect for a future crop of investigational chemists , and it may even be suspected that there is about the whole matter a certain unreason . All this may be a matter of surprise to the cultured layman , who probably takes his atoms , as he does his microbes , as a fact . But atoms are not a fact , but a theory , and therein lies the root of the trouble . We have had many theories in the past , some of them great fruitful theories , such as that of phlogiston , and of caloric , and of the corpuscular nature of light , and these theories are to-day nothing but discarded rungs in the ladder of man 's advance . Is it not possible that the atomic theory is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature ? Thus , one reason for all this regrettable disaccord is purely pedagogical , certain chemists believing that , owing to the tremendous utility and scope of the atomic theory in the explanation and elucidation of natural phenomena , some young gentlemen at the threshold of their science may find a quagmire of confusion between fact and theory , and therein a pitfall for their unwary feet . It is true that the physicist with his undulatory theory is not worried by such fanciful considerations , but cheerfully uses and teaches his light-waves , which , by the way , no man has seen any more than he has an atom . The biologist , too , is in no whit better case , yet he , too , teaches and uses his theory of evolution without overmuch regard for the undiscriminating student . There must be other reasons for this curious attitude of certain informed chemists , though these can scarcely be considered in an article of this general character . Meanwhile it may occur to the reader that the refusal of certain chemists to base their teaching on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the validity of the atomic theory . No . On the contrary ? and this will be the subject-matter of my paper . The fact of this disaccord is introduced here merely to apprise the reader that in presenting and drawing conclusions from some certain new and very interesting knowledge , this knowledge is subject to partisan interpretation , to such an extent that the layman who happens to peruse these pages may , perhaps , form a judgment concerning it as good as that of any average party to the controversy . With regard to absolute knowledge as to the ultimate constitution of matter , we all recognize it as impossible . Science is like Palomides , " that good knight " of the Arthurian romance , who pursued a beast called Galtisant . It was a " questing beast " and forever uncatchable ; nevertheless with Palomides it was his " quest , " which , with quite human divagations and excursions , he religiously pursued . The ultimate nature of matter is the " questing beast " of science . But about this matter , accepting it as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not ; there is no via media . If it is not , then it is composed of ultimate particles . Now , the atomic theory states not that there are ultimate particles , but that there are ultimate particles of chemical reaction . It may be true , and , accepting the theory , doubtless is , that the ultimate particles of chemical reaction , or atoms , are themselves built up of particles smaller still . With these the atomic theory per se has nothing to do . But about these ultimate particles of chemical reaction , or atoms , the evidence upon which the theory of their existence rests may be said to be all of chemistry , most of physics , and a large portion of every other field of natural knowledge ; in other words , it is stupendous . This evidence , however , is wholly inferential , and so long as this is true there remains always the conceivability of some other explanation to account for the facts , innumerable though they be . But if we could take our atoms out of inferential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of difference in credibility ? all the difference between the necessity of an indefinite piling of Ossa on Pelion of cumulative evidence , and a heaven of certainty where one fact is as good as a million . If we could but indubitably capture our atom . While I do not say that this can be done to-day , the approach to its accomplishment is so close and the attack is , if I may be permitted to use the word , so " sporting , " that it has an absorbing human interest . This appears when one considers what it means in the way of difficulty , this capturing of an atom . The spectroscope is one of the most delicate instruments for the detection ofmatter ever devised by man . With this instrument Strutt has been able to show that it is possible to detect the gas neon in one-twentieth of a cubic centimetre of ordinary air ; and on the basis of Ramsay 's work it is a fact that this quantity of neon corresponds to about one-half of one-millionth of a cubic centimetre . Transferring the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particle lost in a thimbleful of air with four million others : problem , find that particle . It can be done . One would think that a particle so unimaginably small would approach fairly close to the dimensions of the theoretical atom , but such is not the ease . This particle , on the basis of the current conception of the atomic theory , must contain about ten million million atoms . As Sir J. J. Thompson says in another connection , if we had no better means of detecting an individual man than an individual atom we should conclude that the earth was uninhabited . It is apparent that the spectroscope , delicate though it is , does not make a beginning in the attempt to capture the individual atom . So much for the difficulty . Let us , however , disregarding the fact that an immense , incalculable number of facts of organic chemistry , other chemistry , mechanics , diffusion , expansion , spectroscopy , light , heat , electricity , magnetism , sound , meteorology , radioactivity , and so on and so on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explained within their proper limits , and ever increasing in volume because of the atomic theory ? disregarding all this , and despite the immense difficulty of it , let us ask ourselves either for demonstrational evidence or for inferential evidence with which the Chemical Atomic Theory , if I may so call it , has nothing to do . There is one instrument which is as much more delicate in detecting the existence of small particles of matter as , under certain conditions , the spectroscope is than the human eye . This instrument , marvellously little known , is the ultramicroscope . With the best modern microscope the smallest particle which it is possible to see is about 1-7000th of a millimetre in diameter . This diameter is just about the length of half a wave of visible light . It is unreasonable to expect the best microscope to possess a resolving power greater than this , for with particles smaller than half the length of a wave of light they obviously can not reflect the light by which they may be seen ; for example , one can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wave ; the wave simply embraces the grain . Outside of the fact that the limits of visibility may be somewhat extended by using light-waves of short lengths , as with ultra-violet light and photography , there is one way by which success may be achieved . Particles , no matter how small , may be seen if they are caused to emit a light of their own ? to become sufficiently self-luminous . Whether this is a valid explanation of the observed phenomena , or whether the extension of visibility is due to illumination in a dark field , may be a matter of opinion , but the summarized facts are as follows . The light from a powerful arc-lamp or from the sun is passed through a strong condenser in such a fashion as to transform it into a superlatively intense but superlatively minute beam . This wisp of intense light passes through the windows of a cell and impinges there upon the substance under examination ; the small area illuminated by it is then examined from above by a good microscope . As a result of this simple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which are as small as the stars are distant . They are not unlike stars even in appearance as they lie twinkling there in the depths of the infinitely small . They are like stars , too , in that their actual shapes are not delineated , though they may be observed by the hour with fascinated interest . Even though it is actually true that their forms may not be observed , their average size may nevertheless be calculated , not in terms of theory , but of fact . Thus , in examining the particles of gold in ruby glass the area of the Vol . CXXL ? No. 721 ? 15 minute beam may be calculated , the number of particles of gold in this area may be counted , and since the weight of gold introduced into the glass and its specific gravity are both known , all the factors are provided for estimating their average size . So determined , the particles of gold in glass average six-millionths of a millimetre in diameter . The smallest particles estimable in a colloidal solution of gold measured 1.7 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capacity for determining minute quantities of matter the ultra-microscope is thirty-seven trillion thirty-one billion times as powerful as the best modern spectroscope , which , as we have seen , is capable of detecting one-half of one-millionth of a cubic centimetre of gas . A graphic idea of the transcendent powers of this instrument may be obtained by examining the diagrammatic representations in Fig. 1 . The little dots f , g. and h represent visible particles of colloidal gold some six to fifteen millionths of a millimetre in diameter and magnified ten thousand times to render them representable ; the corresponding circle A represents a human blood corpuscle , itself an excessively minute object , magnified in the same degree . Quite apart , therefore , from any inferential evidence , we have the positive demonstration of the fact that matter is capable of existing in the condition of discrete particles infinitesimally small . It therefore becomes an interesting matter to compare these particles of measured diameter with the calculated dimensions of our hypothetical atoms and molecules . This comparison is represented in Fig. 2 . Here we have in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the hypothetical molecules of hydrogen , alcohol , and chloroform magnified one million times , and in e , f , g , h , a conventional representation of our colloidal gold particle under the same magnification . It will be seen at once that the smallest particles of matter observed under the ultra-microscope , while they are not actually of molecular or atomic dimensions , are of the same order of magnitude ; the ultra-microscope has jumped the difference between the wonderful power of detecting a particle of matter containing only ten million million hypothetical atoms , the ultimate achievement of the spectroscope , and one containing , let us say , a few thousand . It may therefore be taken as an indisputable fact not only that matter can exist in particles infinitesimally small , but that the dimensions of these particles are perilously close to those assigned in calculation to " the inferential atom . " But the ultra-microscope has proved capable of throwing a demonstrational light upon the theory of atoms in quite another phase . Quite apart from the ultimate particles of matter in themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and molecules infer atoms , and atoms infer the atomic theory . The kinetic theory of gases , therefore , which deals with molecular motions , is an integral part of the atomic theory and stands or falls with it . This theory assumes that a gas consists of a vast number of particles in constant motion , in constant collision with one another and with the walls of the containing vessel . It assumes , too , that the particles travel in straight lines between collisions ? in paths which are very long compared with the diameters of the particles concerned . It has been found possible by this conception to explain to a remarkable degree the physical properties of a gas and to predict successfully unknown relations of these properties . In fact , the kinetic theory of gases has been one of the most powerful engines of research ever devised for forwarding theoretical and experimental knowledge . Turning , now , to the ultra-microscope and its revelations of infinitesimal particles , let us permit the original discoverer , Zsigmondy , to speak for himself of their properties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will give one an idea of the motion of the gold particles in the hydrosol of gold . They hop , dance , jump , dash together , and fly away from each other so that it is difficult to get one 's bearings . This motion gives an indication of the mixing up of the fluid , and it lasts hours , weeks , months . and . if the fluid is stable , even years . The smallest particles which can be seen in the hydrosol of gold show a combined motion consisting of a motion of translation by which the particle travels from one hundred to one thousand times its own diameter in one-sixth to one-eighth of a second . . . . But the hydrosol of gold is a liquid , and the kinetic theory , while it certainly is applicable to liquids , has , after all , mainly to do with gases . It is interesting , then , to know that Ehrenhaft has recently succeeded in extending the observations of these movements to gases . Thus , by striking an electric arc between silver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ silver dust in the air , and on examining the dusty ail with the ultra-microscope the suspended particles showed not only the motions of those in liquids , but to nn exaggerated degree . Let the reader notice , then , that these particles , which are more or less of the order of molecular magnitude , possess the type of motion ascribed to molecules by the kinetic theory of gases , which is a theory dependent upon a theory . The type , we say , but there is more than this to it . It has further been shown that using the kinetic theory it is possible to deduce by calculation , and with a fair degree of accuracy , the motions actually obtained . One of the most striking confirmations of the kinetic theory of gases is due to the work Of Perrin . As everybody knows , the density of the air decreases the higher one goes ; thus , at about six thousand metres above the surface of the sea the air is but half as dense . All this is understandable , theoretically , always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gases . Now , Perrin has obtained a suspension in water of practically equally-sized spherical particles of gamboge which , while exhibiting the characteristic motions referred to , gradually settle through gravity to the bottom of the vessel . On counting the relative numbers of these particles in layer after layer from the bottom up , he has discovered that the number diminishes in miniature just as the density of the air diminishes and in accordance with the same law . Moreover , it looks as though these particles in arranging themselves acted reciprocally with the molecules of the solution ; in other words , that they behave as though they were molecules themselves . However this may be , we adequately explain the decrease in density of the air on the theory that the air consists of particles , but in the experiment above referred to we find demonstratively that particles experimentally behave in just that way . By means of this unique instrument , then , and quite apart from any theory , we see , literally see , first that matter can certainly exist in particles more or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next , that these particles have the movements of the type and character that on a priori considerations we have been compelled to ascribe to particles which , chemically speaking . are ultimate . But the ultra-microscope does not actually capture the individual atom . This achievement has been reserved for an instrument still more powerful and the most sensitive in the world . In the competent hands of Rutherford . and in a research which will stand as classical in its refined and accurate experimentation , the instrument which has proved capable of this incredible feat is the electrometer . In a paper of this general character the method of its accomplishment must be summarized , but its essentials are as follows : Everybody knows that radium gives off rays of three types ? the alpha , beta , and gamma rays . The alpha rays alone concern us . On the basis of an enormous amount of knowledge it may positively be taken for granted that these alpha rays consist of positively charged flying particles , and that these particles are of atomic dimensions. * It is true that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a certain extent theoretical , but these theories have stood impregnable to the attack of immense experimentation , and they have nothing to do with the chemical philosophy of the atomic theory . . The alpha rays are charged particles of atomic dimensions . The feat to be.accomplished consists in catching them one by one ; it transcends any analogy with which one might attempt to compare it . Its success depends upon the power these particles have of rendering electrically conductible the air through which they tear their way . This property , by what might be called a trigger arrangement , Rutherford succeeded in magnifying thousands of times , until finally it became adequate . A diagrammatic representation of this apparatus will be found in the accompanying illustration . Here in the text let us merely say that it is a most attractive study in ballistics . There is a firing chamber containing the radium , and there is a target chamber containing the detecting arrangement connected with an outside electrometer , and between the two there lies a window of thin mica only one and one-half millimetres in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the radium fly through the window into the detecting chamber , and there , upsetting the electrical equilibrium of the air within , they cause a ballistic jump of the electrometer needle connected with it . One , two , three , four , at the rate of about thirty a minute , as they enter through the window , they cause one . two , three , four corresponding jumps of the needle . Counting the atoms ! It is , indeed , wonderful . If the reader is interested in watching a master at his work , let him read this research in its original presentation in Vol. 81 of the Proceedings of the Royal Society . In this research he will find as well that Rutherford has laid his hands on an interesting confirmation of his work . * The proof of this statement is too extended for consideration here , but it may be . found simply stated , in extemo , in a hook by the writer . The New Knoiriedge , Many people have seen , and will always remember , the scintillating stars of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a screen of zinc sulphide . It is like a swarm of fireflies on a dark night . Now , it has been suspected that the flashes of light were due , each of them , to the impact of an individual alpha particle , but no verifiable method existed for proving it . With the arrival of Rutherford 's needle-jumps , however , the method arrives . If they really are due to the impact of individual alpha particles , then , under comparable conditions , they ought to correspond in number per minute with the needle-jumps of the electrometer . They do so correspond . Hence we have , now , not one , but two valid methods of identifying and counting the individual atoms . But a critical reader at this point is likely to object : " These alpha particles of which we are speaking are queer ' things . They may be of atomic dimensions , as you say , but how do we know that they are atoms ? What are they atoms off " This introduces Rutherford 's crowning research . - In a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he and Mr. Geiger showed on the basis of theoretical assumptions that the alpha particle was almost certainly an atom of helium . This does not interest us so much except in so far as it exemplifies the amazing validity of these atomic hypotheses in radioactive investigations . It does not interest us , because . in a research almost immediately following this again , and published in the Philosophical Magazine for February . 1009 , he with Mr. Royds proves , not . thinks ? proves that this is actually , veritably , the case . How ? he accomplished it even the layman may - understand in the research referred to . The whole achievement rests upon the possibility of blowing , a small glass tube having walls less than 1-100th of a millimetre in thickness ; a tube of so thin a glass permits the alpha particles to fly through it , but resists a vacuum . Within this tube there is the radium , firing its alpha particles , and surrounding it is a vacuous space , into which the alpha particles fly . After the lapse of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to THE QUESTION OF THE ATOM . no Siff days , there appeared in this vacuous space and between the electrical terminals within it a phosphorescent light which to the spectroscope lying in wait for it indisputably signified itself as helium . They proved that the helium was not in the glass used , was not due to any air leak , was not in the mercury within the apparatus , was not due to any leak of radium emanation ; in fact , they proved indisputably , " up hill and down dale , " that it was , and could not be anything else than , due to the alpha particles ; that , in simple fact , a collection of discharged alpha particles is , en Bros , helium . The gas helium consists of particles , but are these particles atoms ? Here follows the proof : Dewar has shown , quite apart from theoretical considerations , and as a matter of fact , that one gram of radium produces a volume of 0.00000532 cubic millimetres of helium per second . Rutherford , by his counting method @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 136 , - 000,000,000 alpha particles per second . But these 136.000,000,000 alpha particles constitute collectively the 0.00000532 eubic millimetres of helium . Therefore it follows by mathematical necessity that every cubic centimetre of helium under standard conditions contains 25,600,000 , - 000,000,000,000 alpha particles . But this value is in remarkable accord with that which through a dozen different methods has always been held as the number representing the ultimate chemical particles in a cubic centimetre of gas . Therefore the discharged alpha particles in monatomic helium gas are the atoms . But helium in its physical properties is more or less like any other gas ; therefore every other gas presumably consists of particles . But every other gas , generally speaking , will , under suitable conditions , become liquid and solid ; therefore every substance of any kind whatever presumably consists of ultimate particles of chemical reaction . I do not say that this remarkable demonstration of the atomic theory of matter is absolute . Not at . all . Let us say , rather , that , taking into consideration the immense amount of inferential evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstrational character , we are as sure of it as , for example , we are sure that the rings of Saturn consist of satellites , which every sensible person , on the basis of the evidence , is willing to believe . We are almost as sure of it as we are of parentage , which , after all , is a theory . In simple consistency we should expect the teacher who introduces young gentlemen to organic chemistry without the atomic theory to introduce us to his " putative father " ; the atomic theory is the father of organic chemistry . At any rate , it permits us to speak of atoms and molecules without a blush . It enables us , too , to deprecate this business of writing text-books of elementary chemistry without the atomic theory . This has always been illogical and essentially absurd , and while after a certain fashion it may be accomplished , it has always worked to the serious hamperment of chemical instruction . Modern knowledge has thus enormously strengthened the validity of the atomic theory , but it has not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these atoms are actually ultimate in their nature or simple in their constitution . The reverse is the case . We are no more sure of the validity of the atomic theory than we are that these atoms are actually highly complex . The modern idea of the atom is that it is , like the planet Saturn , Made up of a nucleus related to satellites . We are sure that it consists in part of particles of negative electricity , we believe that it is made up in part of positive electricity , and we are inclined to think that there may be something in it quite apart from either . We shall never have a valid notion of the inner nature of the atom until we solve the nature of positive electricity , and about this , so far , literally nobody knows .                     