@@465637

WHEN the National Conference on Workmen 's Compensation met at Atlantic . City in July , 1909 , it was justly charged that the United States , jointly and severally , ranked among the backward nations in the matter of compensation to industrial workers and their dependents for injury or death sustained in due course of employment . Our antiquated liability laws were generally characterized as barbarous ? burdensome to employers , cruel to employees , and a perpetual occasion for bitterness and mutual recrimination . Since then commissions have been appointed by State after State ; in a considerable number the employers ' liability laws have been radically modified ; New York and Minnesota have passed compulsory compensation laws ; and one State , Washington , honoring the liberal spirit of the West , has inaugurated a system of compulsory State insurance against industrial accidents which for comprehensive justice and social wisdom compares favorably with the most advanced legislation in Europe . These laws are the first-fruits of one of the most extraordinary conflicts in our industrial history . All parties to the controversy are and have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accidents is unjust , wasteful of money and human life , and generally intolerable . All parties advocate change in the direction of justice and humanity . And yet , so momentous are the anticipated economic and social consequences of action , that the sharpest differences of opinion exist as to the character of the first step to be taken . This controversy , waged by men all of whom desire an equitable solution of an admitted evil , is at once so intense and is attended by the daily sacrifice of so many lives that it is not stretching a paradox to characterize it as a Welfare War . The facts involved are gravely impressive . As in the case of our national birth and death rates , we have unhappily no accurate official information about industrial casualties . But our foremost authority on this subject , Mr. Frederick L. Hoffman , a statistical expert , computes the number of fatal accidents among occupied males in the year 1908 as between thirty and thirty-five thousand . These figures are exceedingly conservative . They take account of only a few more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eighty-seven millions . They omit from consideration our six million wageearning women , and they do not include the millions of casual laborers , who , while not registered as employed , are not infrequently exposed to industrial hazards . Reviewing Mr. Hoffman 's estimates in the light of later information , Mr. W. J. Ghent , a most scholarly student of our industrial conditions , declares that the " annual death roll of American industry can not he much below fifty thousand . " Both authorities are agreed in placing the annual total of non-fatal accidents in the United States at " not much less than two millions " ? a frightful commentary upon our civilization ! These are the tragic facts underlying the Welfare War . They acquire their especially grim significance from the circumstance that a large percentage of them occur through nobody 's fault . They are the inevitable concomitants of high-speed machine production . Our methods of manufacture and distribution have undergone revolutionary changes ; but our laws affecting industrial accidents are less well adapted to modern industrial conditions than the unmodified common law of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , injured workmen to-day have no redress but suit for damages against employers who as often as not are innocent either of deliberate wrong or even of simple carelessness . To protect innocent employers from financial ruin in case of accidents involving the loss of many lives , the courts have modified the common law , surrounded the employers with a hedge of so-called " defenses " that make recovery by the injured exceedingly difficult even when the employers arc grossly at fault . And yet , notwithstanding these defenses , to avoid the serious consequences either of their own possible negligence or of the power of the plaintiff 's attorney fiver the emotions of the jury , the employers are constrained to spend for insurance against liability for industrial accidents millions , which , if they might be distributed directly to the injured without involving well-disposed employers in legal pitfalls ( for the payment of money is likely to be construed as a confession of guilt ! ) , would go far to mitigate the cruelties of the present system . In no department of our national life is there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay more dearly in money and lives for the backwardness of our social legislation . The situation in New York State is typical . In 1909 conditions had become so acute that Governor Hughes appointed a commission to clarify the facts and to make appropriate recommendations . But where were the facts to be found ? It is notorious that in those industries where fairly complete records are required by law , such as the railroads and mines , a higher casualty rate prevails in. the United States than elsewhere in the world ; it is generally conceded that American industry is prodigal of workmen . But in the majority of our industries this prodigality is so cavalier that it does not even stop to count the dead and wounded . The New York commission found that in construction , excavation , teaming , freight-handling , and kindred occupations , in which European experience shows the highest accident rate , the reporting of accidents was not even required by law ; and it fonnd , further , that in many industries where the reporting of accidents was required by law the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In testing the completeness of the official records the commission discovered , for example , that of three hundred and four fatal accidents known to the medical officer of Erie County , only seventythre ? had been reported to the State Commissioner of Labor ; one hundred and three may have been reported to the Public Service Commission in conformity with law , but as that commission does not require the names of the killed to be reported , it was impossible to determine with certainty whether they had been reported or not ; and one hundred and twenty-eight had certainly not been reported ? a curious commentary on the respect which business men have for the law . Similarly , of two hundred and fifty fatal accidents of employment known to the coroners of Manhattan , nine had been reported to the State Commissioner of Labor , forty-four to the Public Service Commission , and one hundred and ninety-seven had not been reported at all . In spite of the fact that no battle of the Civil or Revolutionary wars had ever cost the State in killed and wounded a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hughes 's commission was forced to the inferential conclusion that " the 22,7 ' 22 reported accidents of employment in 1908 were a small proportion of such accidents occurring during the year . " And the great majority of these accidents fell with crushing weight upon the workers and their innocent dependents . The law is so framed that , unless the injured can establish the gross negligence of the employer , he has no redress . The employers ' liability law takes no account of the fact that the fault lies with modern industry , and neither with master nor servant ; it is not the product of enlightened public discussion and consequent enlightened legislation . Commenting upon its main features , Governor Hughes 's commission says : " It is judge-made . . . Its development was profoundly influenced by the belief of the courts that the necessities of profit in industrial enterprises demanded protection even at the expense of damage to certain individuals . " And this odd medievalism of the law is grimly reflected in. the operation of justice under it . An analysis of one hundred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employment in Erie County shows that there was no compensation in thirtyeight ; one hundred dollars or less in nine ; and between one and five hundred dollars in thirty - fonr cases . Over seventy-eight per cent of the dependent families of these killed workmen got no substantial recovery ! A similar study of sixty-seven cases of married workmen killed in Manhattan shows that there was no substantial recovery in eighty - one per cent . of those that were fought through the courts . I had seen in the United Charities Building and in the Municipal Bureau for Dependent Children the disastrous consequences of uncompensated industrial accidents upon workers and their dependent families ; I was familiar with the statistics of the New York and other commissions ; but I had not seen the manifold stupidities of our liability law in operation until a court order summoned me to jury duty in the spring of 1910 . The case was a very simple one . In July , 1906. a workman had been killed through a defect in a power - driven elevator . The accident had occurred in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this factory for an expressman to call daily for trunks laden with silk ribbons for market . On a certain day , the trunks being unusually heavy , the expressman had asked for a " lift , " and the janitor of the factory , obeying what were seemingly his instructions , had gone to his aid . Together they got the trunks clown to the shipping platform , which was but a four-foot stationary extension of the platform of the elevator ; they had placed one trunk on the wagon ; and the janitor had been in the act of stepping back to get an underhold on a second , when he fell into the elevator shaft and was instantly killed . A defect in the mechanism of the elevator had caused it to be set in motion ; the safety gates , which were designed to drop automatically as the elevator rose , were tied up and failed to operate ; and a widow with two dependent children , one of them an invalid girl , was left destitute . For four years this case bad been in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our jury in behalf of the plaintiff was set aside by the court and the cam remanded for a fourth trial ! The janitor 's widow was in court ? a pathetic , gray little figure . For four days the jury sat listening to witnesses and to the wrangle of attorneys ; the president of the silk company and many of his salaried employees were kept from their work . All to no purpose ! And the irony of the situation was that the president of the defendant company had the best of reputations with his employees ; lie was , indeed , one of the gentlest of then ; he would gladly have settled out of court . But because he might have been ruined in case an explosion or sudden fire , such as is likely to occur in any modern factory , had turned public feeling against him , and the jury had found him guilty , he carried insurance with a liability company ; so that the workman 's widow was compelled to litigate with a third party to whom the dead man had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was to avoid damages . It is this preposterous situation that more than any other created dissatisfaction with the present laws among employers . During the three years 1906-08 the gross premiums received by ten insurance companies authorized to write employers ' liability insurance in New York State amounted to $23,523,585 . But of this huge amount only $8,559,795 went to the injured . " For every $100 , " says Governor Hughes 's commission , " paid out by employers for protection against liability to their injured workmen , less than $37 is paid to those workmen ; $63 goes to pay the salaries of attorneys and claim agents , whose business it is to defeat the claims of the injured , to the costs of soliciting business , to the costs of administration , and to profit . " And to add to the perversity of this tragic injustice , at least one-fifth of the time of all the courts of the State is taken up with the adjudication of accident eases ! Such are the fruits of the employers ' liability laws in the great majority of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indefinitely patient before such an indictment . As THE WELF the findings of the New York and other commissions were published , each of our important industrial groups took cognizance of the growing evil and either sought or demanded a remedy . But the conflicting judgments of the three principal groups as to the wisest remedial course to pursue has proved an almost insuperable obstacle to legislative progress . First there are those who may be classified as employers of the first magnitude , such as the United States Steel Corporation and the Standard Oil and International Harvester companies . These great concerns , with their colossal resources , have become laws unto themselves , and do not encourage legislative interference . They feel able to solve their own problems without State intervention . The International Harvester Company , for example , has worked out a system of workmen 's compensation and old-age insurance which , so far as the Company 's own servants are concerned , has many admirable points . Its object , as announced by the company , is " to insure to employees at the works , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the railroads , prompt , definite , and adequate compensation for injuries resulting from accidents occurring to them while engaged in the performance of their duties ; and also to provide compensation to the widow , children , and relatives who may be dependent on any employee whose death results from such accident . " The company undertakes , without any contribution from its employees , to pay in case of death three years ' average wages , " but not less than $1,500 nor more than $4,000 . " Special compensation is provided for loss of hand , foot , or eye ; and , in case of other injuries , " one-fourth wages during the first thirty days of disability , and , if disability continues beyond thirty days , one-half wages during continuance thereof , but not for more than one hundred and four weeks after the date of the accident . Thereafter , if total disability continues , a pension will be paid . " Small contributions are required of employees toward the payment of compensation during the first thirty clays of disability ; hot this slight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solely that " every employee shall be financially interested in guarding against accident . " The United States Steel Corporation operates a similar compensation system , and the Standard Oil Company , while maintaining no separate accident department , avoids litigation by the pa , ) uient of compensation as each case arises on a basis that , so far as one may judge from the infrequency of damage suits , is acceptable to the company 's employees . But against such systems as that of the International Harvester Company both the employers of lesser magnitude and the great body of workmen outside of the company 's jurisdiction object rigorously . The members of the National Association of Manufacturers , for instance , while no less ready than the employers of the first magnitude to recognize the generally existing evils and no less desirous of remedying them , consider the scale of compensation lavish and beyond the means of all but the wealthiest employers . Moreover , they condemn the exemption of the employees from contribution as both unjust and unwise . Referring to the non-contributory system of the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insurance sar-castically observes : " In these days of wholesale denunciation of some large interests , it may be good policy to win public favor by giving more than can legally or justly be demanded . However , it would be poor wisdom to force by compulsory law upon the hundreds of thousands of employers What does not properly belong there . Such action would be hasty legislation , unwise experiment . ' " The association advocates legislation looking to the abrogation of the workman 's present common-law right of suit , and the substitution therefor of a system of mutually contributory insurance automatically providing indemnity for victims of industrial accidents and their dependents through a mutual insurance concern organized and controlled by the manufacturers . The workmen 's objections rest on entirely different grounds . At a convention in New York City the representatives of some hundreds of thousands of organized men and women unanimously registered their dissent . Their attitude was tersely expressed to me by Mr. James P. Boyle , a delegate of the Brooklyn Central Labor Union . Mr. Boyle had in mind certain phrases used in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the National Civic Federation . " The Harvester Company went into these enterprises in a purely business spirit . " one speaker said , " believing that the plans would so knit its vast organization together , would so strengthen and develop the esprit de corps , as to increase business and earnings . " And referring specifically to the company 's profitsharing plans , the same speaker observed : " It will be seen that this offers the men an exceedingly satisfactory form of investment in the business in which they are employed , and gives to the company the great advantage of anchoring its organization to the business . " This phrase , anchoring its organization to the business , Mr. Boyle applied to the company 's entire scheme of welfare work . " In other words , " he protested , " they want men chained to the shops , as they were once chained to the land by feudalism . This is an economic danger . Organization ? to which the Harvester Company , like the Steel Corporation , is relentlessly opposed ? and mobility of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We want no far-reaching and deep-laid schemes that will prevent the free movement of our workers to get better conditions and wages . " This was a characteristic expression . But while the workers joined their criticism of the private insurance and compensation systems of the great companies to that of the lesser employers , they demanded precisely that system of compulsory State compensation which the manufacturers of the National Association denounced as " hasty legislation , unwise experiment . " Such are the more important views whose conflict has hampered legislative progress . In many States the clashing of opposed interests has prevented all remedial legislation ; in others it has held legislation to partial and by no means effective modifications of the prevailing liability laws . But in certain States the Welfare War has already re sulted in elective compensation laws under which employers and employees have the privilege of substituting legally fixed scales of compensation for the capricious awards of wasteful litigation ; in Minnesota compensation has been made compulsory ; and in Washington , as I have already pointed out , the unprecedented conflict has issued in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington law is undoubtedly the most comprehensive , the most practicable , and the wisest that has yet been enacted in this country ; its insurance provision follows the best European experience and has the almost universal sanction of disinterested experts ; no law so far passed so clearly reveals the drift of American legislation relative to industrial accidents . Some appreciation of what that drift has been is essential to an appreciation of the Washington law . At common law , in the United States as in England , the legal relations of master and servant did not differ ' , before the year 1837 , from the ordinary legal relations of strangers , and there were no special rules governing employers ' liability . If one person suffered injury solely through another 's negligence , he might recover damages in such amount as the jury might decree , whether he was an employee or not . In 1837 , however , the common law was modified by a judicial decision that has borne with increasing severity upon workmen as the hazards of industry have been increasingly complicated by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The FellowServant Rule , as this judicial modification of the common law is ordinarily called , was created by Lord Abinger in the English Court of Exchequer . The case was surrounded by the simple industrial atmosphere of the times , and the facts it involved are in curious contrast with those to which Lord Abinger 's reasoning has since been applied . A butcher 's helper , injured through the carelessness of a wagon-driver hired by his master . sued for damages . Lord Abinger held that it would be absurd to hold the master-butcher responsible for the injuries suffered by his helper at the hands of a fellow-servant. lf the master be liable to the servant in this action , " said he , " the principle of that liability will be found to carry us to an alarming extent . . . . The master , for example , would be liable to the servant for the negligence of the chambermaid for putting him into a damp bed ; for that of the upholsterer for sending in a crazy bedstead , whereby be was made to fall down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cook in not properly cleaning the copper vessels in the kitchen . " How different were the conditions surrounding the decision in which , only a few years later , Lord Abinger 's fellowservant rule was engrafted upon the common law in America ! The plaintiff in this case was a trainman , crippled in a railroad accident . The evidence traced his injury to the negligence of a fellow-servant , a switchman , and ChiefJustice Shaw . of the Massachusetts courts , following Lord Abinger 's reasoning , held the railroad company relieved of responsibility , and declared that the trainman had no ground for recovery . This was in 1842 . Since then the fellow-servant rule has settled into rigid precedent . The range of its later application is shown by a decision of the Georgia Supreme Court rendered in 1890 . A lineman , while repairing a wire for an electric light and power company of Savannah , was killed through the act of the engineer in turning on the current . The city court of Savannah gave damages to the widow . The superior court , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineer and the lineman were , indeed , employed by different departments and were not collaborating at the time of the fatality , they were none the less fellow-servants . The doctrine of the Assumption of Risk has shared with the fellow-servant Yule the responsibility of concentrating the burden of modern industrial accidents upon the injured employee . It , too , is an emanation of judicial reasoning . The broad provisions of the common law are that the employer must provide his employee with a reasonably safe place to work , with reasonably safe tools and appliances , and that he must exercise reasonable care in hiring agents and servants it for their work . These eonditions having been met by the employer , the employee is held to assume the further risks incident to his occupation . But tho inhibitions of the doctrine strike still deeper . If the employee knows of defects in his machine or appliances , though these defects arise from neglect or fault of the employer amounting even to violation of the positive requirements of a statute , and the workman , having such knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ An interesting case in point is that of Gillen . vs. the Patten and Sherman Railroad Company . The plaintiff , while uncoupling cars , had his foot crushed in an unfilled frog , and had been awarded damages in the court of original jurisdiction . A motion for a new trial was argued before the Supreme Judicial Court of - Maine , and was granted . The decision , delivered by , Tudge Lueilins A. Emery , acknowledged the existence of a statute requiring the filling or blocking of guard rails or frogs on all railways before January 1 , 1890 . Judge Emery held , however , that such filling was not immediately mandatory upon a railroad constructed after that date ; that such company was entitled to a reasonable time for compliance with the statute ; and that the trainman had no right to assume that the rails were filled even though the statute said they should be . The brakeman , therefore , not only assumed the risk which resulted in his injury , but he was also guilty of contributory negligence , since " to move about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even in moving trains , without taking any thought of the frogs and guard rails , or as to where he may be stepping , is negligence on his part contributing to the catching his foot in them . " In the drift toward compensation and State insurance , these two " defenses have been the first objects of attack . As early as 1853 , Georgia abrogated the fellow-servant rule as a defense for railroad companies . In 1901 Colorado removed this defense from all employers . During the past three years both defenses have yielded rapidly to hostile public opinion . In a number of instances their abrogation has been used as a means of inducing employers to come under the provisions of elective compensation laws . In Wisconsin , for example , a law has just been passed providing a fixed scale of compensation as the legal basis for contractual arrangements between employers and employees . Fearing that if the payment of compensation were made compulsory , the law might be held unconstitutional as depriving the employers of property without due process of law , the State makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If the workmen accept , they waive their common-law right of suit . If the employers fail to accept , they are deprived of the defenses of the fellow-servant rule and the doctrine of assumption of risk , leaving them exposed to almost certain defeat in court . By such slow stages the drift of our legislation has culminated in the Washington law , creating a compulsory State insurance . The distinguishing feature of the Washington . law is its provision for the collection of an " accident fund " from the employers of the , State , thus distributing the burden of industrial accidents over the entire industrial organization of the commonwealth . This is in harmony with the best modern experience . The disadvantage of compensation , as compared with State insurance systems , is that in case of sudden catastrophes , such as the Triangle fire in New York , they are likely to impose a ruinous burden upon the individual employer . Moreover , in Great Britain , where what has been accepted as a model compensation law is in force , and where the best stock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be found , it costs a shilling for expenses to get a shilling of benefit to the injured or their dependents . In Norway , Austria , and Germany . on the other hand , where State insurance departments have superseded private stock companies , the expense is in no case more than sixteen per cent . of the net costs , as compared with one hundred per cent : in Great Britain . These are weighty considerations in favor of the Washington State insurance system . But an even more important consideration is the fact that the first of our attempts to enforce compulsory compensation , the New York law of 1910 , has been held unconstitutional by the New York Court of Appeals , whereas there is good reason to believe that the recent decision of the United States Supreme Court upholding the Oklahoma bank-guarantee law will be applied to the Washington law . In the ease of the Noble State Bank of Oklahoma the Supreme Court said : " There is no denying that by this law a portion of plaintiff 's property might he taken without return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Nevertheless , notwithstanding the logical form of the objection , there are more powerful considerations on the other side . . . . It is established by a series of cases that an ulterior public advantage may justify a comparatively insignificant taking of private property for what in its immediate purpose is a private use The police power may be put forth in aid of what is sanctioned by usage or held by prevailing morality or strong and preponderant opinion to be greatly and immediately necessary to the public welfare . " In spite of the fact that the New York Court of Appeals declined to admit the applicability of this reasoning to the compulsory compensation law of that State , great reliance is placed upon it by Mr. W. V. Tanner , State 's Attorney , in his very able brief submitted to the Supreme Court of Washington . For while the New York law placed the entire burden of accident in those trades which it covered upon the individual employer , the Washington law so distributes it as to constitute the " accident fund " a " comparatively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a crane which " prevailing morality and strong and preponderant opinion " holds to be " greatly and immediately necessary to the public welfare . " To keep it well within the police powers of the State , the Washington Legislature limited the compulsory application of the law to a list of " extrahazardous occupations . This list is , however , remarkably comprehensive , and to make its limitations flexible it is provided that " if there he or arise any extra-hazardous occupation or work other than those enumerated , it shall eome-under this act . " The list includes factories , mills , and workshops where machinery is used ; mines and quarries ; logging and lumbering camps , and ship - building yards ; all buildings in course of erection or reconstruction ; telegraph , telephone , and electric light and power plants ; steamboats and railroads . For all occupations not enumerated the provisions of the law are elective . To cover the risk of accidents in these industries all employers affected are required to contribute to the " accident fund " a percentage of their total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to .100 in power-works . But these rates are subject to readjustment by the Legislature in harmony with the relative increase or decrease of hazard as it may be revealed by experience ; for it is the intent of the law " that the fund shall ultimately become neither more nor less than self-supporting , exclusive of the expense of administration , " which is to he borne by the State . The scale of compensation is as remarkable for its modernity as are the general terms of the law . It is especially noteworthy that the benefits are not based , as is customary , upon a percentage of the workman 's average earnings , but upon a careful calculation of the probable minimum needs of the dependents . The determining consideration seems to have been that the object of accident insurance is not to mulct the employer , but to protect the injured and their dependents from pauperism , and especially to safeguard the health and morals of dependent children as future citizens . Characteristic of this division of the law is the following section : " If the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monthly payment . of twenty dollars shall be made throughout the life of the surviving spouse , to cease at the end of the month in which remarriage shall occur ; and the surviving spouse shall also receive five dollars per month for each child of the deceased under the age of sixteen years at the time of the occurrence of the injury until such minor shall reach the age of sixteen years , but the total monthly payment . shall not exceed thirty-five dollars . " And the following sentences from the preamble of the law admirably catch its spirit : " Injuries formerly occasional have become frequent and inevitable . The welfare of the State depends upon its industries , and even more upon the welfare of its wage-workers . The State of Washington , Therefore , exercising its police and sovereign power , declares that all phases of the premises are withdrawn from private controversy , and sure and certain relief for workmen , injured in extra-hazardous work , and their families and dependents , is hereby provided , regardless of questions of fault and to the exclusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the law a suit was brought to test its constitutionality . As in the case of the much less revolutionary New York compensation law , it is possible , though for reasons which I have already given not by any means probable , that the Washington statute may be annulled by the State Supreme Court . But while such an event might lead to the modification or , indeed , to the strengthening of its provisions , there can be little doubt that public opinion would assert itself as it did in New York and demand an empowering constitutional amendment . One of the most dramatic incidents in our Welfare War was the storm of protest that greeted the adverse decision of the New York Court of Appeals . The fervor of this protest is a fair gauge of the intensity with which the Welfare War is being waged . But the issue , though slow of attainment , can not be in doubt . Those countries have progressed most rapidly in industry and civilization where just and adequate laws have anticipated the needless waste and bitterness of litigation over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inevitable injury or death from innocent workmen and their dependents to the broad shoulders of society . Sooner or later we shall he compelled to a similar course by the demands of industrial efficiency . It is hard to be patient with delay due to factional differences of opinion ; and yet one can not escape the inspiration of a conflict which , though carried on at the sacrifice of thousands of unrequited lives , has for its end the establishment in American practice of a new conception of social wisdom and justice .                     