@@466993

working diagram in any form of research is almost invariably a hypothesis which he seeks either to prove or disprove , according to his personal bent of mind . The use of the hypothesis in scientific investigation is to narrow the field of issue , but the history of applied research shows very clearly that the quest of a particular secret has often resulted in an accidental discovery that has proved of more value or interest to humanity than the end originally sought A peculiarly fascinating by-discovery of this kind seems , now , to have been achieved in the field of psychical research that has been so diligently , if a trifle amateurishly , cultivated for the past forty years or so in America and Europe . In this case the covering hypothesis that was always before the minds of the investigators was the age-old problem of man 's survival after bodily death . Many people believe that the proof of this survival is now demonstrable . Sir Oliver Lodge , for example , has stated without hesitation that he is convinced not only of the immortality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communication between the material world and that of the discarnate . With that issue , however , I am in no way concerned in the present article ; and I want to insist very strongly that for the purposes of a certain limited inquiry which is without question of the most vital interest to mankind in general , it is advisable , if not essential , to disregard in the first instance the applicability of this research to the proof or disproof of the larger hypothesis . The chief reason for separating this specialized issue from the embracing problem of man 's immortality is that we shall thereby be enabled to obtain the help of investigators who would other-wise either refuse their co-operation or concede it in a prejudiced spirit . The professional scientist is in some particulars one of the most biased of all workers , inasmuch as he is prejudiced by his fear of prejudice . And if this side inquiry is to be successfully undertaken , we require both the services and the influence of the physicist and the chemist . The whole research , which is beset @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an impartial and strictly scientific spirit . We already have a basis of documentary evidence , and I firmly believe that the near future will provide us with many more of those subjects who alone can furnish us with the exceedingly sensitive material which is the single means for our experiment . The subject of our inquiry is a form of living matter at present unrecognized by chemist or physicist . Its properties and potentialities , so far as we can infer them from existing evidence , are of a kind for which we have no precedent , nor even a parallel . It is amazingly discrete , mobile , and plastic , yet it is capable of a rigidity and power enormously greater in proportion to its apparent mass than that attainable by any known form of muscular energy . And this form of matter has been photographed , handled , weighed , and analyzed . Nevertheless , the scientific world has up to now steadily refused as a whole to consider its existence . We may , however , remember in this connection , that the British Royal Society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the existence of a new force , now known as electricity , when these proofs were submitted to them by Benjamin Franklin . Also that certain members of the same society declined to acknowledge , though they could not mechanically explain , the evidence put before them by Sir William Crookes , as to the powers of influencing material objects without contact , evinced by the medium D. D. Home ; evidence to which I shall have occasion later to refer . Now the proofs for the existence of this strangest of all known form : - of matter arc many , and once we accept the hypothesis of its apparent possibilities , we shall be able to test it in many cases of so-called spiritualistic phenomena which are at present inexplicable under any theory save that of the direct intervention of discarnate spirits . At the same time , it is well to hear in mind that the full acceptance of the theory of this ethereal effluence from the human body will not contradict , but almost certainly confirm the larger hypothesis with reference to survival and direct communication @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this further possibility will inevitably be kept in view by the interested general public , I do plead most earnestly for a present narrowing and intensification of the field of research . If we can make this one advance sure , establishing our contention beyond fear of dispute , we shall not only enlarge our knowledge of life and matter , but we shall have taken a great step toward the solution of those deeper mysteries that surround the problems of Consciousness , of Will , and of Personal Survival . prom the growing body of more or less relevant evidence , convincing in the aggregate , but relatively worthless in itself , I purpose to select for present purposes various pieces of testimony that seem to me to exclude all possibilities of conscious fraud . The first of these is contained in the work of Prof. Emile Boirac , Rector of Dijon University , and consists of certain experiments in hypnotism described by him in his book , La Psychologic Inconnue , ' published in the earlier years of this century . These experiments were conducted by Doctor Boirac largely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ School of hypnotism that all the phenomena were due to suggestion . Incidentally Doctor Boirac seems to have gone some way toward his immediate object , but he has , in my opinion , failed signally to uphold his own theory ( dat- 1 An English translation by Dudley Wright , entitled Psychic Science , was published in London by William Rider &; Son , last year.ing back to the days of Mesmer and Doctor Braid ) of " animal magnetism . " The evidence of these experiments for present purposes is somewhat indirect , but it seems advisable to use it as a basis , founded as it is on quite exceptional authority ; and I will cite three cases which have a certain bearing on the general hypothesis . ( It is well to note that in every instance , except the first , the hypnotized subject was scientifically blindfolded and that the experiments were conducted in absolute silence . ) In the first example Doctor Boirac found his young servant , Jean M. , a boy of fifteen , asleep on his bed with the door open . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stretched out on his bed , fully dressed , his head in the corner opposite the door , his arms crossed on his chest , his legs placed one across the other , and his feet lying lightly off the bed . The thought came to me to make an experiment . Standing on the landing , about three vards away , I extended my right hand in the direction of , and at the ? height of , his feet . After a minute or two ( probably less , a few seconds only ) , I slowly raised my hand , and , to my great surprise , I saw the sleeper 's feet rise and follow the ascending movement of my hand in the air . I repeated the experiment three times , and the phenomenon was reproduced three times with regularity and the precision of a physical phenomenon . " The second example is furnished by what Doctor Boirac calls an experiment in the " externalization of sensibility . " In this case a very sensitive subject ? Gustave P. ? was found to suffer a complete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the body , above which , at a distance of one or two inches , the experimenter , M. Boirac , held his hand for a period varying from five to ten minutes . This local anesthesia was so absolute that the subject gave no evidence of pain when the skin was pinched or pricked with a needle . But when the apparently empty air , half an inch or more above the surface of the anesthetized patch , was pricked with a needle , he responded instantly with a cry of pain . The third case is somewhat similar and relates to the detail of an experiment in which the subject was put en rapport with a glass of water by holding it in his hand for some eight or ten minutes . When this glass was taken from him and carried to the farther end of the room , he responded instantly , giving signs of marked discomfort whenever a needle was plunged into the water . My second piece of testimony relates to direct evidence concerning this unknown form of matter , the theory of which was boldly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his book , The Reality of Psychic Phenomena . ' In this instance the experiments , more than eighty in all , were conducted by Doctor Crawford with the help of the Goligher family in Belfast , the greater number of them in the Goligher 's house , but a few in Doctor Crawford 's own rooms . The main test in this series of sittings was made by Doctor Crawford in connection with the levitation of a table weighing between ten and eleven pounds . This table rose sometimes a foot or more into the air without contact ? that is to say , that while the members of the family sat round , but not very close to , the table , none of them laid his or her hand upon any part of it . This table was sometimes suspended in the air for eight or nine minutes , and the resistance offered by it was so great that Doctor Crawford was unable to force it to the ground . As the investigation proceeded Doctor Crawford submitted this phenomenon to a very drastic and interesting variety of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principal medium , Miss Goligher , on the seat of a weighing-machine during the sittings , and made a careful record of the variations of the index scale . The result of this experiment proved quite conclusively over a large number of trials that the medium gained approximately , but never quite exactly , the added weight of the table during its period of levitation . His next essay was to estimate the lateral force exerted by the table against resistance , and for this purpose he introduced various mechanical devices . From the I Published in the United States by E. P. Dutton &; Co. ? figures thus obtained he found that the easiest , if not the only , way to satisfy the equation was on the assumption that a cantilever of unknown material was projected from the body of the medium Another experiment made in the course of these sittings had reference to the changes of weight manifested by Miss Goligher -- -who was again seated in the scales ? during the production of the " raps " which she could cause to sound in various parts of the room @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to very considerable noises such as could only be caused by a fairly violent concussion . The results of these tests were particularly interesting , since they showed that Miss Goligher lost weight at the moment the sound was made , in apparently direct proportion to the violence of the " rap . " Thus when the heaviest recorded rap was given , Doctor Crawford registered a momentary loss of weight on the part of the medium of about thirty pounds.2 A third phenomenon , produced during the same series of seances , was the impression of an image on a matrix of soft wax , laid upon the table at some little distance from , and out of normal reach of , the medium . The most remarkable of these impressions was that of a fingerprint , agreeing in every respect with an average human fingerprint , save in the one particular that it was some three ? times larger than could have been produced by the finger of any person present . . My third and most amazing piece of testimony is that afforded by the experiments carried on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Baron Doctor von Schrenck-Notzing and Madame Bisson . The record of them is contained in two books . The first is in German , published in Munich , in 1914 , under the title of **25;385;TOOLONG , " by Schrenck-Notzing . The second ( in French by Mme. Juliette Alexandre Bisson , and called Les Phinominer dits de Materialization " ) was , curiously enough , also put out in the year 1914 by the Libraire Felix Alcan in Paris . I should note that I have not Doctor Craw-ford 's book before me as I write . The figures given , however , are in no case an ourr-statement . So far no translation of either book has been published in England , nor , I believe , in America . The bona fides of these two experimenters is unquestionable , but it is as well to anticipate expert criticism by adding that the medium ' referred to as " Eva , " in the two works cited , was the Marthe Beraud , who came under suspicion of deliberate cheating some years before in Algiers . She was at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigated by representatives of the English Society for Physical Research . As the result of this inquiry the charge of fraud was held to be unproved ; but in view of the tests imposed during the Paris sittings , I should attach little weight to the medium 's previous record , even if the charge had been made good . There can , indeed , be no question that far too much importance is attached by critics of psychical phenomena to this proof of deliberate fraud perpetrated both by professional and volunteer mediums on certain occasions . When their powers fail them they become desperate the great majority of them having a curious , slightly morbid pride in their own faculties . But when they do resort to fraud they are almost invariably detected . The case of Eusapia Palladino , who was caught cheating at the famous Cambridge ( England ) seance , and also by the late Hugo Miinsterberg in America , is the classical case in this connection . I believe , however , that despite these temporary failures Eusapia produced genuine phenomena on occasion ; and I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case I am now trying to make good because her reputation has been so often attacked . If an author of repute found his powers failing in an emergency , and engaged a literary " ghost " to write an article for him , we should no doubt lose something of our respect for that author if the fraud were discovered . But we could not , on that account , throw suspicion on all his earlier genuine work , nor would the fraud alter the value of anything he might write after his recovery . I repeat that far too much insistence is laid on this charge of cheating made against She was not a professional and gave her services throughout chiefly to please Madame Sisson. mediums . Let us admit at once that the tendency is there , and do our utmost to guard against it in all our experiments ; but if we approach this most delicate of all inquiries in a spirit of blind prejudice we can not expect to get results . Should we have ever flown if Lilienthal or the Wright brothers had begun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a heavier than air machine ? Returning to the Paris sittings , I maintain in this relation that any possible suspicion thrown on the early history of Marthe Beraud is irrelevant in view of the tests made and the precautions taken by von Schrenck-Notzing and Madame - Bisson . In many cases the medium was quite nude when the phenomena were produced ; in some others she was dressed in black tights ; many of the sittings were held in Madame Bisson 's own house , and often without giving . previous notice to the medium that she would he called upon to assist , at a seance . The light during the production of the phenomena was a subdued red ( to which , however , the eyes of the experimenter rapidly becomes accustomed , as every photographer knows ) , but all the photographs ( more than one hundred and fifty are reproduced in each of the two works cited ) were taken by the light of one or more powerful magnesium flashes when the materializations had reached a stage at which results were obtainable . It should be mentioned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same time about the medium , so that , on the whole ? even excluding further precautions , one of which I shall have occasion to refer to later ? the test conditions must be admitted to have been unusually drastic . Now , the phenomena produced by Marthe Beraud were almost exclusively confined to the production of the new form of matter which is the subject of this article . It was produced more frequently from her mouth , but occasionally ? as is inferred in the Crawford series ? from the regions on either side of the abdomen , or from the neck and shoulder . This matter passed without the least difficulty through a tulle veil completely enveloping the medium 's head . ( This was the further test mentioned in the last paragraph . ) Von SchrenckNotzing was permitted by Marthe Beraud to touch this effusion on one or two occasions without any ill effect on the medium ; although this contact gave her considerable pain and immediately terminated the sitting when an attempt was made to seize the extruded material without her permission . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was described as cold and clammy ? that is , definitely moist . In appearance , when not built up into the forms presently to be described , it shows in the photographs as whiter than the background of the medium 's bare flesh and convoluted , or pleated , somewhat as the albumen of an egg looks when dribbled into boiling water . Some of it was finally collected in a small box and submitted to an expert analyst . When the box was opened two or three drops of moisture were all that could be obtained , and on analysis this liquid was shown to consist mainly of cell detritus , highly bacterial , with vestiges of other organic compounds . In my opinion , however , beyond the proof obtained that this material was truly organic and not a part of some apparatus privily introduced by the medium , this analysis only seems to show that the matter had undergone rapid decomposition before it was tested . Somewhat similar results were obtained with drops of moisture collected from the dress of the medium and other sources after the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case there was clear evidence of an organic basis , although in some of the analyses some of the cell tissue had more analogy to vegetable ? fungoid tissues are mentioned ? than to animal structure . This analysis , also , proved fairly conclusively that the moisture was not a familiar by-product of the human body . It had , for example , none of the characteristics of the saliva , perspiration , or other natural excretion . Now , even if the production of this material had gone no farther than to furnish this evidence , the phenomenon Nould have been important enough to lemand recognition ; but , indeed , the materializations that were afterward presented add enormously to the my stery . For after beginning with the simple production , the medium was presently able ? by what agency it is not our immediate purpose to inquire -- to build this matter extruded ( or drawn ? ) from her own body into a remarkable variet y of forms . At first a finger was shaped at the apex of an otherwise formless mass ; then followed the flat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only heads and faces , but the whole appearance of a human being , greater in height than the medium herself , was momentarily created out of this primordial cell-stuff . Some of these faces , in the photographs , have a curious air of the unearthly . They float about the medium 's body , sometimes superimposed upon her , at others slightly behind her , or clear and apparently detached , above her head . One of them was a readily recognizable portrait of the late M. Bisson , and it is particularly worthy of notice that it represented him at a much earlier age than that at which he could have been known by Marthe Beraud . Another simulated the well-known picture of Mona Lisa . And in these representations , which were sometimes as unfinished as an incomplete plasticine model , the more perfect examples reproduced , both in appearance and structure , all the detail of the human organism . In one case a lock of hair was by permission cut from the head of one of these temporary incarnations known as " Estelle " ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ordinary human hair ; but when compared under the microscope with hair taken from the head of the medium , differed very obviously from the latter under microscopic observation both in its superficial corrugations and in longitudinal section . The expert noticed , moreover , that in treating the test specimens with warm sulphuric acid , the hair from Marthe Beraud 's head decomposed into its elements far more quickly than did " Estelle 's " hair when submitted to the same test . Also , Marthe 's hair fell into its elements very beautifully , while " Estelle 's " hair in decomposing showed a partial decomposition of its elements a3 well . This fact points to a difference in the chemical composition Of substance that does not occur in one and the same individual . I may add that in June and July , 1911 , von Schrenck-Notzing obtained and photographed in Munich more or less parallel phenomena while working with a Polish medium referred to as Stanislawa P. In this case opportunity did not allow of his pushing the experiments as far as was possible in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given show precisely the same appearances in the extruded matter and in the first beginnings of form-building ? in this instance again , a flat representation of the human hand . This brief summary of the facts , so far as they are known to us , is necessarily incomplete . There is no space in a magazine article to examine at any length the detail of the evidence . The Schrenek-Notzing volume alone is a quarto of over five hundred pages . But I think that enough has been said to prove that we have irrefutable testimony concerning a physical phenomenon , at present unrecognized by science , and of the very first importance to the understanding of our own being . If the Marthe Beraud demonstration was an isolated case , we might well regard it as some kind of miracle ; but even without the valuable corroboration afforded by the Crawford-Goligher experiments in Belfast- , we have before us a whole body of lesser results in the records of psychical research , all clamoring , as it were , for the explanation which this new theory of matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would , for example , explain these demonstrations by Sir William Crookes of the apparently miraculous powers of the medium , D. D. Home . In that experiment the pan of a balance was made to move without visible contact , in a manner so marked and deliberate that the fact could not be disputed , although no physical explanation was forthcoming . But granting that this ethereal effluence of our subject is invisible to the human eye in certain conditions ? a postulate that may safely be made in view of the evidence ? that feat of Home 's was a very small ? affair . Far more difficult to explain are the accepted phenomena of hypnotism , such as those described by Doctor Boirac . But what we have first to consider in this case is the peculiar condition of the subject . He is admitted , by general consent , to be in a state of extraordinary sensitive rapport with the hypnotist . But granting that , and taking into consideration the theoretical mobility and extensibility of this ethereal matter , it does not strain our hypothesis in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ material means of communication between the experimenter and his subject . The Marthe Beraud case goes to show that the extruded material when touched conveys the sensation of pain to the medium , and this is only another aspect of the " externalization of sensibility " commented upon by Doctor Boirac . Again , it is fairly evident that this new theory of ours covers most admirably a large group of phenomena , familiar to us now for half a century or more , presented by the reports of spiritualistic seances . If we were compelled to adduce any single instance of such a seance in proof , we should inevitably have to admit that the evidence was , to say the least of it , inconclusive . The very best cases are open to suspicion . But in the mass , I claim that they furnish excellent corroboration , if only by reason of the fact that the effects produced are so consistently , so almost tediously , the same . Nevertheless , the touch of a cold and clammy substance , the levitation of a table , the movements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the writing on slates , are just such results as could be accomplished most easily by the instrument we are hypothecating . While regarded as the work of spirits , they have always repelled the more thoughtful investigator as being unworthy of a discarnate intelligence . Under our hypothesis we may provisionally assume the source of instigation to be either the medium 's subconsciousness or that of one or more of the sitters ; and from what we know of the workings of the subconscious , we need not be surprised to find that the effects are either frivolous or mischievous . And now ler us review the evidence at present before us with regard to the structure of this new form of matter . The essential difference between it and any other known form seems primarily to rest on the observation that it is not subject to the limitation that governs all other recognized forms of material presentations , the limitation that may be summed up in the single word habit . All organic cell structures that have hitherto been examined by us reproduce with almost perfect regularity the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conform to a rule of specialized grouping that produces the same modes of cohesion and arrangement , and hence the same effect . In the human organism , the various tissues , whether of skin , muscle , bone , nerve , may be transferred from one part of the body to another , but when they take root in the new position they follow the rule of their life habit and reproduce new skin , muscle , bone , or nerve , according to their respective and unalterable tendencies . They breed true , in fact . Their method of molecular arrangement in relation to one another is adapted to perform a particular function and , with a few minor ex-ceptions , the original mode or habit that has been imposedupon them marks , in effect , their limit of adaptability . But if we are to accept the evidence of the experiments previously cited , this new form of matter is adaptable to a degree for i which we can find no prece-dent . It s , in the first place , amazingly discrete . It can pass through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liquid , yet it is capable of such rigidity that it can , according to Doctor Crawford , lift a table over ten pounds in weight on the end of a long cantilever , and maintain that weight for a period of more than ten minutes . ( What powers of energy and endurance are necessary for this feat may be tested by any one who attempts to hold such a weight for a like period at the end of an extended arm or leg . ) Again , this primordial cell-stuff of ours is capable of very remarkable extension . In the Paris seances its extremity was never more than four or five feet from its place of origin ; but in the Belfast experiments Miss Goligher produced raps at the far ends of the room . lot . CXXXVIII ? No. 825. - 102More remarkable still is the amazing mutability which it shows . It can be built rapidly not only into diverse forms , but into such apparently permanent structures as a human hair . In what may be called its simple state , the appearance of which I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water , it presents superficially a certain form of structure , having , incidentally , a high power of reflection . When built into the likeness of a human face it reproduces all the characteristic differences of structure , and absorbs light or reflects it , according to the nature of its various parts . Thus the photographs accurately present in some of the materializations not only the familiar gleam of light from the iris , but also the blackness of the hair and the dulness of the inorganic wrappings that are also momentarily created out of this extraordinarily adaptable cell-stuff . Lastly , in this particular relation , we are faced with the mystery that this mobile , ethereal substance is subject to command . Whether this command is given by the wish ( or will ) of the operators or by an unknown exterior agency is not of present importance . What we have to consider is that the substance , whatever it is , is drawn temporarily from a living body , and takes a special , experimental shape at will , before returning to its place of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to find the one drastic law to which this new matter invariably conforms . There is , in these experiments , a slight loss of weight to the medium according to Doctor Crawford , but it is not certain ' to what this loss is due . And we have good ground for supposing that if any large quantity of the extruded matter were permanently separated from the body of the medium , she would probably die . We have here , then , what is surely the profoundest problem that was ever posed to physicist or chemist . If the testimony of these observers is confirmed by further research , we shall require an explanation of the fact that here is a form of matter , visible , tangible , ponderable , analyzable , and exceedingly powerful in its actions on grosser material , conforming in these " and various other respects to all the other presentations of matter with which we are familiar ; yet with a difference so great that it transcends the points of likeness , as the conception of God transcends our knowledge of man . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have through all time posed the idea of matter as the contradiction of spirit . It is the pliable , primitive basis of creation ; able to take any form at a wish , yet in its essence untransformable . And we can not for one moment suppose that the possession of this ethereal base of the human body is peculiar to one or two exceptional individuals . If we accept the fact of its existence in the bodies of Miss Goligher , Marthe Beraud , Stanislawa P. , or any other " medium , " i we must assume , also , that it is present in the same form in the bodies of all of us . Its manifestations are almost certainly amazingly various . But what are its functions in the living organism we can not as yet even hazard or guess . Many further experiments conducted on the most matter-of-fact and scientific lines will be necessary before we can even begin to relate this development to the problems of biology . I began with a preliminary explanation regarding the uses of hypothesis in this connection , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . My point is that all future investigations of this particular phenomenon should be conducted in order to test the restricted hypothesis , and need not involve any overriding theory regarding the possible function of discarnate spirits in the production of this new form of matter . I have already given one reason for recommending that restriction ; but apart altogether from the possible advantage of conciliating the professional scientists by confining the immediate scope of the inquiry , the real purpose of those who are convinced believers in the manifestation of a spiritual agency will be more quickly and convincingly served by establishing , on an indisputable basis , the solid fact of this extraordinary phenomenon . If the further theory is found essential it may follow in due course , but let us in the first place make perfectly certain of our facts .                     