@@465943

IT has been intimated in a previous article that in the strictest and , it may be added , in the only really proper sense of the term , an Americanism is a word or phrase naturally used by an educated American which under similar conditions would not be used by an educated Englishman . The emphasis , it will be seen , lies on the word " educated ! ' To set off the speech of the illiterate American against the speech of the cultivated Englishman is as unscientific as it would be to set off the speech of the London cockney against that of the cultivated American . Comparison of the usage of two different countries can properly be made only between members of the same social class . Furthermore , this definition of Americanism needs another limitation , so far as these particular articles are concerned . They arc in general given up to - the consideration of the words and phrases found in the written tongue and not in the one spoken . In every country the colloquial speech of the most cultivated embraces a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same men would permit themselves to use in the printed page . Even he who is the most reckless in writing would never think of assuming to himself there a liberty of expression , not to call it license , which he indulges in unhesitatingly in conversation . The two general principles which hare just been laid down are subject to certain modifications . Here , however , it is only important to say that the discussion of the subject is restricted to the written speech of educated men on both sides of the Atlantic . As a result , slang , vulgarisms , colloquialisms , and the grammatical blunders of the illiterate ? which last are apt to be the same in all countries ? do not come under considerstion . This is not because all the terms excluded are in themselves unimportant . The language of low life is often picturesque and forcible . It is from that quarter that the literary language not infrequently recruits its own exhausted energies . But until such expressions have become embodied in the classical speech they have to be disregarded by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as these narrow largely the field to be covered . It is far , indeed , from being extensive . The truth is , the moment we give up the consideration of terms necessary to depict American scenery and American life , manners , and customs ? for which no equivalents exist ? we have , comparatively speaking , but a beggarly account of words to bring out sharply the differences of educated speech as found on the two sides of the Atlantic . Furthermore , these differences tend to become fewer with the increase of intercommunication . Still they exist . One cause for divergence of speech was inevitable in the nature of things . The American continues to retain words and meanings of words which were in frequent , if not in general use , both literary and colloquial , when his ancestors left their native land . It is to be kept in mind that a language transported from one country to another is fairly certain to undergo what is technically called an arrest of development . This is especially sure to be the case at periods when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country emigrated from , words once familiar drop gradually out of use . New words are introduced to replace them . Others again change their meaning . Of two words once existing side by side and denoting essentially the same thing , one is taken and the other left . In this DIFFERENCES IN ENGLISH AND AMERICAN USAGE 275 movement of speech the transferred language has little or no part . Not only are the words which have been brought over retained ; they are retained in their original sense . Hence in time the language of the colony as contrasted with that of the mother-country tends to seem , if not to be , archaic to the dwellers in the latter . Such a result has been distinctly manifest in the language of this country . Many of our so-called Americanisms represent the English usage of the former half of the seventeenth century , when the original settlements were made here . Most of this class of transported words were heard then everywhere in cultivated speech . On the other hand , some had their native home in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ literature , at least on any scale worth considering . But brought over to America , they became here part of the common tongue . Take one notable illustration . Cracker , as the designation of a thin , hard biscuit , is widely used with us by all classes . Now this term is not entirely unknown to English literature , but it can not be said to have in it any recognized position . In the dialects of northern England and in parts of Scotland it is , however , not infrequent . From those quarters it was in all probability brought to America . Here it has come into general if not into universal use . Very few , indeed , are the instances in which either the transported word or the meaning of it has died out in England itself . It is used at times ; but still it is heard there so little , and so frequently beard here , that on both sides of the Atlantic it comes to be considered as a distinctive mark of American speech . No reader of Shakespeare needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense of " angry . " When Hotspur tells Henry IV . that the popinjay lord who had been sent to demand his prisoners made him mad , he makes use of an expression likely to be heard at any moment from the mouth of an . American . Very noticeable , too , upon the speech of this country has been the influence of the Bible , the main reading of the early New England colonists . For instance , the authorized version uses the adjective ill half a score oftimes , but it never uses it of any bodily ailment . There is also in it no mention of illness . In both cases it is sick and sickness that are invariably found ; and they are found very often . The same Image is generally characteristic of Shakespeare also . Ill , referring to physical indisposition , is employed by him about a dozen times , while sick , in the same general sense , can be found over a hundred . This practice remains with us . Though ill is used , it is not used so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mother-country ; for English speech , at least English colloquial speech , has largely abandoned the once general employment of sick . It practically limits it to sickness of the stomach . Or take again a common use of the adjective homely , as applied to personal appearance . The Bible has not the word at all in any sense . In this particular sense Shakespeare has it but three times . But when we reach a little later period it is a natural inference that such meaning must have been very prevalent . Otherwise Milton could hardly have represented Comus as saying : This now regular usage in America has never died out in England . It can be found in various later authors . But though surviving there , it has little of the vigorous life this meaning of the word retains here . Accordingly , so employed it may be called an Americanism . It is almost needless to observe that the limitation of the differences between English and American usage , not merely to the speech of the educated , but to their written speech , restricts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of words . Yet few as these are , they are too many to be treated in the pages of a magazine . Accordingly it is only for the sake of illustrating and enforcing principles that examples are adduced . Some idea can be got of their character , however , by the examination of two words , one a noun and the other an adjective . Where an Englishman says autumn , the American generally says fall . Both terms have , indeed , been more or less in use in the two countries ; but the frequency of the employment of the latter on this side of the ocean and its infrequency on the other entitle it to the right of being designated as an Americanism . The variation of usage extends even to the meaning . In popular speech autumn comprises in England the months of August , September , and October ; in America it comprises September , October , and November . This difference of signification is very possibly due for its continuance , if not for its origin , to difference of climatic conditions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves there is no reason in the nature of things for this particular divergence . Autumn , indeed , is common enough with us ; but though somewhat frequent in literature , it is not often beard in colloquial speech . The exact reverse is true of England , save that there fall is altogether less used than autumn is here . Still fall , though uncommon in England , has never gone out of use , at all events out of literary use . It has turned up occasionally , from the beginning at least of the reign of Elizabeth . Ascham in his Tosophilus , published even before the accession of her predecessor , Mary , divided the year into four seasonsspring-time , summer , fall of the leaf , and winter . It is to be noticed that even spring is not used by him without a limiting noun . Fall of the leaf , as a designation for " autumn , " appears at irregular intervals during all the later periods of modern English down to the latest . In the Pickwick Papers the bagman , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uncle 's great journey was in the fall of the leaf . " This full phrase is perhaps not so common as the simple word itself , as it appears in the not infrequent contrast of spring and fall . Of this no insignificant number of illustrations are to be found in English literature . But the independent employment of the word is the one which concerns us here . It was apparently not often used ; still it was used . In Dryden 's translation of the tenth satire of Juvenal occur the lines : Again , in Congreve 's " Love for Love , " Sir Sampson Legend describes himself . " I 'm none of your forced trees , " he says , " that pretend to blossom in tho fall , and bud when they should bring forth fruit . " Still , unless my own experience has been unfortunate ? and it may have been ? the use of fall is exceedingly rare in the literature of England during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries . Even the few times it occurs it seems ordinarily to appear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " So rare is it , in fact , that when Browning , who is given to linguistic surprises , employs it , in his " Red Cotton Night-cap Country , " without this addition , its presence comes to most of us with something of a sense of surprise . In this same poem , it may be added , he mentions dry goods as a designation of textile fabrics . This expression , though of English origin , is often , perhaps usually , characterized as an Americanism . Browning , however , seems to he unaware of any such attribution . In speaking of the mayor of Saint-Rambert , he says : The other word referred to is the adjective rare , as designating meat partially cooked . The corresponding English term is underdone . The history of the former is essentially the same as that just given of fall . Both rare and underdone are used in the two countries ; in each , one is heard regularly , the other infrequently . Very many absurd derivations have been concocted for the word now generally regarded as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it is quite as distinct in its origin . as in its meaning from the more common term derived from the Latin rants . This our adjective is genuinely Anglo-Saxon . It is to be noted here that a number of words now beginning with the liquids 1 , n , and r once possessed an initial h . Thus loaf was originally hlcif , nut was hnut , roof was hrOf . When the aspirate ceased to be pronounced , our ruthless ancestors , not having the reverential attitude of their descendants toward unnecessary and misleading letters , began their work of ruining the language by incontinently dropping the initial h as having outlived its usefulness . To words of this class belonged our rare . Its original form was firer . In Anglo-Saxon dictionaries it is defined as " raw . uncooked . " Like the rest of its class it also proceeded to treat contumeliously the initial k . In the spellings sere , rear , later rare , it had and continues to have a vigorous existence in certain of the English dialects . To some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the latter , however , it was for a long time mainly used to designate eggs boiled soft . Later it came to the front in a more general sense . Yet in spite of its occasional appearance in literature , it seems to have dropped out of the speech of educated men in England . The contrary is true of America . Apparently it was from the dialects that the word made its way into ordinary use in this country . Yet though rare is now exceedingly common and has been so for a long time , it is a singular fact that it does not appear in Pickering 's early dictionary of Americanisms nor in the much fuller one of Bartlett , though the last edition of the latter 's work came out as late as 1870 . These two examples serve to make clear the nature of the real distinction which exists between the speech of educated men in the two countries . The further distinction between the usage of the cultivated and the uncultivated American has not always been preserved on this side of the Atlantic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own observation goes , rarely is the slightest attention ever paid to it . The results are naturally remarkable . To the student of language there is nothing more edifying , when it is not amusing , than the struggles of the average English writer to represent what he chooses to consider American speech . A sort of conventional lingo has long been established as the correct thing . No educated man on this side of the Atlantic ever thought of using it . Worse than that , even the uneducated never use it as a whole , though scattered words and phrases which occur in it they may occasionally employ . He who familiarizes himself with the language imputed to Americans in English comic papers and English novels comes speedily to observe that a variety of words and expressions has sprung up to represent their speech which has never been actually spoken by any collective body of human beings anywhere , if ever by a single human VOL . CXXVIL ? No. 755. - 35 being . It apparently makes little difference whether the writer has been in this country or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this side of the Atlantic . He goes complacently over the same old ground , introduces the same old words and phrases , and repeats the same old observations . In truth , the representation of American speech found in the Sam , Slick of the Nova-Scotian , Judge Haliburton , or in the novels of the born Canadian , Grant Allen , are , if possible , greater travesties of it than that perpetrated by any purely English author . Belief in this representation of a speech that never was spoken seems to extend to men who might be supposed to be exempt from the ignorance displayed in its concoction . Macaulay , for instance , even as early as 1832 , must have come in contact with some educated Americans . He must have known how they talked . But we find him in that year writing to his sister that he had just received a message from a Yankee . His Yankee , in all probability , was a New-Yorker , who is not a Yankee . The purport of his correspondent 's communication was to ask him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed edition of his works . " T guess , " was Maeaulay 's comment , " that I must answer him slick right away . " These words are to be taken in jest , as they are intended . They are contained in a private letter which the writer could never have expected to see published . Nevertheless they give us a fair conception of the ignorance generally prevailing ; for no American , educated or uneducated , would ever have thought of employing seriously such a collocation of words . It is interesting as showing how naturally a man of Maeaulay 's knowledge and attainments dropped into the conventional phraseology of the English comic papers . It is not impossible that he really fancied that he was using a manner of speech heard somewhere in the United States . An American might as justly have put into Macaulay 's own mouth some such expression as " Get bout of ' ere . " More justly , indeed ; the latter sentence could be heard in England ; his own would have been heard nowhere in this country . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man of Macaulay 's intelligenee and wide observation , little surprise need be felt at the extraordinary mess of linguistic monstrosities perpetrated under the guise of Americanisms by men who lack the knowledge he possessed , but abound in prejudices in which he was lacking . The result is remarkable enough when they set out to represent the speech of American men ; when it conies to represent that of American women , to use Colley Cibber 's phrase , they " outdo their own outdoings . " Exceptions , to be sure , always exist to general rules . By him who is on the lookout for it , grotesque and ungrammatical and vulgar expressions will be heard at times from the lips of inhabitants of every country ; occasionally , too , in quarters where we should least expect it . But it is always the grossest of blunders to pick out the exceptional as the type of the general . In particular , educated women the world over are , as a body , far more scrupulous in the use of language than men of the same class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The fact is doubtless due to the possession by them of greater natural refinement and to the consequent instinctive shrinking from anything bordering on the coarse and vulgar . Hence their comparatively slight addiction to slang or toleration of expressions suggestive of the indelicate or low . All this is true of them on both sides of the Atlantic . But the American woman as depicted in the English novel , especially in that of the minor English novelist , uses the most extraordinary conglomeration of words and phrases that was ever raked together from the highways and byways of colloquial speech . As represented there , she is linguistically one of the most fearful and wonderful creations that the human imagination has ever concocted . She combines in her utterance all the time-worn peculiarities which the British traveler long ago discovered and faithfully reported to his countrymen . Necessarily she speaks through her nose . Certain words and phrases are constantly on her lips . She " guesses " and " fixes " to an extent that would astound those most addicted to the use of the words . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " jest elegant . " As a result of her assumed sensitiveness about employing the word deg , she is invariably particular to substitute for it limb . These and scores of other phrases which have done duty for generations are assumed to adorn her speech on all occasions . If the portrait is drawn from life , one is naturally led to wonder what sort of American women those are who manage to get into reputable English circles ; for it is there that they arc represented as appearing . They certainly could not get into similar circles in their own land . It is , in truth , a libel upon cultivated English society to represent such persons as having effected an entrance into it . The novelists appear to felicitate themselves in all sincerity upon their success in reproducing American speech in the language they put in the mouths of American women . In a certain sense the result may do credit to their imaginative powers , but it is a good deal of a reflection upon their intelligence . There is , however , a measurable palliation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Certain of our own writers are to some extent responsible for them ; none more so perhaps than Lowell. who in his Biglow Papers ravaged all New England in search of quaint words , quaint phrases , quaint colloquialisms. quaint pronunciations , and quaint grammatical peculiarities , and blended them together in one volume of wise and witty sayings . Collectively , however , they have never been used by any single man or in any single community . But more responsible than all others arc probably the compilers of Americanisms , at least the early compilers . In their volumes little or no heed was paid to the distinction between cultivated and uncultivated speech . Furthermore , no sufficient attempt has been made to separate the local from the general . A word entitled to be called an Americanism should have at least an approach to universality . Strictly speaking , it should be familiar to the majority of the people of the country , whether they dwell in the East or in the remote West , in the North or in the South . Nothing of this sort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was hardly even attempted . The peculiarities of small communities , even of individuals , dwelling in different parts of a country stretching over three thousand miles of territory have been jumbled together under one general title of Americanisms . The result is that a curious hodge-podge of words and expressions is attributed to the whole country which no one outside of some particular region could ever comprehend . Now there may he a justification for including all these various sorts of words in a single volume . At least there would he a pretext ; for a vocabulary confined to the speech of the educated class here , so far as it differs from that of England , would make an exceedingly slim volume . Only , in any scientific treatment of the subject , the fact ought to be brought out clearly that while these expressions may represent a form of speech used in different parts of America , they do not characterize the speech of America as a whole . Furthermore , it should be distinctly shown that in any dictionary representing cultivated speech a great deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place as would be the cockneyisms of London or dialectic words and phrases of anywhere in a dictionary representing the speech of the educated class of England . The peculiar difficulty of separating with us the local from the general may be conceded . In no other country does change of residence take place on so grand a scale . A population as restless as the sea-wave is wandering constantly hither and thither . Not only do comparatively few die where they are born , but the distance which separates the cradle from the grave is often the breadth of a continent . It is inevitable under such conditions that peculiar expressions which characterize the speech of one part of the country should be transported to another and frequently a remote part . This involves special labor and difficulty in tracing the original home of many words and phrases , as well as the extent to which they have spread . The task of making a collection satisfactory to the student of language is thereby largely increased . None the less does the duty of so making it remain . Furthermore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increased by the habit of making America responsible for the creation or employment of words to which individuals have taken a dislike . This is a practice which unee prevailed in England on a grand scale . Nor even yet has it disappeared among the prejudiced or ill - informed . Let us take a striking instance . In 1834 Samuel Taylor Coleridge died . In the year following , specimens of his " table-talk " appeared under the editorship of I is nephew , Henry Nelson Coleridge . In that work the poet and philosopher is represented as relieving his mind on a wide variety of topics . It is not to be doubted , as it most assuredly is to be hoped , that his metaphysical utterances rested on a more solid foundation than his linguistic , One instance is given in which he devoted his attention to a word which has caused trouble to generations . " I regret , " said he , " to see that vile and barbarous vocable talented stealing out of the newspapers into the leading reviews and most respectable publications of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , etc. ? The formation of a participle passive from a noun is a license that nothing but a very peculiar felicity can excuse . If mere convenience is to justify such attempts upon the idiom , you can not stop till the language becomes , in the proper sense of the word , corrupt . Most of these pieces of slang come from America . " The expression of opinion in the last sentence about the place of origin of objectionable words was enthusiastically re-echoed by the editor of the work in a note to the passage . They do , " he said , emphatically , " and I dare say since Mr. Washington Irving 's Tour on the Prairies ' ? the best English , on the whole , he has yet written ? we shall have eventuate in the next year 's Annuals . " There is no need to concern ourselves here with the dismal forebodings of the speedy appearance in the Annuals of the verb . It is with the adjective we have to do . Coleridge does not say specifically that this particular formation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ordinary reader to imply it . It has not . however , escaped having its birthplace assigned to this country by others , not because they knew it to be so ? for that they did not know ? but because it seemed satisfactory to have it so . There is , furthermore , no doubt that this particular adjective has been the subject of controversy for generations . Just as there are men , so there are words , which seem born to endure contumely . They are constantly subjected to the hardest sort of buffetings both from the wise and the unwise . One of these unfortunates is talented . like reliable , it has always had a thorny road to travel . Macaulay tells us that he would not use it , first because it was not wanted , and secondly because it is never heard " from those who speak very gond English . " This latter statement , if correct , would be ample justification for not employing it . But the reason that Coleridge gave for his denunciation of it was in no sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ linguistic objection to it . The word contains a plain allusion to the parable of the talents . But in the narrative which Christ delivers to His disciples it is the possessor of plural talents that is honored , not the possessor of the single talent . He is the one who is relegated to the realm of outer darkness . It was to that place many enemies of the derived word would have liked to have both it and its users seTit . Accordingly , from the point of view of its origin , objection to this adjective should be based upon the assumption that it ought to be formed from the plural and not from the singular . That , however , with this ending was practically impossible . But the termination ed added to the noun is in itself perfectly regular . Coleridge 's remark upon such a derivation was nothing but an error springing from his ignorance . He was merely repeating the well-known criticism which Johnson had made in his life of Gray . " There has of late arisen , " wrote Johnson , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ termination of participles ; such as the cultured plain , the daisied bank ; but I was sorry to see in the lines of a scholar like Gray , the honied Spring . " From the general attitude Johnson took to this poet we may well afford to doubt the deep - seatedness of his sorrow . At all events , there was no reason for it ; for ed in such cases is an adjective termination . It is not a participial one , though its form coincides with that of the past participle . Furthermore , it had not lately sprung up , as he asserted ; it goes back to the earliest period of the language . Illustrations of it can be found in writers who flourished centuries before either one of these two censurers of it was horn . It is not surprising that the bigoted Johnson should fail to bear in mind the words of a writer he never loved ; but it is not easy to understand how Coleridge could have forgotten , among other instances , the " sworded seraphim " and the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nativity . " This sort of censure of words in common use wherever English is spoken is due generally to pure ignorance . To the same cause may he attributed the extraordinary conception of the usage prevalent in this country . It is , to be sure , frequently reinforced by prejudice and hostility , the ever-ready guides to credulity and error . But such is not always the case . So far , indeed , from the caricature of American speech being invariably duo to antipathy , it has sometimes been accompanied with warm and almost enthusiastic admiration of the character portrayed . Take the case of Fullalove in Charles Reade 's novel Yard Cash . He is manifestly a special favorite of the author . No small share of time and space is spent in enlarging upon his ability , his energy , and resourcefulness . He is described as engineer , mechanician , inventor , hunter , student , dreamer , and philanthropist . In all emergencies he is found equal to the situation . The language put into his mouth is also invariably entertaining ; linguistically , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the more entertaining to the American reader for the remoteness of the resemblance it hears to anything ever heard in real life . As coming from a man possessed of the intellectual gifts with which Fullalove is credited , it is simply impossible . Yet it is fairly certain that Reade was giving the sort of speech which he honestly believed to be prevalent to a greater or less extent in the United States . It is even more certain that it was a lingo which was never spoken in its entirety by mortal man anywhere .                     