@@487097

Among the Oxford books in Henry Frowde 's list are : " The Memoirs of Sir John Burdon Sanderson , " the work of Lady Burdon Sranderson , who is now dead , completed by J E. Haldane and Miss E. S. Haldane ; the fourth volume of Professor Oman 's " History of the Peninsular War , " and Robert P Porter 's " The Full Recognition of Japan . " The Columbia University Press will soon publish a volume of " New Poems of James I of England , " edited by Dr. Allan F. Westcott More than half of these poems are from a hitherto neglected manuscript in the British Museum , and are now printed for the first time . Forbes Lindsay 's new book on " Cuba and Her People " will be brought out by L. C. Page &; Co. , early in November . Lemcke &; Buechner are to be the American agents for a volume of " Lettres in  --  dites de John Locke b , ses amis Nicolas Thoynard , Philippe van Limborch , et Edward Clarke , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Luther : The Man and His Work " is now announced by the Century , Company for immediate publication Tunis of to-day is the subject of an interesting article by F E , Johnson in the National Geographic Magazine for August With the help of the illustrations one is able to get an idea of the attractions of what is regarded as one of the most beautiful cities of the Orient , a city which in ancient times was one of the principal places in the " granary of the world , " so marvellous was the Roman system of irrigation Prof T. L Blayney 's account of a journey in Morocco enables one to realize the present conditions of this bone of contention , as well as the tremendously difficult problems the French must solve if they undertake its overlordship The starting point was Tangier , the other important places reached being Fez , one of the sacred cities of the Moslem world , and Mequinez An enthusiastic account of the development of Canada and the geographical conditions affecting it is given in the Geographical Journal for October by Prof. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even intimates that in the future it will be the centre of the British Empire , and that London is to be replaced by Winnipeg The well-known Kashmir medical missionary , Dr Arthur Neve , gives an account of some of his numerous journeys in the Himalayas , in which he studied the great factors of erosion , rain , glaciers , and earthquakes . In the animated discussion of the paper at the meeting of the Royal Geographical Society , Sir Thomas Holdich asked the members " to recognize the enormous amount of assistance to geographical inquiry , which is due , not only to Dr. Neve , but to the whole of the great fraternity of missionaries " " Masks and Minstrels of New Germany " ( John W Luce &; Co ) , is the result of Percival Pollard 's enthusiasm for Otto Julius Bierbaum , a troubadour , novelist , traveller , and critic , whose songs of wine and women represent the tone of revolt and negation now prevalent in German letters The new nationalism , also a conspicuous note , he discusses only incidentally , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . His great interest is in spontaneous drinking songs and blithe voicings of nature and the ego without regard to the conventions of morality . Liliencron , Bierbaum , Hartleben , Dehmel , and the other poets reviewed have been strongly influenced by Nietzsche Yet their neo-pagan spirit is not esoteric or the product of a coterie Their songs have been popular in the variety theatres and are still heaid on the streets of Munich and Berlin . Owing to this fact the Ueberbrettl ' movement comes in for comment . This effort to render the entertainments of the music hall more artistic was first promulgated in Bierbaum 's novel " Stilpe " as the project of a half-mad Journalist , conceived in the fumes of a drunken orgy . But within three years the satiric pronunciamento had been carried out in Berlin by the author and his friends It began as a joke and went to pieces when the joke grew stale , but the influence spread over Germany . Even America has seen the effects in " The Merry Widow " and the succession of Viennese operettas For Americans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's book deals with the dramatists Hauptmann and Sudermann , being already buried under academic criticism , are passed by in silence But Wedekind , the author of " Spring 's Awakening , " and Schnitzler , whose " Green Cockatoo " was presented by Mrs. Fiske last season , and Hermann Bahr , whose " Concert " has had a remarkable run in New York , are dealt with at length . To refer to Mr Pollard 's volume as a critical work would be highly displeasing to its author . It purports to be simply a record of sensations and impressions It tells of turning the- pages of a magazine , the Island , and of thus entering fresh fields of literature full of alluring prospects . It lingers over the delight in some erotic or neurotic poem that reminds the author , queerly enough , of the minnesingers of the Middle Ages In another chapter it describes with the most unprejudiced impartiality the product of Wedekind 's diseased imagination , or the devilish perversity in Arthur Schintzler 's portrayal of Viennese fastidiousness in amatory etiquette . Mr Pollard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideas of these new writers , since most of them had little interest in ideas , they lived for novel and varied sensations . But he might have attempted an analysis of the prevailing attitude toward life and destiny , or have indicated the significance of these decadent movements in the history of the German lyric and drama Such attempts , however , Mr Pollard would classify as the deadening preoccupations of literary Brahmins It is with a distinct sense of gratitude for a small favor that one welcomes the facsimile of the English edition of Samuel Blodget 's " Prospective Plan " of the battle near Lake George on September 8 , 1755 , with its accompanying explanation ( London . Henry Stevens Son &; Stiles ) . No one can understand that somewhat important episode in the Seven Years War without studying the observant sutler 's record of what he saw , and the English version of his sketches is a good deal better than nothing . It is almost equally far from being as illuminating as the original Boston engraving , of which an excellent facsimile was issued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Society . This facsimile was not accompanied by a reprint of the pamphlet issued at the same time as the original engraving , containing explanations of the data on the plan , which without these explanations is quite unintelligible Both the plan and the pamphlet were reprinted in London the same year that they appeared in Boston , and it is this London reprint which has now been facsimiled , with an editorial note by Henry N. Stevens . Doubtless it is just about as good as the Boston edition , which it would have been as easy , and much more satisfactory to students and bibliophiles , to reproduce . Volume V of " A Historical Geography of the British Colonies " ( Frowde ) , which is being brought out under the editorship of Sir Charles P. Lucas , gives a large place to Canada The volume has four parts ; the first two , comprising the bulk of the historical considerations , were published some three years ago as the work of Hugh E. Egerton Parts in and iv , which are now published , are by J @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the history of Newfoundland , which explains away the seeming lack of balance in assigning an entire part to that single colony . Part in is given up to the geography of the Dominion Mr. Rogers sketches in part iii the features of the Dominion as they were discovered and explored by adventurers from the days of Queen Elizabeth onward to the final accomplishment of the Northwest Passage by Amundsen in 1903-6 The whole volume is occupied with the ethnological problem rather than with what would ordinarily be teamed geography . Geographical features are only emphasized in order to explain the distribution of population , and Mr. Rogers is careful to bring out the preponderantly British character of the population of Canada , in spite of the large infusion of non-English-speaking immigrants which has gone on in recent years In Quebec , the French are still largely in the majority  --  forming , 1901 , 76 per cent of the population ; but in all the other provinces the inhabitants of British descent greatly outnumber Germs ns , French , and other European races . In the new provinces of Manitoba @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the non-English-speaking immigration now goes , 70 per cent of the population are of British origin and 11 per cent . come from the United States ; besides , there are communities of Germans , Galicians , Donkhc.bours , Hungarians , Rumanians , Scandinavians , and half-breeds from Mesopotamia . In the volume on Newfoundland , Mr. Rogers 's chief problem has been to unravel the politics of cod-fishing Newfoundland is even yet inhabited chiefly on the coast , with no inland towns Although responsible government was introduced into the island in 1855 , it was 1902 before any town or city had municipal institutions . St. John 's obtained a town council in 1888 , but it was not wholly elective , and had no power to levy or collect revenue In 1902 the city obtained full self-government , but St. John 's is the only city which up to 1910 had progressed so far Harbor Grace , Carboneur , Heart 's Content , and Tullingate are moving for similar powers ; but at the time Mr. Rogers wrote they had attained only the stage reached by St. John 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France and with the United States over the cod , herring , and lobster fisheries are carefully detailed ; and an excellent summary of the natural history of both land and sea in Newfoundland makes clear the prime importance of the fishing industry . The Newfoundlander thinks in terms of fish , and to him fish is cod or cod bait Mr Rogers shows how this peculiarity of the island colony has made for isolation both in interests and character  --  an isolation that so far has foiled all attempts to make Newfoundland part of the Dominion of Canada . The eleventh publication of the Irish Texts Society is a volume of the - " Poems of David O'Bruadair , " edited and translated by the Rev John C. MacErlean , S J The edition is to be completed in three parts Father MacErlean , who is already favorably known to Celtic scholars by his edition of the poems of Keating , has shown the same competence in the present production . His text is carefully constructed , after what appears to have been a thorough collation of the manuscript materials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notes supply full discussion of O'Bruadair 's life and of the text , metre . and subject-matter of his poems If we were to single out a less satisfactory part of the editor 's work , it would be found in some of his general literary observations We do not follow him , for example , when ( on page xxi ) he denies all influence of Latin literature on Irish poetry , and then explains its absence by the " extraordinary refinement of Irish poetry , which rendered its style and spirit impregnable to the assaults of foreign literatures " We feel the more bound to take exception to such a comment because remarks of the sort , it is our impression , are too common in the writings of the native Irish scholars who are doing a really important service in the publication of Gaelic texts The edition of O'Bruadair , when completed , will be admirably representative of the Gaelic poetry of the seventeenth century The volume ? now published contains hymns and elegies , epithalamia , and personal and political satires While many of the pieces are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Irish life of the time , and some have decided lyrical beauty . All of them , moreover , merit the consideration of the historian as expressing the mind and spirit of the Gaelic population of Ireland in the age of the Stuarts and the Commonwealth . Regarded thus as historical documents , a number of the Publications of the Irish Texts Society have a value which is sometimes forgotten . Col. Charles Edward Stewart was an officer in the Indian army and later in the diplomatic service He went through the Mutiny and the Umbeylah campaign against the Wahabis and the Akhund of Swat  --  famous even in these western lands ? and travelled much in Persia and Afghanistan on his way to and from his appointments and on boundary commissions Especially he made a journey , disguised as an Armenian horse dealer , which carried him across Persia and far up into the Turkoman country , then just feeling the restraining shock of the Russian advance Wide experiences followed as consul and consul-ge-ie-al at Resht , Meshed , Tebriz , and Astrabad His last seven years of service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being 1899 His book , " Through Persia in Disguise " ( Dutton ) , takes its title from the most picturesque but hardly the most important episode in his life It consists of full extracts from his diaries , extending from his first going to India in 1857 to the end of his official life , it was worked up into a continuous narrative after his death by Basil Stewart But though the East is supposed to be unchanging and in certain respects really is so , and though he left Persia only in 1890 , yet the most striking thing about this book is that it deals with a situation utterly gone by . The present series of crises in Persia would have been unthinkable , certainly unintelligible , to Col Stewart . He had evidently no idea of the ferments which , even in his time , were working beneath the surface and which are now transforming the East For him these countries contained no hope in themselves , but were to be kept in order by pressure from without or , if there were absolute need of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to very few , at that time , it is true , had other possibilities appeared But though this book gives pictures of the past , its pictures are interesting and vivid . In them there is an unchanging East , too ; Herodotus knew it and Alexander met it . And similarly Col. Stewart also as a soldier , a geographer , and , above all , a practical , clear-sighted man , has his contacts with the modern world . There are parts of Khorasan , where his surveys are still the only authority , he was early interested in central Asian railways ; and he was one of the first to urge in the West the use of petroleum products as fuel in steamships and locomotives There are two good maps and some illustrations . three Oriental . How long the journalistic mill of the late William Eleroy Curtis will be kept grinding by enterprising publishers we have no means of telling , but apparently his letters to newspapers from Eastern countries will furnish grist as long as the present war lasts . Following closely upon his " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sea " ' Doran ) , which is as readable , discursive , and in part , it must he said , as little authoritative as most correspondence of this sort . The topics are not closely related , and some of them , like " Florence Nightingale and Her Work , " and the conventional descriptions of Odessa and other cities , are pure padding Of the English transliteration of Russian names the author has no idea , and the haste in putting out this volume did not allow the proofreader to correct such misprints as " Galatsin , " " Malakoff , " " Luxenburg , " " Van Wied , " etc , etc The volume has good illustrations and a map of Asia Minor , the Caucasus and the Black Sea to which the publishers justly call attention This map , an admirable product of the Stanford Press , is alone worth the price of the book In the literature of Western railway and land exploitation there is no better known name than that of Robert E. Strahorn , hose book on the resources and attractions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the notice of Jay Gould , and placed him for many years at the head of a literary bureau and advertising department of the tn on Pacific P.a.1- way Company The tender of this position was made to Mr Strahorn just after his marriage , and he accepted , upon the condition that his wife should be permitted to accompany him in the arduous and constant travel necessary to the work in hand After much objection , the point was yielded and the result has been a career of travel and sight-seeing under rigorously primitive conditions such as probably no other American woman has ever experienced Mrs. Strahorn kept no systematic diary , and the volume before us ? " Fifteen Thousand Miles by Stage " Putnam  --  is made up in the main from memory , checked and supplemented by her husband 's writings , newspaper work of her own , and especially her constant letters to-her mother , a few of which are inserted in the text As literature , the book naturally suffers somewhat in style from the surroundings out of which it came , though it must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mrs. Strahorn 's relations of fact could never have gained acceptance in her husband 's volumes of  --  we shall not say fiction , but description of the marvellous resources and beauties of our grand and glorious West Tales of the same type have been so often told that it is needless to indicate here , either by quotation or otherwise , the general nature of her narrative . A book of frontier travel and adventure can no longer win its way by novelty , but must depend upon the reaction of frontier life upon an original and engaging personality Mrs. Strahorn has met this requirement sufficiently to present a very readable book With some allowance made for rhetorical hyperbole , her book must be taken as a fairly accurate picture of a phase of American life of which she herself has been a part , and which she has seen pass away through the very influence which brought her upon the scene , the growth of Western railway enterprise . The book has a certain value for the light which it throws upon some of the methods called into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was called upon by his superiors , without previous warning , to produce six separate pamphlets of 100 pages each , on as many different States and Territories , all to be printed and ready for distribution within ninety days It is little wonder that , even with his wife 's assistance , the conclusion of the task found him ordered to the South for . recuperation from complete physical collapse Richard Kendall Munkittrick , the writer of humorous verse , died at Stamford , Conn , on Tuesday of last week in his fifty-ninth year He was born in Manchester , England , but was educated in this country . From 1881 to 1889 he was on the staff of Puck . He was the editor of Judge from 1901 to 905 He was the author of several books , among them " The Moon Prince and Other Nabobs , " " New Jersey Arabian Nights , " " The Acrobatic Muse , " and " The Slambangaree . " From London comes the report of the . death of Miss Sarah Smith , better known as " Hesba Stretton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's First Prayer , " published in 1867 , was enormously popular , and was translated into many languages Among her other books are " Alone in London " and " Pilgrim Street . " The death is announced of Dr. Wilhelm Dilthey . He was born in 1833 , and from 1682 to 1905 was professor of moral philosophy in the " University of Berlin . Among his works may be mentioned " Das Leben Schleiermachers , " " Das Schaff en des Dichters , " " Beitrage zum Studium der Individualitat , " " Die Funktion der Anthropologic in der Kultur des 16ten. and 17ten Jahrhunderts , " " Studien zur Grundlegung der Geisteswissenschaften , " and " Die Jugendgeschichte Hegels . " The Parisian journalist J. Vibert has just died . He was the author of " L'CEuvre de M. de Bismarck . " Science Characteristics of Existing Glaciers . By William Herbert Hobbs . New York : The Macmillan Co. $3.25 net . The late Professor Israel C. Russell of the University of Michigan issued some fifteen years ago a series of works upon physiographic topics to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and lakes of North America were successively the subjects of individual volumes . Prof. Wm . H. Hobbs , his successor in the chair at Ann Arbor , is maintaining the traditions of the department , and to an earlier work on earthquakes now adds this excellent summary of the main points relating to glacial ice . The basis of the book consists of three papers upon as many different topics , published in physiographic journals within a year or two past . As now brought together , they treat , respectively , mountain glaciers , arctic glaciers , and antarctic glaciers . They cover thus the chief manifestations of ice in nature . To the three is prefixed a general introduction in which emphasis is laid upon the evolution of glacial theories and upon the contrasts of the smaller and larger masses of ice . In discussing the mountain glaciers the author has before him chiefly their physiographic effects . The resulting land-forms are described in detail and a number of features not generally familiar to the casual student or reader are well illustrated . The sharp conical peaks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see them in travels . The dissection of restricted table-lands from which glacial ice flows outward is clearly set forth , as are the cirques , the ' U-shaped valleys , the fjords , and similar phenomena . In accord with the book 's title , it is these characteristics , with which the author is here concerned , rather than with the deposition , cause of movement , and life-history of the masses of ice . In the part on arctic glaciers the observations hitherto made by the various polar expeditions are naturally the sources of information . Greenland is necessarily the chief topic , but other por- tions of the frozen North are not over-looked . In the case of mountains , - the local relief greatly influences the movement and effects produced by the ice ; but in Greenland and similar areas , the relief is overwhelmed by the huge icecap and the local topography is of little moment , except at the edges . The area of accumulation in Greenland and the cause of the precipitation which yields this continental , glacial mass seem to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the view of Drygalski that the moisture comes from the east , and favors an anticyclonic descent of air-currents upon the lofty area , and their subsequent outward flow . The topic of icebergs closes the second part of the book . The third part is devoted to the vast mass of the south polar ice sheet , which , resting as it doubtless does upon greatly elevated land , possesses peculiarities all its own . The wonderful marginal ice with its precipitous escarpment , many miles in extent , impresses readers at a distance scarcely less than observers along its immediate front . Its extraordinary jointing , and the great , rectangular icebergs whiCh it consequently yields , are different from the arctic ice-sheet . The several expeditions which are now engaged in the dash for the South Pole give this region special claims to interest . From many sources , Professor Hobbs has brought together in condensed and readable form the most important observations upon the subject which he treats . He writes generally in a clear style and makes an interesting book , even though he is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself too seriously , and to bring in uncouth words from languages with which English has little in common . ? In " The Dawn of the Health Age " ( P. Blakiston 's Son &; Co . ) Dr. Benjamin Moore makes an interesting attempt to solve several social problems relating to the practice of medicine . He starts with the general thesis that if we looked after the death rate the birth rate could be trusted to take care of itself . This would be done by the establishment and development of a National Health Army , that is by making the ordinary practice of medicine in large measure a systematized national service , in which properly qualified medical men , and only such , are in charge of all matters in any way connected with the public health , including much that concerns the health of the private citizen . The evils of the present system , or rather lack of system , are discussed at some length , and Dr. Moore shows forcibly how poorhouses and hospitals as now conducted are inadequate or even futile in protecting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the existing methods of poor relief and the growing evils of the fee system and of club and lodge practice , which result in the demoralization of the doctor . and completely fail in giving the poor timely and sufficient attention . All these difficulties are to be removed by having a-properly trained medical officer , a government official for every 400 to 500 houses or families ; with other medical officers in charge of the necessary hospitals and establishments to which may be promptly sent all sick persons that can not be satisfactorily cared for in their own homes . The gain in working power , in " efficiency , " to use a much overworked word , and the incidental diminution of cases of chronic disability likely to become a public charge , together with the economy of hospitals and other establishments conducted by the state , are expected to do more than make good the expense of conducting a salaried public medical service . This book , of course , deals with conditions as met with in Great Britain , but the intelligent reader in any degree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions are in many respects similar , and may profitably ponder the details of Dr. Moore 's plan . a part of which at least has already made its appearance in Parliamentary discussions in England . The adoption of any such proposal here , except perhaps in certain thickly settled States , presents greater difficulties than on the other side of the ocean . 