@@486147

IN any consideration of the special rights and prerogaj tives , known to diplomats as " vested interests , " of the Western Powers , the fact to be noted is the decline of openly aggressive policies in relation to China . After the famous " Battle of Concessions " which closed the last decade of the nineteenth century the various parties thereto settled down to a consolidation of their holdings and a defense of their political priority , and except for the Russian advance from the north Europe played a more passive role . There was a perceptible modification of purpose ; the break-up of China , due to the shift in politics , was no longer desirable for most of the Powers who , changing their instruments of diplomacy , now found the preservation of the shell of China 's " sovereignty " probably less costly than a partition of Chinese dominions . At bottom it was a shift from the more obvious to less apparent methods of semi-monopolistic control . Bankers , business men , and engineers superseded , nominally , the foreign officers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - the West 's offensive . Sapping by bank finance and railroad politics promised to deliver the same returns with a lower " overhead " of friction  --  both among the rival Powers and in China itself . Among the other factors in the realignment taking place in the East was the emergence of an Asiatic Power at the very threshold of transpacific opportunity . The escape of , Japan from the encircling dominion of the West in the eighties and nineties was immediately followed by so effective a bid for world position that the past twenty years have entirely changed the terms of the game in this quarter of the world . In the ten years between 1895 and 1905 Japan was able to bring home to the Western world the hard fact that the path of empire in the East no longer was indisputably a highway to aggrandizement for competing European nations ; and the period of the Great War made it , clear that the course of events in the Pacific East was not to be dictated by Europe alone . Japan has completely upset the balance of power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have worked by reason of the European predominance to restrict Japanese activities to a clearly defined field . What statesmanship dubs the " Japanese problem " naturally falls into three parts . There is ( 1 ) the opening phase with the consolidation of the insular position of the Japanese Empire , ending with the Chino-Japanese War of 1894-95 ; ( 2 ) the acquisition of a continental foothold , partly by indirect title and part in fee simple ; and ( 3 ) the intensive industrialization of Japan proper , giving her the means to apply the well-tried formulas of the Western Powers to the accumulation of titles to strategic vested interests throughout the length and breadth of the Pacific East . The last comer , historically speaking , Japan was eventually the first to be viewed in the East with general suspicion by the Western world , apprehensive at this adaptation of Old World politics as a counter to its own imperialism . The actions of the Japanese Empire were more than closely scrutinized as much by reason of this fact as because Japan represented the uncertain quantity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I. THE INSULAR DOMINATION OF JAPAN A. Her Strategic Position The effects of the Great War , upon sea-power make the Pacific position of Japan , with her island mandates reaching to the Equator , a factor of greater consequence than ever before . JAPAN proper , a compact archipelago controlling these Pacific approaches to Asia , forms just under 54 per cent of the total area included in the dominions of the Mikado . On this extent of 142,000 square miles , one-twentieth that of the United States , there are some 56,600,000 people  --  the density of Japan 's population is thus ten times that of the United States on the average , and it approximates the most heavily peopled parts of Europe . The habitable area of this insular backbone of the Japanese Empire is placed at about 19 per cent of the total surface , as compared with 74 per cent of Belgium or 65 per cent of Germany . To this should be added the fact that the Japanese population has expanded with the astounding rapidity characteristic of other countries passing through a period of industrialization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peak of the accelerated natural increase has been reached , with a decline beginning to register ; the birth-rate per 1,000 of population has fallen from 14.78 for the period of 1909-1913 to 12.06 for 1914-1918 . Yet this human tide , averaging a 600,000 increase every year , rose rapidly enough to make Japan no longer self-sufficing . The lost balance between subsistence and population , with the growing need of importing staple foodstuffs in increasing quantities , beyond doubt has affected Japanese foreign relations . That this apprehension on the part of Japanese statesmen  --  reflected in policies which are today Japan 's greatest liabilities  --  has not been borne out entirely by the facts of the situation means little . Japan has been moved with far-reaching effects by the attitude of her leaders toward the situation , and that attitude has been little influenced by a consideration of Japan 's existing possibilities , such as the unpopular colonization of the sparsely settled northernmost Island of Hokkaido ; the slow emigration to Korea ; the futile efforts to expand westward in the face of competition from China 's lower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Japan proper , with 48 per cent of the total area forest clad and a large part of the balance crown lands still indefinitely closed to occupation . INSULAR APPENDAGES : North of the four main islands is the Chishima or Kurile Group terminating just below the Kamchatka Peninsula and demarcating the Russian interests bordering the Sea of Okhotsk from the Pacific . They comprise 6,000 square miles , almost 12 per cent of the empire . In a like position to the south is the Riu-kiu Archipelago with 941 square miles , stretching the littoral of East Asia toward Formosa . Those to the north were secured in 1875 by agreement with Russia after almost seventy-five years of disputed ownership ; while the latter were brought under Japanese overlordship early in the duel between China and Japan which culminated in the Chino-Japanese War of 1894 . Thus Japan acquired her first dependency , Formosa , the subsequent basis for her interests in South China , comprising almost 6 per cent of the Japanese Empire and including 13,900 square miles , besides the Hokoto or Pescadores . Thanks to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was forced by the objections of Russia , abetted by France and Germany , to relinquish her coveted acquisition of Port Arthur and the Kwantung Peninsula , the Japanese makers of empire were able to place the country in a position to meet the coming struggle with Russia ? The Russo-Japanese War , terminated by the Treaty of Portsmouth through the good offices of the United States in 1905,2 gave to Japan a continental foothold and marked the second phase in the building up of modern Japanese power . The ousting of Russia from South Manchuria not only gave over to Japan the Russian-controlled railways , garrisoned zones , and developmental privileges  --  coming to cover eventually the larger part of Manchuria 's 363,000 square miles and the destinies of 15,000,000 Chinese subjects ; Japan at last secured the southern half of the Island of Sakhalin , consisting of some 13,000 square miles  --  an addition of over 5 per cent to the Japanese Empire  --  and ousted Russian influence from Korea . Korea , or Chosen , thus came under Japanese control just as it had previously passed from Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about by Japan 's success in the Russo-Japan War ten years later , definitely forecast the absorption of that unhappy buffer state in 1910 ; its annexation added 84,000 square miles , or a third of present-day Japan , to the Empire ; together with its population of 20,000,000 Koreans . B. The Continental Effects Up to the transitional period of 1905-1910 , Japan was primarily important by reason of her position as a sea Power . Her whole policy had been to command the insular approaches to the Far East , defending herself as best she could against a weak China and an aggressive Russia . The Russo-Japanese War changed all this , as Japanese statesmanship soon revealed , because it transformed Japan into a continental Power possessing political as well as vital economic stakes in East Asia . Opening up a new vision of empire , it added to the vicious circle of the industrial Powers that surrounded hapless China a competitor closest to the scene of operations who had least to lose and most to gain by exploiting to the full the political and economic opportunities . Summarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " Er-a of Great Enlightenment , " Japan was expanded territorially 75 per cent , until the Japanese Empire stretched from the western limits of the Bering Sea to the threshold of the Pacific Tropics ; until westward it penetrated into the heart of Northeast Asia itself , and commanded the China littoral from the Gulf of Pechili to the South China Sea . II . JAPANESE VESTED INTERESTS IN CHINA By reason of the concentration of Japanese activity mainly in one part of the East , Japan has secured title of one kind or another to ( a ) leaseholds and " spheres of interest , " ( b ) communications , ( c ) resources , and ( d ) special political interests in China which have more and more heavily involved her with the Chinese and with the Western Powers . A. Special Territorial Position SPHERE OF INTEREST IN FiTKIHEN : Although Japan was obliged by the intervention of Russia , Germany , and France to retrocede Port Arthur following the war of 1295 , China 's defeat was the signal for the general partition of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the advice given by the three Powers . To protect herself , Japan shared in the general scramble to the extent of exacting from China a pledge patterned after the French and British precedents providing for the non-alienation of the Province of Fukhien , lying opposite her newly acquired dependency of Formosa.3 SPECIAL POSITION IN MANCHURIA : The Russo-Japanese War of 1904-1905 resulted in Japan 's succeeding to all Russian rights and interests in South Manchuria , i.e. , by the Treaty of Portsmouth Russia turned over to Japan such title as she had secured from China in the " Battle of Concessions " in 1897 and 1898 to the Leasehold of Port Arthur for the remainder of the twenty-five-year term as of 1298 ; that portion of the Chinese Eastern Railway ( Trans-Siberian subsidiary ) south of Changchun , the South Manchurian Railway , subject to the original repurchase period of thirty-six years from 1902 ; and mining rights appertaining thereto , together with a special administrative position regarding the railway zone.4 This was supplemented by the Treaty of 1905 with China , by which Japan secured China 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gained permission from China to make permanent the Antung-Mukden Railway , the same to revert to China without compensation at the end of 99 years ; secured the opening of sixteen Manchurian cities ; and concluded the " Secret Protocols " paving the way for the consolidation of Japan 's position subsequently . ' This position was confirmed and strengthened by the demands of 1915 , discussed in the next section , and the question has been reopened by China at the Washington Conference . OCCUPATION OF THE KIAOCHOW LEASEHOLD : Just as Japanese diplomacy had squared accounts with the Russians for their interference regarding Port Arthur at the conclusion of the Chino-Japanese War , so the Great War offered the opportunity to eliminate Germany from her leasehold of Kiaochow in Shantung , just across the Gulf of Pechili from South Manchuria . Reduced in the fall of - 1914 by the joint expedition of Japanese and British forces , Japan at once entered into occupation of the conquered German rights and interests , including public works such as the Port of Tsingtao , government property comprised in the Leasehold of Kiaochow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as was invested in the Tsinan-Tsingtao Railway and the mines . Japan has remained in de-facto control , subject to change effected by the protested Treaties of 1915 with China and those provisions of the Treaty of Versailles to which China has taken exception , down to the present time . B. Diplomatic Position Resulting from the Twenty-one Demands and the Treaties of 1915 In the opening of 1915 difficulties with China over the occupation of Kiaochow precipitated the Twenty-one Demands made by Japan on Peking under cover of the Great War : Every effort was made to keep secret the terms in those five groups of demands which the Okuma Government in Tokio , inspired by Baron Kato , regarded as necessary to clear the way for the forward policy of Japan . Not only was the Chinese Foreign Office ignored by the Japanese Minister , who presented them direct to President Yuan Shih-k'ai ; none of the Powers were given an inkling of the step ; even Japan 's ally , Britain , was kept in ignorance of the notorious Group V demands when complete secrecy no longer was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establish Japan indefinitely in Manchuria , Shantung , Eastern Inner Mongolia , the lower Yangtze Valley , and Fukhien , with the far-reaching fifth section withheld from the Powers implying a Japanese protectorate . Negotiations began shortly after their presentation January 18 , 1915 , and continued through the spring to the ultimatum of May 7 , 1915 . China signed under protest eighteen days later , the related treaties and exchanges of notes covering : 1 . The reversion of German interests in Shantung to Japan ; the granting to Japan of the right to finance future railway developments ; and the opening of stipulated places to foreign trade ; together with a declaration as to the non-alienation of territory . 2 . Japanese rights acquired from Russia in South Manchuria extended to include a 99-year lease of the railway ; the granting of special commercial rights to Japanese subjects ; a similar privileged position in Eastern Inner Mongolia ; cancelation of China 's right to repurchase the South Manchurian Railway ; extension of the lease of Port Arthur to 1997 ( instead of expiring in 1923 ) and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the development of Eastern Inner Mongolia and certain Manchurian lines . 3 . Japan secures protection of her control of the Hanyehping Iron Company and its resources , dominating the Central China iron industry . 4 . Special position in Fukhien reaffirmed . 5 . Group V , covering the employment of advisers in all branches of administration , joint local policing in certain localities , Japanese religious-educational privileges , Japanese supply of " a certain quantity of arms " or joint production in China under Japanese direction with Japanese materials , railway rights in British Yangtze Valley sphere , and missionary rights to Japanese subjects , was temporarily withdrawn  --  except for the question of Fukhien  --  and held over for " future discussion . " The negotiation of the May treaties at once drew from the United States , alone of all the Powers , a statement on May 13 , refusing to recognize any impairment of its rights or of " the political or territorial integrity of the Republic of China , or the international policy relative to China commonly known as the Open Door . " C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Japan has built up a series of administrative interests in China , such as ministerial advisers , her pro rata of personnel in the customs and other services , and , similar matters . In exterritorial questions , however , Japan has generally gone considerably farther than the majority of nations . This is notable in the case of wireless stations such as the radio maintained at HanContinued on page 768 kow , the network of Japanese postal agencies covering . China , the policing of communications , and the protection of subjects . In the development of economic priorities , the Japanese have been especially active during the Great War and the years following . This has in part been the natural result of the accumulation in Japan of a surplus of capital for export ; but the overwhelming activity has been primarily political in purport  --  notably the Nishihara loans of 1917-1918 , which formed a significant part of the Terauchi Ministry 's efforts to recoup Japanese interests in China , suffering from the 1915 Demands of the Okuma Cabinet , by buying into control of strategic Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ runs close to half a billion yen but the advances made against this aggregate figure amount to under 200,000,000 . Japanese business and finance , notwithstanding Chinese opposition and foreign competition , has placed itself in an unshakable position regarding Chinese development outside the scope of the new Consortium , which is designed to control future government loans and railway expansion without regard to previous concessions or special spheres of interest or influence . III . COMMUNITIES OF INTEREST Any consideration of the position of Japan must take into account four factors involving " communities of interest " developed by Japanese initiative . These may be summed up as : ( A ) The Anglo-Japanese Alliance , first signed in 1902 as an essentially defensive measure against Russia 's forward policy alike menacing the interests of Japan  --  and Britain ; renewed in 1905 in its second form to meet general Asiatic conditions with the object of assuring the status quo ; and modified in 1911 , chiefly to prevent British embarrassment because of the growing Japanese-American friction . ( B ) The Russo-Japanese Agreements of 1907 , 1910 , 1912 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to them and made while the Anglo-Japanese Alliance was in full force . Built up through the good offices of France , with whom an accord was reached by Japan after the Russo-Japanese War in 1907 , these agreements steadily developed a special understanding between Russia and Japan as to their respective interests and the actions of third parties . ( C ) The Secret Treaties of 1917 , by which Japan engaged the Allied Powers to support her Pacific-Eastern claims at the Peace Conference , negotiated prior to the entrance into the Great War of China and the United States . ( D ) The Secret Treaties with China , especially those of 1918 growing out of the Inter-Allied intervention in Siberia , by which China was bound to Japan in operations which ensued . While the steps now being taken at the Washington Conference , especially as represented in the Four-Power Pact , are presumed to be capable of reconciling such divergent interests as the Anglo-Japanese Alliance and , let us say , the Japanese-American paper declarations such as the RootTakahira and Ishii-Lansing understandings , these communities of interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dismissed as yet . Only the future can determine their effects on the destinies of continental Asia .                     