@@430648

 | WOMAN suffrage must ultimately fail . It is based upon a fallacy , and no fallacy has ever made a permanent conquest over mankind . The fallacy of woman suffrage lies in the belief that there is in our social order a definite sex division of interests , and that the security of woman 's interests depends upon her possession of the elective franchise . " The history of mankind , " declared the founders of the movement , " is a history of repeated injuries and usurpations on the part of man toward woman , having as the indirect object the establishment of an absolute tyranny over her . Man has endeavored in every way he could , " continues this arraignment of the fathers , husbands and sons of these self-styled mothers of the revolution , " to destroy her confidence in her own powers , to lessen her self-respect and to make her willing to lead a dependent and abject life . " In a healthy state of society there is no rivalry between men and women ; in the economy of life they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests of humanity . Women are not a class , they are a sex whose interests in a well-ordered government are represented , automatically and inevitably , by the men of their social group . It would be a fatal day for the race when women could obtain their rights only by a victory wrested at the polls from reluctant men . These truths are elementary and self-evident , yet all are negatived by the votes-forwomen movement . That the vote is not an inalienable right is affirmed by Supreme Court decisions , the practise of nations and the dictates of common sense . No state can ever enfranchise all its citizens , and , since the stability of government rests ultimately upon a relentless enforcement of law , the maintenance of a sound fiscal policy and such adjustment of the delicate interweaving of international relations as makes for peace and prosperity , it is right that the state should place the responsibility of government upon those best equipped to perform its manifold duties . Women 's citizenship is as real as man 's , and no reflection upon her abilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for government either by nature or by the contact of daily experience . The casting of a ballot is the last step in a long process of political organization ; it is the signing of a contract to undertake vast responsibilities , for the following of the ballot to its conclusion alone makes the body politic sound . Otherwise political power without its political responsibility threatens disaster to all . We have made a few crude experiments in double suffrage , but nowhere has equal suffrage been tried . If the average woman is to be a voter , she must accept jury service and aid in the protection of life and property . When the mob threatens , she must not shield herself behind her equal in government . She must relinquish her rights and exemptions under the law and in civil life if she is to take her place as a responsible elector and compete with man as the governor of the race . Such equality would be a brutal and retrogressive view of woman 's " rights . " It is impossible ? and here we have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ superiority or equality is involved in the opposition to votes for women . The test of woman 's worth is her ability to solve the problems she must face as a woman if the race is not to deteriorate and civilization perish . The woman suffrage movement is an imitation-of-man movement , and as such merits the condemnation of every normal man and woman . The attempt to interpret woman 's service to the state in terms of political activity is a false appraisal of the contribution she has always made to the general welfare . Doubtless we can live thru a good deal of confusion , but it is not on any lines of functional unfitness that life is to be fulfilled . Woman must choose with discrimination those channels of activity wherein " what she most highly values may be won . " Are these values in the department of government or in the equally essential departments of education , society and religion ? It is thru physical , intellectual and moral education that our citizenship is gradually improved , and here woman 's opportunities are supreme . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the name of common sense , let them be trained for efficiency in that dominion and not diffuse their energies by dragging them thru the devious paths of political activities . Equal suffrage is clearly impossible ; double suffrage , tried under most favorable conditions , in sparsely settled western states , has made no original contribution to the problem of sound government . On the other side of the ledger we find that the enfranchisement of women has increased taxes , magnified the menace of an indifferent electorate , and swelled the body of unenforceable laws . The confusion of social and personal rights with political , the substitution of emotionalism for investigation and knowledge , the mania for uplift by legislation , have widely advertised the suffrage propaganda , while the reforms for which the founders of the suffrage movement declared women needed the vote have all been accomplished by the votes of men . The vote has been withheld thru the indifference and opposition of women , for this is the only woman 's movement which has been met by the organized opposition of women . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole sweep of the relation of the sexes must be revised if the woman 's vote is to mean anything more than two people doing what one does now . Merely to duplicate the present vote is unsound economy . To reinforce those who clamor for individual rights is to strike at the family as the self-governing unit upon which the state is built . This is not a question of what some women want or do not want ? it is solely a question of how woman shall best contribute her part to the general welfare . Anti-suffragists contend that woman serves best by remaining non-partizan and working for the common good outside the realms of political strife . To prove this they point to what women have done without the ballot and what they have failed to do with it . Anti-suffragists a r e optimists . They are concerned at the attempt of an organized , aggressive , wellfinanced minority to force its will upon the majority of women thru a false interpretation of representative democracy , but they know that a movement so false in its conception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its reflections upon men and its estimate of women , so entirely unnecessary and unnatural , can not achieve a permanent success .                     