@@466257

is a commonplace of - 1i. science that all organ'isms , plants , animals , human societies , change as their environment changes . When the temperature of a planes world alters , when arboreal apes are driven into a treeless region , when a desert folk moves out into the grasslands , or a savage mountain tribe conquers a river delta , revolutionary transformations begin to adapt the creature to its new environment . Even to-day , when men have a larger measure of control over their surroundings , the influence of environment ? both of natural and of social environment ? is as potent as it was thousands or millions of years ago . One of the fundamental changes in the American 's environment has been that from country to city . The translation to the cities has been a great migration , like that mighty westward movement which carried Europeans to America and both Americans and Europeans to our last frontier . It has been a subtle , complex , multiform movement , rooted in the industrial and social needs of our time , and revealing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recondite . Consider for a moment our one-time reputation for curiosity . The European traveler who a century ago condescended to visit " the States , " invariably discovered that the Yankee was insufferably inquisitive . On stage - coach , on river-boat , in execrable country inn , the foreigner met tall , lank , dry rustics , who whittled , chewed tobacco , and drawled a hundred distressingly personal questions . He was asked who he was , whence he came , whither he was going , how , why , wherefore . America lived in the shadow of the question mark . A raw inquisitiveness came to he considered a typically American vice . To-day you can travel from Boston to San Francisco without encountering a single question . Your neighbor in the smoking-car may ask you for a light , but will not ask your name , profession , or destination . In our great cities people do not even glance at you , let alone question you . If you rent an apartment you may never meet your neighbors ; if you collide with a stranger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an apology . Our letter-carriers no longer read the " postals " in their bags ; Central does not often listen to your conversation on the wire . So incurious have we become that we barely ask our European visitors what they think of us . When we seek the cause of this change from the American over-curious to the American indifferent and even casual , we are struck by the fact that inquisitiveness is a rural quality and that America has ceased to be rural . In a village , even in a small town , trivial personal details are discussed because there is little else to engage the mind . An active brain , with nothing to work on , is like an empty , vigorous stomach : it will take what provender offers . The petty American communities of early days , because intellectually isolated , were inveterately , doggedly inquisitive ; there was not enough news , hardly enough gossip , to go around . No great metropolitan journals gathered in a thousand rivulets of news and poured them out again in a single penny gush . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , edifying sermons on infidelity and idleness , and perhaps even a letter from a gentleman in a neighboring state ; but they contained nothing remotely approximating current facts . So great was the famine in intellectual supplies that private letters became public property , and were passed from hand to hand . Today your Connecticut Yankee takes his New IIaven , or it may be his New York , newspaper , and for a cent has more news than he cares to read . He does not need to ask questions . This is a single and perhaps a trivial illustration of the manner in which our modern , complex , co-ordinated city , growing up against the background of a scattered rural community , changes swiftly and subtly the deepest ingrained habits and qualities of the American nation . The city , by collecting , distributing , and democratizing intellectual goods , puts an end not only to the rustic 's inquisitiveness , but to his vacant whittling as well . Because of the city the countryman is no longer so credulous or narrowly shrewd . These qualities , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a limited intellectual range . Formerly the splendid brains of rural America had no large stock of information to work on , no wide variety of clashing ideals and philosophies ; to-day the rustic 's beliefs and disbeliefs are tempered by the convictions of a hundred million other people , convictions collected and distilled in the city . The countryman now has a wider view . He is no longer so suspicious of strangers , because intellectually he lives with millions of people whom he has never seen . He is intellectually a citizen of the city . All this is but a symptom of a far wider and mote significant change . What is happening is that the city , pouring ever fresh intellectual supplies into the country , is continually breaking down old standards and setting up new . The countryside , the heath , has always been the home of the pagan , the heathen , the obstinate conservative . The rustic 's hard traditionalism was buttressed by a local pride , both stupid and honorable , by a pious faith in the old and a stalwart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that wear deep . To-day in America this conservatism is breaking down at all points . In politics , theology , literature , in art and dress , in music and cookery , in dancing and industrial organization , radicals oppose conservatives , and conservatives themselves concede , when they do not actually welcome , change . America al-ters rapidly , and in each case the ferment is discovered in the city . Like other nations , we are moving from a rural to an urban civilization and are taking on the color of the change . Our businesses , our governments , our thoughts , habits , and most tenacious prejudices , are all suffering this city change . Much that we account good in the newer type of American , as well as much that we esteem bad , is ascribed to this rapid transition from country to city . How rapid that transition has been it is now difficult to realize . The America of Washington 's day was primitively , racily rural . The country outnumbered the city thirty to one ; it outvoted and out-influenced the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dependencies . Not even the cities themselves were citified . Philadelphia , the greatest of them all , with the finest shops , the best houses , the most extravagant people , was but a poor , small triangle of houses with its base on the Delaware and its apex stretching timidly toward the West . Its people , though reputed gay and luxurious , went early to bed , rose early , and were without the opportunities and distractions of modern urban life . There were no great factories , no armies of workmen , no extended commerce , no horse-cars ; no omnibuses ; no sharp differentiation of the city into business and residence sections . Like envious New York and aspiring Boston , Philadelphia was still half rural . A great city was not desired nor even contemplated . To " the Fathers , " the very conception had in it something unwholesome . A city was a dwelling-place of turbulent , impious , ignorant mobs , of a congregation of " unproductive " artisans , wastrels , criminals , Sabbath-breakers . It was a blister on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The city was vaguely associated with royalties , courts , armies , beggars , and tattered , insolent , rascally mobs ; the country was the cradle of republican virtue and democratic simplicity . Jefferson , having in mind the squalid agglomerations of the old countries , congratulated America on being rural . De Tocqueville , in the thirties , believed that the absence of a vices commensurate with the services rendered to it . It fashions in its factories the products of the country , and redistributes them to a wide nation , economically dependent . The American city , like the city of Europe , is thus a part and a consequence of a stupendous , silent , industrial revolution , which picks up its tens of millions of isolated humans , as a Gulliver might pick up a Lilliputian , gently takes them out of an obsolete industrial world , and gently places them in a totally new world . The city is the visible epitome of a young and venturesome civilization in which the whole nation , united by railroad , telegraph , and telephone , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some friction at the common task of supplying common needs . Within the nation free trade rules ; cheap transportation crum bles the barrier of distance , produc ? tion concentrates at pivotal points , and where production concentrates the city grows . The railroad which made the city extends the city 's influence , economic , political , and psychological , to the farthest confines of the land . As our industry advances , as our manufacturing and commerce increase , the impulses which lead to the settlement of American cities become more and more powerful . Primarily , those impulses are economic . The old industrial organization being broken up , the old distribution of population between city and rural district alters . As in-dustry moves to the city , urban wages rise . But the economic impulse expresses itself in other ways than in a sober comparison between urhan and rural wages . In the city general economic chances are better . Youth is never what it is , but what it hopes to be , and to the ambitious the glittering city spells hope . The chances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city are vague but endless . In the professions , in business , in commerce , in manufacturing , the city is the place of boundless horizon . The city attracts because it ofFers much for little , because , heretical though the statement may seem , living there is cheap . True , city rents are notoriously high , and men spend more than in the country . But in the city you get more , and you get more for each dollar spent . The city is the home of wholesale and therefore cheap amusement . The moving-picture show , the variety theater , the open trolley , the boat- ride , the amusement-park , are wonderfully cheap because so many share the expense . Much is offered for nothing . There is something to see . The free lunch , the public library , the constant spectacle of the " dressed " windows of fine stores , are all gratuitous . There is variety and rarity as well as mere quantity . Because of its mass consumption the city permits that special adaptation of industry to special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city enables you to live like everybody else and to live like nobody else . It gives you the raw material in which to express yourself . It affords elbow-room for individualities . To economic attractions social attractions are added . Men are incurably gregarious . They love to work , eat , loaf , and read poetry in crowds , and the city provides the crowds . The city , moreover , is an opportunity and a refuge for good and bad , The student is attracted by libraries ; the scientist by hospitals and research laboratories . The author comes for stimulus ; the lawyer for the chance to grapple with big problems and earn big fees . In the city the social- welfare worker finds his field . Whoever loves art , science , literature , music , whoever is interested in the insistent problems of the age , migrates to the city . " Queer , " eccentric folk who can not endure the all-too-powerful public opinion of the narrow rural community also come . The city permits an escape from the rut of custom . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the city you can indulge virtues and vices quietly and unobserved . The young girl seduced in the country flees to the city ; her child , conceived in the village , is born in the metropolis . Village failures come . They read of the city 's allurements and of its charities , and both are magnets . If the American city were recruited solely from the country it would , from the very nature of its constitution , differ from the country districts . It would be quicker , more restless , more catabolic . Its larger proportion of young people and of spenders would set it apart from the older , slower , more conservative country . But the American city has another distinguishing trait . It is the home of the immigrant , the final residence of millions of men and women from every quarter of the globe . Less than one in five of New York 's white residents ( in 1910 ) were horn of American parents ; less than one in seven of the populations of Passaic , Fall River , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City than in all the Southern States from ocean to ocean , plus all the Rocky Mountain and Pacific States . Almost three-fourths of all our foreign-born are to be found in the cities . When we study these foreign-born migrants to the city we find that in the mass they have gone there to work . You may see them with pick and shovel , with trowel and plane , on all those huge constructions , over head and underground , which are essential to the mere material existence of the city . None the i less , in the main the city is mentally associated not so much with mere physical as with mental and nervous labor . It is the machine - tender , the retail trader , the clerk , the bookkeeper , who seems more typically the city workman . . In the city work is more often done without overalls , in a white shirt and stiff collar . The city is the home of specialized , differentiated , expert labor . Moreover , in the city many men do not work at all . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buy personal attendance , and servants and lackeys and dependents of all sorts can be had for the hiring . To the old-time American , brought up in the school of hard work and trained to apply his wits unaided to ever-changing problems , this more specialized work of the city , as well as its worklessness , seemed an inferior thing . " A sturdy lad from New Hampshire or Vermont , " wrote Emerson , " who in turn tries all the professions , who teams it , farms it , peddles , keeps a school , preaches , edits a newspaper , goes to Congress , buys a township , and so forth , in successive years , and always , like a cat , falls on his feet , is worth a hundred of these city dolls . " Walt Whitman was even harsher in his condemnation of the denizens of the city . Visiting New York and Brooklyn in 187o , the " good gray poet " was transported by " the splendor , picturesqueness , and oceanic amplitude and rush of these great cities , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon his mind : " Are there , indeed , men here worthy the name ? Are - there athletes ? Are there crops of fine youths and majestic old persons ? Are there arts worthy freedom and a rich people ? Is there a great moral and religious civilization . or only a sort of flat and dry Sahara ... crowded with petty grotesques , malformations , phantoms , playing meaningless antics ? " All through American history we discover a certain moral disapprobation of the city , and the complaint that , like the ogre in the fairy-tale , it is devouring its own children and the children of the country . The city is represented as restless , greedy , materialistic , irreverent , selfish . In its melting-pot all our good old virtues , all our pious traditions , disappear for ever . There has always been and there still is some measure of truth in this . The city is the home of active men and women in their prime , as contrasted with the country , where live children and old people , both conservative . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeal is never to the old , but to the " practical " ; and in the new city , exulting in its newness , novelty itself becomes a virtue . In city civilization old people are not accorded too much courtesy ; the old are " old fogy . " The American city , composed of men of all nations and all traditions , destroys innumerable dogmas and beliefs , and ends in a comfortable eclecticism or in a catholic , aggressive irreverence . This irreverence invades the country and undermines a mass of pious beliefs and prejudices . The Sunday supplement competes with the village pastor , or at least divides the field . The wealth of the city , its overpowering prestige , its rollicking mockery of " bumpkins " and " hayseeds , " confound and intoxicate the rural youth , discontenting them with all village traditions . The " bestpeople " in the country do not " get on " so well as the poor village boy who makes his way in the city . The village is obliged constantly to test its pretensions by those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city test of " practicality , " of " results . " The iconoclastic city destroys the quaintness and preserved individuality of the rural district . It covers the entire land with its own veneer . The " one-gallus " man learns to wear suspenders ; the village swain sings city ragtime ; the village jeune fille talks metropolitan slang . Evening clothes are no longer urban , and the influence of Paris fashions extends from New York to Smith 's Corners almost as readily as from Paris to New York , The city laughs and the country puts away its own . The city citifies the country . ? In a material sense the American city is parvenu ; it has arrived ; it has attained an unchallenged success , no one knows how and no one cares why . Its moving electric signs flash out across a continent , and those blazing lights blind and dazzle all America . Much of this citifying , much of this influence of the city upon the country lad within and upon the wide country without , is blatant , ugly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of city influence develop first ; ethically we always throw away dirty water before we get clean . The country Iad arriving in the city finds that the saloon door swings easily on its hinges , and that young women beckon from the streets . He is free in his furnished room and free in the freedom of the gay streets , and he is fatally susceptible . The world about him is new , charming , careless , making a boast of its carelessness . Nobody knows and nobody cares , and everything offers . The city winks an eye . The old proscriptions , the old inhibitions , seem stupid and obsolete ; a new morality is not perceived . And so the country lad in the city , and in the great country beyond the city , takes bad or worse as it offers . Many of the evils of American life are exaggerated in the city , and many of the evils of city life are exaggerated in America . Our national flippancy reaches its culmination in the city , as does also a certain glittering superficiality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vulgarity ; an intense , exultant materialism ; an over-stimulated , hard gayness ; an extravagance ; an ostentation , boundless , competitive , and self-destructive . The city gives itself up to dissipation with the cultivated youthfulness of the old roue ; it maintains in pleasure as in business the pace that kills . There is much that is febrile in the city 's rush to make and spend money . There is a certain deadening through excess of effort , - through excess of stimulus , through over-specialization . It is a curious anomaly that in the monotonous country the labor of each man is diversified , and to that extent interesting , while in the fascinating , multifarious city the labor of each man is minutely specialized and to that extent monotonous . And yet , when all is said that can be said against the city , when all is considered and weighed and balanced , the fact remains that in a moral as well as a physical sense the city advances more rapidly than does the country , and that it is precisely in the city , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the foundations are discovered upon which is to be reared a great moral democratic American civilization . While men , despairing of our city civilization , cry , " Back to the land , " forgetful of the fact that you can not return an urban population to the fields or a graybeard to childhood , at this very time profound curative forces are at work , and from the heart of our omnipresent city evils themselves arises a new social civic ideal . This ideal is broad . Everywhere in America city problems are being envisaged and attacked . City poverty , city crime , city carelessness , city misgovernment , are being studied , analyzed , and combated . The housing problem , the rapid-transit problem , the health problem , the educational problem ? these and a hundred other problems of the city are approaching a point where at least a partial solution is in prospect . Formerly cities were burying-grounds for rural immigrants ; even within rather recent decades the annual city deaths equaled the city births . All that is now changed . Year by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per-haps not far distant when the expecta-tion of life will be as great within as without the city walls . In is ways , great and small , the city s emerging from the lawless and anarchic spirit which accompanied its early growth . To take a single instance . It was formerly assumed that the further growth of American cities n would mean riot , disorder , and blood-shed . " The lower orders which inhabit Philadelphia and New York , " wrote De Tocqueville , " constitute a rabble even more formidable than the populace of European cities . . . I look upon the size of certain American cities , and especially on the nature of their population , as a real danger which threatens the future security of the democratic republics in the New ' World . " This expected turbulence of American cities , however , never materialized . Our cities have had their share of our common lawlessness , but riots havenot been many or in a large sense serious . Popular education , a more general suffrage , the lighting of city streets , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a civic spirit , have softened the former acute fear of desperate and sanguinary uprisings by tattered mobs . The very dependence of the city man upon his thousands or it may be his millions of neighbors is the very source of the new civic spirit . A very slight pollution of the common drinking-water may mean a typhoid epidemic of alarming currency ; an inadequate fire patrol may mean a conflagration of city-wide proportions . As the city grows , as the welfare of each individual becomes inextricably united with the common wel-fare , there arises a civic conscience such as would not be possible in a purely agricultural community . In the midst of the omnipresent city dangers the city finds itself . To-day in all our American cities there is an expression of civic ambition which is quite new in our history . There is a looking ahead , a city planning , a prevision of future difficulties , and a provision of future remedies , of parks THE BRAND and playgrounds and schools and subways and waterworks , and of moral agencies which will but slowly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while retaining much of its old dishonesty and more of its old inefficiency , becomes somewhat city - conscious , and numerous private agencies , philanthropic or self-supporting , efficient or officious , wise or over-wise , approach in a tentative or a direct manner the solution of serious civic problems . The progress , moreover , is democratic . It is secured by many men , animated by many motives , working together in increasing harmony . Our city newspapers , even the worst of them , appeal to broad masses in behalf of common ideals . In the school , in the public lecture , in the church , in the factory , in the newspaper or magazine , in the homes of wealthy men or in over-crowded tenements , we catch a glimpse of a growing spirit of civic solidarity and of a wider social solidarity based thereon . Moreover , it is likely that the good of the city will be as contagious as the evil has been , and that the city 's ideals will spread as far and as wide as do its inanities and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is sending missionaries to the country , and the summer boarder , the retired city man seeking a country home , the newspaper , the magazine , the moving-picture , the phonograph , teach more good than ill . The cities arc taking their share of responsibility as well as of power . They are furnishing their full quota of statesmen , business leaders , and intellectual guides . The country boy no longer plays the rile which he once played in American life . A man need not split rails to be President , and the city boy , educated in excellent technical schools , is more than a match for Emerson 's undifferentiated though sturdy lad from New Hampshire . The city , it is coming to be realized , is a workshop as well as a playground . It is a workshop in which team-work is indispensable . The essence and import of the American city , as it is coming to be , is democratic team-work , industrial , political , an d social . This team-work , this spirit of democratic co-operation , is to-day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ character . It means discipline , a measure of subordination , a capacity for united effort to attain distant goals . How this spirit seeks new forms as it meets the changed conditions of the country is not here to be considered . The farmers ' co-operative society differs from the trade-union of city workers ; the village-improvement society varies from the city social settlement ; the plans for rural organization and progress bear no close resemblance to plans for civic development . None the less the fundamental spirit ? practical , experimental , democratic , co-operative ? is the same . The American city which arose out of a precipitate , unordered , ultra-individualistic exploitation of vast natural resources , and grew up parentless and without traditions , is now evolving a new ideal of democratic co-operation , and is gradually impressing that ideal upon the whole American nation .                     