@@432705

IN an absolute monarchy , such as the German Empire is in fact , the sovereign 's personality plays a supremely important part . In the thought of the whole world , to-day , Germany is William II . Even in time of peace the Kaiser 's figure aroused keen curiosity , and that curiosity has been immensely quickened since July , 1914 . Everybody wants to know how far he is personally responsible for everything that has happened and is happening ; and his char-acter is scrutinized for arguments tending to prove his innocence or his guilt . In opposition to some personal enemies of William II , ? if I may call them so , ? I am of the opinion that he was not essentially warlike at the outset of his career . So long as he was not subjected to the baleful influence of Prussian militarism , ? or , at all events , so long as he was under other influence as well , ? he justified the fairest hopes . He exhibited as a child sentiments far different from those that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed to horrify him . He even gave evidence of certain estimable tendencies . The Kaiser 's present role , then , is not a logical result of his natural disposition , and is only in part a consequence of his early education . From the very beginning the man who lately reigned over the German Empire was subjected to numerous contradictory influences . In the end , the most detestable of them carried the day ; but for some time the triumph of the others seemed very probable . The education that he received is what I propose to sketch briefly in the ensuing pages . The prince who was destined one day to reign under the name of William II was born at Berlin on January 27 , 1859 . Prussia was still only a kingdom , but a kingdom assured of never lacking kings . William I was in robust health , and his son , too , was likely to live for many years . The accession of the new-born prince to the throne of Prussia seemed far in the future . Nevertheless the loyal Prussian people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Heaven to its royal family . And when On old general , a familiar guest at the palace , shouted to the crowd , ' My friends , it 's a fine healthy youngster ! ' his words were received with enthusiastic cheers . Until January 27 , 1877 , when he attained his majority , the eldest son of the Crown Prince and Princess Victoria bore the same Christian names as his father ? Frederick William ; but to his parents he was always ' Unser Fritz ' : and his future subjects also loved to call him by that name . The monarchical spirit is so deeply rooted in the Prussian people that the young prince , even in the cradle , beVOL , FEE-NO. 6 came the object of a veritable cult . The kings of Prussia must needs be guilty of enormous errors to lose their popularity . This popularity seems today an incomprehensible phenomenon to the nations at war with Germany ; and , in truth , it can be explained only by the unparalleled blindness of a. whole people . But we must always make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the war . For a short time the excellent relations between the Prussian people and King William I were slightly impaired . It was in 1848 , when he was still only the heir apparent to the throne , at the time of the revolutionary movement which menaced so seriously every throne in Europe . But a reconciliation soon followed , and the events of 1848 had been entirely forgotten in 1859 , when the young prince was born . As for the father of ' Unser Fritz , ' then Crown Prince , he too was universally beloved and admired . And in very truth he well deserved both affection and admiration . He was noble-hearted and upright , kindly and fearless . The Germans , over whom he reigned but a hundred days , called him the ' Noble . ' This is one of the finest titles that can possibly be bestowed upon a prince by popular acclaim . It is one which none would over have thought of giving to Bismarck , the bitter and inveterate enemy of Frederick III . Frederick the Noble had married @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Victoria and Princess Royal of Great Britain . They were the happiest and most devoted couple . Both had simple tastes , detested the military reghne which was held in honor at the Prussian court , and preferred above all else the privacy of their own intimate circle . The community of their tastes extended even to their political ideals . They insisted upon the superiority of Anglo-Saxon liberalism to Prussian absolutism and militarism . That is why Bismarck and the court detested the Crown Prince and his wife ; but they were not disturbed by the hatred with which the Junker party pursued them . They quietly brought up their two sons , Prince Frederick William and Prince Henry , according to the ideas which were dear to them and which they held in common . In the message thanking the people for the marks of affection which they had received on the occasion of the prince 's birth , they said , ' May we succeed , with God 's help , in rearing our son for the honor and welfare of our dear Fatherland ! ' It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they never forgot this oath taken before the whole nation . They did everything in their power to fit William II for the burdensome task which awaited him . Being solicitous to make of him a man sound in body and in mind , they attached equal importance to bodily exercises and intellectual tasks . The prince was born with a withered left arm , so that he was manifestly unfitted for most kinds of sport . Nevertheless a methodical system of training made him an accomplished sportsman . As a child he showed a marked predilection for aquatic sport and performed some genuine exploits in that field . The ponds of Potsdam held no mysteries for him . In his holidays he traversed them in all directions , in all weathers . It is told of him that one day , between six o'clock in the morning and three in the afternoon , he accomplished an itinerary including the circuit of the Isle of Potsdam and a trip to the Isle of Peacocks ? in all , going and returning , about 42 kilometres . It was on Wednesdays and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prince performed these prodigies . Accompanied by his younger brother , Prince Henry , and a tutor , hewould set out at dawn and not return till evening . They lunched on an island on eatables which they had taken good care to fetch , and which they warmed in the ashes of a huge fire of dead branches , playing that they were Indian chiefs on a bunting trip . Like all young Europeans of his generation , William II read with keen delight in his boyhood the romances of Fenimore Cooper . He built ' wigwams ' in the park of Potsdam , brandished the tomahawk over the heads of caitiff warriors , and smoked the pipe of peace till it made him sick . Ardent as he was in play , he was no less ardent in work . Unlike his brother , Prince Henry , who is only moderately intelligent , William II is unusually well endowed mentally . His mother , who was herself a very intellectual person , was proud of her eldest son 's aptitudes , and eagerly pushed forward his education in all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and always talked with his mother in English . Did he love his mother ? Certain words and acts of his ? we shall recur to this subject later ? have occasioned some doubt ; but they are of a later period , when he had begun to take a hand in politics . He seems to have been in the early days an obedient and even affectionate son . Indeed , the Princess Victoria devoted herself to his upbringing with such solicitude and love that it would have been unpardonable of him to be unmoved thereby . To be sure , her love did not preclude a proper sternness of discipline . William II and his brother were not spoiled by over-indulgence . Indeed , it was said that the Princess Victoria sometimes went so far as to punish them with her august hand , when they had committed a serious fault . But such incidents were rare . The young princes began their day 's work at six o'clock in the morning , and had most of their lessons between six and nine . Then mental gymnastics Rave place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wise plan drawn up by their mother . It was by her command , too , that cold baths played a leading part in the hygiene of the princes . Lastly , their table was exceedingly simple ? one might almost say , frugal . Their meals lasted twenty minutes ? twenty-five at most . This strict discipline had a beneficial effect on the elder prince 's constitution . That he is a strong swimmer , a good shot , a skillful fencer , he owes to the training which he had in his youth . Being almost helpless so far as his left arm was concerned , he made it a point of honor to have a right arm strong enough for two ; and by dint of willpower and application he succeeded . The scheme of education worked out in mutual agreement by the young prince 's parents naturally assigned a place to religious instruction . Here again it was the mother who determined the general principles to which such instruction must conform ; and it was she who selected the ministers of religion to whom it was intrusted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was utterly opposed to the narrow orthodoxy . held in honor at the Prussian court . Personally she had fallen under the influence of rationalism , then a new thing . She was even supposed to approve the audacious ut , terances of David Strauss , the author of a Life of Jesus which the court clergy had solemnly condemned . William II received his first lessons in religion from a pastor who was not a disciple of David Strauss , but who was broadminded and tolerant . This was enough to provoke loud outcries from the orthodox and Chauvinists of the old Prussian nobility . Because Princess Victoria had a more exalted conception of religionthan those fossils , she was regarded by them as On enemy of the Christian faith , a froe-thinker - unworthy to be intrusted with the spiritual education of a future German Emperor . Inasmuch as William II loses no opportunity to-day to celebrate the good old German God , ' as he practises with so much beating of drums the old Chauvinistic , bellicose national religion , one finds it hard to understand that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out From a religious no less than from a political standpoint , he underwent an extraordinary change between the year 1874 , when he was confirmed , ' and 1914 , when he declared war on the civilized world in order to hasten the progress of the Teuton Moloch . The religious education which he received was wholly devoid of sectarian narrowness . We must not forget that a third of the population of the German Empire is Catholic . Frederick William 's instructors would have b , en greatly at fault in teaching him any save a broad and tolerant form of Christianity . On this point Princess Victoria 's personal preferences were in accord with the interests of the kingdom and the empire . It is generally . believed in other countries that the religion of the Hohenzollerns is the Lutheran . This is an error . The Hohenzollerns belong to the Evangelical confession , which is less rigidly dogmatic than the Lutheran . The prince 's religious masters sought their inspiration in the same principles believed in by his parents ; they devoted themselves especially to making him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ develop in him the Christian conscience . Since the beginning of the war he has ceased to deserve the title of a Christian sovereign , but as child . and young man , he did his utmost ? sincerely and with success ? to make his deleted material to the education of his sons a rigidly civil direction , his grandfather remained doggedly attached to the militaristic tradition of the Hohenzollerns ; and , as the head of the family , he exercised a preponderating influence . He would not have permitted his grandson to fail to comply with the rule so devoutly regarded in his family . Before the gratified eyes of his grandfather the young prince passed through all the grades of the Prussian army . At six years of age they had given him a military tutor in the person of Captain von Schroetter , of the field artillery , and that military mentor exercised no less authority than his civilian mentor . Even as a child , he was keenly alive to the prestige of the uniform . Moreover , he adored his grandfather . No one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ returned to Berlin after a successful campaign , his brow wreathed with glorious and bloodstained laurels . If we would fairly grasp the character of William II , comprehend the contradictory influences to which he was subjected and the battle they waged in his mind , we must not forget that the spectacle of a victorious home-corning of Prussian troops after a successful war was thrice presented to him . On June 16 , 1871 , he appeared in person in the triumphal review of the German army on its return from France . He rode behind his father and beside the Grand Duke of Baden . He witnessed the tokens of well-nigh frantic adoration with which his grandfather was greeted . He saw what outbursts of unreasoning enthusiasm military.reflown can evoke in a people fond of war . That spectacle reacted profoundly ? perhaps without his knowledge ? on the young prince . He passed twenty-seven years of his reign repeating , with variations , that he did not desire war ; but even when he declared himself altogether devoted to peace , he did it in words that smelt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counterbalanced most unhappily the civilian influence of his parents during that period of his life when his character was being formed . Faithful to their programmes , the Crown Prince and Princess kept their eldest son away from the court as much as possible and from the courtiers as well . He would become familiar only too soon with those shady intrigues and base rivalries which are the daily fare of all courts . It was much better to place the heir to the throne in direct touch with the nation itself in all its simplest and sanest qualities . After mature reflection and careful inquiry , Frederick William 's parents put him in the gymnasium at Cassel . As everyone knows , the German gymnasium is a sort of intermediate stage between the grammar-school and the university . After two years of study in the gymnasium , the pupil comes out with a certificate of proficiency which entitles him to be matriculated at any university in the Empire . On the benches of the gymnasium of Cassel Frederick William and his brother Henry came into direct contact with young men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very thing that attracted Princess Victoria and her husband . But Emperor William , and the Prussians of the old stock of whom his immediate entourage was composed , were far from happy over this arrangement . They did not conceal their displeasure . Nevertheless , despite their disapproval , the young princes went to live at Cassel in the autumn of 1874 . They remained at Cassel two years and a half , entirely devoted to their studies . Not only did they follow the lectures given at the school , but they had private lessons from the most corn- 854 THE EDUCATION OF WILLIAM II potent teachers . The same instruction was given to both , but they did not derive equal profit from it . Prince Henry ? be it said with due respect ? was a very dull pupil . He had no liking for any kind of study . He cared for nothing but sport , and spent the lesson-time longing for the hours of recreation and the holidays . He shared his older brother 's predilection for aquatic sports , but cared for nothing else @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sailor of the family . The reports that Prince Henry received from his masters at the Cassel gymnasium were far from flattering . All the laurels were for his brother . We may think what we will of William II , ? and we can not to-day avoid thinking all evil of him , ? but we can not justly deny his acute intelligence . His mind is singularly keen and alert , he has an all-embracing curiosity , an extraordinary power of assimilation , and an incredible memory . The Hohenzollerns have always had good memories , but William II eclipses them all . At the risk of distressing his German biographers , we must remark that he inherited most of his intellectual qualities from his mother . His father was an excellent man and a noble nature ; but his most fervent flatterers have never dared assert that he was of superior intelligence . On the other hand , the Crown Princess Victoria was admirably endowed in that respect . Her son derives from her , we say again , his multiple aptitudes : the artistic sense of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of scientific problems ; the comprehension of commercial and industrial questions . During his so-. journ at Cassel , his masters saw these aptitudes spring up and develop . They did their best to encourage them , while Prince Henry lagged behind , dreaming of boats . This universal adaptability which characterizes the Kaiser impressed his masters at Cassel . He shone no les . brilliantly in letters than in the sciences . He was very fond of poetry , especiall poetry in the grand style , popular and primitive . The Iliad and the Nibelung enlied were his favorites . In the matter of eloquence he inclined to the style of Demosthenes , much less to that of Cicero . He loved history and geography , he drew fairly well , and was proficient in music . Of all the fine arts , music was the one which he studied most thoroughly . The diploma which was awarded him after very satisfactory examinations contained this flattering testimony : His conduct was always irreproachable , and by his zeal and application Prince William has won the absolute confidence of his masters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pupils than with his instructors . He has always striven to please . How often I have heard him spoken of as a charmer ' by French statesmen who have met him traveling ? before the war ! On the benches of the gymnasium , he exerted himself to make a conquest of hearts . An unscrupulous professor having secretly communicated to him , on the eve of an examination , the text to which the questions would refer , the prince wrote out the text in full on a blackboard that stood before all the pupils , so that all could profit by it . This served the double purpose of teaching an indiscreet master a harsh lesson and of conferring a favor on his fellow pupils . William derived much advantage from such actions as this , which he always performed with more or less ostentation . His behavior as a youth showed signs of this theatrical predilection , which was destined eventually to become a mania . At Cassel the two princes led a life as active as it was retired . Its details were arranged by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ William II ? Professor Hinz-peter . Westphalian by birth , but Prussian in heart and soul , Hinzpeter was not an illustrious university professor , a scientific or literary colossus . Before he was called to serve princes , he was a humble schoolteacher . It was by his ' moral qualities ' alone that he attracted Frederick III so strongly , who , with his wife 's assent , intrusted to Hinzpeter not only the instruction of his sons , but the general oversight of their education . By confiding to this civilian , this man of no birth , this simple and modest bourgeois , the responsibility of directing the spiritual and moral development of the future German Emperor , the son and daughter-in-law of William I displayed anew that recalcitrant humor which scandalized the court . Hinzpeter had in his make-up nothing of the ' Byzantine , ' that is , of the servile and selfish flatterer . He brought up the young princes without indulgence , without weakness , without regard to the exalted position which they were some day to occupy . William II assuredly has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand , if he has not been altogether heedless of popular desires , it is due , in part , to Professor Hinzpeter . A dyed-in-the-wool Prussian in spirit , Hinzpeter confused love of the Fatherland with love of the reigning dynasty . To the young princes ' instructor in French ? a Frenchman who was a frantic Jacobin ? he insisted upon this thesis , which seems absurd outside of Prussia : ' The Hohenzollerns have been great sovereigns because they have always marched with their epoch ? when they have not gone ahead of it . ' He proved this thesis by the most equivocal arguments . It is amazing to contemplate these Prussian intellectuals , so ultra-rigid and severe in the matter of private morals , and so strangely complaisant , not to say cowardly , in respect to the public morality practised by their kings . Hinzpeter maintained , for instance , that Frederick II , called the ' Great , ' living in an age of free thought , was fully justified in affecting a dense incredulity . And he had no doubt , he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believer if he had lived in an age of faith . The readiness of the Hohenzollerns to espouse the ideas of their generation , in order to dominate it , was the secret of their popularity . We must agree that this thesis is decidedly disquieting . The Kaiser 's biographers exalt in all keys Hinzpeter 's absolute honesty . Was not that quality of his somewhat too patriotically Prussian fully to deserve that name ? Professor Hinzpeter 's favorable opinion of Frederick the Great was shared by the young man under his tutelage . His pupil had in those days a marked predilection for two of his ancestors ? Frederick William , called the ' Great Elector , ' who lived in the seventeenth century , and Frederick II , who ascended the throne in 1740 . Both , it is important to note , were illustrious warriors . The Great Elector gave to Germany its first standing army . It was in his reign that Prussian militarism , which was destined to infect European politics with its virus , celebrated its earliest triumphs . Although not as yet a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Not content with making Prussia a militaristic state , he strove to convert it into an autocracy . As for Frederick the Great , his role in history is well known . He passed his youth proclaiming his preference for a liberal government , extolling toleration , and declaring that he would be the king of the poor ; he even dubbed himself ' King of the beggars . ' He affected also a great horror of war and 8.56 THE EDUCATION OF WILLIAM II of conquerors ? the scourge of mankind . But he had no sooner ascended the throne than he changed his mind on all these points . He crushed the indigent classes with taxes , restricted public liberty , and passed his time making war ? not without success , be it said . In choosing the Great Elector and Frederick the Great among his ancestors for his models , did not the young gymnasiast ' of Cassel act in conformity with deeply rooted atavistic instincts ? Was it not to be feared beforehand that the efforts of his parents ( especially of his mother ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in a word , from the genius of old Prussia , would prove fruitless ? The sojourn of Prince Frederick William ? now known as Prince William ? at the University of Bonn removed him still further from his father 's and mother 's ideal . At Cassel the young princes had led the strictest kind of life . The meals which they ate under the eye of Professor Hinzpeter were dispatched in a twinkling . Prince William had twenty marks a month for pocket-money , and from this he had to provide tips for his servants . At Bonn he lived on a less niggardly footing . The study of social science , jurisprudence , and political economy did not occupy all his time . He devoted many evenings to the corps to which he belonged ? the Borussia , a society of students to which only scions of noble families were admitted . Duels with rapiers were a popular form of exercise . The prince was a warm admirer of that institution , a legacy from the days of barbarism . He never let pass an opportunity to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is my firm conviction , ' he declared one day , that every young man who belongs to a corps of students derives from the spirit that prevails there the real guiding tendency of his life . ' absolutism and militarism , his point of view was modified . Officers of high rank , specialists in every branch of military education , demonstrated to him the excellence of the German army , put him in touch with the prestige which it reflected upon the Empire and the benefits that would continue to be derived from it . On October 29 , 1879 , on leaving the University of Bonn , Prince William entered the First Regiment of the Guard , with the rank of lieutenant . He was instructed to train the young recruits who had recently joined the regiment . Ile performed this task successfully , and was congratulated by his grandfather on the day that he presented his first pupils to him . On October 22 , 1880 , he was promoted captain , and his superior officers extolled the initiative which he displayed in handling troops . October @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was transferred to the cavalry . In July , 1883 , he made still another change and because an artillerist . He carried into the profession of arms the same seriousness and the same application which he put into everything else . He is no foe of gayety and good fellowship ; he is even supposed to have a special taste for anecdotes of the sort that men tell only among themselves , in the smoking-room ; but he has always treated serious matters seriously . On his promotion to the higher ranks he exacted from his officers unremitting activity and application . He went so far as to claim the right to supervise their conduct outside the service . He showed his displeasure openly to those who lived too luxuriously and especially to those who played for high stakes . By his marriage with Princess Augusta Victoria of Schleswig-Holstein , which was solemnized February 27 , 1881 , Prince William gratified hisgrandfather 's earnest wish . Although the princess 's father had recently been dispossessed of his principality by Prussia , her family was closely connected in spirit with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better with her hus- : band 's grandfather than with the liberal-minded CrowU Prince and his still more liberal-minded consort . It does not appear that the present German Empress ever exercised any great influence over her husband . In so far , however , as her influence Icas extended , it has usually been , politically speaking , deplorable . With her narrow pietism , th , . , extraordinary inaccessibility of her mind to any outside influence , her complaisance to militarism and reaction , the Empress has helped largely to make Berlin a veritable citadel against progress and liberty . If the Empress Frederick had continued to reign , she would have done her utmost to compel the German Empire to follow in the pacific path of the other Western powers . No one has claimed that the wife of William II ever attempted anything of the sort . Mirabeau , the great French revolutionist , said of Prussia that she was not a nation possessing an army , but an army possessing a nation . This judgment , uttered more than a century ago , is still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ camp , and the man destined by his birth to command Prussia finds himself , so to speak , compelled by all the institutions of Prussia to govern in accordance with tradition . At the outset he was seized and whirled away by the gears of the machine . Under the influence of the British princess whom he had invited to share his throne , Frederick III attempted to stem the absolutist , militarist , feudal current . Perhaps , had he lived , he would have succeeded in turning the German Empire in the direction of democracy and peace . But this is not certain , so potent were the forces which would have been marshaled against him . So far as William II is concerned , the efforts made by his parents to inculcate a taste for novel Western ideals met with a pitiable failure . To be sure , in his childhood he was under the influence of his father and mother , of Professor Hinzpeter , ? more questionable , that , ? and of the masters selected by them ; but as soon as he escaped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to other influences as well , these latter destroyed the work which had been begun and gave to Prince William 's character its definitive stamp . According to the unanimous opinion of eye-witnesses , he seemed infinitely more distressed by the death of William I , than by that of his own father . He felt himself to be much more truly his grandfather 's grandson than his father 's son . The ideas ? or should we not say , the prejudices ? in highest favor at the aged Emperor 's court were in conformity with his innate sentiments and in entire harmony with his subconscious being . As a young man , he seemed to himself to stand on the some level with his grandfather and the ' great men ' of his court . In the paternal and maternal circle , he was conscious of a sort of embarrassment . Indeed , the court gossip ascribes to him some almost irreverent remarks concerning his parents . It is reported in Germany , that he was taken one day , during manoeuvres , with a violent bleeding at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the officers who hastened to assist him ; ' it 's the last drop of Eng . lish blood coming from my veins . ' The anecdote is so unpleasant , it connotes so great a lack of filial respect on the prince 's part , that I prefer to regard it as apocryphal ; but the mere fact that it should have been invented , that it should have been circulated freely , bandied about , with pleasure and admiration , in those Prussian circles where people plume themselves on maintaining intact the genuine Prussian tradition , speaks for itself . However , this anecdote , difficult as it is to verify , would simply go to confirm what events have proved : that William II , after his father 's death , ceased to be an affectionate and obedient son to his mother . At the time of the distressing intrigues which raged about the death-bed of Frederick III , Crown Prince William openly took his place in the camp of Bismarck and the other inveterate enemies of his mother . He was able to rid himself of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy which Bismarck would have carried out , and repudiated that which his parents would have tried to follow . The official chronicles of the reign laud the Kaiser 's energy ; but that energy has been ill-directed . He has not set before himself the one goal worthy of a German sovereign of an open and far-seeing mind : the reformation of the foundation upon which the German Empire rests . And William II is the more blameworthy for having failed to accomplish this task because his first teachers had triumphantly proved to him how absolutely essential it is.                     