@@493034

Life is Cheap HEN a military expert wishes to be very technical and professional he refers to the killed , wounded and missing as the wastage of an army . To those who do not share his preoccupation with the problems of grand strategy , the word connotes a cold and calculated horror based on a fatal disregard of human cost . It is natural , then , to fall back upon the old platitude that in war life is cheap ; cheaper than guns , cheaper than dreadnoughts , cheaper even than intelligent diplomacy . If we go behind this simple idea , however , we find curious distinctions reflected in ordinary feeling about the war . There was General Joffre 's statement that the French would not waste men in furious assaults . In England this was received with approval , mixed with the feeling that the British were standing the worst of the racket . Most curious , however , was the English attitude towards the Russians . The Russians were conceived as an inexhaustible horde which could be poured endlessly against German guns . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with individual Englishmen . In America the loss of two thousand Austrians would seem as nothing beside the loss of two thousand Englishmen . If the Canadians were to suffer heavily , we should feel it still more , no doubt . When the Titanic sank , it was very noticeable that the anguish of the first-cabin passengers meant more to the newspapers than did that of the crew or steerage ; and of the first-cabin passengers , it was the well-known people in whom was dramatized the full terror of the disaster . When a man is run over , the amount of space given to a report of the accident seems to depend very closely either on his social importance in the community , or on whether he is injured under circumstances which might apply to highly regarded elements of the population . The injuries of foreign-born laborers on construction work are hardly reported . It is estimated that one man is killed for every floor added to a skyscraper , but the fact does not rise to the level of popular interest . The value of a life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and becomes individualized . So long as great populations remain politically inert , so long as they can be treated in lumps , so long as they can be manipulated from above , they will be lightly used or easily disregarded . It is in time of peace that the value of life is fixed . The test of war reveals it . That is why democracies tend to be peaceful . In them the importance of each person has been enlarged , and the greater the equality , the less able are small groups to use their fellows as brute instruments . Democracies are compelled to look toward peaceful adjustments because the cost of war is too tremendous for them . The mere fact that at a certain level of comfort and self-respect the birthrate declines makes the conservation of life imperative . It is in democracies based on fairly well distributed economic opportunity and a modicum of education that birth ceases to be a wholesale accident and becomes a considered purpose . France is such a democracy , and France does not spend life easily . The large measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a tolerable level of well-being , and a tradition of human rights , has made dreams of lavish conquest forever impossible to her . She will defend what she has with superb courage , but she can not dominate the world . There , perhaps , is the most important relation between social reform and the problem of peace . The aggressors of the future are likely to be the nations in which life is cheap , and the hope of international order rests with those countries in whom personality has become too valuable to be squandered . This is why the whole world waits the democratization of Germany , Russia and Japan . But even the so-called democracies are far from a decent sense of the value of life . Here in America life is extraordinarily cheap . There is almost no task so dull , so degrading or so useless but you can find plenty of human beings to do it . You can hire a man to walk up and down the avenue carrying a sign which advertises a quack dentist . You can hire rows of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them there to fill up space . You can hire a man to sit next to the chauffeur ; he is called a footman and his purpose is to make the owner of the car a bit more comfortable and a great deal more magnificent . There are women known as lady 's maids whose business it is to dress up other women . There are flunkeys whose mission it is to powder their hair , put on white stockings and gold-trimmed knee-breeches and flank the threshold of great houses . It is possible to hire any number of caretakers for empty houses , bellhops to fetch for you , even mourners to mourn for you . Every city is full of women whose lives are gray with emptiness , who sit for hours looking out of the window , who rock their chairs and gossip , and long for the excitement that never comes . Unloved and unloving , and tragically unused , the world seems to have passed them by . Our cities are full of those caricatured homes , the close , curtained boarding houses to which people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depression , the thousands of hall bedrooms in which hope dies and lives the ghost of itself in baseball scores and in movies , in the funny page and in Beatrice Fairfax , in purchased romance and in stunted reflections of the music-hall . It is not strange that in war we spend life so easily , or that our anxiety to lower the death-rate of babies , to keep the sick alive , to help the criminal and save the feeble-minded , seems to many a trifling humanitarianism . The notion that every person is sacred , that no one is a means ' to some one else 's end , this sentiment which is the heart of democracy , has taken only slight hold upon the modern world . It is still hardly questioned that men should die to protect concessions , to collect debts , to hold markets , to glorify their king , to avenge imaginary insults . In the industrial world men are used as " hands , " kept waiting in idle crowds to fill casual jobs , put at work that exhausts and pays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not learn , from which they become forever unfitted to escape . Women are used as drudges , as recreation , as things to jest about or to appropriate , because all through our civilization there runs an appalling insensitiveness and disregard . We have not yet made life dignified and valuable in itself , we have not yet made it a sufficient treasury of good things , have not infused it with the riches which men will not wantonly waste . Human life will become valuable as we invest in it . The child that is worth bearing , nursing , tending and rearing , worth educating , worth making happy , worth building good schools and laying out playgrounds for , worth all the subtle effort of modern educational science , is becoming too valuable for drudgery , too valuable for the food of cannon . It is because for some years we have been putting positive values into life that this war appalls us more than it would have appalled our ancestors . And just so far as we can induce the state to sink money and attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insure ourselves against idle destruction . This is the best internal defense against those amongst us who may be dreaming of aggression . Every dollar and every moment of care devoted to increasing the individual importance of people , all skill and training , all fine organization to humanize work , every increase of political expression , is aprotection against idle use of our military power , against any attempt to convert legitimate and necessary preparation for defense into an instrument of conquest . It may be said with justice that the man is dangerous who talks loudly about military preparation and is uninterested in social reform . It is the people engaged in adding to the values of civilization who have earned the right to talk about its defense .                     