@@493029

I ca n't think of a form of disaster which John Reed has n't tried and enjoyed . He has half-spilled himself into commercialism , had his head turned by flattery , tried to act like a cynical war correspondent , posed as a figure out of Ibsen . But always thus far the laughter in him has turned the scale , his sheer exuberance has carried him to better loves . He is many men at once , and those who have tried to bank on some phase of him , to regard him as a writer , a correspondent , a poet , a revolutionist , or a lover , lose him . There is no line between the play of his fancy and his responsibility to fact ; he is for the time the person he imagines himself to be . Reed is one of the intractables , to whom the organized monotony and virtue of our civilization are unbearable . You would have to destroy him tomake him fit . At times when he seemed to be rushing himself and others into trouble , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to argue with him . But all laborious elucidation he greets with pained boredom . He knows how to dismiss in a splendid flourish the creature " Who wants to make the human race and me March to a geometric Q. E. D. " I do n't know what to do about him . In common with a whole regiment of his friends I have been brooding over his soul for years , and often I feel like saying to him what one of them said when Reed was explaining Utopia , " If I were establishing , it , I 'd hang you first , my dear Jack . " But it would be a lonely Utopia . WALTER LIPPMANN . Where the Irish Radical Stands A T the present moment a very serious question is proposed to the people of Ireland . Will they , or will they not , fight to maintain the British Empire ? On their answer , without disguise , hinges the future relations of the two countries . So far as the Englishman is concerned , this war presents a clear issue . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to support the heavy military responsibilities that go with imperial power , he has availed himself to the full of all the protection that his prestige and diplomacy could give him , and he has waxed wealthier and more dominant year by year . He has refrained from direct provocation to his enemies , but at last nothing , not his skillful alliances nor his formidable navy , could save him any longer from the one mighty antagonist to whom his interests are opposed . Regarding those interests as legitimate , the Englishman does not for a single moment doubt that their assailant is malignantly immoral . He can not comprehend any different supposition . He is proud of his Empire . He believes that he stands for public law and democracy , that his enemy stands for militarism and predation . But he realizes that his system , his civilization and his home are threatened with injury and even disaster . He did not invite the terrific emergency , but he is ready to meet it , at heroic sacrifice , and he counts on imperial unity in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hardly credible to the Englishman who feels in this manner that anything but a failure in gallantry could account for disaffection now . The enemy in the field he can understand , but he is in no mood to bear with disloyalty or even criticism at home . It is , however , precisely because the Empire is the real issue of this war ? not Servia or Belgium or Russia or France ? that the Irishman , as distinct from the Englishman , is obliged to consider his position . He is a subject of the King , but an involuntary and disaffected subject , and his interestin the maintenance of the British Empire is a thing which neither he nor anyone else has a right to assume . Such an attitude in a time of peril may well provoke impatience and even scorn , but if anyone has a right to consider his position in this war it is the imperialized Irishman . It is true that at the present moment the Irish nationalists are under no legal compulsion to define their exact relation to the Empire . Recruiting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and England demands troops , where will the Irish stand ? That is a question of supreme importance to all who call themselves Irish nationalists ; and even if the question of compulsory service does not arise , the question of voluntary service remains , equally searching for a people that believes itself to be honorable and gallant . With conscription a possibility , a clear decision in advance is essential . No one doubted the goodwill of the international socialists , but their compromise on conscription cost them their ideal . Once they submitted to that , with the accompanying policies of big armaments and secret diplomacy , they let the camel of imperialism put its head into their tent . They were themselves unwilling to use violence on behalf of the noblest principles they could conceive ; now they are employed in killing and being killed in the name of a " necessity " they can not define . Few of them really believe in that necessity , but they compromised with it , and as a result they are pouring out their blood . Between Ireland and England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an opposition of principle as between the socialists and the imperialists of Germany . It remains to be seen whether the Irish nationalists will stand by their ideal , or submit , like the Germans , to a well-oiled governmental machine . The Irish nationalists , I have said , are involuntary and disaffected subjects of the King . For an Englishman this may be hard to understand , but perhaps I can make it clear . Let us suppose that Germany smashes England in this war and takes over the government of England . Let us suppose that all the English people are swept like vermin to the mountains of Wales , and the shires of England are planted with German junkers . Let us suppose that the governor of England is a German princeling surrounded by German younger sons , and that all legislation for England is made by Germans in Berlin . Let us suppose that laws are passed in Berlin making it illegal for the English to export any article that could possibly compete with Germany , making it criminal for any Englishman to own property or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us suppose that all young Germans are taught to believe that the English are poor and dirty and lazy and low , and that all Germans are righteous and God-fearing and plucky and " play the game . " Let us suppose that education is at last introduced into England , education of a wretchedly inferior character , and that the English are taught to sing , in German , " We are happy little German children . " Let us suppose that , under the benevolent German regime , a famine occurs in which one-eighth of the population , or over 4,000,000 dirty English people , die simply of starvation . Let us suppose that the English revolt and are finally allowed to send representatives to sympathetic Berlin , where , after many years ' agitation , they are graciously permitted to buy their land back from the junkers , but are reproached continually for poverty , ignorance and sloth . Let us suppose that the tenacious Englishmen in Berlin keep up their agitation , always struggling to get a parliament established in London , and are finally told that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prussians in Yorkshire and Lancashire feel safer in the hands of Germany . Let us suppose , however , that finally a bill is drafted which half-heartedly concedes a limited measure of Home Rule , but that the German army refuses to go against the rebellious Yorkshire and Lancashire Prussians . Let us suppose that the bill is eventually passed , subject to Yorkshire amendment ? and a war breaks out against the Japanese , in which the Germans turn to the English and say : " Come , fellow Germans , to the defense of your Empire . " Under these circumstances , would it be surprising if one found the English " involuntary and disaffected subjects " of the German Empire ? In suggesting this situation I have deliberately selected the one-sided nationalist Irish view . There is another side , the side of English imperialism , English efficiency , English superiority , English " Kultur . " There may be something to be said on that side , but no one , at the present hour , seems to think very highly of " Kultur " forcibly imposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part , as an Irish nationalist , I can think only of the program that is being bruited in Ireland . Base as were the methods , nauseating the philosophy , and evil the fruits of British imperialism in Ireland , there is , as I see it , no particular good in Ireland spiritually or physical-ly affirming its antagonism to the British Empire at the present time . It is true that the government has already suppressed every extreme nationalist paper in the country and is preparing , as usual , to keep alive the spirit of nationalism by the unfailing method of coercion . But unless the Irish want to commit themselves to the belief that statesmanship is bankrupt and that the only way to impress England is to injure it , there is still a sane way by which the principle of nationality can be reconciled to the principle of Empire . To find that way is the real nobility , if Ireland is not either to default like the socialists or to be turned into a suicidal slaughter house by the efficient secretary of war . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point out that the recrudescence of separatism in Ireland , to which the open split from Mr. Redmond and the murmurings of the Irish Volunteers give testimony , is not by any means strange . The government of the United Kingdom is , as everyone knows , a party government , and by party machinery the people are organized into a whole . But simply because the Irish people have cared for nothing but Home Rule , they have never entered into the calculations of the ministry except as a dim and truculent crowd with whose representatives they were willing to bargain but who themselves needed never to be seen . When you reflect that the ministry is the chief spokesman of Empire in England and Scotland , and when you realize that the voters of Ireland have as little personal contact with British ministers as the voters of Kansas or Nebraska , you gather the utter fictitiousness of the imperial " bonds " that are now supposed to be taut . The British public has some idea of foreign policy . It has some notion of its government 's aims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except for perfunctory visits to Dublin and Belfast the statesmen of Great Britain have never made the slightest attempt to keep in touch with the people of Ireland . As a result , apart altogether from the nationalist preoccupation , the democracy of Ireland is practically outside the Empire , and for this predicament the imperialist politicians have themselves to thank . To remedy such characteristic indifference at the eleventh hour , when it is desired that 300,000 Irishmen , instead of tso , 000 , shall go to the continent to fight for the Union Jack , is a problem to task even such an intermediary as John Redmond . In the opinion of those Irishmen who say that revolution is brooding , it can only be solved by a definite fulfillment of Home Rule . Such is the only fair method by which nation and empire may be annealed . The suspension of that measure fobbed off the Orangemen at an awkward hour , but it has left the nationalists in a state of sickened suspense . Ready to respond , even now , to some proof that England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for governmental candor . If instead pusillanimous silence is preserved , they are prepared , the extremists , to do anything that can injure the Empire to which they are unwillingly allied . If Ireland learns now that Home Rule is to remain intact , conceding Ulster some guarantee such as a veto on all Ulster legislation , the real impediment to good-will will be removed . This impediment exists because the government has jockeyed with Ulster . It has loudly affirmed that Home Rule is a fair democratic measure , yet it allows Ulster , propertied Ulster , to make it stand off from Home Rule , nervously counting the cost . If that is the way of Empire , it hardly inspires Irishmen to offer their lives . Since Parnell committed Ireland to a constitutional program , the separatist policy has seemed to lose its hold . But in the last year many thousand nationalist Irishmen have learned the use of arms . In spite of Mr. Redmond 's efforts to rule these men , the most spirited among them are now absolutely determined to force Irish demands to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep them from taking a stand . If the government , as is feared , begins wholesale arrests and coercion , the result will be an abortive revolution , sure to be suppressed but evil in every possible way . The only honorable scheme by which this can be averted is the remittance of Ireland 's acceded dues . Until this supreme obligation is fulfilled , in advance of any draft on Ireland 's manhood , the maintenance of the British Empire can not be of real concern to the majority of Irishmen . If they can not avail of boasted " public law " and " democracy , " many are sufficiently desperate to be ready for the alternative militarism of " Kultur . " FRANCIS HACKETT . " Good People " A N Irish friend of mine says that he finds this war so richly exciting that he feels very sorry for anybody who dies within the next year and thus misses its adventures and denouement . I myself feel sorry for any one who misses such documents as the journal of a citizen of Senlis , which I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ account of the German occupation of early September , there is one story of a timeless flavor that suggests that the world has not yet lost its high symbolic sense . It seems that the German soldiers , in their foraging about occupied towns , are in the habit of stamping with their approval the houses where they are amiably received and food and drink presented to them . This they do by chalking upon the doors , in their cabalistic Gothic script , the words " Gute Leute " ? " good people " ? as a notice to the army of the deservingness and excellence of the inhabitants within . In Senlis there lived an old German woman who had been with a French family for more than thirty years . She was still attached to the country of her birth , but had also come much to love the French . Torn between these conflicting sentiments , she perpetrated upon the Fatherland , when the Germans entered Senlis , the most innocent and delightful of treasons . In the dead of night , armed only with a piece @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and did not rest until the doors of all the households that she knew had been inscribed with the mystic , " Gute Leute . " Next morning , Senlis was full of " good people . " There is something infinitely significant in the thought of this old German woman , going about the town like a good angel , fixing her sign of protection , like the blood on the lintels of the Israelities in Egypt , on the doors of her friends . Thirty years had quite obliterated in her the distinction between Teuton and Gaul . And even thirty minutes had been enough to obliterate it partially in the minds of the Prussian soldiery who had made the same beneficent sign . A recent sunny April noon in Senlis enables me to see very vividly the dogged little troop marching into the fair and peaceful age-old town , moving in little informal groups about its silver-grey streets , or drawn up before the Mairie , parleying with the officials . And what did they ask ? blood and ransom ? Simply a dinner at the best hotel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burning all night I Were not these polite , acquiescing Frenchmen immediately " Gute Leute " to them ? And as the individual soldiers scattered about the town , did they not find " Gute Leute " around them ? How naive , too , may have been their test . A little wine and bread , perhaps , and the givers became " good people , " to be marked with the sign and protected from rapine . Such warfare conducted by the individual becomes almost idyllic in its quality . One appreciates the almost helpless embarrassment of the invaders , and their perplexity as to what to do with all this that they have so completely and innocently at their mercy . As the soldier roams carelessly about , perhaps more than one question comes into his mind as to why he is there to fight " Gute Leute " at all . And then , crash 1 The sudden shots of franctireurs at the outskirts of the town , the shock and panic of betrayal , the swift coalescence of these scattered Prussian units of amiability into an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual sentiments that were operating a moment ago . With a click , all the " Gute Leute " are merged into a solid , cruel mass of Senlis , the enemy 's town , to be struck , ruthlessly , irrevocably . The mayor who has unintentionally deceived the Germans is taken out immediately and shot , the neighboring houses are set on fire , the public building ravaged . This new gaunt , incalculable body , without reason or emotion but with only a will , sweeps its red way to the east . And these things are done in no sense by the men who were so lately parleying with their " Gute Leute , " but by the coagulated , disciplined mob which formed at the instant of the attack . So they pass from Senlis , leaving the old German woman to wonder at this madness of war which sets a sword between the " Gute Leute " that she knows her Prussians to be , and the " bonnes gens " of Senlis. 