@@465575

MIDWAY between Washington and Roosevelt stood our thirteenth President , Millard Fillmore . He was then fifty years old , in the full vigor of mind and body , one of the youngest of our Chief Executives . He resembled McKinley in his cast of mind , and Lincoln in his temporizing policy . A maker ' of precedents , he was yet the incarnation of the Constitution . In the crisis he obeyed the voice of conscience , without regard to ease or fame . In courtliness of manner he fell in no whit behind the early Presidents with their winning urbanity and majestic simplicity . I The turreted fastnesses of the medieval castle saw the evolution of the Lady , but Fillmore showed his grit and won his graces in the forest . Behind him was the ever-shaping personality of his wife , Abigail Powers . He has been wittily called a wife-made man . His life falls within three epochs ? toil amid the trees and in the clearing ; strenuous achievement in Empire State and national politics , culminating in the Presidency ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Buffalo , " on which city , after a half-century of residence , Millard Fillmore left his beneficent and ineffaceable stamp . Without the gift of prophetic insight , but intensely loyal to the nation 's fundamental law , this passionate lover of the Union as it was never quailed at any menace from the North or the South . With the devotion of a Roman to his oath and of a Puritan to his convictions , Fillmore was the last of the Whigs . He fell with the " institution " protected , approved of , and , as some thought , entrenched forever in the Constitution . lie signed the Fugitive Slave bill , hoping therebyto promote peace . Nearly forgotten as the survivor of a race of buried giants , his vast and signal services to the nationhave lain him . A survey of his life and work in order to find his place in history places Millard Fillmore in the first rank of the Presidents in the second group , between Van Buren and Lincoln , and not in any lower line of ability and character . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Vermont , struck his axe into the maples of Cayuga County in central New York to build his log cabin and bring to it his bride of sixteen , Phoebe Millard , of Pittsfield , Massachusetts , our flag had but sixteen stars in its blue field . The Empire State west of the Hudson was almost an unbroken forest . Snow lay on the ground on the morning of January 7 , 1800 . The blazed path to the nearest physician , seven miles away , was in a wolf-haunted forest , through which the father hastened in spe . The future President , however , arriving before his parent 's return , was cradled in a maple-sugar sap trough , which had been made ready for the approaching spring crop . When scarcely out of babyhood the boy began a life of toil with axe and hoe . Bitter experiences with poor soil and defective land titles determined the father to choose for his second child and first son some other livelihood . Millard , after some log-schoolhouse experience during winter months , was dissuaded from enlistment on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surplus energy was taxed in walking a hundred miles ? to learn the business of carding and cloth - dressing . After much manual drudgery he returned home , mastered a dictionary , and taught school in order to teach himself . To visit relatives he travelled westward to New Amsterdam on Buffalo Creek , then rising from its ashes after the war fires kindled by the British torch , and now the city of Buffalo . Returning home on foot . Judge Walter Wood , of Montville , seeing the boy 's promise , invited him to study law . Buying off his employer 's claim upon him as apprentice , he studied Blackstone , won local fame by a Fourth-of-July oration , and gained his first fee of three dollars in a case before a justice of the peace . The unexpected sequel was a quarrel with the judge , who scolded him for his premature advent into the law ; so . his father having removed to East Aurora in Erie County , he went West . At twenty-one years of age he began practising pedagogics , legal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offered . When the nest was feathered for his mate , he was married at Moravia , New York , and thenceforward had a home of his own . Another partnership , this time in law , followed , and in 1830 he opened an office in Buffalo . From the firm founded by Millard Fillmore were graduated two Presidents , Grover Cleveland being one of them . At this time the Freemasons , now a body of gentlemen the last to be suspected of lack of patriotism , coercion of conscience , or interference in governmental affairs , formed a powerful social organization , strongly tinged with political ambition . In the eyes of many they were a menace to the safety of the republic . Anti-Masonic agitation was organized on party lines , and on its wave Fillmore , Seward . Weed , and others rose to fame . In time the anti-Masonic was absorbed in the Whig party . Elected as member from Erie County to the Legislature , which was then guiding the development of a wilderness , Millard Fillmore , despite his comparative youth , achieved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for debt , and of religious tests for witnesses , earning the gratitude of both commonwealth and nation . The growth of law governing the debtor , which has resulted in the freedom of to-day , forms one of the noblest chapters in the complex evolution of the modern man . The ancient creditor held the body , or even the life , of the indebted man as his own chattel , but in modern or Christian procedure only the prisoner 's liberty was abridged . As late as 1830 Whittiermade his impassioned plea in behalf of the prisoner for debt . He painted a harrowing picture of the aged Continentals , who were rotting their lives slowly away , because creditors had put these sons of poverty behind bars . The poet demanded that the prison 's living tomb he opened and the victims of a savage code be released : In a word , Whittier demanded that Massachusetts follow New York , led by young Fillmore . Robert Morris , our financial burden-bearer in the Revolution , suffered gyves because unfortunate in business Thor-low Weed 's father was kept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ student might find a theme for a noble thesis in studying the evolution of public sentiment in this matter . It is certain that Mr. Fillmore was the principal author of the act of the New York Assembly , passed April 2 , 1831 , and signed by the Governor on April 26th , making imprisonment for debt impossible in the Empire State . Happily the other corn-monwealths in time followed her noWe example . Almost equally important was the bill relative to the competency of witnesses in court . At this time the testimony of any man reputed to disbelieve in the Deity , or state of future rewards and punishment , was not received . Fillmore took the ground that " it is utterly impossible , in the very nature of things , for one man to know another 's religious sentiments . " In one county a man was indicted for murder . The only witness was a friend of the accused . Not wishing to give testimony against his intimate , this man , who knew the facts , gave it out to a third person that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hereafter . He was therefore , greatly to his own wicked satisfaction , declared incompetent . and the murderer was acquitted . Indeed , all the members of one of the Christian sects were by their own creed incompetent to testify . The law framed by Fillmore , now in substance adopted everywhere in the United States , was in harmony with the national and State Constitutions , which declare that MILLARD FILLMORE 'S FORGOTTEN ACHIEVEMENTS 945 " no other oath , declaration , or test shall be required as a qualification for any office or public trust . " In everything that meant the uplift and development of man , and notably in popular education , Mr. Fillmore was warmly interested . He believed that women should receive equal pay with men for the same work done . Elected to Congress in 1833 , his participation in committee work and debate shows how well he measured up to the tasks that were laid upon him . When the first snowflakes of the storm which was to burst in 1861 sifted into Congress , in the form of memorials praying for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain partisans arrayed themselves against a principle as old as the Netherlands city republics or Magna Charta . The member from Erie County argued that each party should be fully heard , and that each should have the privilege of spreading their views before the people generally . " What as to debtors , test oaths , and right of petition is to-day accepted as commonplace , was then with many most dangerous heresy . Though opposed as a Whig to Jackson 's policy , Mr. Fillmore did not consider the establishment of a national bank as important as did a majority of the Whigs . Regarding all banks of the kind in vogue in the thirties as necessary evils , he labored for a better system of American finance . In his speech of September 25 , 1831 , he said : " I hope , sir , to live to see the day when the moral pestilence of political banks and banking shall be unknown . " Later , as Comptroller of the State of New York , he anticipated in his report the now well-established system of national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canada , culminating in the Caroline affair , when disloyal Canadians and their American sympathizers tried to force their particular brand of freedom upon Queen Victoria 's subjects , hostile feeling along our frontier was het for several years . While others finned and threatened Great Britain , Mr. Fillmore urged a proper system of defence as the better alternative . It eventuated , and no one rejoiced more in the result than Mr. Fillmore , that the two great English-speaking nations gave the world a uniqueobject-lesson of a frontier , three thousand miles long , on which there is not a single fort or one mounted cannon . The United States steamer Michigan , now the Wolverine , since the mighty battleship borrowed her name , which at first carried one gun , representing our entire navy on the Lakes , is the oldest iron vessel in the world . When launched at Erie , Pennsylvania , December 5. 1843 , thousands of spectators assembled to see her sink at once , because made of iron . Her service as a police ship , checkmating counterfeiters , murderers , border @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and superb record . During his first Congressional term , Mr. Fillmore 's work was laborious rather than brilliant , but in 1842 his abilities as a financier made him the acknowledged " leader of the House . " The vital question was revenue . Made chairman of the Committee on Ways and Means ? then the most important of all ? Mr. Fillmore fathered the tariff bill of that year . More permanently influential in the development of the modern world life was Mr. Fillmore 's championship of the magnetic telegraph . Having seen Professor Morse 's model , he believed that the charged wire was to be at once useful and increasingly valuable . Despite gibes and the opposition of ignorance , he persistently pleaded for national aid to the inventor . One opposer , adept in the art of sneering. suggested that Congress should subsidize mesmerism . The measure was passed in the last hour of the session , and Morse himself had gone home discouraged , only to be informed early in the morning by a young girl that his project had met the favorable attention of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ message " What hath God wrought . " The appropriation of $40,000 set up the wires between Baltimore and Washington . Ezra Cornell assisted . The Irish maid servant epitomized Morse 's biography quickly ? " He invented telegraph poles . " Declining further nomination , Mr. Fillmore devoted himself to his more lucrative law practice . In Buffalo , within his home on Franklin Street , well stocked with books , he and his wife ? a lady of fine literary and linguistic culture and well-cultivated social taste -- were both able to attract to it many delighted visitors . Millard Fillmore 's craft seemed ever on the crest of success . He was nominated for the Governorship , but Was defeated by Silas Wright , who had to face the anti-rent war , which Cooper has pictured in his tedious novels , Satanstoe , The Chainbearer , and The Redskins : Indians and Injins . He was offered the nomination for the Comptrollership , and was thought to be the most available candidate for the Vice-Presidency , but Tyler with Harrison was nominated and elected . The latter died in office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " accidental President , " and to the victorious party the novelty of a man independent enough to " betray his friends , " or , in other words , to become the President of a nation instead of a section . Almost compelled to become Comptroller in 1848 , when this office included many functions which have since been subdivided , Mr. Fillmore handled the finances of the Empire State with masterly skill , keeping back the harpies from the public purse , even as the great seal of the office pictures . In those days the Stars and Stripes were not as now lonely curiosities on the ocean . Vast was our merchant marine and whaling fleet , and many were the American voyages of exploration . The country was at the height of prosperity . The war with Mexico had greatly increased the nation 's area , yet all west of the Mississippi was unknown territory to most Americans . " Manifest destiny " was in the air . Whitman bad carried the first wagon wheel and the first white woman over the Rocky Mountains , though Frkaont @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than he . Only a few far-seeing statesmen and scholars could then realize the revolutionizing influence of this western territory upon internal conditions and foreign policy . The cotton-gin had made land in the South so valuable and slave labor so indispensable that more area was demanded . This could not be in the cold north , so believers in slavery as an " institution " looked southward and over to those warm sea islands which lengthened the fibre of this wonderful tree wool . A colonization that was much like invasion , through Texas toward Mexico , and the capture of Cuba by filibusters , with Central America thrown in , were openly talked of . Hence the Mexican war , with its sequels , Lopez and Walker . The " balance of power , " a doctrine borrowed from Europe , demanded equilibrium between the free and slave States . The Northwest would certainly be free . Hence the vehement propaganda of State rights and secession doctrines . Demarcation lines were drawn tense . Every Whig must either favor slavery or leave the party . Statesmanship and character had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ availability . " Military men , brave in battle , but political nonentities , were set to capture conventions . Clay and Webster were passed by . The Whigs shirked a declaration of principles and shouted for " Old Rough and Ready " a frontiersman who had not voted for forty years . Party managers nominated and the American people elected Zachary Taylor and Millard Fillmore . The civilian Vice-President was and had been a maker of precedents . He was called to preside over the Senate , which had increased from twenty-six to sixty members , during the longest session and the hottest debate known in its history , occupying three-fourths of a year . To this gathering Clay came to his last work , Calhoun to die , Webster to lose fame , and Seward to win national renown . Fill-more at once attacked the rule , established by Calhoun , that no Senator could be called to account . The South-Carolinian held that the United States was not a nation , but a confederacy only , and that a ' gathering of envoys from States particular met as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ member to order . Having mastered precedents , traditions , statutes , and rules , Mr. Fillmore forbade one Senator to interrupt another or to address him in person instead of through the Chair . Despite the ( unloaded ? ) pistol of Foote against Benton , disorderly tendencies were checked . Since Fillmore 's deliverance , the Senate rules have been scrupulously observed , making it the most august deliberative body in the world . Zachary Taylor , pure and lofty in his ideals , was so passionate a lover of the deleted material With a hostile majority in Congress , the Chief Executive could not carry out the enterprises for which he plead . His messages teem with ideas and plans , for he recommended many things then novel , but now commonplace . His state papers won praise even beyond sea , for this was a time when English sympathy with us was keen . The Continental revolutions of 1848 had failed . Only John Bull and Brother Jonathan were free . On the score of actual achievements there is an exceedingly large list to Fillmore 's credit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to beautify it , especially in the placing of parks and the planting of trees . The Capitol was enlarged from a chubby little building capped with squat rotundity to one superb in mass and glorious in depth of light and shadow . On the central soaring dome stood the star-crowned figure of Liberty . To the main edifice two imposing wings were added , making of old and new one glorious unity , its white marble affluent in the witchery of light and shade . When a fire in the old library turned priceless treasures of color and canvas , of print and binding , of manuscript and rarity , to ashes , another collection began in the new Capitol . This in time , outgrowing its quarters , put on new robes of mosaic and marble , until we behold a noble phunix in the beautiful edifice of to-day . Excepting the one unpopular measure rejected by the North , all of Fillmore 's initiatives link themselves with the present and future life of the nation . Never before or since were exploring expeditions , in the arctic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and into our new Western domains , more scientifically and fruitfully carried out . An armada was sent to Japan to tickle into wakefulness , with an olive branch , the sleeping Thornrose of the Pacific . For this task , as delicate as that of a wooing lover , the President chose Perry . Happily consummated , it impressed Europe as only one , or possibly two , previous events in American history had done . Meanwhile the filibusters , who coveted Cuba , were as active as hornets . To watch , prevent , or capture these trespassers gave the President anxious moments . Denounced and misrepresentedas Spain has been , when the misguided youths captured in the Lopez fiasco were sentenced to hard labor in the mines beyond sea , they were cheerfully repatriated on request made from Washington . Then Mr. Fillmore , through his Secretary , Edward Everett , warned off Great Britain and France from interference in Cuba , and clearly foreshadowed the recent policy of the United States toward the Pearl of the Antilles . It is a popular superstition that Fillmore 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Daniel Webster in the Cabinet , but the records do not bear out this notion so flattering to sectional pride . More than once , and especially in the matter of the fisheries , and in dealing with England , the President was obliged to check the rather blustering procedure of his Secretary of State . Despite guesswork , all the documents show a mutual confidence and a tender personal friendship between the two men , unbroken to the last . In general the foreign policy of the Fillmore administration was both brilliant and solid . Such men as Elgin , Bulwer , and Crampton were in the British Legation . Under Mr. Fillmore the United States became an epitome , visible in Europe . At the initial World 's Exposition , held in the London Crystal Palace in 1351 , an opportunity was offered for the study of American resources and inventions . As we were still a slaveholding people , the newspaper wits and Punch 's cartoonists made merry with the infirmities of Brother Jonathan and the peculiarities of Yankee Doodle . Nevertheless the British press was warm with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to seek . England and the United States seemed to be the only free nations . The uprisings of 1848 on the Continent in behalf of freedom had ended in failure . The priest and the soldier were in the saddle , while patriots and lovers of a better time were in prison or in exile . In their truly splendid isolation , Britons hailed with joy their kinsmen and the new and better Europe beyond sea . The American who remembers only the lack of sympathy and cynical treatment of President Lincoln and the North during the Civil War finds in the pages of the English newspapers in the early fifties a delightful surprise . Here are a warmth of tone , a brotherly feeling , a genuine admiration for the American spirit , that touches his heart deeply and even brings moisture to the eye . Mr. Fillmore 's messages were printed in full and highly praised . While the fun was poked at our " peculiar institution in a lively way , there was no sting of malice ; no , not even when our yachts beat theirs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sympathy and the prophecies of American greatness , in their heartiness and volume , far outweighed what might be put down on the debit side . Could we Americans to-day see the exhibit of our nationals in London in 1851 , we should laugh very heartily too , and even wonder that the English did not laugh more . Congress was stingy , and we were without experience in selection or arrangement . No salaries were paid , and hardly anything furnished by the government , except a ship for transportation . Not half of the space the Americans had asked for was occupied , and our exhibit looked lean . The American eagle in the Crystal Palace , after so much screaming and wing-flapping at home , looked very much like a common rooster . In fact , the dress , manners , quality of household furniture , our sectional and parochial ideas , the style of oratory practised and enjoyed , and our politics were then without international interest . Our general view of things was provincial . We not only deserved the criticism of Europeans , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same smile which the mature man wears when he remembers his own days of crude and verdant youth . When Washington laid down the law of non-intervention in the affairs of foreign countries , he used an adjective inregard to alliances which stands as a beacon and warning . Kossuth , leader of the Hungarian revolution , was a picturesque personage , who turned the heads of statesmen and hypnotized vast audiences , but Mr. Fillmore declined to become a " subject ! ' Despite oratory and dazzling uniforms , " the politest man in America " informed the Hungarian that lie would abide by the policy of Washington . American people , fired with an inordinate love of freedom in Hungary , subscribed handsomely for public dinners ? and ate them with good appetites ? but our country was saved from further incursions upon its sympathy . Execrated by a minority , but honored and popular with the nation at large , after leaving office Mr. Fillmore was quickly made acquainted with grief . On the stone terrace of the Capitol , listening while Franklin Pierce delivered his inaugural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bone , received her sentence of death , dying at the hotel within a few days . At home in the following summer , his only daughter died of cholera . The ex-President , after a Southern tour , went abroad to see Europe and note how men were governed . He had audience with Queen Victoria , the Pope , and the King of Prussia . He visited Humboldt , Motley , and Macaulay . Uncertain as to his garb when invited to dine with her Britannic Majesty , this gracious lady told Mr. Fillmore to coma in any dress that he might be pleased to wear . The British Cabinet then fixed the precedent for the reception of visiting American Presidents which they have since followed . Upon Mr. Fillmore 's return , it was in the experience of overwhelming defeat , as candidate of the Whig party , that his political career was closed . Nevertheless , with the single exception of a possible political mistake , that career is one of constructive statesmanship of which the nation may be proud .       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     