@@486116

OF all the skeletons hidden in the closet of our economic house , one of the most noisome has been the bad relations existing between science and industry . Our men of science have looked upon the commercial application of their knowledge and their talents as prostitution . Our men of business have gloried above all else in being practical ; and being practical has meant to them entire distrust of all information that comes from a book or a laboratory . We have learned , during the war , that this divorce of science and industry has been a severe handicap to progress both scientific and commercial . The American scientist no longer rejoices in his contempt for commercial affairs , nor does the American manufacturer now ignore scientific theory . This new reconciliation is nowhere more marked than in the field of chemistry . Nowhere will it have more far-reaching effects ; for chemistry is the basis of innumerable manufacturing processes . The maker of match tips and the manufacturer of steel rails alike are dealing with manufacturing problems that are fundamentally chemical . During the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crude materials has forced revisions in manufacturing processes , and many of these revisions have been chemical . Thus to save cargo space , the Shipping Board last year ordered that ships from the Dutch East Indies should no longer carry tapioca . The manufacturers of nitro-starch for the army endeavored to have this order revoked on the ground that tapioca was one of their necessary crude materials . W. B. D. Penniman , chemist to the Shipping Board , convinced both the Government and the manufacturers that nitro-starch can be made from corn starch . Other American chemists worked out the details of the manufacturing processes , and not only is the nitro-starch made . from corn starch a better product than that made from tapioca , but it can also be produced more economically . Scores of similar manufacturing problems have been solved by the aid of chemists . Even more important in closing the breach between chemists and manufacturers has been the rapid development of our chemical industries . In 1914 our imports of chemicals were valued at $88,039 , - 120 ; in 1917 , at $144,235,370 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exports . In 1914 these were $27 , - 097,092 . In 1917 they were $193,254,160. - In three years our chemical exports , despite the handicaps of the war in the production of these goods , have increased sevenfold in value . Because of its appeal to the imagination and the publicity that it has received , our progress in the making of coal-tar products , particularly explosives and - dyes , is well known , but not every one appreciates the great advances made in other fields of applied chemistry . Sulphuric acid is the most important basic material in commercial chemistry . Our production of this has doubled during the war . The output of its companion , nitric acid , has increased ten times . We have established a new synthetic ammonia industry making this product from the air by methods which have been developed to a state higher than anything known in Germany or Norway . In the new war industry of making poison gases we have found by-products that are commercially valuable . Before the war , acetone , used as a solvent in the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cordite , was made - here in limited quantities by a wood distillation process ; there are now three other processes for its manufacture that are being worked commercially . One of these is based upon the fermentation of kelp , and acetone is but one of many products which American chemists are wringing from this giant seaweed of the Pacific Coast . Iodine is recovered in quantities which will affect favorably for us the price the Chilean producers have been able to command because of their natural monopoly . Ethyl acetate , ethyl propionate , ethyl butyrate , and a vegetable gelatin , sodium alginate , are other important by-products of this kelp industry , which was organized to meet the i demand for potash as fertilizer . In the field of coal-tar chemistry , leaving out of consideration dyes and explosives , we are now producing over half a million dollars worth of photographic chemicals , nearly two million dollars worth of synthetic perfumes and flavors , and over five and a half million dollars worth of coal-tar medicines . Almost all of these belong commercially to the same class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supply , while to-day we are exporting more than we imported in 1913 . In America are the crude materials  --  coal , oil , wood , and mineral ores  --  necessary for the greatest chemical industry in the world . We have also the necessary capital , and the - men who control that capital have learned that the chemical industry is a field for profitable and permanent investment . The weak link in the chain is our lack of trained chemists. , The big men interested in our chemical development are today giving their most serious consideration not to the unscrupulous , subsidized competition by which the great German chemical houses will try , after the war , to crush our chemical industry ; but to the supply of properly trained American chemists . This is a problem that affects not only the American chemical industries themselves , but ' every American consumer . It , is a problem which our colleges and universities must help us to solve . Much has been said in careless , uninformed disparagement of the American chemist . Such adverse criticism was never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past four years in the face of peculiar difficulties are a complete refutation of such slurs . We have American chemists equal to any in the world , but we have not enough of them . It is a question of supply with which we are concerned to-day , and supply is usually intimately connected with demand . In the past , salaries paid to chemists in industry have been influenced largely by salaries paid to teachers of chemistry . The young graduate seeking a commercial connection has found that the salary- offered him was approximately that which was paid a college instructor in chemistry . Moreover , the opportunities for financial advancement were not so great as ' might have been supposed , since " chief chemists " were often paid no more than the proverbially meagre salaries of college professors . It is small wonder that the best young chemists , appreciating these facts , elected to secure the intellectual-and social advantages which have gone with teaching . To-day the situation is changed . Good chemists in the industries are not only paid big salaries , but they also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companies with which they are associated . The ranks of the teachers of chemistry have been dangerously thinned , for not every manufacturer is so far-sighted as the one who withdrew his offer of a large salary to a college instructor when the president of the college pointed out to him that , as a teacher training future chemists , this man was in the long run more valuable than he would be as a plant director . One of the natural results of the excessive demand for chemists has been the effort on the part of some manufacturers to combine the functions of two men in - one . In any considerable chemical manufactory , there are two stages of the work : one in the laboratory , : the other in the plant . Although the qualifications of the chemist and of the engineer are different , some colleges have attempted to meet the demand by training so-called chemical engineers . They havegiven students a smattering of both subjects and handed them a meaningless degree . The functions of the chemist and of the engineer are distinct , and each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proper training for the chemist requires more than four years almost undivided study of chemistry . Whatever we may think of the objects sought and the methods employed by the German chemical houses , it is impossible to deny that they were well supplied with chemists eminently fitted for industrial work , and the training of - the German universities in chemistry was a thorough training in the pure science . American manufacturdrs are too astute to be always deceived by short cuts or false economy , and it is the chemist of the type turned out by our universities who will win recognition in the industrial field as he has in the past won it in the educational world . Of chemists proper , two classes are necessary in industry  --  the analyst and the research worker . The duty of the analytical chemist is to see that the crude supplies are of proper strength and purity , and that the manufactured product meets required standards . His services are invaluable , and , if he has the education and the ability , practical analytical work in a plant is valuable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work that manufacturers have generally required of chemists , and yet , important as this check upon stock and output is , the work of the analytical chemist is far less important than original research work . The research chemist must bring to his task of developing new processes , discovering new products , and adopting by-products to new uses a thorough training in the fundamentals of chemistry . This presupposes the broadest possible foundation in theoretical chemistry , especially in physical chemistry and electro-chemistry , an intimate familiarity with chemical literature , and a sound working knowledge of higher mathematics , physics , and modern languages . These can not be acquired in four years of undergraduate work . Obviously the requirements for analytical and research work differ . The analytical chemist must possess perseverance , extreme carefulness , and mental honesty to a high degree . The research man must not only be a thorough chemist , but he must be a fine enthusiast , a man of vigorous and original mind , willing to accept numberless defeats , always ready to attack his problems with spirit and from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is fitted to be an industrial chemist , and the greatest rewards of the profession naturally come to those who have the necessary mental and moral qualifications underlying their technical training . The director of research in one of the large chemical companies has said that the first requisite of a chemist is perseverance , the second is perseverance , and the third is perseverance . If this be true , a prime requisite of the successful chemical manufacturer must be patience . American manufacturers , if they are to obtain the cooperation of chemists , must appreciate the peculiar difficulties of chemical work . Some chemical problems have been solved quickly  --  almost , it would seem , by a lucky stroke . By far the greatest developments in. applied chemistry , , however , have been the results of long painstaking experiments . The industrial chemist , on his part , must know that the fruits of his labor belong to his employers , and that the discoveries he makes in his laboratory belong to them . Wise employers , on the other hand , recognize and reward new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have come to a better appreciation of the services of chemists is best proved by the increased salaries they are paying . Money is the means by which industry measures values , and the salaries paid industrial chemists express graphically the value manufacturers place upon their services . There is little danger that these services will be less highly valued in future , and the action of the Du Pont Company in establishing eighteen fellowships for post-graduate work and thirty-three scholarships open to undergraduates in various colleges , and universities all over the country is a sign that at least one of our largest corporations appreciates in even a broader way the value of the chemist to industry . The present good relations existing between chemists and manufacturers rest on a strong foundation of mutual self-interest , and the maintenance of these good relations depends , in the individual case , upon personal qualities . If he is able to meet men , success comes the more easily to a chemist in industrial work . Although this is got so vitally important for him as for the engineer , who , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor , still , the value of personality is - great in the laboratory . Even if a chemist does not use his profession as a stepping-stone , to an executive position , he is sure , in the modern regime , to be called into consultation with the heads of the producing and distributing departments . The new demand for properly trained chemists puts upon the teachers of chemistry a larger and more serious obligation than they have heretofore borne . The opportunities before the industrial chemist have been emphasized , and many boys are tempted to take up chemistry as a profession . It requires , however , more than a liking for the novelty of laboratory work  --  a liking which may wear off after a semester or two  --  to make successful industrial chemists , and teachers of chemistry ought to exercise restraint in encouraging students to take up the science as a life work . Years ought not to be spent in acquiring training by men who lack the necessary qualifications . It would seem to be highly desirable , especially in the undergraduate courses , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has sometimes been lacking . Many potential chemists have been lost because the practical application of the science has not been apparent in lectures or laboratory work . Under present conditions the chemical industry needs the services of all promising young men , and the commercial instinct , far from being , as it has been in the past , a detriment , is an asset . In post-graduate work , the experience which Germany had acquired and which we are acquiring proves that the emphasis should be upon pure chemistry . But the attention value of the commercial application of chemistry ought not to be lost in undergraduate courses . So intimately is the future development of the American industry bound up in , a proper supply of adequately trained chemists that it is impossible to over-emphasize its importance . Coupled with the basic importance of chemistry to all industries , this is one of the serious problems of the reconstruction of our economic life after the war . There is no doubt that a sound understanding on the part of teachers-of chemistry of the requirements manufacturers must make of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of undergraduates of the opportunities open to industrial chemists of proper training and qualifications will be a most valuable help in the solving of this problem .                     