@@493139

A Note on Forgetting PROBLEMS of forgetting occupy a position of peculiar importance in all of Freud 's works . The very conception of the unconscious which is the inspiration of his whole system , is directly based upon his theory of forgetting . Stated generally , this theory maintains that the mind has an inveterate tendency to forget the disagreeable . But at the same time Freud is one of the most ardent champions of the widely accepted theory that the mind never forgets anything ; in fact , he is one of the few psychologists who have fortified this hypothesis with adequate proof . It is therefore interesting to see how these two points of view are to be reconciled . Freud 's double attitude does not involve a contradiction . It is quite true that we remember everything , in the sense that it is registered somewhere in our mind , but these memories may be deposited in what may be assumed to be two different psychic systems . One of these is the ordinary associative memory , and the other is what Freud calls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system remains accessible to us ; that is , it can be recalled , whereas everything deposited in the second system becomes inaccessible ; that is , it retains its unconscious quality . The unconscious , according to Freud , is simply a vast repository , located in some parts of our psychic structure , in which we store the disagreeable . When he says that we forget the disagreeable , his real meaning is that we make it unconscious . And instead of saying that the mind never forgets anything , it would be more accurate to say that the mind never fails to register , but that some of the records become inaccessible . The // proof for this contention lies in the fact that under certain conditions such as hypnotism these inaccessible records can be made accessible . In spite of these definitions the reader is likely to feel that Freud 's dictum about forgetting the disagreeable runs counter to his experience . He will object that on the contrary he has an all too vivid recollection of some intensely disagreeable past events . But a large number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we should remember . Such is the famous experience of first touching the hot stove . This is the type of disagreeable but salutary experience upon which we henceforth act instinctively to our own advantage . The existence of memory is justified by its function if we assume that it stores up all impressions , whether agreeable or disagreeable , which are of service in preserving the organism . Memory is then simply the accumulated store of individual and racial experience . But this attitude already implies that we remember the disagreeable on account of some benefit which we have derived from it . We do not so much remember that disagreeable first burn as the fact that it saved us from being burned a second time ; the usefulness of the experience has lent it what is really a pleasant quality , so that it is still a question whether we are capable of remembering an experience that has remained purely disagreeable . Now Freud has pointed out that our memory of the disagreeable is always faulty , and to this extent it is already partly forgotten . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is brought about by the substitution of something agreeable in its place . This occurs in its crudest form in the mental elaborations of a man who has been worsted in a personal encounter . His version of the affair differs materially from that of the victor or the impartial spectator . If we are to believe him , he has not really been defeated at all . He may have been punished by his opponent , but he has delivered some smashing blows in return , the odds were against him , and if they were to have the fight over again he would surely come off the victor . Thus we see his mind continually laboring to reconstruct the details to make them appear more favorable and to restore his prestige both in his own eyes and in those of the world . Freud sees here a universal tendency ; we all try to reconstruct the past in our favor and to aestheticise the ugly spots in it . This is especially true where the disagreeable has acquired a personal quality because our self-esteem , our pride , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value or consolation from the experience , so that it serves no use that would justify its preservation in the accessible part of our memory . Such an experience in the stream of our normal association is like a noxious foreign body , of which the mind seeks to rid itself in accord with a natural tendency to practice the greatest possible economy of mental strain . It is the effort to render the disagreeable ineffective by making it unconscious . This tendency is not confined to individuals . Freud , in one of those brilliant digressions of his which illuminate so many of his writings , has pointed out the racial implications of his theory . The same psychic forces are at work in the formation of national myths and legends . The hard facts of defeat are slowly crowded out of the national consciousness , so that we often find a vanquished nation possessing the most glorious epics . It is in this way that a true son of Ireland nourishes his patriotism . A recent episode in German literary history furnishes a neat illustration . When Gerhard Hauptmann @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of German emancipation from the Napoleonic tyranny , he inserted several realistic scenes portraying the complacent and cowardly way in which Prussian officialdom of those days had knuckled under to Napoleon . The presence of these scenes caused the play to be received with a wave of indignation . The national consciousness clamored for the flattering myth that Germany had always resisted the tyrant , and in the end the historic truth had to yield a point . Hauptmann was generally reprimanded for his tactlessness . The episode is to be recommended to American historians who complain that their muckrakings of the Constitutional Fathers generally fall so flat . In the " Psychopathology of Everyday Life , " translated by Dr. A. A. Brill , Freud has treated the problem of forgetting and of the unconscious on their lighter sides , as they touch certain activities common to all normal individuals . The phenomena thus studied include the forgetting of persons , places and things ; slips of the tongue , pen , and eye ; the failure to carry out resolutions or to complete intended actions , as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our daily lives . Here Freud is remarkably successful in showing the existence of a conflict between the conscious intention and an unconscious counter-will . The forgetting or the mistake is regularly determined by a definite though inhibited intention of which the individual is unaware , a determination which is epigrammatically expressed by saying that the things we did not mean to say or do are the things we really meant to say or do . The analysis of the underlying motives always shows either that the disagreeable has been repressed or that something agreeable has been put in its place . The examples range from the trivial to the profound ; the same man who forgets to pay his tailor because his funds are low , may forget his wedding anniversary because an unsuccessful marriage has embittered his life . Fascinating as these studies are for their own sake , they serve a more important purpose by initiating us into the larger aspects of the unconscious . Already in his Clark University lectures Professor Freud has emphasized the fact that the mechanisms of the unconscious as revealed through the study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or understood until we realize that the identical forces enter into the psychic activities of all normal individuals . The problem of forgetting and of the unconscious affects our daily lives as a mere annoyance , but we must remember that the same problem accounts for the intolerable memories which disorganize the personality in hysteria , and in the insanities destroy it altogether . The difference , between the normal and the abnormal , is merely a matter of degree ; it depends largely upon the ability to face the disagreeable , and the vital resistance against being overwhelmed by the unconscious .                     