@@487115

Telegraphic dispatches on November sixth gave us a general idea of the comments of the foreign press upon our Presidential election . But as the French and German and English newspapers have been coming by mail , reading of their editorial views gives opportunity for a fuller understanding . The significance of the Republican defeat and of the failure of Roosevelt is variously interpreted , and the forecasts of future party alignments differ . But in one respect there is something like a consensus . This lies in the judgment formed of Woodrow Wilson . His success is , of course , primarily regarded as that of the Democratic party , but over and above this a great deal of emphasis is laid upon his personality . His election had long been held certain by instructed political observers in Europe , as it had been here , and thus they had had time to make up their minds concerning the man , and also about the meaning of his coming to the Presidency . All of them speak of him as a " new " man . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ novus homo . It means that Wilson is of a type new in the higher American politics . The West-moister Gazette suggests this in the very title of its article on the election , namely , " The College President . " It speaks of " this experiment of the philosopher-king ' made in the unlikeliest quarter of the world . " This at once conveys the point . Europe is familiar with public men taken from the universities . Oxford has long been the cherishing mother of statesmen . But foreigners are more vividly aware than many Americans seem to be how great a novelty it is in the United States when , as the Westminster Gazette puts it , " the learned historian , professor , and en-college principal walks into the White House . " We here , closer by , give more attention than the foreigners do to Wilson 's brief period of transition . He did not go straight from the Presidency of Princeton to the Presidency of the nation . His stirring campaign in New Jersey , his telling administration as Governor , his frequent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country , led us iffsensibly to think of him more as a public man than as a college man . But across the water they are struck by the fact that Americans , after many years of talk about " the college man in politics , " have at last taken one and made him President . And with a credulity that will seem amazing to our skeptical politicians , these foreign commentators do not think that a university man in public life will be too innocent for the wicked world in which he finds himself . They even allege that their own experience leads them to believe that Mr. Wilson will prove as shrewd and efficient in practical statecraft as any old stager . They know , of course , that he has already given proof of his quality . As the London Times remarked , " he has already shown that he can beat the politicians at their own game . " On this same point , the words of the Manchester Guardian are worth quoting in part : His opponents have , of course , not missed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president , as a " doctrinaire " and " theorist , " and contrasting him with Mr Roosevelt , the " practical " and " efficient " man of action and affairs But the American people , being angry with the " bosses , " are not unaware that Dr Wilson , during his two years ' Governorship of New Jersey , has shown himself extremely independent of " boss " rule and an enterprising administrator , and that Mr Roosevelt during his seven years as President did a great deal to stir up public interest in his " policies , " but accomplished little or nothing towards carrying them into effect One newspaper , the Frankfurter Zettztng , makes a brief but interesting comparison between the personal qualities of Gov . Wilson and President Taft . It speaks in the most emphatic way of that men of outstanding ability should be kept out of public positions to the duties of which they are strange Of Taft the Zeitung says that his tendencies are those of a judge and an official , whereas Wilson it sees as an independent statesman with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strike out new paths . It expects him to be not only the head of the Government but a leader in American political thought . Such expressions of foreign opinion are not to be urged for more than they are worth . Most people in this country have , happily , ceased to employ the silly old braggadocio , " Who cares for abroad ? " We should care , and do care , for what Europe thinks of us Of its judgments on our politics and our Public men we ought to think neither with contempt nor with undue deference Butit certainly is a reason for satisfaction that our well-wishers on the other side of the Atlantic speak with so much praise and so much hope of the man whom we have just elected to the Presidency . Those who have restlessly wished that the United States would do something startling in order to " impress the imagination of Europe , " may now be invited to see how easily the thing was done . All that was necessary was to show that we regarded conspicuous ability and special intellectual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Europe rubbed her eyes at that , and sat up to take notice . THE RAILWAY WAGE AWARD . The two considerations of paramount importance in the decision of the Board of Arbitrators on the railway engineers ' wage dispute are that both parties to the controversy have acquiesced in the Board 's decision , and that the decision itself was virtually unanimous . Although , as was to be expected , the two arbitrators selected respectively by the railways and by the engineers ' union dissent in principle from certain parts of the decision , the five neutral arbitrators concur in the award without dissension and there is no minority report . We believe that the fact of this unanimity will prevent altogether the result which appears to be inferred , in some quarters , from the statement of Mr. Next May the arrangement will cease to be formally binding on either party , and it is open to any one to imagine the engineers then bringing back the situation to the status of last March , when a " tie-up " of the Eastern railways seemed to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improbability As in the case of the similar unanimous decision on miners ' wages by the Anthracite Commission in 1903 , the moral effect of the arbitrators ' attitude must be to establish new principles of action , for the disputants which can not be lightly departed from . The appeal of the Beard for abandonment of the expedient of industrial warfare , of strikes by railway employees such as will paralyze transportation industry , is strong and convincing . It rests itself primarily , as it should , on the rights of the whole community . That " any groups of men , whether employers or employees , " should enjoy and exercise " the power to decide that a great section of the country , as populous as all France , shall undergo great loss of life , unspeakable suffering , and loss of property beyond the power of description , through the stoppage of a necessary public service , " is " intolerable . " A strike of this sort " in the army or navy is mutiny , and universally punished as such " ; even in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schools , " the employment , to borrow a legal phrase , is affected with a public use , and this of necessity qualifies the right of free concerted action . " This is a vigorous and much-needed assertion of the rights of that " third party to the controversy " in such industrial disputes  --  the general public . which has so constantly been treated , in the past , as a negligible factor in the case . The arbitrators do not flinch from pressing their argument to its conclusion . They advise " the creation of Federal and State Wage Commissions which shall exercise functions regarding labor engaged in work upon public utilities analogous to those exercised with regard to capital by the Public Service Commissions already in existence . " We are not altogether prepared to accept that plan as feasible . It is manifestly surrounded with obstacles , social , legal , and constitutional . But the underlying principle will be served by resort to habitual arbitration such as is provided by the Erdman act , which the engineers ' unions ignored in their attitude of last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up the discussion of compulsory arbitration That some machinery must be set up by law , which will prevent a group of impulsive or hot-headed leaders , employers or employees , from inflicting on whole communities the experiences of a military siege , is a conclusion which , we believe , every thoughtful citizen has already reached . What the French Government did , through the violent expedient of calling out the railway engineers as part of the army reserve and requiring them , under military penalty , to operate the trains , it must be possible for the United States to do through normal and constitutional means . In its specific details , the award of the arbitrators is a compromise . It denies the engineers ' full demand for wage advances , - and decides that a general increase in wages on all the roads concerned is not warranted by the facts . But it takes equally positive ground in " standardizing " the wage scale and granting special increases which are held to be reasonable in the light of evidence . On the basis of distance and hours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is recognized as involving higher average pay than now prevails . Where the railways estimated , last spring , that the demands of the engineers would entail an addition to running expenses of $7,553,000 per annum  --  an increase of some 18% per cent . ? it is roughly figured out to-day that the increase under the Board 's decision will be possibly half that sum . In many respects , the most troublesome stumbling-block was the fact that some railways can comfortably meet the new wage charges , whereas others , in a less favorable financial position , can not . The arbitrators do not go into this question , except to express opinion that the great majority of the roads are able to meet the requirements . Where railways can show their financial inability to do so , the Board holds that there is just cause for them to reopen the question of increased transportation rates with the Interstate Commerce Commission . The present arbitrators could obviously go no further , and their opinion , thus expressed , will undoubtedly have weight with the Commission . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's assent to higher freight rates , on such railways alone as had shown their financial position to require it , would not at all solve the difficulty . For one or two railways  --  especially ( as would be the case under the supposed conditions ) railways not able to provide the best route , service , and equipment  --  to charge more for transportation than their stronger competitors , would be to sacrifice much of what they were able at present to procure . Under the regime of the old trunk line pools , the " differential " allowed to roads thus handicapped was a lower , not a higher , rate . Apparently , if a higher rate is to be allowed because certain railways can not earn a living without it , that rate must be granted to all other competing lines alike . There is a reasonable inference from this part of the situation . The arbitrators have refused a " horizontal advance " in wages , but have conceded higher schedules where the evidence showed such advance to be fair and reasonable in itself . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although maintaining their previous opposition to a sweeping and general advance in transportation rates , to concede advances in given articles , groups of articles , or special lines of service , where it can be shown that the present rate is out of line with rates on other commodities , or with the cost of moving the kinds of freight in question , on the new basis of wages . BANKING LEGISLATION . The present converging of public interest on what the new Administration and the new Congress will do with the tariff , is natural . That matter will be taken up first of all in the extra session . But , for two reasons , it is not too early to consider what other things the party has to do . For this has a bearing , first , on the unfolding of the Wilson Administration 's general policies , and also on the course to be pursued in the final session of the present Congress . That early consideration will necessarily be given to the banking and currency problem , we suppose is generally admitted . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the recent campaign , excited considerable comment . We have vague recollection of an excited outcry from some quarter or other , towards the close of the campaign , charging all three parties with a " conspiracy of silence " on this issue The allegation was absurd , for platforms and candidate , so far at least as concerned the Democratic party , had spoken clearly and forcibly on the currency . That it was subordinated in the discussions of the campaign was obviously due to the fact that the people preferred to hear of something else , more immediate ; and to the further fact that men of all parties recognized the extreme unwisdom of subjecting a highly technical economic question of the sort to the buffetings and perversions of an excited political contest . Unlike the " silver question " on which appeal was made to the voters in 1896 , the present problem did not involve a clean-cut economic issue , and it did not present the alternative between two opposing eco-. nomic policies . To have forced into controversial politics a question in that shape @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Specie Resumption Act of 1875 or of the Gold Standard and bond-refunding law of 1900 . But the Democratic party none the less comes into power pledged to deal with the currency question . The Baltimore platform recommended " such a systematic revision Of our banking laws as will render temporary relief in localities where such relief is needed . ' But that proposal necessarily involves the whole problem of coordination and centralization of the machinery of credit . Mr. Wilson 's speech of acceptance , while admitting lack of intimate knowledge of currency reform , frankly accepted the task of such reform . He is said to be giving it attention in Bermuda . It will have to be dealt with in his inaugural address , and possibly on more specific lines than in his earlier speech . Of more immediate concern , however , is the policy of the present Congress . The banking and finance committees of that body have in their hands the so-called Aldrich bill . They are not likely to report it as it stands . We doubt if it would be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the present session ; for it would almost certainly be foreordained to a speedy demise . More or less associated with currency legislation , in the mind of law-makers , has been the so-called " Money Trust investigation . " That inquiry originated , as most people are aware , in a resolution submitted by a group of Congressmen who had grasped the facts about some existing evils in the situation , but whose imagination had roamed from facts to the region of wild and fantastic dreams . Senator La Follette 's notion of a hundred selected millionaires who create at their selfish whim prosperity and adversity , and the later conception of a Money Power which puts wheat up and cotton down , regardless of such trifling influences as production and consumption , supply and demand , found lodgment in the heads of those legislators . The inquiry was not left in the hands of such fanatics ; it was entrusted to the regular Banking and Currency Committee of the House . Even so , however . it was , most unfortunately , conducted in a spirit and manner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarding several existing or potential evils in the business machinery of the day . But carried on , as it was , with an apparent presumption that any witness connected with a financial institution was a suspicious person , and with repeated gross unfairness in the cross-questioning of such witnesses , the inquiry had two very deplorable results . It alienated hundreds of fair-minded men who were not opposed to the committee 's legitimate purposes , and it heightened in minds of the uninformed ? an already existing misconception of important financial episodes and institutions . We need go no further than to recall the committee 's inquiries into the Treasury 's action at the crisis of the panic of 1907 . We are not , therefore , greatly surprised at the intimations from Washington that the committee itself , believes its period of usefulness in this direction to have been outlived . This is the more natural conclusion , in that the new Administration will enter office pledged to take up the question . It ought to have the opportunity of doing so without the handicap of irritation and resentment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the recent hearings . Legislators or investigators should now begin their examination of the problem with a clear and sane idea of what is wrong , and proceed in a statesmanlike way to establish the facts and prepare such remedial legislation as is indicated . ENGLISH DIVORCE REFORM . In the United States , divorce reform has for years meant a movement against too great laxity , and against crying scandals , in the methods of dissolving the marriage bond . In England it is the other way round . There the complaint has been of the undue severity and the glaring inequality of the law . And this is the main thing to bear in mind in judging of the recent report of the English Divorce Commission . Its findings were given by the cable with sufficient accuracy , but a reading of the full text were insisted upon by the majority and some of them were concurred in by the minority . Hence we have both sides agreeing that certain reforms are highly desirable . Putting aside differences for the moment , the really striking fact is that all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the Commission , and who have been taking testimony and hearing experts for three years , are of one mind in concluding that there is a great deal both of hardship and injustice in the administration of the English divorce laws . Consider , to begin with , the longstanding grievance of the inability of the poor , simply because they are poor , to obtain a divorce even when it is their right under the law . This , to be sure , goes in a way with the generally large expense of litigation in England , but of such a gross form of denial of justice - to the poor , merely on account of their poverty , there can be no defence . To do away with it must be , as the Commis- sion maintains , a reform " in. the interest of morality as well as in the interest of justice and in the general interests of society . " The statements of the report in this matter recall the famous deliverance of an English judge , sentencing a workingman for bigamy . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a divorce , though fully entitled to it , but the judge , with fine sarcasm , pointed out to him the long and expensive legal course he should have followed , until his case was finally passed upon by the House of Lords . Then the judge concluded : " You may say , prisoner , that this would have cost you ten thousand pounds , and that you have not ten thousand pence , but it is my duty to say to you that the law of England is no respecter of persons , but does justice alike to the rich and to the poor . " The reform now proposed by the Divorce Commission calls for the extension of jurisdiction over divorce to county courts , with special Commissioners in matrimonial cases , and a great cutting down of the cost of proceedings . This is so reasonable , and is , indeed , so imperatively demanded , that the Archbishop of York and his two dissenting colleagues of the minority concur in. the recommendation . So they do in the proposal that the law shall place the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter of divorce . At present , the man can obtain a divorce on the ground of adultery by the wife , but the wife has to be able to prove " cruelty " in addition . On this point , what the Commission . sayd , preliminary to its decision that whatever grounds for divorce are permitted to the husband should be available to the wife , really makes an end of controversy : Apart from abstract justice , the strongest reason for placing the sexes on an equality is that , where two standards exist , there is a tendency to accept the lower for both parties . The social and economic position of women has greatly changed in the last hundred , and even in the last fifty , years In our opinion it is impossible to maintain a different standard of morality in the marriage relation , without creating the impression that justice is denied to women , an impression that must tend to lower the respect in which the marriage law is held br women If the two reforms thus unanimously advocated by the Commission are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arises only when it is proposed to recognize by law new causes for divorce m England . Upon the extension suggested by the majority of the Commission we have already commented . The criticisms of the minority are mainly directed to details ' and to the bad consequences which it is alleged would follow . Thud the majority would make incurable insanity a ground for divorce . They would carefully guard against abuse . The person must have been continuously confined as insane for five years . There are other safeguards . But , affirm the minority , insanity is a bodily disease , to be treated like any other . Why single this out as justifying divorce any more than , say , epilepsy or paralysis ? But this sounds a good deal like quibbling . Everybody knows that there are cases where a woman is tied to a man , or vice versa , who is hopelessly in- ' sane and as good as dead . It may be true , as the minority assert , that there is " no evidence of any great demand for divorce on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any demand for it at all , and if its refusal would be a great cruelty and in some instances lead to a deliberate ignoring of marriage conventions ? as 4n the almost tragic case of George H. LeWes and George Eliot  --  the duty ofchanging the law would seem to be clear . When there is only the slightest possibility of abuse , though the relief granted will prevent much anguish , legislators can not long hesitate . We need not recur to the other grounds for divorce which the majority of the Commission would embody in the English law . There will be much delay and discussion before the matter is pressed to enactment . A great deal is made of a predicted flood of scandalous divorces . On this point , one of our own leading experts and divorce-reformers , the Rev. Dr. Dike , holds the view that at first there would be an increase in English divorces , but that very soon the number would settle back to little above what it is now . That would imply that the remedying of a few cases of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the sanctity of marriage , or really do much to alter the accepted - belief that marriage is normally and usually indissoluble except by death . THE CARELESS IMMORTALS . That , in spite of all sneers to the contrary , we do care for something besides money , is proved by the affair of Shakespeare 's gloves . When a number of Americans can so far forget the pressing demands of time and circumstance as to write letters to the newspapers , in which they discuss with great eager . ness the question whether Dr. Furness 's treasured relics ever actually covered the hands that penned " Hamlet " and " King Lear , " then we may be sure that the love of higher things is not altogether dead among us . One of these writers at first tips the beam in the direction of what some people would call the historicity of the gloves , although he later takes away as much as he adds to this side of the argument by offering the truly staggering suggestion that there may have been more than one pair . Is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , his unlearned admirers will be tempted to exclaim , without sooner or later finding it involved in a mesh of mystery . What prevents the next participant in the debate from pointing out that , as success crowned his work , the prosperous playwright probably provided himself with a pair of gloves whenever he felt the need of them ? Such reasoning is especially to be deplored as casting suspicion upon the value of any little relic that one happens to possess , and that one 's friends are accustomed to have exhibited to them . It is manifestly out of the question , as a rule , to have one 's own bit of association with the mighty dead certified as the only one of the kind in existence ; all that can be done is to strengthen the presumption in its favor by calling attention to the well-known carelessness of immortals in the matter of preserving objects of interest . Shakespeare , indeed , seems to have been an exception in this respect . We know that , besides the pair or pairs of gloves , he took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unfortunately , seems not to have fulfilled his purposes for it . But how many others of the glorious company of the famed have given a thought to the museums of the future ? Julius Cnsar , who could hardly have been restrained by any sense , of modesty , false or other , might well , if he had been spared , have left us his stylus , that instrument of torture for countless generations of schoolboys . There is no blinking the fact , however little we may like it , that the great of this world are extremely thoughtless in this matter . Apparently , they think that they have done their whole duty when they have painted a few pictures or composed a little music or written some poems . Even for these they do not invariably display the care that one is apt to bestow upon the things which one loves . When they do , they usually stop with that . Here , they say virtually , are our jewels . Yet is it so difficult to foresee a time when what people want is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sandals ? Which would Barnum have moved heaven and earth to get for the Greatest Show on Earth , the manuscript of a page of the ZEneid , or one of Dido 's head-dresses ? What would attract the throng to the Metropolitan Museum like a ring that once sparkled on Cleopatra 's finger ? The Twelve Tables might be in the same room , but their only hope for notice would be in their proximity to the ornament . Yet it would be ungracious not to notice a tendency in our own time in the other direction . Warned by the example of the immortals of preceding ages , the more forehanded of our own do give attention to the rights of relic-hunters . Pages of manuscript of every classic that these writers have turned out are already on exhibition in branch libraries , and their desk-chairs will be generously devoted to the same noble purpose as fast as they have to be replaced . Their watches , of course , have long been promised to favored friends who will see that they are not unduly concealed from the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Presidency could show his essential and incurable democracy in no more conclusive way than by smiling as his enthusiastic partisans took away , picket by picket , this adornment and protection of his residence . That we still have much to learn in this respect , however , is shown by the recent confession in print of a man who a few years ago destroyed several copies of a musical programme containing the name of Woodrow Wilson , although Mr. Wilson was at that very hour the president of a university . Not until we adopt precautions with reference to the belongings of every person whose name appears in Who 's Who at least , can we assert the possession of a true historical sense . 