@@485069

WHAT is the matter with our code of military justice ? This is a question frequently asked nowadays by many who fear or suspect or believe or know that something is wrong with it , without knowing what . These inquirers are particularly interested because until recently they had sons or relatives or friends in the emergency establishment subjected to this system of military justice , of whom some were so unfortunate  --  or would not the War Department worshippers of the system say fortunate ? ? as to have had this military brand of justice applied directly to them ; and most of the others , though escaping direct contact with the system , observed , and once out of uniform have not hesitated to declare , that it had little in common with any kind of justice familiar to them . These are thoughtful citizens honestly seeking to be informed upon a matter that is at all times of general importance  --  for , after all , justice is the highest interest of man on earth  --  and one that is likely at any moment to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any so blind as not to discern , nor any so gullible as not to believe , that this is not the last war . Indeed , there is ample reason for the apprehension that a political leadership crying " Peace , peace " has brought us to the verge of world-wide strife , to the margin of the world welter of blood . An Administration that prated peace and spurned all preparation for war up to the very moment of plunging the country into the bloody flood has nevertheless proved not unpopular . The same Administration now loudly proclaims , sword in hand , that it is about to usher in the era of universal peace , all the while insisting , however , upon quintupling the permanent military and naval establishments . Bad statecraft has changed our normal risk of war into a certainty of war , to be fought , of course , by your children and mine . Well may the ordinary citizen become thoughtful and manifest more than passing interest in the system of law which is to determine the treatment his soldier-son is to receive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , anxious inquirers . But there are others of a different mind who cry " What is the matter with military justice ? " only that they may , after the familiar manner of college boys , chant in unison the resounding , approving response , " It 's all right ! " Among this isolated throng , standing on the martial campus , transported by a callow sense of loyalty and a pernicious esprit de corps , will be found many of our professional , and near-professional , and would-be professional officers whose worship of military caste and tradition leads them stoutly to defend the system , and those civilian chief administrators whose self-protective sense , in view of their partial responsibility for the continued maintenance of the pernicious system , impels them to advocate it . Among this chorus , besides these military minions of the War Department who behave true to form and as expected of them after the enthusiastic manner of " undergrads , " are to be seen many of those who have returned to the support of the Old Establishment with the patronizing and proprietary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anxiety for and distrust of the existing system , the authorities are intent that it shall be maintained in its militaristic essentials and that its evilsshall not be known or remedied . Officialdom insists upon supporting the system as it stands , and to that end denies the public access to its records , ignores complaints of injustice , suppresses facts showing its viciousness , and gives expressions of approval to virtues that are assumed , but do not exist . Notwithstanding that military justice involves our national safety , affects the morale of our soldiery , and influences the attitude of our people towards military service ; notwithstanding it should be the object of sustained solicitude and highly sensitive regard upon the part of the Secretary of War , who should be receptive to all complaints of injustice to our soldiers , alert to discover imperfections in the system or its administration , quick to take and recommend the amplest remedies , the Secretary upon every occasion when evidence of official and popular dissatisfaction has been presented to him , from however high a source , has invariably set about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remedy , but to defend . Of course , in assuming this attitude he has but done the bidding of the ultra-militaristic element in the Army . There have been investigations , to be sure , of the whitewashing variety . A judge advocate was despatched to Europe in April last to investigate the European systems of military justice , a field which I covered a year before and upon which I submitted a report that was never read . The report of this special " investigator , " discriminatingly designated and instructed by his military superiors , may be expected to prove that our system is beyond compare . A committee of the American Bar Association was also appointed which contained just enough of fair-minded personnel to give to the public the appearance of fairness . If that Committee was not " hand-picked , " we have the strangest case of coincidence known . In any event , it was " personally conducted " by the War Department , and heard and heeded but the War Department side . Such an investigation , of course , could have no result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a great opportunity for public service of which it is to be hoped the British bar , now engaged in a similar undertaking , may avail itself . Then the War Department , piling Pelion on Ossa , convened a board of its own  --  the Kernan Board  --  consisting of two Regular Army officers of . high rank , one National Army officer " militarized " after brief service and association with Regular superiors , and a National Guard major-general dependent for his success , if not his place , upon the good graces of the War Department . This Board reported in effect that this system has virtues seldom found in human institutions ; that military justice is sui- generis , is incomprehensible to and is not to be judged by our ideas of natural or ordinary legal justice ; that military justice and the methods of obtaining it can not be regulated by law , but must necessarily be left to the " Chancellor 's foot " of the uncontrolled will of military commanders ; and then , disporting themselves in the foreign field of fundamental law , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department that Congress was to be flouted if it should undertake , by subjecting court-martial procedure to laws of its own enactment , to encroach on the royal prerogatives inherited from the British king by our Commander-in-Chief and his military subordinates . This report , autocratic re-script of the Great German General Staff rather than the expression of officers of our Army born to the American spirit and sworn to uphold the Constitution and laws of the United States , promptly received the royal sanction and signature of full approval of the Secretary of War , who evidently takes kindly to the imperial role . Our code of military justice ( technically known as the Articles of War ) is not a code of law at all ; it is nothing more than a code that licenses military commanders to do as they please . Having regard to its origin , it could not be otherwise . Systemically and largely in detail it is the British code of 1774 , which itself is of much more ancient origin , going back essentially unmodified through Gustavus Adolphus to the Roman Empire . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  indeed prove  --  its beneficence , but the age of a military criminal code indicates infirmities . The last century and a half have served to change the whole attitude of the state toward a criminal or a criminal suspect , and have served to change the entire relation of a soldier to his country . It is conceded on all hands that this ancient code is our code today , unless it was fundamentally changed by the so-called " revision of 1916 . " That revision , now on its defense , is heralded abroad as modernizing and liberalizing the ancient Articles . Such , however , was not its declared purpose and such is not its legal effect . The Department , when submitting it , expressly disclaimed all idea of fundamental change , and announced that the real purpose of the revision was to cause the language of the code to conform to settled administrative and judicial construction , and to classify the Articles so as to make them more convenient and accessible . The Judge Advocate General himself summed it up when he said : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be cognizant of any material changes in procedure and courts will function much the same as heretofore . . . . The revision will make certain a great deal that has been read into the existing code by construction . " According to the ancient British code , and ours , a court-martial is not to be regarded as a court doing justice under established principles of law and independently of all personal power . Quite the contrary . It regards the court-martial simply as the right hand of the commanding officer to aid him in the maintenance of discipline . It is his agent , controlled by and answerable to him . Such was the ancient British view . The army was the King 's army . The King made the Articles of War ; defined the military offenses ; prescribed the punishments ; constituted the court . In that day a soldier was not a citizen serving the state in the highest capacity of citizenship ; he was a serf , a personal retainer of the King or the King 's officer . Our Constitution contemplated an entirely different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of War , create and define the offenses , prescribe the punishments , and establish the composition of the courts ; it ought to follow that the courts themselves should be answerable not to any commanding officer but to the law of the land . The truth is , our Articles of War came out of one theory of government and our Constitution was designed to establish another . We took them by witless adoption to meet an emergency in our Revolution and have never since been sufficiently interested to bring them into consonance with our institutions . This code is as fit to govern an army of citizen soldiers as the old turnpike laws are fit to govern modern commerce . Under this officer-caste system an officer can prefer charges against any man and at his will can readily succeed in getting him tried , acting by virtue of his commission and under no special obligation . The code requires no preliminary investigation to determine whether the accusation is well grounded and a trial should be had , and such investigation as is required by regulations is neither thorough nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the number of courts-martial by half . The power of military command , and not applied law , determines every question of law that can arise during these criminal proceedings : The military commander ( 1 ) determines whether the accusation is legally sufficient and the evidence establishes a prima facie case against the accused ; ( 2 ) selects " counsel " for the accused ; ( 3 ) details the officers to constitute the court , who , subject to the superior judgment of the commanding officer , act as both judge and jury the accused having no voice in their selection ; ( 4 ) determines all questions of the admissibility of evidence ; ( 5 ) every question touching the rights of the accused on trial ; ( 6 ) every question of the regularity and legality of the proceedings ; and finally approves , disapproves , or returns to the court for modification , according to his view , the finding of guilt or innocence- and the punishment awarded . The views of the military commander are final beyond all review . His is the power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of military command . The standard of trial not being a legal standard , there can be , properly speaking , no such thing as error of law . What under any system regulated by law would be grossest reversible or even annihilating error becomes error or not solely according to his ipso dixit . And there is no court or superior authority to which an accused man may appeal . This is one criminal code , highly criminal at that , that has no place for lawyer or judge . To be sure , a lawyer is provided , in an extra-legal way , to serve on the staff of the commander who exercises these autocratic functions . He may only " advise , " and his advice is accepted or rejected upon questions of pure law by the military commander endowed with that power as though they were technical military questions . In other words , the code , as it stands , confers the same competency upon the military commander to determine questions of pure law as to determine matters inherently belonging to military command . Even the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the highest law officer in the Army and the Chief of the Bureau of Military Justice , are by the General Staff statute made expressly subject to the " supervision " of the Chief of Staff , the head of the hierarchy of military command . Of course , such military supervision places , and is intended to place , military command beyond legal regulation . Just as might be expected by reason of its imperial origin , the code is a " do-as-you-please " code . The code says-to the court-martial and the superior military commander " You may decide any conduct you please to be a crime under the code , and ipso facto it becomes such . " It says to the court " You may award any punishment you please for any offense you please . " It says to the court " You need follow no rules of evidence , but only your own inquisitive sense in determining what evidence shall be adduced . " And then it says to the superior military ' commander " If you are not satisfied with what the court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reviewing judgment . " Look at the substantive portions of the code . Surely a criminal code ought to define the offenses and , within reasonable limits , the punishments . In this code there are forty-two punitive articles . Most of them leave the offenses to be defined according to customary military law , or what the officers believe to be such . What , pray , does a citizen soldier know about the customs of the military service ? Twenty-nine of the forty-two articles prescribe that the offenses denounced therein " shall be punished as a court-martial may direct " ; that is , with any punishment that a court may see fit to award , except death . Eleven of the articles provide the punishment of death " or such other punishment as a court-martial may direct . " Two articles make the death penalty mandatory . For a trivial offense , therefore , a court-martial may award any punishment up to and sometimes including death . With such unrestricted latitude , is it any wonder that court-martial punishments in harshness and variation pass all understanding ? Then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rules of evidence which are " the result of the collective wisdom of generations , founded on the principles of immutable equity , " courts-martial may at any time find anybody guilty of anything . -                     