@@487167

It was not without misgiving that even the warmest admirers of Thomas Hardy and of Mr. Granville Barker heard of the projected presentation at the Kingsway Theatre of an abridged version of " The Dynasts . " It seemed too gigantic a task even for Mr Barker 's energy and scenic skill . As one re-read Mr. Hardy 's text , with its nineteen acts , its 130 scenes , and its two or three hundred speaking characters , to say nothing of crowds , parliaments , and armies , one was much more impressed by the scenic impossibilities than by the dramatic possibilities of the great epic in dialogue . It was magnificent , but it was not drama . And then there was the supernatural machinery : that hovering chorus of " Phantom Intelligences " ? the Spirit of the Years , the Spirit of the Pities , the Spirits Sinister and Ironic , the Recording Angels , and other fearful wildfowl , to whom the poet has assigned the task of shedding upon the world-historic spectacle the searchlights of his pessimistic philosophy . How were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been possible , no doubt , simply to omit them ; but to this Mr. Hardy would scarcely have consented ; and , besides , the action without its lyric accompaniments would have been like a libretto without its music . Last night 's production had not far advanced before we realized that Mr. Barker 's daring was more than justified He had shown admirable tact and ingenuity in grappling with a problem with regard to which he had no precedents to guide him . Reducing Mr. Hardy 's text to perhaps one-tenth of its whole bulk , he had given it a species of unity by selecting those scenes in which England and Englishmen are most directly concerned ; and for the presentation of these episodes he had invented a new scenic framework and , as it were , a new organ of epic-dramatic expression . Never did producer more truly collaborate with his author than Mr. Barker with Mr. Hardy ; yet he has done it without thrusting his own inventions into the foreground , after the fashion of those actor-managers who inflict their collaboration upon the defenceless Shakespeare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Barker 's methods , are not really new . They are as old as the Elizabethan stage on the one hand , and the Japanese stage on the other . I do not know how far Mr. Barker was conscious of following these models . Of the Japanese stage , at any rate , he had probably no thought whatever . Yet his treatment of the mythology of the " The Dynasts " was as Japanese as his treatment of the historic episodes was Elizabethan . When we entered the theatre , we were confronted by a specially constructed proscenium of plain gray , filled in with gray curtains . Against each of the raking panels of the proscenium was placed an elevated throne ; while from the narrow apron in front of the curtains converging flights of steps led down to a stone seat with a sort of stone lectern before it . The architectural proportions of the whole structure were very pleasing . Presently the curtains opened in the middle and through them came two stately muse-like ladies ( Miss Esate Beringer and 1Vliss Carrie Haase ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Henry Ainley , in Georgian attire , with a gray academic gown , who stepped down and seated himself at the lectern , facing the audience . To these three personages , the dual chorus and the single reader , were assigned the lyrical , philosophical , and narrative portions of the production . The two Muses , as they naturally would , spoke in verse , while the Reader , speaking for the most part in prose , supplied what may be called the connective tissue for the episodes , or the thread on which they were strung . He read , in short , Mr. Hardy 's elaborate and characteristic stage-directions , to some extent rewritten , I imagine , for the occasion . Now these lyrical comments and spoken stage-directions are established institutions of the Japanese stage , though in Japan the performers are seated , not in front of the proscenium , but in the wing . And I take it that the reason for their employment is much the same in both cases  --  namely , that we have to deal with a form of drama @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modern statues which are left but hazily emergent from the marble block . It can not be said that the Muses insisted unduly on Mr. Hardy 's philosophy . Only once , towards the end , did we hear anything about the Immanent Most of the interludes were , I think , selected from the utterances of the Spirit of the Pities , so that their general effect was simply to give voice to that intense compassion which is , indeed , the essence of Mr. Hardy 's criticism of life . At the very end , one was astonished to hear the Muses break forth into a hymn of almost jubilant optimism , suggesting the song of the Archangels at the beginning of " Faust . " On reference to the text , it appeared that this pear ) of the Pities was hypothetical rather than affirmative  --  the hymn they would have liked to sing had the world been ordered otherwise . Chanted without this proviso , it seemed rather to contradict all that had gone before ; yet most of us were willing to condone the inconsistency for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . So much for the sup &natural; marginalia , if I may so call them . When the curtains opened , they revealed a stage arranged in almost exact accordance with the most recent reconstructions of the Elizabethan theatre : two side-walls slanting backwards , an entrance-way in each , and between the two entrances a slightly raised inner stage , or alcove , to which the wallS served as a Proscenium-frame The only feature of the Elizabethan stage that was lacking was the upper gallery or balcony over the inner stage , and there were one or two passages where one felt that Mr. Barker might have employed this feature , too , with excellent effect . Furthermore , he used his two stages quite in the Elizabethan fashion . On the front stage he placed no scenery , but only Properties , while the back stage , by the simplest appliances , was occasionally converted into what we moderns call a scene , figuring , for instance , the cockpit of the Victory , or the anteroom at Fontainebleau , where Napoleon signed his abdication . By this means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interspaces between the episodes were filled by the Chorus and the Reader , so that the attention was always agreeably occupied  --  a point of no small moment where there was no inner cohesion between the episodes , and no interest of plot to carry the mind forward . Or , rather , the interest of plot lay in that great historic movement which it was precisely the business of the lyric and narrative interludes to suggest . One very stirring episode , by the way  --  the Battle of Albuera  --  was treated entirely as a recitation by the three Presenters , as they would have been called in Shakespeare 's time . Whether by reflection or by instinct , Mr. Barker certainly did exactly the right thing in giving " The Dynasts " an Elizabethan setting For , apart from its philosophic marginalia , the poem is nothing but a gigantic chronicle-play . We can trace its ancestry right back , through " Sejanus " and " Catiline , " through " Henry IV " and " Henry V , " to " Edward II " and " Tamburlaine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has probably frightened off a good many impatient readers , is a remarkable testimony to the enduring influence of the Elizabethan tradition  --  an influence both for good and ill ; certainly not for good when it leads to Napoleon 's talking like this : Tiptoed Assassination haunting round In unthought thoroughfares , the near success Of Staps the madman , argue to forbid The riskful blood of my previsioned line And potence for dynastic empery To linger vialled in my veins alone . There perhaps never was a great poet  --  for a great poet Thomas Hardy surely is  --  who was so helpless and lumbering in his use of language . Yet , take it all in all , performance tends to justify the Elizabethan form . Even though the verse be sometimes nothing but prose denaturalized and cut into lengths , we feel that it is possible to do in verse things which could not be done in prose . The verse reminds us that it is not the actual scene , - but its highly-compressed essence which the poet is presenting . It puts realism out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better than a cinematographic panorama . It enables us , for instance , to see Nelson pacing the quarterdeck of the Victory at Trafalgar , and scarcely to notice that , though broadsides and musketry are freely talked of , they are not represented to the ear by so much as a drum-tap or the popping of a child:s pistol . And , even when the matter is most prosaic , a certain " use in measured language lies . " It lends crispness , precision , and weight to dialogue . It brings out the true dignity of events which the commonplace associations of prose would tend to obscure The stage version , like the complete text , falls into three parts : " Trafalgar , " " The Peninsula , " and " Waterloo . " The first part , of course , culminates in the death of Nelson , presented pictorially on the inner stage , with admirable simplicity and dignity . In the second part we have the death and burial of Sir John Moore ; the Battle of Salamanca , and the scene of Napoleon 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Richmond 's ball , the departure of the troops from Brussels , and the crucial passages of the most dramatic battle in history . It seems to me that , in his complete text , Mr. Hardy achieves a unique imaginative feat  --  he makes you live through the battle with a sort of breathless suspense , as though you were really in doubt as to its issue . Something of this effect is lost in the stage abbreviation , which remains , however , intensely interesting Mr. Sydney Valentine , an actor well known in America , gives a very strong and clear-cut portraiture of Napoleon . In the other parts there is not sufficient continuity to allow much scope for distinction , but the performance as a whole was more than competent . I must not omit to mention that Mr. Barker had wisely retained several of those interludes of Wessex rusticity in which Mr. Hardy is so peculiarly at home . They afforded the sort of relief which the Falstaff scenes give to " Henry IV " and the humors of Pistol , Bardolph , and Fluellen to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is really opportune in war-time to revive the memory of Old , unhappy , far-off things , And battles long ago . Well , it is certainly a mixed pleasure to have the horrors of war brought home to us in imagination while the cold reality of them is every day haunting our minds . But , apart from the esthetic satisfaction to be derived from so bold and original an effort of stagecraft , it is wholesome to be reminded that our fathers , in their day , lived through anxieties no less tense and terrible than those we are undergoing . As Mr. Hardy says in his Prologue , the production is designed To raise up visions of historic wars Which taxed the endurance of our ancestors , That such reminders of the feats they did May stouten hearts now strained by issues hid . Yes , we are too apt to forget that Trafalgar and Waterloo were " issues hid " while the Immanent Will was slowly working itself out , and that the dash of Sir John Moore into Spain , which we now see to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed , to the men of that day , something not very far from a disaster . " THE MARRIAGE OF KITTY . " Pleasure at seeing an old favorite successfully revived is somewhat tempered by regret that audiences appear inclined to accord to this piece a good deal warmer welcome than was vouchsafed to a far better play in the repertoire of the same company . " Mary Goes , First , " a comedy of notable constructive skill , struggled on with no overwhelming success for a few weeks ; " The Marriage of Kitty , " a farce of excellent good humor but of little outstanding dramatic merit , seems likely , if one may judge from its reception by a delighted audience on the second night , to repeat in some degree the vogue that it enjoyed on its original production . The laugh in " The Marriage of Kitty-is easily raised , the fun is broad and obvious . When Madame de Semiano is revived from a fit of hysterics by a clapping of the hands on the part of Sir Reginald Belsize and John Travers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farce , but it can not be pretended that it is difficult to produce or , that it makes any strenuous demand on the artistic intelligence of the players The characters in " Mary Goes First , " with the exception of Mary herself , who , as - portrayed by Miss Tempest , was delightful , were played passably well , but not by any means as well as they might have been " The Marriage of Kitty " is a far easier play to interpret , and the general level of the performance is consequently a great deal higher . The plot of this amusing piece of foolery , adapted by Cosmo Gordon Lennox from the French of Fred de Gresac and Francois de Croisset , being familiar , need not be recapitulated . In addition to the Kitty of Miss Marie Tempest , which is as sprightly as ever , we may mention for commendation the Sir Reginald Belsize of W. Graham Browne , the Madame de Semiano of Miss Katharine Kaelred , and the John Travers of Herbert Ross " The Marriage of Kitty " was preceded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chapin , entitled " The Dumb and the Blind , " which might easily with a little ingenuity have been made into something of real dramatic merit , but which in its present form consists merely of a character study of a bargee , admirably rendered by W Graham Browne , and violates the canons of dramatic composition as laid down by Aristotle in not having a beginning , a middle , or an end . S. W. " DRIVEN . " " What it means to a woman " ? that formula , which is supposed to mean so much  --  receives attention yet again in E Temple Thurston 's new drama , " Driven , " which is played at the Empire Theatre In this incarnation the meaning gets a special setting from the fact that the woman has only two years to live , owing to some ailment to which no name is given . That in such circumstances her husband , who is engrossed in his work as an M P. , should have little or no time to devote to the frivolity which she craves , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with this situation , to make the impulse which she has to love and be loved in an irregular way seem cogent But the play , as it stands , is poorly constructed and poorly elaborated . Certainly if the piece is to last , something must be done with the piddling first act , wherein the young wife , eavesdropping , hears her fate from the physicians called in for consultation Here the " tragedy " is achieved largely by continuous iteration of the words " two years " ! Even this would not have been so bad if Miss Alexandra Carlisle , who plays the part of the wife , had shown any variety of expression . As it was , the audience got merely the uncomfortable impression that the play was going to be pretty long And it was long indeed One need not give the plot in detail It is marked by the usual procedure After being on the point of committing her welfare to the arms of her lover , the wife discovers that the lover , though outwardly a gentleman , is at heart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the way , a very sudden bit of business , and though virtue triumphs , the victory is at the expense of the only character on the stage who by his finish really holds the audience 's attention It may be added that Diana in six months is pronounced cured and returns to the love of her husband , who , at the suggestion of his sister , a sanctimonious old thing , presents his wife with a Pekingese dog , and thereby convinces her that he at length understands her . F. " And So They Were Married , " a comedy of the new woman by Jesse Lynch Williams ( Scribner ) , is a clever and entertaining play , of which the main theme is the profanation of the religious ideal in the mercenary marriage . It mixes much pungent and familiar truth with a good deal of shallow generalization Like many other pieces of its class it seeks to establish broad deductions upon specially invented instances But it is an ingenious bit of special pleading up to the point where it shrinks from the logical result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the highest intellectual type , is passionately in love with a brilliant young medical scientist , of moderate means , to whom she is assistant , but will not marry him , partly because she believes that the contract implied in a ceremony is fatal to love , and immoral when love has died , and partly because the obligations entailed by it upon the man would hinder or block his professional advancement She is willing , however , to link her fate with his as his mistress . The scientist , as much in love as she is , but more worldly wise , refuses to accept such a sacisfice , declaring that they must marry or Part In the end the scientist is forced , by specially devised but plausible circumstances , to accept the heroine 's terms , on the understanding that a formal announcement of their determination to dispense with legal forms shall be made at a sort of family council . When this has been convened they revolt successfully at an attempt to entrap them into a religious ceremony  --  in which the Church is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wed most effectually by an astute old judge who extracts from them all the public declaration necessary to the civil process - They readily attest their union by a solemn oath , thus virtually subscribing to the obligation against which they were in professed revolt This is a lame and impotent conclusion , a case of much ado about-nothing What the play lacks is breadth of view and reflection In its zeal for a modified marriage for the new woman it overlooks the handicaps of nature and the fact that any approach to free love ' would increase the liberties and opportunities of men while greatly multiplying the dangers and responsibilities of women . What a deal Shakespeare had learned by 1604 ! " He had concepts of a catastrophe , a protagonist and antagonist at struggle , a keynote scene , a rise to a well-defined mental crisis , a crisis-emphasis including a tragic Incident , the arrest of the catastrophe , " and so on In spite of these astonishing attainments he was " conscious of needing . structural unity , or , as he thought of it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of scenes and the catastrophe group " Such amazing self-consciousness was in part the result of " Julius Csar " He " became interested in the Senecan pair of debaters in his study of Brutus and Cassius , but he could not stop then to develop all the dramatic possibilities " This Shakespeare , whose hobby is a more than German passion for technique , is created by Dr Harriott Ely Fansler in " The Evolution of Technic in Elizabethan Tragedy " ( Chicago : Row , Peterson &; Company , $125 ) The notion of Shakespeare 's passing from play to play in an effort to solve in succession technical problems is in reality more amusing than Professor Dow-den 's surmise that he carried through the writing of the histories to provide himself with a guide to the successful conduct of life Yet it is developed in a serious , almost fanatic , mood , by minute analysis , with an eye single to the glory of Freytag and a mind filled to overflowing with his special terminology In fact , the author displays an ingenuity unsurpassed even by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to detect evidence of any preconceptions regarding dramatic forms or any continuous interest in rules and schemes of structure , she reveals Shakespeare 's life-long absorption in nineteenth-century German theory of tragedy In the reprint of Hannah Lynch 's translation of " El Gran Galeoto " of Echegaray ( Doubleday ; 75 cents net ) , the Drama League worthily continues its work of making accessible to English readers representative plays of the best foreign authors . Jose Echegaray is recognized as the leading dramatist in Spain to-day . His literary fame , moreover , has not been confined to Spanish-speaking countries . In 1905 the Nobel Prize for literature was divided between him and Frederic Mistral Translations of his plays have been made into several languages , and are holding their- place in the contemporary theatre . Of recent interest is Echegaray 's translation from the Catalan of Guimera 's " Maria Rosa , " played last winter at the Longacre Theatre . " Maria Rosa , " an emotional drama of the Catalonian mountains , was passed upon by the Drama League , and of the fifty-five productions judged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publicity Four of Echegaray 's plays , " The Son of Don Juan " and " Mariana " ( the translations of James Graham ) , " The Great Galeoto , " and " Folly or Saintliness " ( the translations of Hannah Lynch ) , were published in Boston An adaptation of " The Great Galeoto " was made by Nirdlinger and played under the title of " The World and His Wife " We have another translation by Caroline Sheldon , whose version was presented at Grinnell College in 1912 . The present translation is not free from occasional inaccuracies , and there is perhaps some lowering of tone Nevertheless , the Drama League does good service in publishing this attractive volume .                     