@@486247

The agreement adopted by the American-Mexican Joint Commission last Friday lays the foundation for a permanent settlement sot only of the pressing difficulties between the two countries , but of the internal troubles of Mexico herself . The agreement itself determines only the issues directly connected with the border difficulties ; but if it is put into effect through Carranza 's approval ? that of President Wilson being a matter of eourse  --  it will be followed by further conferences of the Commission directed to the treatment of those questions relating to internal conditions in Mexico which have a legitimate concern for the United States , and in their degree for other nations also . It seems almost impossible that Carranza should fail to recognize that his interest , and that of his country , is supremely involved in the aseeptance of this measure of concord and safety , so evidently dictated on the part of our Government by sincere good will , and marked by the utmost moderation in its provisions . Yet experience has shown that it is not safe to count with certainty on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facto Mexican Government has affixed his signature . With that accomplished , it may sincerely be felt that a new and truly hopeful chapter will be opened in the long story of President Wilson 's patient and benevolent dealings with the extraordinary problem presented by Mexico 's semi-anarchic ? condition . The decision on the Adamson " eight-hour law " by Judge Hook in the Federal District Court at Kansas City throws little light on the judicial attitude towards the measure 's Constitutionality . It is true , Judge Hook declared that " upon a consideration of the Adamson law , and of what is said of its practical effect , and of what was intended to be accomplished by it , " he believes it " can not be sustained . " But even this is conditioned by the phrase " as the Court construes the terms of the law " ? which at least hints that the nature of those terms may be open to argument . The evident purpose of the Court was to expedite the progress of the Constitutional suit up to the highest tribunal , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long delay . This dominant purpose is shown not only by the somewhat cautious language of the decision , but by the facts that no formal discussion by the opposing counsel has been heard , that so short a time was taken by the Court between the filing of the suit and the announcement of the findings , and that the particular suit selected was that involving a railway in a receiver 's hands , whose action in the matter of appeal was subject to instruction of the Court . The Court directs this appeal to the Supreme Court to be made on December 4 , and suggests that all proper efforts be to advance the case , in that tribunal , to an early settlement . Whether this does or does not foreshadow a final judgment before January 1 , when the law becomes operative , - depends partly on the willingness of the highest court to advance the case with the necessary speed , but partly also on the willingness of the other railways to join in this particular suit and rest their case on the special contentions raised in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sure to be very much to the fore throughout the sessions of the Newlands Committee , which began its hearings at Washington last week . Whether it will assume the character of a practical issue or will remain in what , for want of a better term , we are wont to call the academic stage , remains to be seen . But in either case public opinion will be in process of formation , and anything that tends to the confusing or misleading of that opinion is deeply to be deplored . Such a thing is the dissemination of loose and reckless statements as to the effect of the existing system of regulation on the financial status of the railways . The railway magnates are opposed to government ownership , and yet from quarters very close to them statements are constantly put out depicting the working of regulation as ruinous to the credit of the railways . The object of the statements may be , and doubtless is , simply to discredit the particular kind of regulation we have been having ; but these gentlemen ought to have sense enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calculated to promote the drift towards government ownership than to effect the changes that they desire . And that the charges are absurdly extravagant is manifest . There are , to be sure , a number of railways in the hands of receivers  --  as there were before Federal regulation was thought of  --  but it would be a tough job to show that any considerable proportion of this bankruptcy was brought about by anything but mismanagement or dishonesty . As for railway credit in general , it is not only not in bad shape , but in extraordinarily good condition . In spite of the billions of our securities returned from Europe , good railway bonds command prices yielding an income of only 414 per cent. ? but little nigher than New York city bonds , which are generally regarded as one of the three prime investments of the world  --  and the demand is so great that investment houses find their shelves bare of this class of securities . A gain of two Democratic Congressmen in Pennsylvania , with half a dozen seats still in doubt , makes it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House . The margin by which either party may expect to elect a Speaker is now reduced to the very narrowest , with a corresponding increase of importance for the little group of independents . Should the latter actually hold the balance of power , it is hard to see how they can refrain from throwing their support to the Democrats for the purpose of organizing the House . As men who , by definition , are pledged to the national interest rather than to party , it would be absurd to play for a deadlock by pitting a Republican House against a Democratic Senate and President , with consequent prejudice to the business of the country . The sensible and Patriotic thing would be to give Mr. Wilson 's Administration an opportunity to carry on its policies subject to the powerful check which a close House is sure to impose . It is a situation which the country would regard with equanimity . It would also redound to a greater prestige for the independent group than is to be derived from the election of a Republican Speaker with two years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first of the States where there is wide suspicion of election frauds to begin an inquiry . Gov . Hatfield has called the Legislature into special session for this , and for the amendment of the election laws . The Republican Governor 's message charges frauds in the election of his Democratic successor in language quite unveiled . " By methods as reprehensible as they are corrupt , by bribery , open intimidation , and open repeating of unlawful voters in certain counties of the State a desperate and unscrupulous effort to get possession of the executive machinery of the State has apparently succeeded . " It is known that Democrats , contending that the Gubernatorial vote was untainted , have anything but that opinion of the vote which gave Hughes a slight majority ; and impartial investigation ought to be welcomed by both sides . Meanwhile , the Legislature is determined to hurry through measures which shall make it impossible for the returning Democrats to carry out their threats against duly elected Republican officers . One provides for the removal of State elective officers on filed charges , throwing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tribunal ; the other permits accused appointive officers to appeal to the Supreme Court . Wages have been advanced by the United States Steel Corporation on a scale that attracts national attention , and at the same time important increases for the New England textile workers are announced . In both cases the advance follows previous ones made during the war period , and the total increase is very substantial  --  as it needs to be , in view of the great rise of prices of necessaries of life . How widespread the movement in this direction is may be , to some extent , inferred from the figures contained in a bulletin just issued by the New York State Industrial Commission . From returns furnished by 1,500 representative firms in various branches of industry , embracing more than half a million employees and a total weekly pay-roll of more than $8,000,000 , it appears that the average weekly earnings per employee during the month of October , 1916 , were $14.93 , as against $13.30 in October , 1915 , and $12.26 in October , 1914 . The increase in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been 22 per cent . The aggregate amount of weekly wages shows a much larger percentage of increase than this  --  namely , 49 per cent. ? the number of employees having increased by 23 per cent . All this goes far towards explaining how the masses are able to get on as well as they do in the face of the rapid advance of prices . Although the Second Annual Silk Convention , in session at Paterson , N. J. , adopted resolutions recommending a duty of 5 per cent . a pound plus 30 per cent . ad valorem on imported dyestuffs , there was no warrant for them in the speech of President Stone of the National Aniline and Chemical Company . He stated that the United States had already made such strides in the manufacture of dyestuffs that " soon this country would be producing all necessary dye colors and in as good quality as ever came from Germany , " and that " the whole situation is now very satisfactory , and every American consumer should be able to procure practically everything he needs for next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he added as if for the special confusion of high-tariff talkers , was not due to the greater cost oflabor , but to the fact that the raw materials were largely those used in the making of munitions , and he expressed his belief that after the war prices would be normal . Such statements are frequently challenged , but there is no doubt that the American response to the opportunities which the war opened in this field has surprised and continues to surprise every one . That we shall have protection for the industry the action taken last autumn in connection with the Revenue bill made certain . No new duties will be effective till the end of the war . The action of England in declaring gold , silver , paper money , securities , checks , drafts , letters of credit , etc. , contraband , at least has the merit of giving official countenance to practices that have been going on for some time . It has been absolutely impossible to forward remittances of any kind to the Central Powers save by wireless , for the English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in any form , despite the fact that the United States has held these practices contrary to international law and an indefensible violation of the mail service between the United States and countries with which it is at peace . This policy has worked great hardship upon many innocent persons . Thus , people who have for years been in receipt of trust-fund remittances from this country and the families in Poland , Hungary , Galicia , Austria , and Germany of tens of thousands of laborers in the United States are being deprived of the remittances upon which their livelihood depended . It is both very small business and an indication of the extreme measures to which the war is gradually leading . Discussion of the origin of the war is now " academic , " we are told , but the subject will certainly be of intense interest to the historian and the moralist in the future . And every scrap of evidence that can be passed on to them will be treasured up . One such appears , as by accident or inadvertence , in the Red Book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dealings with Rumania . The whole is intended to show that , from beginning to end , Austria sought to maintain friendly relations with Rumania , and that the breach was wholly the fault of the latter . Granting this , if one pleases , consider the following point . The very first dispatch in the Red Book is from the Austrian Foreign Minister , Count Berchtold , to the Austrian Minister in Bucharest . It was dated July 22,1914 , one day before the Austrian ultimatum was sent to Servia . The terms of that ultimatum were transmitted to the Austrian Minister to Rumania , with instructions to take them up with the Rumanian Government . The latter was to be asked , in view of the danger that Russia might move and bring on a war , to enter into a treaty of a liance with the Central Powers . Now , the question is this : Could such a proposal have been made without the knowledge el Germany ? It seems incredible , everyboe would answer . But Berlin has always stout : ly asserted that it knew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! After this Austrian disclosure , however , the German Government will have to tell that to the submarines . The two letters of Liebknecht to the Royal Military Court , smuggled from Germany and printed in the New York Times , are quite astonishing in their boldness . Liebkneeht , to be sure , enters a defence against the charge of high treason . Any international Socialist , he argues , is as hostile to every foreign capitalist government as to his own . as eager to attack autocracy under the name of Czarism as under that of Junkerdom . Re claims a position of neutrality in a conflict between capitalistic governments . But he challenges German opinion concerning the origin and the prosecution of the war as it has been challenged by few but Germany 's foes . The German Government , with its Imperialistic aims and its promotion of competitive armaments , has one of the largest shares in the deeper responsibility for the war , and by its plottings in partnership with the Austrian Government has " burdened itself with the principal responsibility for its immediate outbreak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ masses from the outset , and has maintained war-sentiment by the most reprehensible means . Above all , he denounces comprehensively the outrages , some of which it had been feared not a single German saw fully in their real light  --  the invasion of Belgium , the use of poisonous gases , the misuse of Zeppelins and submarines , and the hostage system . Among these , he gives an importance to German machinations among prisoners of war that is new to most observers . A man whose votes thus reaches the world from prison can hardly be made dumb while he lives . A debate in the Prussian Diet last week on the subject of Poland will help the world to orient itself as concerns the restored " Kingdom of Poland . " It is now perfectly evident that the proposal of Germany had not merely a " string " to it , but a veritable cable . Only with Russian Poland is Germany making free to turn it over to the Poles ; Prussian Poland is to remain under Hohenzollern domination . " Every inch of ground in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister of the Interior , " is sacred and inalienable . No Prussian can think otherwise . " A Polish member of the Diet spoke of the " apprehension " lest " only a portion of the Polish people will have national freedom " ; and a Socialist declared for a " liberation of the Poles " which did not mean virtual annexation . But the Minister of the Interior replied simply that such speeches were " disgraceful . " At any rate , they show us where we stand . No one can at present fail to see that the German Government did not mean what it said when it spoke of a restored Polish nation . An independent Poland with Prussian Poland left out would be a mockery to Polish aspirations . Moreover , it would , even if the project were honestly carried out , create an impossible situation . The difficulties of governing Prussian Poland are already very great ; they would become insurmountable if a free Poland were just across the border . Hence the net result of the statements in the Prussian Diet is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the - role matter of reestablishing the kingdom of Poland . The limitations clearly intended would , as the Polish member of the Diet said , make of the alleged independent Poland " only a pretence . " Behind the veil of the Russian censorship a drama has been playing itself out which is of prime significance for the future of the war and for the future of Russia after the war . The details of the action we do not know as yet , but its general course may be reconstructed from three factors : the revelation from Petrograd of a battle fought between the progressive Duma and the reactionary Cabinet , ending in a victory for the Duma ; the proclamation of the kingdom of Poland by the Central Powers ; the retirement of the Russian Premier , Stiirmer . And the argument of the play is a simple one . Stiirmer , pro-German in sympathies , set himself to bring about a separate peace for Russia . This was challenged by the Duma , which is patriotic as well as Liberal , and which saw in an agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the reestablishment in stronger form than ever at Petrograd of that German influence which Liberal opinion in Russia is unanimous in regarding as perhaps the strongest single influence for reaction . On a matter of purely internal policy the Duma could not have defeated the Cabinet . On an issue of patriotism it succeeded . The fall of Stiirmer was assured , and the chances of a separate peace went glimmering . Thereupon , Berlin announced the kingdom of Poland , made up of Russia 's conquered provinces . So much for the meaning of Premier Stiirmer 's retirement as regards the war itself . For the future of internal progress in Russia the defeat of the pro-German element and the victory of the Duma in a pitched battle between Liberalism and reaction hold out the brightest promise . It means that the progressive bloc in the Duma is not a temporary league , but that a permanent majority has been created , with a programme of wide-reaching reforms . A prominent feature in this programme is the demand for fairer treatment of the hitherto oppressed minor nationalities in Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by no means the least , the Poles . Towards such a programme the Czar 's Government is forced not only by pressure from within , but by the necessity of counteracting the moral effect abroad of the announcement of a free Poland by Berlin . For all the restrictions attached to the German pledge and the transparently selfish motives behind it , the concrete fact can not altogether be explained away . Self-government for the majority of the Polish people has been promised by the Central Powers ; will the defeat of the Central Powers mean the defeat of Polish aspirations ? Such an impression abroad would do much harm to the Allied cause . The triumph of the Liberal elements within Russia is to be taken as a counter-pledge that the victory of the Allies would not mean for Poland a return to antebellum conditions . The resignation of President Sharpless , of Haverford College , to take effect upon the rounding out of three decades ' service at the close of the academic year , gives occasion for comment on the value of the small college  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general scramble for numbers , but also refrains from attempting the role of a university . Of this type of college Haver-ford is perhaps the very best example in the country , and in Dr. Sharpless it has enjoyed the good fortune of having an ideal head . No universal rule can be laid down for the guidance of young men choosing a college ; but there are unquestionably many for whom a college like Haverford would be best , and who simply drift with the tide in going to the big universities . As the Philadelphia Inquirer says , " Dr. Sharpless has always set great store by having students come into close contact with the professors , something which is impossible in the large institutions . He thinks this makes for individuality and for a better developed character . " A point of no little interest may be noted in connection with the remark made by that newspaper that " the ideal would seem to be to have young men and women take their purely college course at small institutions and go to the universities for higher training . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of young women going in for the ordinary college curriculum seemed a striking novelty , yet now to have them thought of as going to college in preparation for the higher training of the university is a mere matter of course . The death of Inez Milholland Boissevain , a martyr to her devotion to the suffrage cause , despite her apparently superb physique , is a genuine loss to the women 's movement . For many she was far too radical in her views as to the future of women , notably in relation to the other sex . But when all is said and done she remains a fine example of the modern young woman who throws herself whole-souled into her work , becomes a graceful and effective public speaker , adopts a learned profession , and , despite her marriage , continues in her chosen career . She found herself on leaving college in circumstances that admitted of ease . But to be a popular society figure was the last thing she could have thought of . While studying for the bar she found plenty of time to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it seemed as if the cause of every downtrodden group attracted her sympathy irresistibly . If she had much to learn , both in the fields of sociology and politics , she was one of those who were learning all the time . She illustrated , too , the fact that if the woman suffrage movement owes much to the younger women who have recently come to the front , they in turn owe much to it ; for the opportunity to reach out , to test their talents , the chance to think for themselves and give expression to their best , is bringing forward many women who will be an asset to the nation 's life , because of their sense of civic and social responsibility , long after suffrage is won . Among these the name of Mrs. Boissevain ought surely to be long remembered .                     