@@493116

in such circumstances naturally done . Nothing consolidated . Nothing comprehensive . Nothing prompt . And Congress can not be blamed . It can not by its own force unify the administrative departments to any common purpose . And therefore there will be no unified system of federal public works to combat unemployment . The Allied governments and the associated government won this war . It is accordingly assumed that the associated government did its best and utmost . The statistics soon to , be published on that point will completely destroy that illusion . They will prove that the whole military-industrial programme of the United States during the first twelve months of the war was a feeble and futile failure . It was a failure precisely because Mr. Wilson was still rejecting the principles ? the principle of public responsibility for the public welfare and the principle of centralized responsibility for the administrative welfare of the government of Washington ? which he afterwards in a great degree , and with a correspondingly great success , brought himself to swallow . Now he has rejected those principles again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own gait and into letting every department in Washington tread its own path to perdition or paradise . NOW he has reverted to " The New Freedom " for in ? industry and to " coordination " ? voluntary " ordination " ? for his lieutenants . And so now he is about to make the . first twelve months of peace as big a failure as the first twelve months of war . He is the generally recogifized leader of Amer ' ican liberalism . Every American liberal must wish him a complete success in his mission of interna. tional organization abroad . And every American liberal must also wish that he could meet him 21 the dock on his return and tell him that the only sort of nation which will ultimately adhere to the League of Nations is the nation genuinely liberal and that the only sort of liberalism which the United States will accept in 1920 is the liberalign which brings forth its proper fruits of a better life , for the young discharged soldier and for the useful investor and for the workless worker and for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ WILLIAM HARP . The N ationalist Party in South Africa W HEN the history of the part played by the British colonies in the war comes to be written , no more striking contrast will be presented than that between the achievements of South African troops in various theatres of war and . the anti-British agitation of the Nationalist party . At the very beginning of the war , German South West Africa was conquered by the Union forces under the leadership of General Botha in a campaign which , though crowded out of sight at the time by the greater events in Europe , will come to count as one of the most brilliant in the whole war . Traversing 140 miles of waterless desert in a week , manoeuvring the Germans by sheer mobility out of one strong position after another , Botha occupied Windhuk and later compelled the surrender of the enemy at a total loss to his own army in killed and wounded of barely a couple of hundred men . The conquest of German East Africa under General Smuts , with a composite force of South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far abler opposition and far greater obstacles of country and climate , a much longer time and entailed much greater losses , but was equally decisive in the end . ' The South African Expeditionary Force for service overseas , after seeing some fighting in Egypt , earned undying fame in Delville Wood , during the battle of the Somme . Since then the contingent has honorably distill ' guished itself in many fights on the western frost , though it has been too small in numbers to figulie often by name in newspaper despatches . In 24,1 tion , many individual South Africans , both Englisci and Dutch , have joined the British army itself , fought wherever British troops have fought , 1 Flanders , in Gallipoli , in Mesopotamia . , Meanwhile , in South Africa itself , the Nationa ' ist party , under the leadership of General Hertiogl a former member of Botha 's cabinet , has been rallying and exasperating Dutch National /cell ? : , against the British Empire . After the ahortit , sre rebellion which broke out in certain districts of t @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; 1914 , and which was promptly put down hY government , the Nationalists organized all ' 0 , tensive propaganda , especially in the Dutch c ? 1. / try-districts , which has resulted in consolidlo , what is probably a majority of the Dutch POPU tion in the ranks of their party , and which led earl r , in the present year to such a state of unrest , hittebe ness and tension between the Nationalists on one side , and the loyal Dutch and British suPP ? he of Botha on the other , that civil war became d possibility to be reckoned with . Parliament Passe resolutions condemning the propaganda as treas0 in able and rebellious . Botha himself appealed the gravest terms to both sides not to plunge South Africa into the throes of internal strife , and was finally driven to address public warnings against seditious agitation and violence . Feeling reached such a pitch that Hertzog was personally assaulted on the steps of the Houses of Parliament at Cape Town . When it was almost too late , he and his fellow-Nationalists perceived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avoidance of provocation and the use of constitutional methods . As was almost inevitable in view of the apposition of the Nationalist leaders to the Empire and the war , they were freely charged by popular rumor with being financed by German money , but it is only due to them to say that positive evidence for this has never been produced . As is usual when men 's feelings are severely tried and bitter passions are roused , principles about which there may be legitimate dispute get sWarnped by a flood of angry personal recriminations . Men cease to argue and only seek to air grievances and wound their adversaries ' feelings . The course of recent politics in South Africa forms no exception to this rule . The Nationalists ' openly expressed desire for separation from the Empire gave bitter offense to the British section , the sons of which were shedding their blood for the E mpire 's , defense . At Nationalist meetings the 4 ( vierkleur , " the flag of the former Dutch Republics , took the place of the " Union jack , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Hertzog deprecated these provocative Practices , but was apparently unable to prevent them , even at his own meetings . When the National Anthem was sung in Parliament during the darkest days of the German offensive last sPring , he and his party remained ostentatiously seated , though in a speech afterwards he explained that he had the greatest respect for the Anthem and had refused to honor it only because the singln been intended as an insult and a challenge to himself and his followers . Naturally , such things called forth hard words about treason and disloyalty , and Hertzog 's present attitude was conhe with his effusive loyalty in the days when 4e acknowledged the restorations of self-governrnent by Campbell-Bannerman 's ministry in the words : " I bow in reverence to the wisdom of the Ilritish statesmen . . . . I use no idle words when I e say that their deeds have forever bound the hearts of the people of the Orange Free State and of the whole of South Africa to the British Empire . " He was reminded that loyalty to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four colonies had . agreed to form the Union of South A rica , and that no such Union would ever have taken place if it had been understood that separation from the Empire was to be the ultimate policy of the Union . The Nationalists , on their part , replied that peaceful propaganda for independence was their constitutional right as members of a dem- ocratic state , especially at a time When the rights of - small nationalities formed one of the stakes of the war . But mainly they exploited the alleged grievances of " the people , " by which term they meant their own Dutch followers . These grievances sprang almost all from the resentment felt by many of the Dutch at having been drawn into the war against their will , which enabled the Nationalists to represent the government 's policy in support of the war as contrary to " the feelings of the people . " Complaints about recruiting by economic pressure , about taxes and contributions for war purposes , about the internment of enemy aliens , about the refusal of complete amnesty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reviving of hitter memories of the Anglo-Boer war , which was once again interpreted as inspired by foreign adven turers " for the sake of the Transvaal gold . Typical of the attitude of Nationalist farmers was the wool incident last year . The South African government had arranged with the British government for the purchase of the whole South African output of wool at a price very profitable to the producers . But a grievance was manufactured out of the refusal to allow the farmers to offer their woo ) to the highest bidder in neutral markets , regardless of the fact that such neutral markets were practically non-existent and that , with the shortage of shipping , the wool could not have been transported to them except with the consent of the British government . Thus , in the midst of the prosperity which the war has brought to the South African farmer , he was sedulously incited to believe that once more his government had betrayed the " interests of the people " to the British . It was one of the least reputable incidents in the game @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are the froth an bubble of the struggle between the Nationalists and the Botha government . It behooves us to see what are the deeper-lying causes of their antagonism . Had it not been for the outbreak of the European war , there is little doubt that the two white races in South Africa would slowly but surely have settled down to that friendly cooperation , based on mutual respect , to the achievement of which Botha 's policy has been unswervingly devoted . But the time had been too short for the majority of the Dutch to identify themselves whole-heartedly with an empire , membership in which they had been so recently compelled to accept by force of arms . The independence which a peo- // ple has fought for to the verge of national extinction does not easily or quickly cease to be cherished . To an Englishman it may well seem that no one can wish anything better than the good fortune of British citizenship , but it is humanly intelligible that the South African Dutch should not yet feel any such attachment . To find themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain 's behalf , without having been consulted and without understanding how their own interests were involved , or why they could not honorably keep aloof , put , it is easy to understand , a severe strain upon their feelings . If we add that they had the example of Ireland before their eyes , and that the principle of the rights of small nations seemed capable of a retrospective application to themselves , we have what is best and most plausible in the Nationalists ' point of view . Now , though the Nationalists talk of putting their case before the peace conference , they can hardly seriously expect that this conference will order a dissolution of the British Empire . What they appear to aim at would seem to be rather to secure for South Africa as a whole and as a unit , not merely for the former Dutch Republics , recognition at the peace conference as a " small nation , " in order to use this recognition as a lever in the internal reorganization of the British " Commonwealth of Nations " which is bound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has devoted many of his speeches to the constitutional aspect of the situation , draws in one of them a sharp distinction between " republicanism " and " anti-imperialism . " By the former he seems to mean little more than the substitution of a president elected by the people for an hereditary king governing South Africa through a governor-general as his representative . By " anti-imperialism " he means escape from subjection to the British Parliament . There lies the rub . What is serious and vital in the " republican " movement of the Nationalists is not the republicanism , but the anti-imperialism . Allegiance to a British king would be a small matter , if the fate and policy of South Africa did not in vital respects depend on decisions taken in the British Parliament ? decisions by which the Union is bound , but in the making of which , for all its " self-government , " it has had no share . There lies the sting of Hertzog 's taunt that for " self " in self-government one might as well say " British " at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a venom explained by recent South African history , the moral from the lesson which the Union learnt upon the outbreak of the war . It then found itself committed to a war resulting from a foreign policy in the control of which it had had no share . And more than that , it found itself committed by its government to an expedition against German South West Africa , and Parliament , when convened , could do nothing but consent to the fait accompli . It was a lesson in the implications of British citizen ' ship which the Nationalist Dutchmen did not like . It opened their eyes to the constitutional limits ' tions of colonial self-government . " Dragged , " says Hertzog , " against every will of ours into every war waged by Great Britain , it is not our will which dares decide whether our blood shall be shed , whether our money shall be squandered , but the will of the British government . " And more bitterly : " The freedom which comes to us under that so-called free constitution does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slave who has been liberated for the moment under the provisi ? that he may , as soon as his master may desire ' again be put into chains . " Now the constitutional point here involved is perfectly sound , though one may admit that it might not have been raised on this occasion , or in such violent language , but for the profound aver " sion of many of the Dutch to a war against Ger ' many on England 's behalf . There is no denying that the automatic implication of the colonies in the war has shown up the most serious flaw in the system of the British Empire ? a flaw the serious ' ness of which is coming to be felt with increasing force in proportion as the colonies grow int ? strong , self-reliant communities with a sense cn their own distinctive national being , and a couse ' quent desire to have a voice in determining policies which may put them to the choice between Peace and war . It seems inevitable that the present ors ' tem of tutelage for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closer partnership equals , or else to a looser association of nations each gaining its own complete self-determination . The smile constitutional problem has been urged by thinkers of unquestioned loyalty in Canada an Australia . But of the two possible solutions , all r shades of Dutch opinion in South Africa aPPead agreed on rejecting the closer concentration aa i , preferring the looser association . The rePtih canism of the Nationalists , when it shall have col ! ' to a clearer consciousness of what is practicable ' will be found to be but the extremest and rti ? st violent form of this choice . It means the rei , eci ; tion of every scheme of imperial reform iviu , e involves the setting up of some central authorl to which all dominion parliaments shall be subject even though the parliament of Great Britain ' t made subject too on an equal footing with the leap To the Dutch this would seem the proverbial from the frying-pan into the fire . The most 01 ' f genious and workable solution along the lines ? December 14 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far been mooted in Dutch circles , calls for complete autonomy for every dominion parliament , in the sense of abolition of all control or veto by the British Parliament , subject , in case of a deadlock , to appeal to an international court of arbitration . Under this scheme a purely formal membership in the British Empire , with allegiance to the king , would be retained . The plan clearly proposes a loose sort of federation , towards the establishment of which the recognition of the dominions as each a " small nation " in its own right , is sought as the first step . It may be asked why the advocates of this scheme should be willing to submit to an international court , but not to , say , an imperial council on which representatives of South Africa would have equal seat and vote with the representatives of the other members of the Empire . It is possible only to hazard a guess at the answer . Some , no doubt , foresee that a closer union of the British dominions will but accelerate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dutch cultural traditions . But the profoundest reason , not often openly confessed , lies probably in the fear of the Dutch that the pressure of public opinion in the Empire will force upon them a more liberal policy towards the negroes . The typical Dutchman , though not normally unkind in the treatment of natives , yet views them as nothing but " schepsels " ( creatures ) , little better than animals , useful for their manual labor in field and mine , but not to be educated , not to be enfranchised , on no account to be admitted to an equality With the white man . Aristotle 's famous phrase slaves by nature " hits off his point of view . The traditional British policy , which prevailed before the days of the Union in the Cape Colony and which aims at educating the native for citizenship , and admitting him progressively to the exercise of Political rights , fills the Boer with deep distrust and aversion . Just before the outbreak of the war an act was passed ? ostensibly for the purpose of Preparing for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the further acquisition of land by either race ? the effect of which was to turn the numerous native squatters on Boer farms at one stroke into serfs bound to the soil . Mean-While , nothing has been done towards effecting segregation or delimiting adequate native territories , and a sense of injustice and suspicion has been created in the native mind throughout South Africa which only the war has prevented from attracting the attention it deserves . A small nation which is liable to exploit its autonomy in favor of racial dominion of white over black , needs watching lest its policy be sinister for the future of the White man in Africa . R. F. ALFRED HOERNLi . Sibelius TITERS have brought the north into houses , and there transmuted it to music . And their art is dependent on the shelter , and , removed from it , dwindles . But Sibelius has written music innocent of roof and enclosure , music proper indeed to the vasty open , the Finnish heaven under which it grew . And could we but carry it out into the northern day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its life . For it is blood-brother to the wind and the silence , to the lowering cliffs and the spray , to the harsh crying of sea-birds and the breath of the fog , and , set amid them , would wax , and take new strength from the strengths its kin . Air blows through the music of Sibelius , quickens even the slightest of his compositions . There are certain of his songs , certain of his orchestral sketches , that would be virtueless enough were it not for the windy freshness that pervades them . Out of all his works , even out of the most commonplace , there proceeds a far and resonant space . Songs like To the Evening , Call , Autumn Sundown , whatever their ultimate musical value , seem actually informed by the northern evening , seem to include within their very substance the watery tints of the sky , the naive fragrance of forests and meadows , the tintinnabulation drifting through the still air of sunset . It is as if Sibelius were so sensible to the quality of his native @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chord of the piano , say , lies the silence of rocks and clouds , precisely what manner of resistance between chant and piano can make human song ring as in the open . But it is in his orchestral works , for he is determined an orchestral writer , that he has fixed it most successfully . There has been no composer , not Brahms in his German forest , nor Rameau amid the poplars of his silver France , not Borodin on his steppes , nor Moussorgsky in his snow-covered fields under threatening skies , whose music gives back the colors and forms and odors of his native land more persistently . The orchestral compositions of Sibelius seem to have passed over black torrents and desolate moorlands , through pallid sunlight and grim primeval forests , and become drenched with them . The instrumentation is all wet grays and blacks , relieved only by bits of brightness wan and elusive as the northern summer , frostily green as the polar lights . The works are full of the gnawing of bassoons and the bleakness of the English horn , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sinister rolling of drums , the menacing reverberation of cymbals , the icy glittering of harps . The musical ideas of those of the compositions that are finely realized recall the ruggedness and hardiness 