@@465596

IT is , perhaps , not unfair to the large and militant community of vegetarians to say that their actions are dictated more by sentiment than by science . And by sentiment we do not so much imply the shirking of facts in favor of feelings , but rather seek to include in one term all motives which ignore questions of profit and loss to the individual or community in favor of considerations possessing a purely emotional sanction . A certain number of people will not accept the doctrine of " killing , no murder " even . when applied to food , but so far as conditions of existence permit they will inflict no death in order that they themselves may live . We may disagree profoundly with this principle ; we may even regard it as philosophically absurd , because death is only a phase of the cycle of being , and the plant is no less alive than the animal . We may regard such a belief as incompatible with the conditions of existence in this world , but we can not argue with it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amount of respect , so closely is it bound up with some of the finest elements in human nature . Such a motive is never likely to be operative among any large proportion of mankind , and the race which attempted to push it to its logical conclusion must cease to exist ; but in this respect it may be paralleled by other doctrines , like celibacy , which are practised against all argument by certain sections of the community , although they would result in the destruction of mankind if universally adopted . More potent as a motive , perhaps , and more befitting the term of sentiment , is the repulsion which most vegetarians express at the mere act of preparing animals for food . To a sensitive mind the messiness of it all , the spilling of blood , excites abhorrence to an extent that prevents any calm examination of what actually takes place . There are people to whom all interiors are ugly , whether of men or animals , houses or minds , and such people will sacrifice something to preserve their ignorance . The same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be led to believe that white bread can be so nutritious as brown , even though the brownness is only caused by introducing a little of the wrapper in which the wheat plant packs the material it has selected and concentrated for its next generation . But man is a reasoning animal , however secondarily and unwillingly , and vegetarians have always tried to provide a scientific basis for their belief , though their actions proceed from emotions rather than from reason . Now the science of diet belongs to one of the most difficult and unexplored fields of knowledge . It must be admitted from the outset that little more than the rudiments are positively known , that we are only beginning to realize the extraordinary complexity of the processes involved and the insufficiency of our equipment for dealing with some of the most obvious problems . Dogmatism is , therefore , impossible ; for , however sure we may be of the truth of certain facts and principles , we are forced to realize that in their application to the delicate and involved organism of a living being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which count for much in the final result . In matters of diet we are still in the region of first approximations to the truth , and first approximations are apt to be but deceptive guides in dealing with the subtle balance of the vital processes . The old-fashioned barometer tells you to expect rain when the mercury falls , but it does not take much observation to learn that rot infrequently rain sets in with high and rising pressures . We must not , however , conclude that the first approximate association of rain and the falling barometer is wrong , but only that it is partial and requires to be included in some wider generalization which shall embrace and account for the apparently contradictory cases . If this is true of wind and rain ? the motions of the inanimate atmosphere ? how much more is it applicable to the intricate mechanism of human nutrition ; we must , therefore , wear our hypotheses lightly , always watching to cast them off or recut them in the light of hitherto unappreciated principles . Hut if the science of nutrition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made up its mind on the futility of that which passes muster as theory among the vegetarians . Their oldest argument in the name of science was that the structure of man 's teeth preyed him to belong to the herbivorous animals , but this method of argument is rather outworn . We have come to realize that such an association is no matter of necessary law , but only a summary or generalization of certain happenings . The law can only be a product of the observations , and if habits of man are recorded in the same way as those of any other animal he will not be classed among the herbivores . On such a natural-history basis you are not entitled to say that man ought to be anything ; you can only report what he is . The same point of view disposes of the doctrine that we ought to live upon nuts and fruit , because such must have been the typical food of primitive man , So it may have been , but common observation shows that it is not the typical food of civilized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things to make the earlier habit more " right " than the current ' one . When considering the habits of man we can draw no distinction , except for verbal convenience , between natural and artificial ; all wide-spread and common actions must be natural , however much they may differ from those practised in our earlier stages of development . If the actions of primitive man are to be taken as the standard of naturalness , and therefore of rightness , we should he landed into some pretty awkward positions in the domain of morals . But leaving theSe metaphysical discussions , it may perhaps be more profitable to inquire what light recent science throws upon the claim of the vegetariansthat , since a perfect diet can be obtained from the vegetable kingdom alone , various considerations of cleanliness , economy , and freedom from certain risks , should dictate the abolition of all forms of flesh from our dietary . The vegetarians argue that many of the leguminous plants are even more concentrated magazines of protein than lean meat , that fats of the purest kind can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ element of value in a food , are almost exclusively vegetable products . Thus they say a vegetable diet can and does give everything that is necessary to the nutrition of man . In a broad way this is obviously true ; probably most of us have tried a purely vegetable diet for some period , short or long , and found existence thereon perfectly tolerable . Again we are acquainted with people who have consumed nothing but vegetables all their lives and appear to be entirely normal on such a diet , hence in the main we must concede to vegetarians the claim that flesh is not necessary to the human diet . But the analysis of a food into proteins , fats , and carbohydrates is essentially what we have termed a first approximation ; to stop there is both to neglect the question of digestibility and to ignore a number of minor constituents in food which may yet he Effective out of all proportion to their quantity . More particularly this short view assumes that all proteins are of equal value to the organism . Personal experience , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of farmers who have cattle to feed , would indicate that such an assumption only imperfectly represents the truth , and various recent investigations suggest an explanation . When a protein is ingested , it is attacked by certain ferments secreted by the walls of the stomach and the pancreas and is resolved into a series of far simpler constituents , much as though a house was taken down into a series of heaps of brick and stone , iron and wood . These constituents , or more properly derivatives , are very distinct and complicated substances themselves , but are so far simpler than the proteins that they will truly dissolve and so can pass through the walls of the intestine to reach the blood stream , a process which is impossible to proteins . Out of them the animal reconstructs its own typical proteins , though it is still a matter of dispute whether this is done before they reach the blood , or by the active cells of the body to which they are carried by the blood stream . Moreover , the animal reconstructs quite different proteins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an architect can design an entirely different house from the materials provided by the house that has been taken down , and there is a strong presumption that every animal builds up proteins special to its kind . Comparatively recently Hopkins and Willcocks have shown that if rats and mice are given no other protein than the one contained in maize and called zein they die of protein starvation . By itself they can not use the zein ( or rather the zein derivatives ) , but if they are also given a very small quantity of a substance called trytophan , itself a derivative from many proteins , they begin to utilize the zein products and their protein starvation ceases . Evidently the body proteins of the mice contain the trytophan group , and no amount of other protein derivatives can make up for its absence , just as we may conceive a certain type of house that can not be constructed without stones of a particular shape , however small a proportion these constitute in the finished fabric . Moreover , we are pretty certain that the human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the protein derivatives with which it is presented from the food ; a large part , often the greater part , do not Et and are passed on to the kidneys , where the characteristic nitrogen groups are broken off and excreted , leaving the residue to be burned up as fuel instead of utilized in tissue repair . On certain diets the organism may have to pick over a large quantity of protein derivatives before it finds the particular units it requires for its own constructive purposes ; and in our present ignorance of the exact constituents of the human proteins , and even of food proteins , it is only common sense to keep the diet as diversified as possible , so as to make sure we are not leaving out the keystones of some important arch in the structure of nutrition . Ilia , if you like , is a plea of ignorance , but it is the ignorance that says you had better walk by the old beaten road instead of across country , when the map is imperfect and the compass bearings doubtful . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ i. e. , the availability of the energy it supplies , though hitherto we have only considered the diet of animals from this point of view . Every food is Et source of energy , and we can calculate how much work a given amount of digestible food of known composition can give rise to , just as we can calculate how many horse - power hours there can be got out of a ton of coal . But suppose part of that ton of coal had to be used in driving a mechanical stoker to feed the coal into the main boiler , clearly a deduction must be made from the theoretical effectiveness of the coal . The same thing happens with food ; some of the energy it possesses is spent in running the digestive machine , and with fibrous foods the toll thus taken may be great . A horse will starve on straw alone , however much it receives ; for though it can digest and obtain nutriment from the straw , it uses up more energy in so doing than the digested material can supply , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With human dietaries we never reach anything like this level , but many of the uneoncentrated vegetable foods do leave a comparatively small proportion . of their energy available for work , because so much is used up in driving the machinery of digestion . It would be possible to construct a diet which would contain all the protein and supply all the heat usually considered necessary for existence , but which would keep a man entirely occupied in the work of digestion without leaving any margin for external activities . Now , putting out of consideration such extremes , we sec that civilized life in its higher forms does demand sudden and extreme outputs of energy ? not necessarily of great duration ; the call is for speed and intensity more than for quantity of work , and this would seem to necessitate the more concentrated forms of diet which consume a minimum of their value in their digestion . A farm horse at plow will get along on indifferent hay and a little maize , but for the race-horse you want the heaviest of oats and the choicest alfalfa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , carbohydrates , and fats is only the first approximation in its valuation . The digestibility and available energy of these constituents form a second and closer approximation , but there are still to be considered certain third terms which recent research is showing to be of great importance . These are the food constituents , generally small in amount , which often confer flavor , but also act as excitants and bring certain important bodily actions into play . For example , Pawlow has shown that the secretion of the gastric juice necessary for the digestion of food in the stomach is a threefold process , excited in part by the sight of the food before it reaches the mouth , in part by a sort of nerve telegraphy when the food is being masticated , but only completed when the food actually reaches the stomach . Furthermore , this third stimulus , necessary for the full secretion , is only excited by such bodies as are contained in meat extracts , substances practically confined to flesh foods , and absent from vegetables . Again , in Pawlow 's experiments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his co-workers have been showing that many of the other secretions and vital actions have to be initiated chemically . Some trace of a substance , often one that we should little suspect of any such property , is introduced into the body , in the food or otherwise , and at some point meets with a particular locked-up material to which it acts as a key , causing the liberation of the latter body into the blood stream , whereby it is carried to a particular organ , which it immediately excites into activity . Starling 's conception of chemical excitants or " hormones " has been extended by Armstrong to include a series of remarkable vital actions , where small quantities of apparently indifferent substances are found to excite profound actions in the cell , actions in which they themselves can take no commensurate share . Now , as we do not understand a tithe of the actions going on in a well-regulated active body , the plea is again for a varied diet , and especially for one containing flesh foods , which experience as well as experiment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And here We find ourselves in agreement with one of the claims or tacit implications of vegetarianism . Put high , the claim is that a vegetarian diet makes for quieter and more law-abiding citizens ; that many people have found that they can thereby better adjust their lives to the requirements of a modern city civilization . Now the majority of people have to Lead a subordinate and routine life , in which it pays them , not to react easily , but to be safe and unemotional , minimizing inconvenient desires and restless imaginings . Even on a higher plane , the man at grips with a big piece of work demanding the whole of his mind asks to be delivered front all excitements and stirrings that might weaken his concentration . Vegetarianism probably counts its most convinced supporters among these two classes ? such . men and women as are making themselves ascetics for the better furthering of some set purpose , and those other men and womPn who want to keep out of the danger zone , avoiding meat as they would alcohol , art , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these people may be , the community needs even more the full-blooded and the adventurous ; the big men , the men who make things , who will not forego emotions and experiences because of the risks of shipwreck they may be running . " More life and fuller " is their watchword ; and though these may break under the strain , nature even more surely eliminates the ascetics in whom the will to live burns low . Although as yet only a matter of speculative interest possessed of no argumentative value , there is another aspect of the vegetarian diet worth consideration , and that is its greater economy and consequent inevitableness as soon as the world 's population grows up to the limit of the land available for cultivation . All flesh is grass ; that is , it must be regarded as a secondary product reconstructed by the animal out of materials that have been previously manufactured by the plant , and in this reconstruction a considerable amount of waste is involved . The plant is the only real creative agency in nature ; it is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ energy coming from the sun in order to build up the elaborate foodstuffs we call proteins , carbohydrates , and fats out of the very simple inorganic materials that are present in the air , in water , and in the soil . This is an upgrade process : the products of a plant 's growth are richer in energy than the materials from which they started , energy which the plant has filtered out from the light that fell upon it . It is with great difficulty that we can imitate the plant 's processes in the laboratory , and in doing so we have always to pour in an amount of energy ? electricity , heat , etc. ? greatly in excess of that which is stored in the finished product . Starting with water and carbonic acid , we could prepare a pound of sugar synthetically , but even if the incidentals employed in the process were less costly we should still have to burn a great deal more coal ? i. e , spend more energy than we should find finally stored up in the sugar . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and uses only the gratuitous energy supplied by the light . The animal , on the CAM-. tram lives by carrying on a down-grade process ; it resolves the complicated materials which the plant has manufactured into the simplest and least valuable compounds , transforming sugar , for example , hack into carbonic acid and water . When the animal is growing and putting on weight it does not reconstitute the whole of its food into an equivalent in meat ; the greater part is used up in keeping the machinery running , just as , to take en extreme example , an adult man will consume twenty ounces of dry fond per day and not increase in weight at all . We are accustomed to call the food required to keep the animal alive its maintenance diet , but even the food over and above this will by no means be wholly transformed into flesh and fat . T:nder the best possible conditions , a pound of pure digestible fat added to a maintenance diet will only mean half a pound of fat laid on by the animal , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make more than a quarter of a pound increase . This is the maximumefficiency after the animal 's maintenance requirements have been supplied , so that when maintenance is also allowed for , the net result of feeding can never show such a good conversion of vegetable food into animal food . Lawes and Gilbert , after a number of inquiries into the dietary of fattening animals in England , found that about ten pounds of dry food were consumed in order to produce a pound of increased weight in the animal , little more than half of which increase would represent meat suitable for human consumption . This means that , at a most moderate computation , something like twenty pounds of vegetable food in its normal condition has to be consumed for every pound of meat that is produced ; and though a certain proportion of this vegetable food may be of such a low grade that it would not be suitable for consumption by man , the discrepancy is still enormous between the food value of vegetable produce before and after its conversion into meat . To put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of good land in England will yield about a ton of wheat grain and rather more than a tort of straw . Out of the ton of wheat grain we may expect to get about 1,800 pounds of concentrated human food , whereas if the wheat and the straw together were fed to cattle , we could not expect more than 250 pounds of beef , which quantity would possess a lower feeding value ( in the sense of maintaining life ) than the wheat flour . In other words , an acre of wheat consumed as such would keep alive ten people , when the beef grown off that same acre would only support one . Of course the cattle would produce something else ? leather and other by-products for the use of mankind ? but then the wheat also produces straw and bran of some value in the human economy . If we look at the matter still more on the lines of what is actually taking place , we shall see that this economy of a vegetable diet , its power to support the maximum amount of life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practice . In nearly all countries cattle and sheep are chiefly raised by grazing , and although many farmers realize that more meat could be produced if the land were cultivated and                     