@@466231

T first sight few things would appear so strikingly different as the life-activities in plants and in animals . But if , in spite of the seeming differences , it could he proved that these life-activities are fundamentally similar , this would undoubtedlyconstitute a scientific generalization of very great importance . It would then follow that the complex mechanism of the animal machine , that baffled us so long , need not remain inscrutable for all time ; for the intricate problems of animal physiology would then naturally find their solution in the study of corresponding problems under simpler conditions of vegetative life . That would mean an enormous advance in the science of physiology , of agriculture , of medicine , and even of psychology . Plant life has always appeared to us very remote , because that life is unvoiced . The plant , in its apparent immobility and placidity , stands in strong contrast to the energetic animal , with its reflex movements and pulsating organs . Yet the same environment which , with its changing influences , so profoundly affects the animal , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the warmth of summer and the frost of winter , drought and rain ? all these and many more come and go about it . What subtle impress do they leave behind ? Internal changes there must he . We may be sure they are brought about by these many agencies , rendering the plant more or less excitable ; but our eyes have not the power to see them . How , then , are we to know what unseen changes take place within the plant ? The only conceivable way would be , if that were possible , to detect and measure the actual response of the orCXXX. ? Na 775. - 64 ganism to a definite testing blow . When an animal receives an external shock it may answer in various ways : if it has voice , by a cry ; if dumb , by the movement of its limbs . The external shuck is the stimulus ; the answer of the organism is the response . If we can make it give some tangible answer in response to a questioning shock , then we can judge the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In an excitable condition the feeblest stimulus will evoke an extraordinarily large response ; in a depressed state even a strong stimulus evokes only a feeble response ; and lastly , when death has overcome life , there is an abrupt end of the power to answer at all . As long as we are alive we respond in one way or another to the various stimuli of our environment . Stimulus falling on matter causes a molecular upset , and this upset is exhibited in various ways according to the instrument of expression . Let us look for a moment at the diverse effects which may be produced by the same electrical current acting on different instruments . Acting on one kind of recorder , it produces movement . On another , say an electrical bell , it produces sound . On still another it causes a flash of light . In like fashion , stimulus acting on living tissues may cause excitation which manifests itself in different ways according to the different organs of expression . Taking first the most familiar example of responsive movement , a drop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to twitch and the hand is withdrawn . The same thing is seen again in the leaf of the sensitive plant Mimosa. which suddenly falls down when excited . Or similarly , under the excitation of touch , the open Diovcea leaf closes on the fly , its prey . Again , instead of this mechanical movement , we may , as we shall see , have electrical movement in response to stimulus ; and a suitable instrument , the galvanometer , shows an electrical twitch each time the living tissue is excited . And lastly , among forms of response we have sensation itself . Sight is the characteristic response of the retina ; hearing , of the ear ; and so on . Thus , in sensation , different parts of the brain act as the responding organs . For the purpose of investigation we might in the laboratory take , say , the retina of a frog with its attached optical nerve , and put it in connection with the galvanometer instead of with the brain . it will then be found that each time a Hash of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twitch , just as the brain formerly responded by a passing sensation . Thus we see the possibility of obtaining some sort of record of the response of the plant by which its internal condition , and the changes of that condition , might he revealed . In order to succeed in this we have , first , to discover some compulsive force that will make the plant give an answering signal ; second , to supply the wherewithal for the conversion of these signals into an intelligent script ; and , last of all , we have ourselves to learn the nature of the hieroglyphic . It is possible to make a plant like Mimosa give a record of the answering movement of its leaf to a questioning electrical shock . Under excitation the leaf falls down , recovering its outspread position on the cessation of excitation . This response and recovery may be recorded by means of a writing lever , and the result will be , say , an up-curve of response followed by a down-curve of recovery . These may be regarded as constituting a pulse of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure of the life-activity of the tissue , waxing or waning with the fluctuating vitality of the plant . Thus by means of testing blows we are able to make the plant itself reveal those invisible internal changes which otherwise would have entirely escaped us . In obtaining the actual record of responsive movements in plants we encounter many serious difficulties . In the case of muscle-contraction of animals the pull exerted is considerable and the friction offered by the recording surface presents no serious difficulty . In the case of plants , however , the pull exerted by the motile organ is relatively feeble , and in the movement of the very small leaflets of Desniodium gyrans , or the telegraph-plant , for instance , a weight so small as four-hundredths o f a gram is enough to arrest the pulsaone will cause the other to vibrate in sympathy . We may likewise tune the vibrating writing lever with a reed . Suppose the reed and the lever are both tuned to vibrate a hundred times per second . When the reed is sounded the lever will also begin to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remain in continuous contact with the recording plate , but will deliver a succession of taps a hundred times in a second . The record will therefore consist of a series of dots , the distance be-. tween one dot and the next representing one-hundredth part of a second . With other recorders it is possible to i measure still shorter intervals . It will now be understood how , by the device of my resonant recorder , not only is the error due to friction eliminated , but the record itself is made to measure time as short as may be desired . The extreme delicacy of this instrument will be understood when by its means it is possible to record a time interval as short as the thousandth part of a second . Further , devices have been introduced by which the plant attached to the recording apparatus is automatically excited by successive electrical stimuli which areabsolutely constant . In an-swer to this the plant makes its own responsive records , goes through its own period of recovery , and embarks on the same cycle over again without assistance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the effect of changed exclosing movements of the leaflets take place not only under the action of darkness at night , but also under the precisely opposite conditions of the strong tight at noon . The question as to whether plants sleep or not can be put in the form of a definite inquiry : Is the plant equally excitable throughout the day and the night ? If not , is there any period at which it practically loses its sensibility ? Is there , again , another period at which it wakes up to a condition of maximum excitability ? This problem was solved through the invention of an apparatus which delivers a questioning shock to the Mimosa plant every hour of the day and night , and records automatically the answering response of the plant . In this way it was found that the plant is a late riser , waking up gradually and very slowly ; and only becoming fully alert by noon , remaining so until evening . It is , however , quite awake until midnight . Then it begins to grow somewhat lethargic , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the morning , when its excitability disappears and the plant gives no response . ( Fig. r . ) This is significant in view of the fact that the vitality of the human subject is also at its lowest ebb in the early hours of the morning . It has hitherto been thought that certain plants such as Mimosa pudica are sensitive , and that the rest of the plants are insensitive . In reality , all plants are excitable . If they are thus sensitive , what is there to hinder the manifestation of their response by actual movement ? In Mimosa the motile organ consists of a cushion of tissue known as the pulvinus , which is situated at the joint of the leaf . Of the upper and lower halves of the pulvinus it is the lower half that is the more excitable and undergoes greater contraction under excitation . Hence the resulting fall of the leaf is due to the predominant contraction of the more excitable lower half . If both the upper and lower sides had been equally excitable , there would have been equal pull @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plant may be fully excitable , ye t may not be able to manifest this outwardly on account of the deadlock caused by the equal but antagonistic pulls of the two halves . I he motile response of a plant thus appears to be inhibited merely for lack of mechanical facilities . There is , however , a different method by which the excitation of the plant maybe detected . i By electrical methods of investigation I have been able to show that every plant , and each organ of every plant , Is sensitive , and exhibits the state of excitement by electromotive variation of galvanometric negativity ? that is to say , an electrical change identically the same as that induced in an excited animal tissue . In Fig. 2 is shown a series of electrical responses in the carrot , and its gradual arrest under the action of a narcotic . Thus there are at our disposal two independent methods by which the excitability of a plant tissue , and its variations under physiological changes , may be detected and accurately recorded . When an animal is struck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short interval elapses between the incidence of the blow and the beginning of the reply . This lost time is known as the latent period . A similar latent period intervenes between stimulus and response in the plant ( Fig. 3 ) ; ? this undergoes parallel variations with that of the animal . It is of interest that a stoutish plant gives its response in a slow fashion , while a thin one attains the acme of excitement in an exceedingly short time . The perceptive power of the plant becomes very sluggish under fatigue . When excessively tired it loses for the time being all power of response and then requires a rest of at least half an hour to recover its normal responsiveness . It has been seen that in Mimosa a single stimulus gives rise to a single pulse of response . Here we have an effect brought on by a definite antecedent cause . In the phenomena of life , however , there are characteristics apparently more mysterious than this , in so much as we sometimes observe effects seemingly without a cause . For instance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its own accord . A sudden contraction is followed by an expansion , and this rhythm is maintained continuously and spontaneously throughout the duration of life . In the animal body , then , the heart furnishes us with a perfect example of an automatically reacting rhythmic tissue . Such rhythmic activities are not merely characteristic of the animal , for they also occur in the plant . as in the oscillating leaflets of the telegraph-plant , or Desmodium g y r an s . These leaflets are in a state of constant pulsation , moving up and down . The mechanics of the movement consist of a sudden contraction by which the leaflet is made to fall , followed by slow expansion bringing about recovery . ( Fig. 4 . ) These movements then correspond to the systolic and diastolic movements of the cardiac tissue of the animal . Further , all the characteristics of the spontaneous beat in the animal heart are forestalled in the plant . Thus , under a rise of temperature the frequency of the heart-beat is enhanced , but the amplitude of pulse is reduced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Domodium . As in the case of the heart , so also in Desmodium , an anesthetic-like ether induces a temporary arrest of pulsation which is renewed on the blowing-off of the ether . ( Fig. 5 . ) Still more remarkable identities of reaction will be referred to presently . With regard to the subject of automatism , it is possible in the plant to trace the evolution from simple response through multiple to automatic response , the plant ylverriza'a supplying the intermediate link . Most striking are the reactions of the plant to chemical agents . The plant i is intensely susceptible to the impurities present in the air ; the vitiated air of The town has a very depressing effect . Carbonic-acid gas suffocates j the plant just as it does the human subject . ( Fig. 6 . ) Note the gasp of relief when fresh air is introduced . In contrast to this , ozone renders the plant highly excitable . Sulphurered hydrogen , even in small quantities , is fatal to the plant . Chloroform acts as a strong narcotic , inducing a rapid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the response of the.plant under alcohol . ( Fig. 7 . ) When the plant has absorbed too much water it loses all power of movement . The normal condition may then be restored by extraction of the surplus . Equally striking is the effect of drugs on the automatic pulsations of Desmodium . Parallel phenomena have been described as between the automatic pulsation of the plant and of the animal heart . The most extraordinary is the identity of effect seen in the antagonistic action of certain drugs on the activities of these two pulsating tissues . Poisonous acids , for example , arrest the pulsation of the heart . But this particular arrest takes place during expansion . Now alkaline poisons also arrest the beating of the heart , but in an antagonistic manner ? that is to say , at contraction . That the actions of these two poisons are antagonistic is further seen in the fact that when the heart-beat is arrested by one , it can be revived under the application of the other . Here is a curious instance of one poison acting as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , likewise , it is wonderful to sec that exactly the same thing takes place . Poisonous acids arrest the pulsation , but this takes place when the leaflet is in its expanded or highest erect position . Alkaline poisons , on the other hand , arrest the pulsation in the contracted or depressed position of the leaflet . And , finally , the arrest induced by one of these can be counteracted by the other . It is thus seen that there is a continuity of responsive actions between the animal and the plant . This continuity , however , may be traced still further down . I have shown elsewhere that differences between the organic and the inorganic are less pronounced than has been customarily assumed . The inorganic also exhibit response under stimulation . There is a threshold of response ; subliminal stimuli become effective by repetition ; response increases with the intensity of stimulus up to a limit ; un-der certain circumstances these inorganic responses exhibit fatigue . Some substances act as stimulants upon tin and platinum , others are " poisons " destroying all response . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a linked continuity . Returning to the plants , we shall next see how the nervous impulse , one of the highest characteristics of the animal , is also manifested in the plant organism . It has been supposed that in the Mimosa plant the effect of irritation is not propagated as a nervous impulse , but as a mere mechanical disturbance . This mechanical theory was accepted in view of the anesthetic experiment of Pfeffer , who , applying chloroform to the surface of the stem , found that this did not arrest the impulse . A little reflection will , however , show that under the particular conditions of the ex-periment the conducting tissue in the interior could not have been affected by the narcotic ; the task being , in fact , as difficult as narcotizing a nerve-trunk lying between muscles by application of chloroform to the skin outside . By means of various crucial tests , however , it can be shown that the impulse in the plant is not of a mechanical character , but is a transmission of protoplasmic excitation . For example , among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nervous impulse of the animal is the influence of temperature , which could have no effect on mechanical propagation . The result given in Fig. 8 is quite conclusive as regards the excitatory character of the impulse in plants . It is seen that with rising temperature the time required for transmission through the same distance is continuously reduced , a rise of temperature of only 9 ? Centigrade doubling the speed . The converse experiment is to subject a portion of conducting petiole of Mimosa to the action of cold . This retards the speed of conduction . Excessive cold temporarily abolishes the conducting power . The nervous impulse in plants can also be arrested by other physiological blocks , such as specific drugs , by which nervous impulse in the animal is also arrested . Artificial paralysis may be produced in other ways in the plant nerve , and the efficacy of various curative agents may then he tested . These investigations with the simple type of plant-nerve are calculated to throw considerable light on the obscure phenomenon of nervous impulse in general , and the causes operative in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nerve . Among these experiments the following is significant as regards the power of stimulus to fashion its own conducting path . A plant carefully protected tinder glass from the stimulating buffets of the elements looks sleek and flourishing , yet is in reality flabby and defective . Its conducting power is found to be in abeyance . Anatomically the conducting elements are present , but from want of use they remain functionally inactive . Now in this condition it is very interesting to watch the growth of nervous conduction under the influence of stimulating blows . There is at first no transmission ; after a time excitatory impulse begins to be transmitted . Continued stimulation enhances the conducting power to a maximum . The concluding part of this process will be seen illustrated in the records given in Fig. 9 . Here we have displayed before us the modification of the organism by its environment , the creation of the organ by the cumulative effect of stimulus . The nerve unstimulated lies passive and inert . But the nerve already subjected to stimulus has been energized by it , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our present is colored by the store of our latent memories . Stimu-lation by thought actually increases our power of thought . The nervous impulse causes response which may be either mechanical or sensory , according to the nature of the terminal organ , muscle or brain . A feeble stimulus transmits a moderate excitation , which is perceived a s a sensation o f not unpleasant character . The tone of sensation is in general modified by the intensity of the impinging stimulus . It is well known that while moderate stimulus of light or sound produces a sensation which in a y be described as pleasant , an intense stimulus of the same nature will cause a sensation which is extremely unpleasant . Certain stimula- tions again are very painful . The nerve carries the impulse which is interpreted as sensation ; if the integrity of t h e nerve be impaired , then the nervous impulse is arrested , with the concomitant obliteration of all sensation . 0 u r sensation is colored by the intensity of the nervous excitation that reaches the central perceiving organ . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by two different conditions ? namely , the intensity of the external stimulus and the power of conduction possessed by the message-bearing vehicle , the nerve . Let us consider two extreme cases . In the first , the external stimulus may be too feeble for the resulting nervous impulse to cause perception . In this case we desire to exalt the conducting power of the nerve , so that what was subliminal shall become perceptible . On the other hand , the external stimulus , on account of its character or intensity , may cause sensation which is intolerably painful . Could the painful tone be modified by weakening the nervous impulse in transit , or could it be blocked altogether ? Stimulus , we have seen , causes a molecular upset in the excitable living tissue , and the propagation of nervous impulse is a phenomenon of the transmission of molecular disturbance from point to point . This molecular upset and propagation of disturbance we may picture simply by means of a row of standing books . A certain intensity of blow applied , say , to the book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the left , hitting its neighbor , and thus causing the other books to topple over in rapid succession . If the books have previously been slightly tilted toward the left , a disposition would have been given to them which would enhance the disturbance and accelerate the speed of transmission . A tilt or predisposition in the opposite direction would , on the other hand , retard or inhibit it . Thus , by means of a directive or polar force , we may induce a molecular predisposition which would enhance or retard the impulse . In a similar manner opposite reactions of a polar character might he discovered , by which molecular disposition in a nerve could be induced so as to enhance or retard its conducting power . It should be remembered , in this connection , that many effects which are brought about by an external stimulus can also be induced through internal stimulation . Thus the contractile response of the muscle may be brought about not only by an external shock , but also by the voluntary action of the will . It is possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bring about the opposite , and inhibit it . The extent to which it is claimed that this power of inhibition may be carried with practice would appear almost incredible . Authenticated instances are , however , known where even the beat of the heart was actually arrested at will and afterward resumed . The question of the possibility of the control of nervous impulse at will must ultimately depend upon whetheropposite molecular dispositions can be induced in the nerve , in consequence of which the conducting power would be appropriately enhanced or inhibited . These theoretical anticipations have been strikingly realized in practice ; and I have been able by the action of definite forces to induce by turns two opposite molecular dispositions in the conducting tissue of the plant . Under one disposition , subminimal stimulus which had hitherto failed to be conducted became effectively transmitted ; or stimulus which had been propagated at moderate speed and with feeble intensity was now transmitted with increased speed and enhanced intensity . The nervous impulse in the plant under the influence of opposite disposition could , on the other hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These supra or a-conducting states could be maintained as long as the conducting tissue was subjected to the action of the directive force . That these deductions are universally true was verified by the successful repetition of the experiments on the nerve of the frog . Here , by employing the same methods , it was possible to exalt or inhibit at will , during transit , the nervous impulse in the experimental animal nerve . The factor governing the intensity of the excitatory impulse which colors our sensations is thus not determined solely by the intensity of the external blow . The character of the sensation is capable of modification according to the predisposition which can be conferred on the conducting vehicle . One begins to realize that the external is not so inevitable . Is it not , after all , what we will that is essential ?                     