@@486772

In finally deciding to appoint Judge White as Chief Justice of the Supreme Court , the President has apparently been swayed by the argument that , if a promotion was to be made within the Court itself , the youngest associate justice ought not to be put over the heads of judges of longer service . And there will undeniably be a feeling that a Republican President has at least shown a spirit of fairness in naming a Democrat as Chief Justice . Judge White is . highly thought of by both bench and bar as a good lawyer of judicial habit of mind , who has , moreover , a vigorous and incisive intellect , and is master of a clear and forcible style . He has , in general , been reputed one of the " conservative " members of the Court . Of the other judges named to fill vacancies , Mr. Lamar of Georgia seems to have the needed qualifications , while the elevation of Judge Van Deventer from the United States Circuit Court would be unobjectionable were it not for one consideration , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the important Standard Oil case which has now gone to the Supreme Court on - appeal from the decision in which he joined . Propriety and judicial etiquette would dictate that he should not sit in an appeal from leis own decision . If he does not , the great Standard case will be argued before eight judges , who may divide four to four . That would be unfortunate  --  though , of course , the decree of the lower court would prevail unless set aside . There is at least one recommendation in the President 's message in carrying out which there ought to be no difficulty - during the short session of Congress . The reasons in favor of increasing the - salaries of United States judges are so - strong , the , expense involved so utterly insignificant in comparison with the importance of the object to be attained , that the passage of the bill  --  already pending  --  should be attainable with very little expenditure of the time of Congress . Anything that raises the average of qualifications in the Federal judiciary is of immeasurable value to the nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for district judges to $17,500 for the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court  --  is , of course , far below the income that lawyers of high-class get in their private practice ; but either from public spirit , from a taste for judicial work , or from a sense of the honor of the post , many lawyers willingly make a sacrifice of income to accept judicial office . The Library Committee of the House of Representatives is now reported as intending to recommend a reduction in the size of the House chamber  --  a sensi ? ble project . There will be much more chance of getting a bill passed which Provides a method of effecting the change by means of a temporary architectural device than there would be for one which committed the House permanently to the new condition of things . It may be observed , by the way , that the objection which members have entertained in the past to removal of their desk facilities is reduced to comparative insignificance now that each one has a commodious private room in the House Office Building , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adjuncts to the convenient and systematic dispatch of business , the members of our present and future Congresses ought to be able to dispense with the practice of reading at their desks , writing , sorting documents , and clapping their hands for pages to run on their errands . It has long been known that the Ballinger investigating committee had divided on strictly party lines  --  even to the point of Mr. Madison , the insurgent Republican , siding with the Democrats but not going to their extreme . Little importance therefore will be attached to the fact that the majority members have completely exonerated the Secretary in their report , of which a summary has just been issued . And the summary itself is too brief to throw any new light on the subject  --  if , indeed , it is possible to do so in a report , however long . The majority report pronounces Mr. Ballinger " a competent and honorable gentleman , honestly and faithfully performing the duties of his high office with an eye single to the public interest . " We have repeatedly stated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for it , and it is needless on the present occasion to say more than that this verdict of the majority members is , in our judgment , inconsistent with a number of facts brought out in the inquiry . The evidence ' failed to sustain any accusation of corrupt purpose , and indeed the intention to charge such purpose was distinctly disavowed by counsel and by the leading witnesses against Mr. Ballinger ; but between this and a certificate of single-minded fidelity to the peculiar trust resting upon the Secretary of the Interior there is a wide gap . To our mind it is quite clear that Mr. Ballinger started out in a spirit of hostility not merely to the special views of men like Pinchot and Garfield , but to the carrying out of a policy for the protection of the public interests to which the Government was distinctly pledged ; and in more than one instance he sought , in devious ways , to throw the responsibility of acts inimical to that policy upon other persons to lock the empty stable . At the instance of a group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been brought against the Mayor , the Comp : troller , the Director of Public Works , the Chief of the Bureau of Highways , the Chief of the Division of Street Cleaning , and Edwin H. Vare , alleging conspiracy and fraud in the drafting , awarding , and enforcing of the Vare street-cleaning contract . The annulment of the contract , involving over a million dollars yearly , is asked , and the plea is made that the city be enjoined from making payments to Vare , and that he be required " to account for the sums of money illegally received by him under color of the contract . " The contract provides that , upon failure to conform fully to its specifications , large sums may be deducted from the payments , at the absolute discretion of the Director of Public Works . The plaintiffs expect to prove that the contractor has performed less than half of the work required by the contract , and that he has made false reports with the connivance of the city officers . San Francisco successfully tested the working of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thirty-eight proposed amendments to the city charter , of varying degrees of importance , were submitted to a popular vote . Some forty-five thousand voters , or about 50 per cent . of the electorate , participated , in spite of the fact that there were no offices at stake . Every voter had to discriminate and act separately on each of the thirty-eight proposals . There were no party emblems to help him . Yet there is nothing in the result to indicate that the decision was not arrived at as carefully as it would have been had the amendments been submitted to a representative assembly . Eighteen of the proposals were carried and twenty were rejected . Virtually all the so-called reform proposals were accepted . Among these were the adoption of an effective system of initiative , referendum , and recall , direct nominations for municipal offices , the elimination of all party designations from the ballot , the publication of candidates ' statements on the sample ballots , and a step in the direction of the " short ballot " by increasing the length of terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be elected every two years . The franchise rights of the city were safeguarded by the passage of amendments forbidding a monopoly of subways and tun ' nels and permitting the city to recall a franchise whenever it decided to buy the property of the traction company . Virtually every proposal that would have had the effect of raising salaries was defeated , as was that increasing the powers of the supervisors , and the one which sought to place the library patronage in the hands of the Mayor . Business interests opposed the proposal for the initiative and the recall , and a hard campaign was made against the franchise amendments , but both were carried , although by closer votes than those on most of the other proposals . The decision of the United States Supreme Court in the Sugar Trust conspiracy case is of very high interest , both theoretically and practically , although it should be stated at once that it does not dispose of the possibility that the indicted directors may still escape under cover of the statute of limitations . What the Supreme Court does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that a conspiracy continues in being so long as the operations that it sets in motion continue to be performed ; that , therefore , the statute of limitations can not be pleaded on the ground that three years had pass , ed since the conspiracy was entered into , but only on the ground that three years had passed since the acts contemplated or set on foot by the conspiracy had ceased to be done . All this will strike the layman as good common sense ; and in the opinion handed down the view is enforced in an interesting way by reference to the analogous case of partnerships : The contract of partnership is instantaneous . The partnership may endure as one and the same partnership for years . A conspiracy is a partnership in criminal purposes . That as such it may have continuation in time is shown by the rule that an overt act of one partner may be the act of all without any agreement especially directed to that act . Hearty acknowledgment is due to the spirit in which the objections to the bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill introduced by Senator Gallinger . That the original project was conceived in a spirit of the broadest benevolence and helpfulness there was never any reason to doubt ; none the less was it the duty of Congress to guard against the possibilities of objectionable developments of the scheme in the future . This appears to have been , at least in a great measure , accomplished in the new provisions contained in the bill introduced on Monday . While the corporation is to be a self-perpetuating body , the name of any member selected to fill a vacancy must be submitted to the President of the United States , the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court , the President of the Senate , the Speaker of the House , and the presidents of Harvard , Yale , Columbia , Johns Hopkins , and the University of Chicago ; approval by a majority of these is necessary to validate the choice . Congress may at any time impose limitations on the objects to be served by the Foundation ; its holdings are not to exceed $100,000,000 ; and the whole concern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years . Not all munificent givers are willing to accept criticism in a fair and generous spirit , and when such . an attitude is shown , it is deserving of high praise . The undergraduate hallucination which assumes an " entire absence of , any connection between examination grades and post-Collegiate success , " receives another blow in the results of a recent investigation at Harvard upon . new lines . The criterion of success . hitherto employed , namely , the appearance of a name in " Who 's Who in America , " has been widely objected to , and , accordingly , a new standard has been taken for the latest comparison As related in -a recent number of Science , the class of 1894 at Harvard was selected for analysis . Three men , one of whom was Dean Briggs , were asked to select from this class the names of those men who , during their fifteen years since graduation , had achieved distinct success , each judge determining for himself his definition of that term . Twenty-three members of the class were agreed upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the three judges . The college records of these men were then compared with . those of twenty-three of their classmates chosen at random , and it was found that there were between three and four times as many " A 's " among : the former as among the latter , the exact figures being 196 and 56 . During the first seven decades of our history  --  from 1790 to 1860 ? the population of the United States received an accession of a trifle more than one-third per decade . Then came a fall ; but in a sense the rate may be said to have again remained virtually stationary for the three decades from 1860 to 1890 . Taking these three decades as a whole , the rate of increase was almost exactly one-fourth per decade , as against the one-third in the previous period ; and , if allowance be made for the natural repression of increase caused by the great war , and for the stimulation of increase in the process of recovery from its effects , 25 per cent . per decade may be said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the actual figures being 22.6 per cent . from 1860 to 1870 , 30.1 per cent . from 1870 to 1880 , 24.9 per cent . from 1880 to 1890 . A still further reason for postulating this approach to uniformity In furnished by the well-known defects of the census of 1870 . From that rate of one-fourth per decade we passed , in the decade 1890-1900 , to a rate of a little more than one-fifth ; and the census just completed shows slight change from the one preceding . As against 20.7 in 1890-1900 , we have a growth of 21.0 per cent . in 1900-1910 . All this relates to " Continental United States " ? a term which seems to be coming into use for the continuous region we usually think of as the United ' States , exclusive of Alaska , although Alaska is part of the American Continent . Secretary Knox 's final decision to grant the request of Italy for the extradition of Porter Charlton , the American who has confessed to the murder of his wife at Lake Como , will give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spectacle of a detected and avowed murderer walking out of court a free man simply because of a punctilio in diplomatic intercourse , or a petty scruple about the proper interpretation of a treaty Since it was clear that the United States could not take jurisdiction of the crime , there was nothing for it but to send the man back to the authorities that have the power to inflict clue punishment We can well afford to leave the general status of our extradition treaties with Italy for future negotiation and adjustment ; the immediate and pressing duty was obviously to make sure that an acknowledged criminal should not escape justice . Mr. J. J. Hill 's strong words on the question of reciprocal trade between the United States and Canada will attract exceptional attention . Both the international situation from the diplomatic point of view , and the economic situation in virtue of the pressure of nigh prices , point to progress toward free trade between the two countries . Mr. Hill , if correctly reported , declares entire free trade with Canada to be the logical consequence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we confess that we are unable to follow the logical thread to that conclusion . But when we get outside the domain of pure logic , the forces making for a sweeping reduction of tariff rates between our country and its northern neighbor are obvious enough . Secretary Dickinson spent six weeks in the Philippines , and during that time found out , as he states in his report , that the " public expression is very general " in favor of Filipino independence . Mr. Dickinson writes sympathetically of this admitted aspiration of the Filipino people , and evidently hopes that it may be realized in time , but again interposes the official dictum that the thing can not be done " within the present generation ? ' It will be noted , however , that he gives this opinion with the significant qualification , " if the present policy of control or the Islands by the American people shall continue . " That is just the point . If your policy is against independence , and even against encouraging hopes for it and plans for it , and if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has been shown to be a mistake , you must expect the natural consequences to follow  --  namely , friction , dislike , and failure . But a change of policy would lead to quite other results . A British general election is known as " an appeal to the nation , " and party leaders always profess great eagerness to find out what the country desires : but at present the tendency seems to be , rather , not to ask the voters what they mean , but to inform them what they must have meant The numerical result of the election will almoA certainly be to leave the strength of parties very nearly what it was before the dissolution That being so , Mr. Balfour declares for the Conservatives that the popular oracles have given no decisive voice , and that all must go on pretty much as before , until another conference is had or another election . On the other hand , the Liberals assert that they went to the country on the precise issue of the Lords ' veto , and have now got a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They argue that , if the Lords were compelled after last January 's election to accept the Budget , on which an appeal was taken to the country , even though the Liberal majority was greatly reduced , they must now swallow the bill limiting their veto , Inasmuch as on that issue the country has returned a Liberal or coalition Government to power . The two cases are not , however , precisely alike in form . This time there was no definite rejection of a definite bill by the Lords , on which the judgment of the electors might be taken . It was less a legislative deadlock than a general Constitutional principle which was , as it were , put to popular vote . But on the latter , it is difficult to get a clear and perfectly unmistakable voice from a general election . It is , indeed , fair to argue that the people have spoken in favor of a reform of the House of Lords , and of so limiting its veto power as to give Liberal legislation at least a " fair chance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it ; but between that and some root-and-branch method which the Liberal leaders may have in mind there is a wide difference . While , then , the general election will soon he over , it is clear that England 's political and parliamentary troubles will not . Full details of the interpellation in the Reichstag , on the subject of the Emperor 's recent divine-right speeches , bear out the interpretation put upon it by the Paris Temps , that it was virtually a case of " Revanche Imperiale . " It certainly looks so , when we turn back to the declarations made to the Reichstag by Chancellor von Billow in 1908 . The promise was then given that the Emperor would , in future , display " that reserve , even in private conversations , which is equally indispensable in the interest of a uniform policy and for the authority of the Crown " Yet on November 26 , when the present Chancellor was asked what he proposed to do about the violation of this pledge by the Emperor in his speeches at KOnigsberg and elsewhere , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Emperor , but the King of Prussia addressing his subjects in a Prussian province , who was brought under inquiry . Herr Bethmann-Hollweg contended that an absolutist deliverance by King William had nothing to do with the Constitutional law which , he admitted , must govern the Emperor William . This nice division of his Majesty into two persons only angered the Social Democrats , whose spokesman made the tactical mistake of declaring that his party really believed in a republic . The Chancellor made great play with tills language of revolution , as he called it ; and the net result was to bring the Emperor off triumphantly , and to restore to him that liberty of public utterance which he had apparently renounced two years ago .                     