@@430736

 | OF all nations the Belgian is the least fitted for exile ; it has known no migrations . From the earliest times it has remained rooted to the land to which it owes its existence , a land of which the geographical position , the character , and the climate have set their stamp upon the nation and inspired it with the spirit of perseverance , exclusiveness , and industry . If special circumstances have induced some few Belgians to quit their native country and found small colonies here and there in Canada or America , they still hold fast to their traditions and their customs . The openings which recent years have offered in the colonies have led to no extensive emigration . Belgium could contemplate no happiness , no prosperity , outside Belgium itself . She nursed the instinctive and cherished conviction that she was able to reproduce within her own borders all the inventions and products of the outside world . As a matter of fact , the Belgian 's ideas like his art , his ambitions like his industries , are governed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even the bold character of certain of his commercial or financial ventures indicates no change in his point of view . He was glad enough to contribute his money and his products to the commerce of the outside world : but he in person did not follow them , preferring to enjoy his gains at home and so to escape the curiosity and the greed of the foreigner . In her most sympathetic mood , Belgium has shown great reserve in the admission of foreigners to her intimacy . She is not well known even to her nearest neighbors . Neither the French , in spite of the frequency of their visits , nor the English , whose visits have been comparatively rare , have penetrated her inner nature . As for Germany , her discom-  | fiture on August 2 , 1914 , and the series of profound disappointments she has experienced while occupying and administering the country which she persuades herself she has conquered , afford proof positive that after pursuing for forty years a policy of peaceful penetration she has failed to understand the spirit and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychological theories . Belgium , moreover , has never admitted kinship with her neighbors . If to the south of Limburg and along the left bank of the Scheldt , an arbitrarily drawn frontier has failed to divide two peoples whose customs , religion , and language are identical , the difference between the Hollander and the Belgian is well defined , based as it is on the great religious dispute of the sixteenth century , and on widely divergent modes of life , sentiment , and thought . Of late years in the domain of imaginative literature , our younger Belgian writers have turned their attention to the delineation of national thought as reflecting the beauties and special features of our country . They are no longer trammelled , like their predecessors such as Charles de Coster and Camille Lemonnier , by the exigencies of color or rhythm . They have freed themselves from the influence of painting , which in Belgium has held the artists of the pen in strict dependence on the artists of the brush . Leaving to painters of the school of Courtens and of Claus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the beauty of Brabancon thickets , the infinite charm of the banks of the Scheldt or the Meuse , they have ventured to associate with these interpretations of nature , the analysis of a soul which presents , in addition to the essential phenomena of humanity , local and national characteristics of life and thought . Emile Verhaeren and Maurice Maeterlinck no doubt belong to civilization in general . But Verhaeren seems to embody the literary intoxication of a temperament cast in the mould of gods and heroes sprung from the land and its story , while the work of Maeterlinck suggests rather a process of  | imaginative meditation on some mystic thought , the heritage of a religious race . The revival , too , of the taste for philosophic studies , of which Cardinal Mercier suddenly appeared as the most characteristic exponent , led poets and essayists to treat of spiritual thoughts in harmonious and symbolical language worthy of a Fernand Severin or a Charles van Leerberghe , and they found natural allies in the musicians of the school of Cesar Franck such as Gevaert , Tinel , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ceaseless development of industrial life , the growth of factories throughout the land , the efforts of a proletariat intent on achieving a preponderant influence , threw open the field of literature to questions of social organization and democratic progress . Borne along by this movement , a lawyer and tribune , Edmond Picard , became the high priest of Belgian " originality . " His never-tiring assertions of the existence of a national style have created in the worlds of art , politics , and thought a belief in the existence of original inspiration . These movements , wholly intellectual and moral in character , were in contrast with the taste for material well-being and the pride in success which had resulted from the industrial efforts of the last forty years . In reality the two things were in no sense contradictory ; both were the outcome of an ancient and deep-seated force , which waited only for a fitting opportunity to manifest itself . The impulse of integrity which led to the unhesitating refusal of Germany 's degrading proposition and ranged the whole nation , regardless of the catastrophe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing else than the affirmation of that force . Events provided a living Belgium with the opportunity of proving her claim to existence . The use which she made of that opportunity came as a surprise oily to those who had failed to understand her national vigor . It is this which explains the ensuing burst of enthusiasm in the outside world , while within their own country the Belgians  | accepted their terrible experience as an event doubtless unexpected ? but in harmony with the destiny of men who feel themselves worthy to live and have resolved to do so . It is needless to seek beyond this mental attitude for an explanation of the remarkable passive resistance which followed on the bloody campaign of the Belgian army . For two years the invaded country has shown a bold front to the invader , and the German feels himself less at home on the neutral soil which he has violated than he did on the day of his arrival . In spite of his disappointment , what he sees compels his admiration , though to the Belgian it appears that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation which is condemned to exile preserves the same spirit of independence and " originality " in those lands which have offered it a refuge , and the most curious situation has resulted . As regards England the writer can speak from personal experience . Not only do the Belgian refugees in Great Britain keep their gaze fixed on that country to which they long so passionately to return , but notwithstanding the fact that they are scattered here and there , they form a distinct colony ; their habits , their likes and dislikes , their ideas , remain the same . Involved in the changes which war has imposed on the great nation which has welcomed him , the refugee has not yielded to their influence ; he has abandoned neither his critical spirit nor the dual origin of his own personality . Belgium in England has remained Belgium . On the other hand , the United Kingdom regarded the violation of Belgian neutrality as an unanswerable argument for intervention in the war ; and by the hospitality afforded to the refugees , she has atoned for her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her midst of 250,000 guests , whom she has welcomed with enthusiasm and sympathy , has exercised a preponderant influence in the formation of a public opinion in conformity with the needs which have arisen . Having once discharged her sentimental and  | moral obligations , England herself has submitted to a series of violent changes with the practical result that , little by little , she has thrown her whole strength into the conflict . At the same time , she has never for an instant been oblivious of the presence of her Belgian guests , and at this moment when she is undergoing a process of reorganization unknown to her previous history , she has again repeated by a solemn affirmation her fixed determination to restore Belgium to her place among the nations . But if Belgium owes to the United Kingdom her diplomatic existence , her protection in the hour of danger , and the assurance of her resurrection after the new ordeal which she is passing through to-day , she can declare without boasting that it is to her that England owes at the present time that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the future . It is , therefore , of some historical importance to place on record certain aspects of the Belgian question from the British point of view , and to show , on the other hand , how Belgium in exile has remained true to her ideal of a nation whose existence is necessary and whose future must be free . In the glowing enthusiasm of the moment , it seemed to England at the outbreak of the war but a small matter to give her support to the recruiting campaign inaugurated by Lord Kitchener . Was not the success of that campaign assured by an eagerness to enlist which surpassed all expectation ? No one then foresaw the day when the enrollment of all those who came forward voluntarily to fight for their king and country would prove insufficient and when it would be necessary to question each individual in order to ascertain whether he was prepared to make the indispensable effort . At the time of the arrival of the first Belgian refugees , no problem of industrial organization had as yet arisen . Life , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new excitements . There were no signs of deep distress ; and even the mourning worn for those members of the expeditionary force who fell in the terrible retreat from Mons  | failed to cloud the cheerful aspect of the nation . The Belgian minister opened a subscription on behalf of the wives and children of soldiers , and this relief fund grew to such dimensions that it became not only the chief means of supporting such Belgians as had been reduced to destitution by the enemy but it also furnished a sum for the future restoration of ravaged fields and ruined towns . Many English people were inspired by a keen desire to exert themselves personally , which was not satisfied in aiding the recruiting or in assisting in the collection of funds for Belgium . Each day the " Times " opened its columns to suggestions as to " How to help in war time . " There remained , of course , the organization of hospitals and homes of recovery and the care of the wounded on their return from the front , but these tasks were allotted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laying aside for the moment their political ambitions , showed the utmost eagerness for the cause . The news of the arrival of Belgian refugees came just in time to open to these enthusiasts a new sphere of action . As early as September , 1914 , the sympathies of Folkestone had been aroused by the arrival there of some hundreds of Belgian soldiers who had escaped the efforts of the Germans to surround them near amur and were on their way from France to Ostend and Antwerp . A short time afterward , the president of the Local Government Board , in answer to a question in the House of Commons , declared that the Belgian population transferred to England from Antwerp and Ostend would be the guests of the British nation . The arrangements for the transport of the first arrivals and for housing the refugees were due to private initiative and were the result of individual charity . Those who superintended , or collaborated in some capacity or other , labored with the praiseworthy object of " doing their bit " in the great common task . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is this , too , that stamped it in the beginning with a certain moral quality , which was difficult , of course , to keep alive for any  | length of time , and which was destined sooner or later to follow the general tendency towards a more strictly practical viewpoint . It was a startling transition for those unfortunate people , driven from their homes by the most terrible of scourges , and plunged abruptly into an atmosphere surcharged with sympathy . They disembarked , terrified and wretched , more alarmed by the prospect of exile in an unknown land than by the horrors from which they had been compelled to fly . The first arrivals were peasants and small townsfolk from the regions of Louvain and Aerschott , Malines and Termonde . Some had fled to the coast , and once there had accepted of necessity the invitation of England . Others who had taken refuge in Antwerp at the heels of an army that could no longer protect them , or who had escaped from the massacres , ravishings , and burnings inflicted by Germany as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ helpless civil population , had been ordered by the Belgian authorities to quit the fortress in view of the coming siege . Many had been compelled to march before the German troops in the guise of a living shield . All these fugitives brought with them to the inviolate shores of England the nightmare of war , and their presence served not a little to brace their ally for the struggle . To the chivalrous motives which urged on England to defend the right , to the motives of interest which caused her to realize the danger to her empire involved in a German victory , were now added the immediate duties of reparation , vengeance , and protection . The dispersal of the refugees through England , Scotland , and even Ireland brought home to the people the realities of war and had a marked effect on recruiting . The " scrap of paper " was succeeded by a poster of the burning of Louvain with the inscription " Remember Belgium . " The evidence of refugees , examined by a commission of inquiry under the presidency of Lord Bryce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and could not be ignored .  | It was , indeed , impossible not to accept as true the statements of these unfortunates who had been compelled to seek refuge in England . They were simple , almost primitive beings , silent and resigned , dominated by the desire to return at the first possible moment to the ruined homes from which they had been driven . Their aspect alone gave the lie to the German calumny which described them as fanatics urged on by their priests to wage guerilla warfare . The great majority were Flemings and , therefore , not predisposed by race to hate the German . The injustice of their lot was plain to all eyes ; their resignation , their stern resolution to rebuild their ruined houses , to till their ravaged fields , gave a new meaning to Belgian heroism in English eyes . In addition to this , they exhibited an indifference to glory peculiar to a nation without military traditions . The wounded Belgian soldier from the Yser , as he lay in an English hospital , made a similar impression ; he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out to die for his king and who. like the British soldier , smiles cheerily in spite of his wounds . Small in stature , worn out , his heart bursting with bitterness and rage , the Belgian shed tears of grief and apprehension until his natural equanimity could re-assert itself , and an apparently stolid exterior hid his burning patriotism , his insatiable thirst for vengeance . He , too , brought home to English life the realities of war . The enthusiasm of the nurses and of the ladies so eager to amuse him and make him forget his woes was equalled by the excitement of the crowds who cheered the haggard refugees at Tilbury or Folkestone , by the energy shown by individuals , societies , and municipalities in finding quarters for families in country houses , private families , and hostels . The soldiers and refugees who had provoked this outburst had impressed England with the reality of the peril and of the supreme necessity to guard against it ; and this was followed by the gigantic preparations of the last two years . The period of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached its culmination at the Christmas of 1914 . An artist in " Punch " gave it its highest expression in the famous cartoon which represents the Kaiser and King Albert amidst the ruins of invasion , and places in the mouth of the vanquished monarch the celebrated words " Not my soul . " The album in which Hall Caine invited the writers of all countries to express their homage to the King of the Belgians ? " King Albert 's Book " ? is not only a memorial of universal admiration , it is above all an adequate expression of public sentiment in the United Kingdom . After the fall of Antwerp and the evacuation of Ostend , the first refugees were followed by larger bodies in which townspeople and artisans predominated . Some few who were not without means established themselves in London or on the coast . The rest were distributed on their arrival amongst the various persons , whose number had suddenly increased to some 100,000 , who offered hospitality . English generosity and the anxiety not to bring the Belgian guests into conflict with labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Their stay was assumed to be temporary only ; this was regarded as a foregone conclusion . Without doubt the refugees themselves forbore to contradict an assumption which agreed but too well with their own hopes . On the other hand , the Belgian government , installed at Havre , was fully aware of the dangers of idleness ; it appealed to the young and able-bodied to join the army which was being reorganized on foreign soil , and it arranged with the British government that the question of employment should be at all events looked into . Belgians themselves , by forming societies and clubs , by publishing newspapers , by a system of communication with each other , emphasized their intention of living a life of national activity albeit on a foreign soil , with the result that an organized Belgian colony quickly sprang up in England . In proportion as the Belgian factor , so far as it affected the part taken by Great Britain in the war , became of less importance , owing  | to the gradual realization by Great Britain herself of the vastness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ victory or defeat lay with her , the energies of the Belgian exiles became concentrated in the useful and honorable pursuit of their own national aims . They encountered obstacles , they endured fresh sufferings , and they learnt to measure anew their own powers . The first administrative measure applied to the Belgians was the obligation to register . On no previous occasion had anything of the sort been enforced in England . This was accompanied by an order forbidding residence in certain defined districts , and it coincided with the internment of a part of the numerous Germans and Austrians resident in the United Kingdom . We may well regard this register of Belgian refugees as the parent of that general catalogue of Great Britain 's human resources which was drawn up on August 15 , 1915 , and rendered possible the first application of military conscription . If the registration of Belgians disclosed the fact that sixty per cent of the refugees were Flemish peasants , it also showed that the professional classes were largely represented and that among them were not a few persons who belonged to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the popular exodus . They had decided thus to withdraw before the enemy , so as to deprive him of that countenance which their presence might have given , and they reckoned on serving their country 's cause best from abroad . Their situation soon became deplorable in the extreme . Knowing for the most part little , if any , English , too proud to live by charity , tortured without ceasing by homesickness , by fears for the future , and by the consciousness of their own impotence , they were unable to discover in the spectacle of the political and intellectual life of Great Britain any alleviation for their troubles . England was a shock to them . They had looked upon her as the chosen land of parliamentary institutions . Before the war , they had been wont to point to English  | political customs as an example and a lesson to Belgian politicians , but unfortunately a crisis had arisen which would have been destructive of all democratic institutions , no matter where . The necessities of war imposed restrictions , vexatious but necessary , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press polemics and back-stairs scheming , which ended in that negation of British traditions ? the formation of a Coalition Ministry ? and were frankly disconcerting to these admirers of English public life . Belgian socialism , permeated as it is with French ideals , had seen its distrust of militarism , its international sympathies , which it regarded as the embodiment of the spirit of progress , swept away by the blast of patriotism from the moment that war was declared . The restrictive nature of the powers given to its delegates by the English labor party in all matters affecting the industrial organization of the war , the constant pre-occupation of this party to grant no concession which might diminish the strength of the workers in dealing with capital , the survival amongst a fraction of English socialists of the pacifist and Germanophile tradition , ? all these unexpected features of the trades-unionism which he had so much admired , profoundly disillusioned the Belgian democrat . Moreover , he found himself powerless to remove the obstacles which prevented the introduction of Belgian labor into British factories . Belgian capitalists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor organization ; a Belgian factory was built and opened , and in three weeks was manufacturing shells for the Belgian Ministry of War . In the English munition factories , sections exclusively Belgian were arranged ; and a friendly rivalry and the feeling that they were hastening the deliverance of their country inspired the refugees to forget for the moment the canons of their unions and exert their energies to the full . It was at this moment that , under the influence of Lloyd-George , the English workman was induced , most unwillingly and under many protests ,  | to admit that the right to strike and the rules of trades unions might be suspended by the necessities of war . It may be said at the present time that the skilled workman is the happiest of the Belgian refugees . The small shop keepers , the educated men , the peasants , envy his lot and do their best to learn his trade in the hope of freeing themselves from the obligations of hospitality and taking their share in the common work . They feel a pride in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in belonging to that working army on whom , as much as on the fighting army , depends the issue of the struggle . As a thing apart and , speaking generally , in advance of British developments , the organization of the colony of refugees could not fail to accentuate the predisposition of the Belgian to hold fast to his own ideals . Around the factories , as was natural , a population of compatriots sprang up . Priests , schools , shops , institutions of various kinds , helped to keep alive the spirit and the customs of home . Wherever ? perhaps in some distant village of Scotland or Wales ? a few families are gathered together , the same characteristics are found . It is the isolated refugee who is unhappy , and even when he is most lavishly entertained , he pines for a social existence around some common centre . When he is unable to support himself by work , private hospitality ? as the British authorities have learnt ? however delicately offered , is no compensation to the refugee for the satisfaction of living @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his fellow countrymen . A system of distribution upon a settled plan is now the rule . Cambridge and Oxford realized from the beginning the advantage of gathering together a community ; and with the view of providing for the needs of men who had been robbed by the war of the security and calm so essential to a life of thought , the two great universities offered to the professors and students of Belgium a much appreciated refuge . The English universities themselves have been much changed  | by the war , and the choicest of their younger members were among the foremost to shed their blood in the cause of civilisation . With revenues and numbers diminished , they have field themselves the richer in sharing the bread of science with their sister universities of Louvain , Liege , Brussels , and Ghent , ? which have been ravaged and desolated and condemned to silence at the hand of the barbarian invader . Addresses and courses of lectures given by Belgian professors at Oxford and Cambridge have created bonds more durable even than the brotherhood of arms . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ au-selves the question : To what extent will the arts in Belgium be hindered or set back by the war ? Will this terrible destruction , this slaughter , these hatreds , this enforced silence , give birth to a great work or a great artist ? None can tell , and only in the distant future can life spring from the seeds of blood . The refuge offered by England has at all events afforded to many Belgian artists a shelter from the storm . Their particularism , their temperament so widely different from the temperament of their brother artists beyond the Channel , has prevented anything in the shape of a profitable exchange of ideas , although it might have been supposed that the idealism of some of their number would have appealed to the fellow countrymen of Burne-Jones and Ruskin . The sculptor , Victor Rousseau , is at home in England . To him the English woman is a model of perfection , and his rendering of her , an exquisite work of art . But our landscape painters can not shut out the vision of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his exile with any great success . Baetsoen. while he paints the Thames , can not forget the Scheldt , and Claus has thrown all his soul into a picture painted from memory of the Lys between Deynze and Ghent . Unwilling to allow the second Christmas of our exile to go by without expressing our gratitude to the English people , we resolved on publishing a fitting memorial . In addition  | to official expressions of gratitude , we invited artists an writers to imitate the Jongleur of Notre Dame and co tribute each one an original page in honor of our hosts . Bu what chiefly strikes the reader of " The Book of Belgium ' Gratitude " is that it is filled with thoughts of the land tha we have left behind . Thus like aggression , invasion , and occupation , exile has in its turn failed to take a permanent hold on Belgium . The great service which English friendship has conferred upon her is to have rendered her conscious of her own value in the society of nations . If on her side she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the war some influence in the awakening and regeneration of the great empire which has bound up its fate with her deliverance and her restoration , it is because she has remained true to herself . This immobility , in the midst of the greatest struggle that has ever drenched Europe in blood , almost suggests death with a promise of resurrection . An English writer has well remarked : " When the first shot was fired from the forts of Liege , a little nation died but a nation that is great                     