@@487189

Like young Lochinvar , Mr. Wright comes out of the West , his dialectic is more mettlesome than any in the broad border . Everything except his literary manner , which is acutely jargonish , is easy to him . He comes to set crooked matters straight once for all . There is no hesitancy as to his vocation , no mercy for any who see otherwise than himself , and naturally there is the clarity and hardness of this sort of conviction . He knows precisely what has been amiss with the art of painting : For centuries painting has been reared on a false foundation , and the criteria of aesthetic appreciation have been irrelevant Painting has been a bastard  --  an agglomeration of literature , religion , photography , and decoration . Happily , that is being put right by the simple process of jettisoning from the good ship Painting the irrelevant parts of her cargo . Or , less figuratively , " the efforts of painters for the last century have been devoted to the elimination of all extraneous considerations , to making painting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that make a great picture are singularly few  --  perhaps three : First , a vivid effect of mass in third dimension ; second , of abstract mass representing no recognizable object , and hence free from irrelevant associations ; third , the mass to be expressed solely by color  --  which is the only authentic medium of painting  --  by color at its intensest , In the primaries . Or , trying for a still briefer summary , the business of painting is to express abstract volume solely through color . How simple and conclusive the doctrine is ! How much extraneous thinking and feeling the present writer might have spared himself had the true inwardness of painting been vouchsafed to him twenty years ago . But that was impossible , for the great consummation was attained only about two years ago , when two young American painters , Morgan Russell and Macdonald-Wright , exhibited chez Bernheinz-Jenne and issued the manifesto of Synchromism . They first knew how to make pure color express significant form ; thus they purged painting of all noniesthetic constituents and raised it to purity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we may permit ourselves an indulgent moment of pitying retrospect under our author 's firm guidance : So long as painting deals with objective nature , it is an impure art , for recognizability precludes the highest aesthetic emotion . All Painting , ancient and modern , moves usaesthetically only in so far as it possesses g force over and beyond its mimetic aspect . The average spectator is unable to differentiate his literary and associative emotions from his aesthetic ecstasy . Form and rhythm alone are the bases of esthetic enjoyment , all else in a picture is superfluity . Therefore , a picture , in order to represent its intensest emotive power , must be an abstract presentation expressed entirely in the medium of painting ; and that medium is color . There are no longer any experiments to be made in methods . Form and color , the two permanent and inalienable qualities of painting , have become synonymous Ancient painting sounded the depths of composition Modern painting has sounded the depths of color . Research is at an end It now remains only for - artists to create @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shock to see what are the triumphs of the new school in Morgan Russell 's arrangement of celestial spheres , very like Besnard 's ceiling for the Hotel de Ville , and Macdonald-Wright 's set of polychromatic spirals , which are gay and pleasing after the fashion of a catherine wheel seen through smoked glass . In both cases there is an uneasy going in and out of the pattern ; this we take to be the abstract sense of mass which enraptures our critic , and for him is the only aesthetic verity . Now , of course , if a man is made ecstatic by a particular titillation of his retina , that is for him esthetic value . When this ecstasy is too exceptional , however , one may regard it as eccentric and negligible . Schiller , for example , got high olfactory bliss from the rotten apples which he kept in his study . But the case is more properly one of pmorbid psychology than of esthetics . Doubtless , a critic who has incubated  --  we use the word advisedly , for the egg is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and an . organon for its expression , will honestly get more bliss out of the expression of volume according to his own formulas than he can out of any work of art whose production he has been unable to superintend . The entire sincerity of such an experience may be conceded , without admitting for it any general significance . Mr. Wright 's survey of the history of art considered as leading up to Synchromy is as brilliant as it is perverse . The older artists were merely victims of their subject-matter , the greatest , at most , successful evaders of it . Giotto cared nothing for his legends save as they permitted him to express volume . For centuries painting lingered in this stage , an ill-destined slave of literature . But in the middle of the last century Courbet and Daumier started matters by achieving an intenser feeling for mass . The realists and luminists did good work in. breaking down the veneration for particular subject-matter . The Post-Impressionists , or rather their precursors , Van Gogh , Gauguin , and Cezanne , achieved a further liberation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for distortion . Cezanne did the more important work of making color directly expressive of mass and position . Matisse and his herd still further distorted natural appearance . It was , indeed , by this time so damaged that to throw it overboard was the inevitable next step . There was a moment of hesitation when the Cubists and the Futurists tried to reintegrate a natural appearance already " fatally twisted . " Happily , their notion of natural appearance was so unlike the data of common vision that it hastened the work of disintegration . It got the world well interested in what seemed unnatural , and the next best thing to being unnatural in painting is to seem so . After all , Matisse is merely a decorator , Picasso a lyrist , and Severini an illustrator . After this attempt to refurbish the ideal of imitation , Morgan Russell and Macdonald-Wright arose , with the auspicious results which we have already indicated . This brief abstract of the history of art as seen through Synchromistic eyes does injustice to the pungency and spirit of Mr. Wright 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in energy and consistency . To read him carefully is to have to think . He says many good things incidentally , and if he can learn to write English and can purge his mind of narrow formulas , he may go far . What ails his thinking may be very briefly indicated . He carries to the absurd the romantic dissatisfaction with the complexity of the human individual and of the work of art . Romanticism split up the artist , who formerly had been regarded as integral , into mere man , and artistic superman . Similarly , Romanticism split up the work of art into an artistic and inartistic part . Formerly it had been assumed that the work of art was highly complex , its value lying in the whole nexus of relations it presented . It was not valuable because of subject matter , but because of subject matter as expressed . Nothing was negligible in it . What really counted was the exquisiteness of the composite . The work of art was a humanistic integer , just as the artist was a human integer . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer a man , but a special capacity inhering in a necessary but extraneous organism ; the work of art is some residuum arrived at by eliminating irrelevant layers , like an onion peeled to the core . The work of art is not gold , but a lump of ore from which gold may be smelted . The attainment of purity in art may be regarded as a radical unloading process . The early romanticists threw over social control , the realists threw over traditionaltaste , the impressionists unloaded memory . Then followed a gradual jettisoning of natural appearance , the victim being prepared for the plunge by preliminary racking . Finally , natural appearance was jettisoned , and to celebrate the auspicious event the ship was set on fire . Thus painting was purified and Synchromism records the effulgent reflections of the cathartic funeral pyre . Now , we need to set against this ingenious false logic and anti-humanistic splitting up of complex unities merely a reasonable degree of humanistic common-sense . Let us not achieve simplicity by shedding all the difficulties . The process is too facile ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no man who in the broader sense had lived , could have written this book of Mr. Wright 's . It emanates from the cave where phantoms acquire a monstrous consistency . A ray of sunlight , a single impulse of humor , would shatter the entire dream fabric . With characteristic conservatism the New York Historical Society presents in its new " Catalogue of the Gallery of Art " what is virtually a reprint of the catalogue of some forty years ago . There is , however , a more logical arrangement , corresponding to the better hanging facilities of the new building , and a useful app , ndix of brief biographies of artists has been added . The most welcome innovation is the eighteen photogravures which reproduce the best pieces of the collection , and alone make the catalogue necessary to the student . With a single exception , the transfer of a former " Perugino " to Macrino d'Alba , the considerable critical literature that has been written about the gallery has been ignored . One can entirely understand the reluctance of the authorities to enter into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Mr. Bryan took over from the preposterous catalogue of Artaud de Montor should have been expunged . It is a pity to reproduce as a Guido da Siena , for example , the admirable Florentine ' Madonna , No . B3 , which has all the marks of Orcagna 's studio , and has been ascribed to Nardo di Cione by Suida and Siren . It is even worse to reproduce as a Giotto the , magnificent Birth Salver , No . B5 . It has on the back the arms of Lorenzo de Medici 's father and mother , and was almost certainly prepared for his birth m 1449 . That is to say , more than a century after Giotto 's death . Such information is entirely available in Francois Monod 's paper on the gallery in the Gazette des Beaux Arts . It is precisely the kind of information that visitors to an historical society should receive . In the first twenty-five numbers of the Bryan collection , Italian Primitives , there are eight errors as bad as the above . It is a serious blemish , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wishes to keep out of the attribution-mongering game , it should at least get right the approximate date and the school of the pictures . It would add to the usefulness of the catalogue if the material on which the painting is made were registered . " A Loan Exhibition of Early Italian Engravings ( Intaglio ) , " issued by the Fogg Art Museum , at Cambridge , through the Harvard University Press , is a remarkable sort of catalogue . It is gracefully dedicated to that fineamateur , the late Francis Bullard , ' a benefactor both of the Fogg Museum and of the Boston Museum of Fine Arts . The field of early Italian engraving was a favorite one with him . Of the 119 prints in this loan exhibition , a number are from his collections , others are lent by the new assistant director of the Fogg Museum and compiler of this catalogue , Paul J. Sachs , but the bulk of the exhibits are from the rich stores of the Boston Art Museum and the Gray collection , Harvard . The ground is representatively covered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jacopo Francia , Jacopo dei Barbari , and Giulio and Domenico Campagnola . All of the eight prints by Mantegna are included , as well as many of his school , often in exceptional impresSions . All of the plates are reproduced , and the ample quarto format generally permits of reproduction to true scale . Thus the catalogue , with its succinct technical and biographical notes , is an excellent compendium of the subject , a genuine resource for students of this fascinating field . Here and there the annotation might have been advantageously extended . Thus , the nude by Giulio Campagnola , No. 102 , is almost certainly a copy of a lost original by Giorgione , and the novel stipple technique is induced by the need of imitating the finesses of an oil painting . We may also venture the suggestion that a painting by Sebastiano del Piombo must underlie the fine print by Giulio Campagnola of Christ and the Woman of Samaria , No. 95 . Here is not the place to extend such observations . They-are made merely to illustrate the usefulness of this most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus making its temporary exhibition serve the permanent advantage of special scholarship , the Fogg Museum sets a valuable example . Mr. James Ward , formerly a professor of decoration in Sheffield , and the author of several manuals of decorative art , has added to these a volume entitled " Colour Decoration of Architecture " ( Dutton ; $3.50 net ) . Its scope and purpose are explained in the sub-title : " Treating on colour and decoration of the interiors and exteriors of buildings . With historical notices of the art and practice of colour decoration in Italy , France , Germany , and England . For the use of decorators and students . " To combine successfully in a volume of but 131 heavily leaded pages of text an adequate discussion of the principles of color decoration in the widely distinct fields of interior and exterior architecture , with an historical apergu of color decoration in Italy and three other countries , is probably an impossible task ; certainly , if undertaken , it must require the utmost condensation , the most carefully systematic treatment , and great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Ward 's effort . The discussion of theory and principles is fragmentary ; the broad generalizations so necessary as a groundwork for detailed criticisms and rules of procedure are lacking ; and in the historical portions there is a similar lack of the broad , comprehensive presentation of developments , and want of historical perspective . Mr. Ward 's style is loose and abounds in faults of grammar and rhetoric , which greatly mar the excellence of his treatment of details . In these , however , there is much to commend . The specific rules laid down , the particular criticisms , the practical suggestions , are generally sound and valuable , and the historical statements generally correct . Much also can be forgiven to so earnest and cogent a pleader for a wider and better use of color in architecture as Mr. Ward shows himself to be . His closing paragraph confesses the English to be , as a nation , far " behind the French , Germans , and Americans in the encouragement of decorative art " ; would that we Americans could conscientiously admit ourselves to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with thirty-four plates , of which twelve are in color . An interesting contribution to the history of French engraving in the eighteenth century is " L'Estampe frangaise " ( Brussels and Paris : G. Van Olst &; Cie. ) , by Francois Courboib , curator of the print department of the Bibboth  --  que Nationale , Paris . The volume forms part of the series Bibliotheque de l'art du XVIIIe si  --  cle , and has a subtitle , " Graveurs et Marchands , " which indicates that it is concerned also with the print-sellers of those days . It is not a connected history of French prints of the eighteenth century that the author gives us , but rather a series of interesting chats about his exploration of byways . It is the facts not easily found in the numerous books relating to the subject that M. Courbom has unearthed for our information . Where , for example , he asks , are we to learn " about the practice and theory of the art of the engravers , their traditions , the laws and usages which regulated their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corporation of the booksellers , the Academy , the state ? " It is thus the men and their surroundings that he describes . We are told about families of engravers , " ateliers , " apprenticeship , collaboration . The various processes in use are described , the eighteenth century being , indeed , a period of experimental processes . There follows a chapter on the business of print-selling ( carried on particularly in the Rue St. Jacques ) , sales , editions , orders , stocks of prints , advertising , printing , proofs , changed plates , counterfeits . The rOle of the state is considered , and that of the Academy . In a word , all is amusing and interesting reading for the lover and student of prints . A number of illustrations help the narrative . John R. Eyre 's monograph on Leonardo da Vinci 's " Mona Lisa " ( Scribner ; $2 net ) is an ingenious plea for the authenticity of the " Isle-worth Mona Lisa . " By a rather tenuous web of circumstantial evidence , it is maintained that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the famous Louvre example , finished in Leonardo 's later years ; the other , the Isleworth copy , left unfinished . The fact that Raphael 's sketch after the Mona Lisa agrees in many respects with the Isleworth version lends a certain color to the hypothesis . On the other hand , Raphael 's drawing seems a loose sketch from memory , and no confidence can be set on its general proportions and details , as precisely representing original features of a composition by Leonardo . We have recently examined the Isle-worth Mona Lisa , which was loaned to the Boston Museum of Fine Arts , and it would surprise us if this cold and smooth work , with its Poussinesque tree and landscape , were a product of the sixteenth century . It seems merely one of the more attractive copies made in the century after Leonardo 's death . Like other copies which come from France , the fantastic background has been toned down to a sort of academic decency . Mr. Eyre 's monograph is well printed and sufficiently illustrated .       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     