@@487074

In the midst of all the alarums and excursions connected with Govelliment suits and with the outgivings of Mr. Roosevelt , one notes a certain embarrassment on the point of those who insist upon having all public men accurately labelled and carefully pigeon-holed . A is " dangerous , " B is " safe , " C is a radical , D a conservative , E is an anarchist . This sort of ready-made and hard-and-fast classification has been so high in favor that it is not surprising to find some confusion among those who are suddenly obliged to give up their conveniently fixed definitions . They had , for example , rightly set down President Taft as a conservative . He is such by inheritance , temperament , and choice . Yet he has been doing what most people look upon as very radical things On the other hand , Wall Street woke up on Friday to the discovery that the alarmingly radical Col. Roosevelt had turned conservative over-night . That at least was the first hurried in- ference which the stock market drew when it saw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ensconced in bed alongside Judge Gary . We fancy that further study of the Outlook article has shown interested financiers that advancing years are not as yet making a crusted Tory of the Colonel . But the whole incident suggests the need of More discrimination in all such judgments of men and their attitude . In the purely personal aspect , it seems to be easier for a conservative to get the reputation of a radical than the reverse process . It is probably true that nothing which Mr. Roosevelt could now do or say would suffice to change the popular conviction respecting his essential radicalism . His wonderful feat of 1904 in driving Wall Street and the Western extremists tandem , it is not to be presumed that he could repeat . On the oth er hand , thousands of people are ready to believe that Mr. Taft has in the Presidency completely changed his character . The Government prosecutions which he has ordered , the speeches which he has made , are said to have disillusioned many . They sorrowfully shake their heads and say : " Of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could have dreamed it of Taft . " That is , however , no real reason for thinking that the President has changed his point of view in any important particular . At bottom , he is just as conservative as he ever was . He has merely ceased to appear so to some , and they hastily read realities in appearances . On the political side , it is doubtless easier to get radical things done quietly by a conservative , but let him not hope to reap the advantage from it that would fall to a successful radical . The former may awaken a certain amount of enthusiasm among the lukewarm , but this will not be so noteworthy or so politically important as the disquietude which he will cause his grieving friends . The great difference lies in the fact that a conservative President can not advertise and glory in his temporary radicalism . He can not use the hot words of popular passion , can not pose and gesticulate in public ; can not inspire the newspaper correspondents to write thrilling accounts of his heroic attitude in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conspiracies to crush the people 's champion . All those things have to be reserved for a radical leader who feels the impulse of the masses behind him , and who thinks of himself as at the head of a flaming movement . The conservative may do the same things , or similar , but he can not carry them off in the same explosive manner , and must not expect to fire the popular heart in any such degree . Lord Salisbury , as Conservative leader , permitted an extension of the suffrage in England , and also land legislation in Ireland , which made many members of his own party aghast at his radicalism , ? et he never deceived himself into thinking that his course would cause the working classes to warm to him or to desire to give him their votes . Turning from leaders to political organizations , it surely does seem at times as if the best way to procure radical measures were to obtain them from conservative parties . It is this feeling which has led so many Irishmen , like Sir Charles Russell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Ireland in the end by the Tories who have fought it , rather than by the Liberals who have favored it . Under Liberal auspices Home Rule will always be pictured as the disruption of the British Empire ; but if the Conservatives were finally forced to grant it , they could be depended upon to argue that it was a healing measure designed to consolidate and strengthen true Imperial sentiment . In the same way , there are still free-traders among Republicans who insist that it is to their party that the country must look for a rational and permanent settlement of the tariff question . This may look like believing a thing because it is impossible , yet there is a truth underlying it  --  namely , that a nation will submit to radical action by a conservative Administration , which it would angrily resist if undertaken by radical authorities . It often appears as if the true function of a radical party were to stir up mighty agitations and generate political forces that would lead to the doing by its opponents of what it had itself vainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in classifying and judging men as either entirely conservative or wholly radical , was hinted at by Pascal . When a statement by M. Arnauld was quoted to his Monsieur Distinguo , that astute theologian replied : " This proposition would be orthodox in another mouth ; it is only in M. Arnauld that the Sorbonne has condemned it . " Thus it ? is that what was radical in Bryan became conservative in " another mouth . " GENERAL LAWS . It is evident that a- deluge of bills amending or repealing the Sherman law will mark the opening of Congress . Any Congressman who does not introduce one or two will be thought a lazy fellow . Indeed , some Representatives have not been able to restrain their impatience to get to work and have given to the newspapers copies of the bills which they are straining at the leash to present on December 4 . There will be all sorts of measures , radical , conservative , and wishy-washy ; but we are very confident that , after all of them have been printed and referred to committees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Sherman law in one vital particular . We mean its wide scope and careful use of legal terms . Senator Edmunds , who was the author of the final form of the Anti-Trust act , wrote of it only last year . " The act was not intended to be an administrative act in any sense , but it was intended to provide , in broad and all-embracing language , for the prevention and punishment of restraint of trade . " This quality of breadth in application is one of the highest recommendations of any statute . We do not question the value ? of precise definition in legislation ; and it may well be that the Sherman law could now be amended to advantage by more sharply defining some of the abuses aimed at ; but we can never escape from the truth that the best general laws are those which are truly general . It will not do to proceed upon the theory of a recent New Zealand bill aimed at Chinese laundrymen , whom it sought to bring under a previous statute by declaring that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defined to be a girl under eighteen . " Yet it is precisely that kind of strained interpretation , and wresting of general language so as either to exempt or include particular offences , that a great many of the proposed new enactments against Trusts unconsciously illustrate . Their framers seem to desire to draft a law so that it will miss a cow , but kill a bear . If we could , for example , look into the minds of some of the extremists from the South who are particularly busy devising amendments of the Sherman law , or substitutes for it , we should find their real wish would be to make the act read something like this : " Every combination in restraint of trade is hereby defined to mean J. P. Morgan , Thomas Ryan , Philip Armour , and John D. Rockefeller , and it shall never be held to apply to Governors of Southern States meeting to devise ways of raising the price of cotton . " - Even when there is no such attempt to put private glosses upon a public law , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in law is often met with . Thus the president of the University of Wisconsin , in an address at Cambridge last week , proposed as the test of lawlessness in great combinations that they do " not result in economic advantage . " In a formal way , as if framing a law , President Van Rise set forth that " when a combination . . . is found to have marked economic advantage , it should not be broken up . " One can but dimly imagine the confusion and endless law-suits which would result if any- such phrase were actually written into a statute . The conception of " economic advantage " is one that is not only hedged about with great difficulties in itself , but is not a legal conception at all . To introduce anything of the kind into an act of Congress would only mix things up Aiming at precision , it would really launch us into new vagueness , and would - seek to establish by law a distinction which there would be no legal way of main-taining ; Another error into which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they can be drafted in such clear and certain form that no suits at law will follow . " Law-suits " are just now under a sudden condemnation Nevertheless , by means of the judicial decisions in cases some of which were begun by President Roosevelt , we have come to a ranch clearer notion of what the Sherman law means and can accomplish , and we have come to it through despised law-suits . Indeed , we shall never entirely avoid them . If the proposal is to give up criminal statutes and their enforcement , and to go over to " regulation " by an administrative body , the act creating such a body will itself be thrown into the courts . Let one recall the immense mass of litigation respecting the powers of the Interstate Commerce Commission . It is impossible to throw all these things out of court . Under our system , the courts exist not only to vindicate the rights of the citizen , but to be the strong arm of the Government in making the law a terror to evil-doers . And when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " as Senator Edmunds said , and interpreted and enforced in a series of judicial decisions , it would be the acme of folly to throw it all away and resort to happy-thought statutes , under which we should have to begin all over again . Fortunately there is no prospect that anything of the kind will be done . MR . BRYCE 'S OPTIMISM . Words of satisfaction and confidence , coming from the lips of an observer like Mr. Bryce , are always pleasant to hear . The man who , of all Europeans since De Tocqueville , has been recognized by common consent as the most intelligent and comprehensive student of American institutions , bids us be of good cheer , because our overcoming of great difficulties in the past gives ample assurance of successful grappling with the troubles and trials now looming big before our vision . And in his speech before the New York Chamber of Commerce , as is his custom , Mr. Bryce did not content himself with a mere oracular dictum , but gave reasons for his faith . Of two evils @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ago , one , he reminds us , has completely disappeared and the other has passed into a far less acute stage . Sec tional antagonism between North and-South , which , for a number of years after 1870 , was a most serious source of national anxiety , has now long been a thing of the past ; and while only too much still survives of corruption and spoliation in city governments  --  witness the Philadelphia of yesterday and the San Francisco of the day before  --  no one can doubt that , as Mr. Bryce said , " in the large majority of cities , and especially and most conspicuously in the City of New York , there has been steady lirogress . " Both of these instances of progress were cited by Mr. Bryce as encouraging evidence of the capacity of the American people to overcome grave national difficulties . But it is well to observe that the two belong to quite different types Nobody regarded the friction between North and South after the war as distinctively American ; everybody counted on the healing effect of time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the problem of municipal corruption and misgovernment . Many persons of high intelligence sincerely believed that the dominance of the Tweed ring in New York was only the most abominable excrescence of a system which was an inevitable accompaniment of democratic institutions in a nation like ours . Nobody , probably , was so hopelessly given over to this view as to believe that no good was accomplished by an uprising like that which destroyed Tweed and Sweeny and Connolly and put an end to the infamies of the Barnard and Cardozo regime in the courts ; but many felt that we could not look beyond tempering a normal regime of municipal rascality through occasional abnormal excesses of virtue . And , indeed , a view not very different from this has been widely current until within a very recent period . The most conclusive proof , perhaps , that we have really made signal progress in the practice of municipal government is afforded by the disappearance , within the past ten or fifteen years , of the notion that our country must be content with a standard which no other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Two other struggles with deep-seated evils have run their course in similarly successful fashion in the period covered by Mr. Bryce 's reminiscences . From the time when the spoils system began its lusty growth , in the days of Andrew Jackson , until after the close of the Civil War , hardly a voice was raised to stay its advance . And far more universally than our peculiarity in municipal government , it was regarded as an inseparable part of the American system . It is needless now to recall the growth of civil service reform from small and despised beginnings to an almost complete conquest in the domain of the national government . What the present generation is more apt to forget is the long and wearing fight against debasement of the currency . The silver craze , which , through a combination of circumstances , became a more formidable menace than any preceding phase of the cheap-money agitation , was but the last manifestation of a danger which had from time to time been serious throughout the thirty years preceding the sound money victory of 1896 . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excesses , the free silver movement was intrinsically vastly more respectable than the greenbackism which it supplanted , and with which the Democratic party at one time became seriously entangled . That we came out safe and sound through this long-threatening danger must ever be a strengthener of faith in democracy and in the saving power of public discussion . But to infer from these things , as the British Ambassador did , in his graceful way , both for his nation and our own , that we English-speaking peoples are over-modest in the estimate of our own Powers , is to draw a dangerous conclusion . Because forebodings that we have entertained from time to time have not been realized in actual disaster , it does not follow that the fears were baseless . If in some sense there has been among us on both sides of the water this over-modesty that Mr. Bryce speaks of , it has gone hand in hand with a complacent confidence that we shall " muddle through " in the end , which in England at least has become proverbial . And if we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this more or less satisfactory outcome has been due to the very fact that the nation has contained an adequate minority of persons possessed with a sober fear that the process may not always avail to save us ? It is by no means certain for example  --  on the contrary , it is in ' the highest degree ' improbable  --  that any part of the effort expended upon the fighting of the fiat money peril could have been spared . The danger was not only real , but so extensive and so deeply imbedded in the habits of thought of a large portion of our people that nothing short of extreme vigor and vigilance could have availed for its extinction . Dangers no less real confront us to-day , and a spirit no less sober and determined is necessary , to meet them . But , of course , Mr. Bryce , while appropriately presenting in an after-dinner speech the sunny side of the case , would be the last to deny the need of constant and aggressive vigilance to protect a vast and complex democracy like ours from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the nature of things , it is perennially menaced . JOHN BRIGHT . In contemplating the career of John Bright , the one hundredth anniversary of whose birth was celebrated last week , perhaps our first thought is of the remarkable influence exerted by a few great personalities in the memorable events in which he was a leader . There is nothing in our own time which quite corresponds to the part played either by Bright or by his two illustrious corn-peers , Cobden and Gladstone , in those decades of political and social progress which were ushered in by the passage of the Reform Bill of 1832 . But especially is this true of Bright himself . For it was not through any expectation of his future rele . in shaping governmental policies that John Bright exercised over the people of England an influence rarely matched in the history of politics . His hold was due solely to the fervor of his convictions and the capacity to present them in oratory , impassioned and restrained , *hose sincerity was as unmistakable as its eloquence . " He was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " that this generation ? I may say , several generations  --  has seen . . . . At a time when much speaking has depressed , has almost exterminated eloquence , he maintained that robust , powerful , and vigorous style in which he gave fitting expression to the burning and noble thoughts he desired to utter . " The causes in which these noble powers were enlisted from the beginning , and to which , with a rare and perfect constancy , they were devoted to the end , are easily named . Freedom of trade , freedom and equality in religion , the extension of democracy and of popular education , and , last but not least , peace among the nations  --  these were the objects which he served without variation or shadow of turning . That he was an ardent foe of human slavery , and consequently one of that small but illustrious group of great Englishmen who stood out as friends of the Union in the days of its trial by fire , no American need be reminded . But indeed , instead of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quite as correct to say that one cause furnished the motive and the inspiration of all his efforts . In his mind the fight for free trade , the spread of democracy and education , the pursuit of peace , were all but parts of one and the same endeavor to procure the benefits of civilization for the struggling masses of mankind . The Corn Laws were to him not chiefly offences against economic doctrine , but violations of the rights of the poor workingman for the benefit of the landholding aristocracy . And thus it was that , without artificiality or bathos , he was able to give to a speech on the abolition of protectionist duties something of the same moving quality that marked his ' wonderful speech of February 23 , 1855 , appealing to Lord Palmerston to bring the Crimean War to a close . The course of events since the days of Bright and Cobden has brought out in a signal manner that connection between the struggle for free trade and the aspiration for international peace which was pointed to in the Cobden Club 's motto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations . " Whatever benefits may be claimed by protectionists for that reaction against free trade , on the Continent and especially in Germany , which has so disappointed the sanguine hopes of half a century ago , there is one thing that stands out conspicuous and undeniable on the adverse side of the account . That tension between the modern European nations of which the suspicious jealousy and armed rivalry between England and Germany mark the culminating point could not possibly have arisen had the principles of free trade accomplished the triumphal march through the civilized world which Cobden and his followers so confidently expected . Whatever other factors may have helped to foster Anglo-German unfriendliness , no one can doubt that the fears and hostilities connected with that view of trade which regards the gain of one nation as the loss of another have been the preponderating element . And among the injuries that have been wrought by the surrendering of our own country to the spirit of protectionism , over and above the economic burdens and the political corruptions for which it is responsible here at home , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the protectionist spirit in Europe , with its consequences in the shape of multiplied Dreadnoughts and of international ill-will . One of the cheap defences of latter . day protectionism has consisted in the application to the Victorian free-traders of opprobrious epithets , suggesting their domination by a narrow and calculating commercialism . The name " Manchester School " hits become , in the mouths of many , a convenient term of reproach and contempt , connoting littleness of soul , a sordid absorption in the immediate profits of the factory or the counting-house . No better corrective of such a notion could be found than a reference to the life of John Bright . Sturdy practical Englishman that he was , never losing sight of the concrete realities of his time and country , he was at bottom animated in his championship of free trade by a profound and even tender sentiment . The story of his ideal friendship with Cobden might show this sufficiently , even if we did not have the record of the touching incident that marked a crucial moment in its history and in Bright @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when he was in the depths of grief and despair upon the death of his young wife , Cobden came to see him , and after speaking some words of condolence , looked up and Said , " There are thousands of homes in England at this moment where wives , mothers , and children are dying of hunger . Now , when the first paroxysm of your grief is past , I would advise you to come with me and we will never rebt till the Corn Laws are repealed . " " And from that time , " adds Bright , who tells the story himself , " we never ceased to labor hard on behalf of the resolution which we had made . " Perhaps there was , in the spirit that animated these two crusaders for free trade , quite as much breadth , and quite as much humanity , as in that of the most ambitious dreamer of empire founded on to me to live among my own works ? I know them far too well ; they bore me . ' It would be easy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many stories of Wordsworth 's unaffected delight in re-reading his own poems . Tennyson had a weakness for reciting " Maud . " As to the particular point of an author 's anxiety about the precise literary form in which his works shall reach future generations , it seems to be a case of many men and many minds . The slow producers , the men of the labored line and the carefully sought phrase , like Flaubert , naturally are fastidious to the last degree in seeing to it that posterity shall get their final version . This is with some the last infirmity of noble minds . Copious writers are apt to be less careful . The sublime indifference of Shakespeare to what became of his plays has lately seen dwelt upon again by M. Jusserand as one of the wonders in connection with that wonder-worker . On the other hand , we have Henry James , both prolific and an artist in words , who assiduously looked after a revised re-issue of his books . In that edition he did a good deal of what , in one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lights " in an author 's proof , but what the ungodly would describe as one more illustration of the method of obscurant per obscurius . It is not only the readers among posterity , if he is lucky enough to have any , that an author 's course in this matter may affect , but the collectors . If there are to be no variants , no revisions , What becomes of the joy of owning that rare first edition with the misprints in. it , or the youthful indiscretions which the writer would have fain recalled or expunged later ? John Hay would not reprint " Little Breeches , " yet he could not escape it during all his life-time . It pursued him to England , when he went there as Ambassador , and the line about " loafing round the throne " it was thought a capital joke to cite about him . In such a case we see the egotism of the author in reverse , as it were , and taking on the guise of mortification . In the common opinion , one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's concern about the public reception of his book , its critical reviews , its sales , what people say about it , how the publisher is satisfied , and so on . But this , when it exists  --  no doubt it often does exist  --  is modified by circumstances which the outsider is not always in a position to appreciate There is , for instance , the lapse of time which must come between the completion of the manuscript , or even the reading of the proof , and the actual publication of the book . During that period the author 's interest may have passed entirely to another theme . When one book is published he may be half way through the writing of another Imagine the uncertainty which would arise in the mind - of Arnold Bennett if anybody congratulated him on his latest novel ! It might be the third or fourth back from his really latest . And we presume that he and most other successful writers are more indifferent to felicitations by friends , and praise or blame by critics , than most of us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ really fine thing , he does not need outside voices to tell him so . As M. Bergson has explained , it is only when we are doubtful about our success that we look eagerly about for recognition and encouragement . And if self-assurance of the writer as respects his own work is a form of egotism , it may at least be of the silent and inoffensive kind . After Carlyle had finisned his " French Revolution , " he muttered to himself as he passed the crowds in the park , " There is n't one of you that could have done it . " But he left it for Froude to reveal that scornful vanity to us after his death . NEWS FOR BIBLIOPHILES . The Burning Bush is usually identified with the Thorn Acacia . The Hebrew word in the Pentateuch is Sena , which is allied to the Coptic Sheaf ) The word is found in papyri of the Nineteenth Dynasty . At least one author has a different theory , and , if he were living , might contend that his own hypothesis was entitled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the enthusiastic foragers in old libraries and old bookshops who have never heard of the name of Francis Hoffman , and of those who remember him at all the majority would think of him only as the heroic spirit who put Bunyan 's " Pilgrim 's Progress " into rhyme . But he wrote other pamphlets , and one of these now lies before me , an octavo tract of sixteen pages , showing increasing grayness , wrought by nearly two centuries of unread existence :                     