@@466533

nine o'clock in the latter evenings of January the brilliant star Capella may be seen lying a little north of the zenith . ? Capella is the fifth star in brillancy in the heavens . The fact that its proper motion " ? that is , the distance it can be seen to move through the heavens in a century ? is over forty seconds of the arc , indicates that it must be among the nearer stars . Up to 1885 the position , the degree of brilliancy , and the proper motion were all that the astronomers of all the ages had been able to discover about Capella . Then the world got into spectroscopic communication with the star . During the following thirty years , although Capella was found to be over one hundred and sixty trillion miles away , it was proved to be made of exactly the same elements as the sun and to have a companion star of somewhat simpler composition . Though the companion can never be seen with the telescope , the masses of these two stars were found to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and it is certain that the larger of them has not more than ten times the sun 's mass . They revolve about a common center in nearly circular orbits in 104.22 days , and they are approaching the solar system at the rate of eighteen miles a second . All these things the spectroscope has taught us about Capella by analyzing and interpreting the one thing that comes to us from the star ? its light . The operation of the spectroscope is easily understood by analogy . You listen to a well-balanced quartette of singers ; their song comes to the ear as a i complex whole , in which individual parts are so blended as to seem lost , yet ? four distinct sounds of different pitches are there , and they could he separately distinguished by suitable apparatus . Even if the singers themselves were bidden , much could be discovered about them from the sounds of their voices alone . Light is a complex thing also , far more complex than sound , and the spectroscope is merely a device for separating its component parts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vibrations of different wave-lengths , so the blue , green , red , and other spectrum colors found in the rainbow are due to ether vibrations of different wave-lengths . The average sound-wave , as represented by middle C of the keyboard , has a wave-Length of about four feet . The average light-wave , as represented by green rays , has a wave-length of about one fifty-thousandth of an inch . The spectroscope is an adaptation of the familiar prism which separates sunlight into the colors of the rainbow . The light is thrown upon the prism through a narrow slit , and if it comes from an incandescent solid , or liquid , or a dense incandescent gas , it consists of light-waves of every conceivable length . The prism sorts out these waves , throwing the longest , or red , rays to one side , the orange , yellow , green , blue , and indigo in between , and the violet waves , which are the shortest , to the other side , making a rainbow band of color , which is called a continuous spectrum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prism is from a gas at moderate or low pressure , as it is , for example , in the green light of the Cooper-Hewitt mercury glow-lamps , it is composed of isolated wave-lengths only , and when separated by the prism gives one or more monochromatic images of the narrow slit through which it is admitted . These isolated images lie in the different colors ? a red line if the wave-length is long , a violet line if it is short , a green line if the light is of the average wave-length ? one fifty-thousandth of an inch . Each volatilized substance gives out light of characteristic wave-lengths by which it may be recognized , as each note on the keyboard gives out sound-waves of a characteristic length . The spectrum lines of a substance are its identifying thumb-prints . In nearly all spectroscopy- of the heavenly bodies the light to be examined is so faint that it must first be collected by a telescope . The bigger the glass of the telescope the more light it can collect . Hence the principal advantage of a great telescope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supposed , for bringing the celestial body relatively very close by enormous magnification . Spectroscopists sometimes expose a spectrum photograph for a whole night . The same star could be observed in a couple of hours with a telescope of five times the light-gathering power . On Mt . Wilson there will soon be available a telescope whose light-gathering surface is more than fifty square feet . The light gathered by the telescope is divided by the spectroscope according to wave-lengths and then photographed . To fix our ideas of what spectrum photographs are Iike , consider Fig. 1 , which shows the spectra of nine different stars chosen to illustrate how one star differeth from another in glory . Each of these spectra shows two parallel ranges of vertical lines , as if the tics for two projected railway tracks lay side by side . The upper and lower ranges are just alike . They represent the spectrum of iron produced by an electric arc-light playing between iron poles . The iron arc spectrum consists of a series of bright lines separated by nearly dark spaces . In the actual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from indigo-blue to a light , greenish blue . However many times the spectrum of the iron arc is photographed , it presents these same lines , at the same wave-length places . Thus the iron spectrum is photographed above and below a star spectrum , as a standard of reference . Between the two iron spectra lie the spectra of the different stars . Considerthe spectrum of the star marked G. i Its aspect is the reverse of the iron spectrum dark lines appear on a bright background , showing that the light has passed through an envelope of incandescent gases like that which surrounds the sun . These gases have the power of absorbing the same sort of light-waves which they themselves emit , and they form what is called a " reversing layer . " These dark lines in the spectrum of the star G are far more numerous than the iron comparison lines . But the careful observer will see that every bright iron line has its direct counterpart in the star spectrum . Even the relative importance of ? the bright iron lines is closely imitated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The case does not quite rest here , but who could doubt , even if there was no other evidence , that iron exists in this star ? One is reminded of those ancient fossils in which the prints of raindrops and foot tracks of beasts are plainly shown to us , though they are separated from us by a fathomless gulf of time . Similarly the forbidding obstacle of boundless space is overcome by the spectroscope , and the chemical constitution of the stars is made apparent by a pattern traced in light . But compare the nine stellar spectra shown in Fig. 1 . That marked B con-tains no iron lines , and in fact only a few lines altogether , while that marked K , is crowded with lines of nearly all the known chemical elements . The lines shown in the spectrum of B are only those of helium and of hydrogen . A very large class of stars , containing perhaps even the majority of them all , exhibits a similarly simple spectrum . There are three possible interpretations of this fact . It is uncertain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in these stars of simple spectra a thick , superincumbent layer of hydrogen and helium hides the light from other lower-lying chemical elements ; the second is that these stars do not now contain , and never will contain , the other chemical elements ; the third , that while . these stars do not now contain other elements , yet in another stage of their existence , either very long passed or still very remote in the future , the present existing material was or will be transmuted into other elementary forms . Be this as it may , it is of great interest and value for astronomy to classify the stars with reference to their spectra . There is a perfectly gradual transition from the simple to the complex . The so-called Harvard spectrum classification is generally adopted . The stars are grouped under the gradually progressing types : 0 , B , A , F , G , K , M , N , according to the characteristics of their spectra . Fig. r , which shows typical stellar spectra , has been prepared by Dr. Adams , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the top indicate wave-lengths , and the letters at the top point out the position of three hydrogen lines , especially prominent in the spectra of stars of the A type . The star Sirius is of type A , Procyon of type F , Capella and our sun of type G , Aldebaran of type K , and Antares of type M. Stars of type B are found almost solely in and near the Milky Way , and they are generally immensely distant from the earth as compared with types like that of our sun , which are scattered nearly uniformly over the celestial sphere . All the stars are in rapid motion through space . Our own sun , for instance , moves twelve miles per second . The rates of motion of the stars appear to increase from type to type of the Harvard series . Various bits of evidence have tended to establish the presumption that there is an evolution of stars , and that B stars are young , K and M type stars very old . But these views are not to be regarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the giant and dwarf stars , according to which the group M contains giant stars just formed as well as small stars that have nearly run their course , receives more and more support . Although the chemical elements imprint their signatures on the light of the stars by the positions and intensities of the spectrum lines , there are some very obvious displacements of these lines to be accounted for . For instance , the iron lines of a star may be all on the left of the corresponding ones in the comparison spectrum . This is because the star is in rapid motion toward the sun . Perhaps the reader has observedthat the pitch of the whistle of an approaching locomotive is higher than the pitch of the same whistle after the locomotive has passed and is receding . If the whistle were keyed to middle C , which has a wave-length of about four feet , the locomotive coming rapidly toward us , following fast upon the heels of the sound from the whistle , will crowd the four-foot wave-lengths together by sending out new sound-waves before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the way , making each wave a little less than four feet long and so raising the pitch of the whistle . And when the train is passed and the whistle is receding the opposite thing happens : the source of the sound-waves is moved so rapidly away that each wave has to be stretched before the next one is started , making them a little longer than four feet and lowering the pitch of the whistle below middle C. Christian Doppler called attention to the analogous phenomena for light in 1842 , showing that if a source of light were rapidly approaching the light-waves would be so crowded together as to be shortened and deflected farther toward the violet end of the spectrum , while if the source of light were receding they would be stretched and bend toward the red end of the spectrum . It was forty years before instrumental equipments became sufficiently perfected to take full advantage of Doppler 's principle , but since 1885 more and more observatories have been equipped for this work which lies at the base of many of the principal astronomical investigations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reflected from stars which are approaching the earth is displaced toward the violet , and light from receding stars toward the red . By measuring the displacements of lines in the spectrum the velocity of these motions of approach or recession , called " motions in the line of sight , " can be determined in miles per second . Director Campbell of the Lick Observatory has made spectroscopic investigations of the motions in the " line of sight " of about one-half the stars visible to the naked eve in both northern and southern hemispheres , and similar investigations are now being made of the fainter stars by Dr. W. S. Adams and his colleagues at Mt . Wilson with the sixty-inch reflector . These " line-of-sight " stellar investigatiOns have shown us that the sun moves toward the constellation Hercules at the rate of twelve miles a second ; that all the other stars have similar motions , each of its own velocity and direction . These so-called " peculiar motions " range from one to three hundred miles a second for different stars , but average nearly the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advancing spectral types from 0 and B , to K and M. The ' line of sight " investigations have shown us also that about one-quarter of the stars are binary or multiple systems . Sometimes , indeed , the spectrum of a hinary star shows itself to he a composite of two , but this only happens when the two component stars arc of nearly equal brightness . The newest triumph of the spectroscope is Dr. Adams 's discovery of an easy way to measure the distances of the stars . Heretofore our knowledge of individual star distances depended on triangulation . In July the earth is opposite to its orbital position of January . This immense change of position , 186,000,000 miles , produces a slight shift Voi .. CXXXIII. ? No. 757. - 84of the apparent position of the nearer stars against the background of the more distant ones . But even the nearest stars are so tremendously remote that this shift is extremely small , and the tedious and difficult measurements of many astronomers have thus far only given us the distances of a few hundred stars . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each night of observation , and , what is of more extraordinary value , it is applicable to stars of extremely great distance , for which the method of triangulation utterly fails . This method of measuring star distances by the aid of the spectroscope is based on the fact that the brightness of each star decreases as the square of its increases . ncreases . A star may look bright to us either because of the unusually great amount of light it gives out , or because it is relatively near the earth . if all the stars were equally distant from the earth they would exhibit their absolute range of brightness , which may be quite different from their apparent brightness . The apparent brightness of a star is its absolute brightness modified by its distance from the earth . Dr. Adams found that in stars of types not too dissimilar to the sun , certain spectrum lines vary in importance with the absolute brightness . So close is this relation that if the astronomer knows the absolute brightness of a star he can predict the peculiarities of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the purpose , when he sees the peculiarities of the spectrum lines , he can tell what . the absolute brightness will be . If , therefore , we know the apparent brightness of the star and the " absolute brightness " as determined by the spectroscope , the difference between them stated in miles instead of in degrees of brightness will represent the distance of the star from the earth . This correlation Dr. Adams expressed by a numerical formula , which he tested on all the stars whose distances were accurately known by triangulation , and found it well substantiated . Therefore , he is now able to state the absolutebrightness for every star whose observed spectrum contains the sensitive lines . This method is applicable to all stars whose spectrum type lies between F and M , and whose light is sufficiently bright for producing a good spectrum photograph . That is , we can determine the distance of stars whose spectra contain the sensitive lines with high degree of accuracy , no matter how far away they may be from the earth . Thousands of stars , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have their distances determined in this way . But the stars are not the only inhabitants of the heavens ; they are accompanied by great numbers of nebula- . Some of these are faintly visible to the naked eye , but most of them can only be seen through the telescope . In form they range from shapeless , cloudlike masses to beautiful spirals suggestive of the play of nicest mechanisms . Some constellations of stars , notably the Pleiades , are wrapped in a m an tle of the formless nebulosity thought to he the stuff of which stars are made . The seeming star at the base of the blade of the sword of Orion is in reality a great , angry-looking nebula , and not a star at ail . The spectroscope gives a partial indication of the materials composing formless nebuhe , and shows that they are gaseous . Their spectra consist of a few bright lines , some of which apparently do not belong to any of the known chemical elements , though hydrogen is conspicuously shown . Among the spiral nebulx , on the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spectrum . It has long been felt that these spiral forms could only be maintained by motion of revolution about the central condensation . But so immense are all these spirals , and so immensely distant arc they from us , that in the twenty years since they have been accurately photographed not the slightest motion of revolution has been detected telescopically . ' But quite recently it has been announced from Lick Observatory that motion of revolution has been found by means of the spectroscope in several nebulae . This motion was discovered by the same method used by Keeler in i8 to prove the revolution of the rings of Saturn , not as if they were solid appendages , but as if they were made up of innumerable particles , each traveling in its own orbit around the planet . Keeler adjusted the slit of his spectroscope to cut the telescopic image of the rings on a diameter . He found the spectrum lines all distorted at one end , showing displacements toward the red , due to the motion of the particles there 1 just as this goes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's photographs of certain spiral nebula , taken five years apart , give just barely measurable displacements along the arms of the spirals . away from the earth ; there were gradual increasing displacements nearer the surface of the planet , denoting swifter rotation there , and on the other side of the ring displacements to the violet , decreasing from a maximum at the inside of the ring , where the velocity of the particles is greatest . The spectrum of the ball of the planet shows the effect of the gradual change of motion , with respect to earth , from edge to edge . The lines are displaced toward the red on one side , toward the violet on the other , and undisplaced in the center . If the computed velocities at which particles might revolve about Saturn according to Kepler 's law are compared with the actual velocities of rotation ascertained by Keeler , it will be found that the solid planet lags behind the computed velocities of rotation , but the rings follow them at all points . It is a similar displacement of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ red at one side , toward the violet at the other ? that have given proof of the revolution to the astronomers at the Lick Observatory . Something of the chemical composition and motion of even the illusive nebulae the spectroscope has given us . What does it tell us of our near neighbor the sun ? Nearly fifty of the chemical elements found on the earth have solar-spectrum lines . One element , helium , was identified in the solar spectrum more than a quarter of a century before it was discovered on the earth . As helium is known now to be a product of the disintegration of uranium and radium , its presence on the sun leads to the suspicion that radium may be a solar clement , though the spectrum lines of radium have never been observed in sunlight . The elements exist in a gaseous condition on the sun , for otherwise they would not show their spectrum lines . This points at once to a high temperature , and by the aid of the spectroscope we can get some idea of how high it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invented by Langley for use in measuring the intensity of the different parts of the solar spectrum . This instrument is really an electrical thermometer so sensitive that a rise of one-millionth of a degree of temperature is registered by it and measured by the march of a little spot of light on the scale of a sensitive galvanometer . Exposed to the successive colors of the prismatic solar spectrum the bolometer grows warmer and warmer as it moves from beyond the visible violet spectrum limit successively into the violet , blue , green , yellow , and red , and even slightly beyond the end of the red ; then it cools down as it passes to the deeper infrared , far beyond the visible limit of the red spectrum . If , however , the spectrum is formed on a uniform scale of dispersion so that equal spaces along it correspond to equal increments of wavelength , and the readings are corrected for losses in the earth 's atmosphere , we find that the hottest part of the solar spectrum as it would be outside our atmosphere is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eye sees only those of wave-lengths from 0.4.0 to 0.8o microns ? a micron is a twenty-five-thousandth part of an inch ? which correspond to the extreme red and the extreme violet , respectively . When the blacksmith heats his iron , at first it does not glow , for , though the rays are there , they are not visible . Presently dull red appears . If a spectroscope could be employed , one would see the yellow , green , blue , indigo , and violet come out and grow to greater and greater intensities as the iron gets hotter and hotter and becomes at last , as we say , " white hot . " There is a close connection between temperature and the relative intensity of the spectrum colors . Careful studies have given us the mathematical law of it . The wave-length of maximum intensity for the " perfect radiator " is inversely proportional to the temperature . Several other laws connect temperature and radiation . Applied to the solar spectrum the radiation laws show that the sun 's temperature is not less than 6,000 ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The temperature of the electric arc-light , in which carbon , our most refractory element , vaporizes , is only about 3,500 ? centigrade . So far as we can see , therefore , the sun must be entirely gaseous . Slight markings comparable to rice grains arc seen upon the sun , but these are probably merely differences of brightness caused by local differences of temperature , and do not imply , as was formerly believed , cloudiness on the sun . About sixty years ago Carrington 's observations of the sun-spots showed that the sun 's surface rotates faster at its equator than at higher solar latitudes . In recent years the sun 's radiation has been studied closely by the aid of the spectroscope . As the plane of the sun 's equator is not very far from that of the earth 's orbit , one edge of the sun is always coming toward us and the other receding . Hence , if a device is employed for reflecting the light from opposite ends of a diameter of the sun 's image simultaneously into a spectroscope , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relatively owing to this effect of the sun 's rotation . In this way it appears that a complete solar rotation takes longer and longer the nearer the observed region is to the sun 's poles ; that the different chemical elements , owing to the different levels at which they lie , indicate different rates of rotation ; and finally it is probable , though nor yet entirely certain , that the sun 's rate of rotation changes from year to year . It is possible to make spectroscopic observations of the area comprised in . sun-spots , and the lines on these sunspot spectra have been found to differ greatly from those of the ordinary spectrum of the sun . Several compounds , including titanium oxide and calcium hydride , give lines in the sun-spot spectram , but not ordinarily in that of the sun . And various solar lines are strengthened , while others are weakened . All of these differences have been found to indicate lowering of temperature in sun-spots . It is extremely significant that the sun-spot spectrum differs from the ordinary solar spectrum just as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . From this we may safely draw the conclusion that a G-type star , like our sun , would become a K-type star , like Aldebaran , if it were cooled off . There is one step in stellar evolution ! Careful measurements of line displacements have shown that the sun-spots are whirlpools in which the heavier elements , like iron , are rushing upward and outward in spiral whirls , and the lighter ones , like hydrogen , are being sucked downward into the central part of the whirl . The different elements show these motions in different degrees , and St. John has been able thereby to arrange them according to their levels in the sun , as if he had sounded the solar depths and assigned one level to hydrogen , another to magnesium , another to iron , and so on . Pressure also produces marked effects on spectrum lines , displacing some toward the red , others toward the violet . Considerable study of the solar spectrum from this point of view seems to indicate that the spectrum lines are produced where pressures exist . which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own atmosphere . No one doubts , of course , that deeper down in the sun the pressures are higher and indeed enormous . A special form of spectroscope called the spectroheliograph was invented by Hale about 1890 for the purpose of ascertaining the distribution on the sun of special gases like hydrogen or calcium . It depends on the fact that within a simple spectrum line a single solar gas is preponderatingly effective . The instrument , therefore , is essentially a screen which enables us to study the sun in the light of a single spectrum line and so to map out the distribution of a single gas on the sun 's surface . Fig. z is a direct solar photograph taken at-Mt . Wilson July 3o , 1906 , and shows the earth 's size as compared with the sun-spots . Fig. 3 is a spectroheliogramtaken on the same day through a spectrum line , which shows only the calcium gas on the sun 's surface . Fig. 4 shows in marvelous detail how the hydrogen gas on the sun 's surface is disturbed and heaped about in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sun 's edge . Studies such as these of the sun have immediate application to the stars , for the sun is but a star so near us that we can examine some details which are hopelessly beyond investigation in the other heavenly bodies . It is through the spectroscope that we are able to imagine what may prove to be the life history of the stars . Through it we discover that the formless , gaseous , unrevulving nebuLe contain elements which have never been discovered on the earth ? possibly remnants of the stuff of which the stars are made . We see other great nebulous spirals of more familiar gases showing the first faint tendency to swing upon some still unstable axis . At immense distances , far out on the edge of the Milky Way , young stars are launching themselves slowly into the heavenly procession ; and scattered uniformly through the universe stars in their prime , like our sun , with their dependent systems , whirl swiftly by . In these the gases have assumed temperatures we can measure , the elements have taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the heavens can be measured and charted . the rich cipher message of their spectra is clearly to be read by those who know the code . And faster still come stars that have passed their zenith , cooler stars like Aldebaran ? which forecasts what our sun will he when sun-spots shall have completely dimmed its face ? and still older stars like Antares , whose spectra have lost the lines by which we measure distance , but which still rush on in an increasing fury of speed . There are derelicts among them , dead suns , perhaps , trailing dead worlds , but these the spectroscope only registers by the swing they give to living spheres . From birth to death we can watch the stars , for the spectroscope has opened the windows of heaven and we are learning to look through them at the universe as it is. 