@@465927

IF you take a lump of dry salt between your thumb and fingers , you may readily reduce it to an impalpable powder . If you were to dust some of the almost invisible grains of this powder upon a glass slide and examine them through a microscope , you would find that the smallest of the dust-like particles now seems rather like a rough and jagged piece of rock than like the infinitesimal thing that it appeared to the naked eye . It is easy to believe that this fragment of matter is built up of smaller particles , and is nowhere near the limits of divisibility . If now you put a few drops of water on the slide , you will see the rock-like particle of salt fade away and dissolve into nothingness . It has become absolutely invisible . If the microscope you are using is a powerful one , this means that there remains no particle of the salt of the size of one-hundred-thousandth of an inch . In point of fact , the portion of salt has now been separated into molecules @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together to form the smallest visible particle of matter . These molecules are moving about freely in the solution among the molecules of water . Individually they are so small that they do not obstruct the light-waves ; hence the transparency of the solution of which they now form a part . But if you were to thrust a platinum wire into the solution and then hold the wire in the flame of a Bunsen gasburner. the flame will instantly take on a peculiar green color which proves to the discerning eye that the particles of salt have been rendered luminous . If this green flame is examined through a spectroscope , the rays of light coming from it will be observed to be split up into a characteristic series of lines . This particular series of spectral Tines would not appear in light emanating from anything but sodium . No other substance in The world can duplicate that record . The same series of lines might appear in the light coming from the sun or from a star ; but they would prove the presence of sodium at the source @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which any chemist in the world can read ; and the signature of the spectrum can not be forged or duplicated . What is true of sodium is true of every other element . Each has a sign manual which it writes as a series of lines in the spectrum . The chemical test thus afforded is exquisitely delicate . There may be but the smallest trace of a given substance present , as in the case of our infinitesimal droplet of salt solution , but the telltale lines of the spectrum will record the trace of this individual substance , even in the midst of in any other substances . If while examining our sodium flame through the spectroscope we were to hold the flame between the poles of a powerful electro-magnet , we should observe that the sodium lines which before appeared single are now split in two and separated . This phenomenon is called the Zeeman effect , in honor of its discoverer , Professor Peter Zeeman , of Amsterdam . It is a phenomenon of vast importance from the physicist 's standpoint , inasmuch as it gives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the character of light . This phenomenon of the splitting-up of spectral lines has been observed by Professor George E. Hale , Director of the Mount Wilson Observatory , in connection with the light emanating from spots on the surface of the sun . The observation shows that sun - spots are powerful magnetic fields . Thus the sunspot gives a demonstration on a magnificent scale of physical laws that may be tested , changed only in degree and not in kind , in the laboratory . Incidentally , Professor Hale 's observation explains the relation that had previously been observed between outbursts of sunspots ? which are in reality gigantic volcanoes of gaseous matter ? and the phenomena of terrestrial magnetism . A further interest attaches to the Zeeman effect ( whether . manifested in the laboratory or in the sun ) from the fact that it demonstrates the close relationship between magnetism and light . In ? Professor Zeeman 's words , it shows that light is an electrical phenomenon . Meantime our experiment with the sodium flame demonstrated , obviously enough , a close relation between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of light itself . A single experiment thus suffices to show curious and interesting relationships between the ultimate particles of matter and those manifestations of energy which we term light , electricity , and magnetism . Meantime it is matter of everyday observation that there is ordinarily the closest relationship between light and that other manifestation of energy termed heat . It is no matter for great surprise , then , to be told that the different portions of the spectrum into which a beam of light is spread out show different degrees of temperature when tested by an apparatus of sufficient delicacy . It appears , in point of fact , that the dark lines in the spectrum are also areas of relative coolness , and that the spectrum may he charted by moving a sufficiently delicate heatmeasurer along it . The instrument with which this feat of measuring infinitesimal gradations of temperature is accomplished is known as a bolometer , and was invented by the late Professor Langley , of the Smithsonian Institution . The principle on which the bolometer is constructed demonstrates that any change of temperature in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conductor of electricity . By using an excessively tenuous , flattened thread of platinum for his conductor , and an exquisitely sensitive galvanometer to register the effects . Langley produced an instrument which will respond to changes of temperature so slight in degree that no one could reasonably have supposed them measurable . Indeed , the feats accomplished by the little instrument are as incredible , not to say fantastic , as the feats of the spectroscope itself . A generation ago instruments for physical research had attained a high stage of development ; but to measure a change of temperature of one-thousandth of a degree was considered a remarkable feat . The layman will be disposed to admit that it is a remarkable feat . But the perfected Langley kilometer measures a change of one-hundredmillionth of a degree . It is competent to deal with the infinitesimal quantities of heat that come to us from such bodies as the moon and the brighter stars . As a practical apparatus the bolometer 's chief use has been to test the precise quantities of heat that come to us from the sun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since his death Professor C. G. Abbott has conducted an elaborate series of experiments , chiefly at the solar observatory at Mount Wilson , to determine the " solar constant . " Knowledge thus gained will perhaps ultimately be available in predicting weather conditions here on the earth as influenced by sun-spots or other solar phenomena . But aside from these practical results , very great interest attaches to the work clone with the bolometer , in that it enables the observer to detect and measure the presence of waves of energy beyond the visible spectrum . Indeed , it appears that the chief concentration of heat-rays occurs in the dark region below the deepest red . Langley was able with the holometer to chart this infra-red region of invisible light , if the term he permitted . He not only tested its gradations of heat , but showed that it is crossed by hundreds of characteristic cool bands comparable to the dark lines of the visible spectrum . Meantime it had been discovered that the rays of light that chiefly affect the photographic plate are those toward the violet end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the utmost visible portion of the violet . It had long been known that the color red represents relatively long light-waves , whereas violet represents short waves . It now became obvious that the eye detects only a small part of the series of ethereal vibrations , and that all radiant energy given off by a luminous body includes a long series of waves on either side of the visible spectrum , each series having its peculiar and characteristic effects . This dissection of the ray of radiant energy was made , as we have seen , with the aid of the spectroscope . It is obvious , however , that an ordinary beam of light , before it is split up by a prism , must contain the entire series of waves of energy ? heat - waves , light - waves , and ultra-violet waves ? blended and intermingled . We have just seen that different portions of these waves may he tested by the thermometer ( or by its more delicate counterpart , the bolometer ) , by the eye with or without . the aid of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a joint effect of the waves of radiant energy which may be interpreted in terms neither of heat , light , nor photographic effect , but in terms of physical pressure . The exquisitely delicate instrument which measures this effect is called the radiometer . It was devised by two American physicists , Professors E. F. Nichols and G. P. Hull , and it is in effect a more delicate modification of an apparatus first made by the English physicist Sir William Crookes . The little instrument demonstrates that the waves in the ether which are interpreted as heat or light or electro-magnetism , and which are rushing through space at the speed of 186,000 miles per second , wash against any ? object that lies in their path with an actual pressure ? manifesting themselves as a positive push , in addition to their other effects . This is quite what one might expect , perhaps , were it not that the ether is so exceedingly intangible an entity  --  one dare not say substance . Clerk-Maxwell , the most famous student of the ether , did indeed declare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place . But between theory and demonstration there may be a wide gap , and it remained for the experiments of Professor Lebedew in Europe and of Professors Nichols and Hull in America , undertaken simultaneously but quite independently , to place the matter beyond dispute . Now we know that every ray of sunlight gives a positive push to any material substance it reaches , and that a similar push accompanies all other radiations . And as every body not at the absolute zero of temperature ? a degree of cold never yet attained in a terrestrial laboratory , and obtaining , if anywhere , only in the depths of stellar space ? is giving off radiations , it follows that all bodies are pushing and tending to repel all other bodies that their radiations can reach . Time instrument that has demonstrated the existence of this hitherto only vaguely suspected force consists of two disks I of thin glass ( one disk blackened , the other polished ) , suspended by a mica thread in a vacuum . When waves of radiant energy impinge on this delicate apparatus they disturb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whereas the bright disk reflects them . So wonderfully delicate is the adjustment that a candle placed more than one-third of a mile away turns the vanes of the instrument through nearly one hundred scale-divisions . As onetenth of a single division can be readily detected , it will be seen that a candle at this distance by no means puts the implement to its fullest test . It is estimated that , were there no atmospheric obstruction , the candle could be detected at a distance of sixteen miles . The face of an observer can be detected at a distance of several miles ; at two thousand feet it turns the vanes through twenty-five scale-divisions . So every human countenance glows as a beacon light , signaling out for miles in every direction only one must be equipped with a radiometer if one would note or heed the signals . Directed toward the sky , the radiometer proves adequate to the task of registering the radiant energy of the larger stars and planets . The experiments of Professor Nichols have sufficed to show that the radiation push of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ luminosity . Thus it was found that the planet Saturn has only about threefourths the thermal effect of the star Vega ; the star Arcturus produces three times the effect of Saturn ; the planet Jupiter more than six times as much ? relations quite different from the relative brightness to the eye of these various bodies . Doubtless in time extended observaflans will teach us important lessons about the nature of the various stars , Rutherford , now of Manchester University . The essential phenomenon of radioactivity consists in the giving off of rays capable of affecting the photographic plate and of penetrating opaque substances . The radiation comprises at least three different b pes of rays , which have been named alpha , beta , and gamma rays . It is now known that the alpha rays consist of relatively heavy particles which are in reality atoms of helium , each carrying a double charge of positive electricity . The beta ray is identical with the cathode ray , which develops when electricity is passed through a Crookes or vacuum tube . The gamma ray is identical with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the walls of the glass receptacle . It is due to the impingement of beta rays on the particles of the radioactive substance itself , and it probably constitutes a pulsation in the ether of a kind analogous to the waves of Light and electro-magnetism . But its precise nature is not very clearly understood . The alpha ray has been studied with great care , and it has given up one secret after another . That the alpha particle is an atom of helium is a startling fact . For helium is an e7ernent , hitherto known as an inert constituent of the atmosphere . And to suppose that one element can be transformed into another is to suggest a restoration of the obsolete heresy of the alchemist . Nevertheless the demonstration is complete that the alpha ray does consist of helium atoms , and that it is precisely the same whether it emanates from thorium , from radium. or from any other known radioactive substance ? however the fact may be explained . Of the many theoretical and practical considerations that attend the subject , none perhaps has a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to isolate an individual atom and actually to test its size . The apparatus through which this seemingly miraculous feat has been accomplished is known as the electroscope . It is an instrument which constantly serves the student of radioactivity . Even as compared with the spectroscope and bolometer and radiometer , it is an tipparatus of extraordinary delicacy . The spectroscope , as we have seen , reveals infinitesimal traces of a substance ; it can show the presence of the minutest quantity of a gas in a tube that , in ordinary parlance , would be said to be absolutely empty . But even the best vacuum that the physicist is able to produce contains many millions of gaseous molecules to the cubic inch ; so . after alL.the spectroscope is dealing with a vast swarm of molecules when it performs its most delicate feats . But the electroscope , as just intimated , is capable , under certain circumstances , of detecting the presence of a single atom . The tests that it can apply are estimated to be 500,000 times more delicate than the finest tests of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It consists essentially of two bits of gold-leaf suspended loosely together . If these gold-Icaves are electrified , their mutual repulsion holds them apart . But if the electricity is discharged , they fall together . Tinder ordinary conditions perfectly dry air is a non-conductor of electricity ; therefore a charged electroscope shows its leaves spread apart . If the atmosphere is electrified , or , as the technical phrase is , ionized , it becomes a conductor and permits the electricity to escape . The test which showed the ultimate capacity of the electroscope was made recently by Professor Ernest Rutherford . Ile connected an electroscope with a closed cavity having a small aperture on one side , and near this aperture he placed a surface covered with radium . A certain number of the alpha particles thrown out by the radium could enter the receptacle through the aperture . The radium was placed at such a distance that only three or four particles per minute would be shot through the little window . It was found possible to adjust the electroscope to such a state of delicate re- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discharged it . Thus it was possible to compute the number of alpha particles that arc sent out by a given quantity of radium in a given time . Other experiments conducted by Professor James Dewar , of London . have carefully measured the quantity of helium gas that arises from a given quantity ofradium . It is obvious that the two experiments combined show the number of helium atoms that make up a given quantity of helium gas . Now it has long been known that all gases under equal conditions of temperature and pressure contain the same number of molecules . A molecule may contain one or more atoms , but this also is something that the physicist has long ? been aide to compute . It follows that the physicist is now able , thanks to the test performed by Professor Rutherford with the electroscope , to compute the number of atoms in any gas of known chemical composition . As most solid substances can be reduced to the gaseous condition in known proportions , the number of atoms in a given quantity of any solid may also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bewildering . Professor Rutherford found that a gram of radium gives off thirty-six billion helium atoms per second . A cubic centimeter of helium gas contains atoms to a number represented by this absurd row of figures : **25;180;TOOLONG , - 000 ? which is read , I believe , two sextillion , five hundred and sixty quintillions . The weight of a single atom is the part of a gram represented by a fraction having 1 for the numerator , and for denominator 68 followed by twenty-four ciphers ? carrying the count to octillions . Of course , such figures convey little definite meaning . Perhaps they serve , however , to give at least an inkling of the utterly incomprehensible smallness of an atom . Reflecting , then , that the electroscope is able to detect the presence of a single one of these atoms , we find ourselves in the presence of an instrument the delicacy of whose operation is little less than awe-inspiring . We know that the big telescopes , aided by the photographic plate , reveal stars to the number of at least one hundred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Now it appears that a pinch of salt which one could hold on the point of a penknife is made up of atoms numbering not hundreds of millions merely , but billions of billions . The population of atoms in the smallest particle of matter visible under the microof course you do not see the rifle-ball itself . The effect is precisely similar when the splash of light caused by the alpha particle is viewed . The alpha particle itself is as far beyond the range of vision , even aided by the most powerful microscope , as a ride - ball would be at the distance of several miles . To give a tangible idea of the hopeless invisibility of an atom , we may note that the smallest particle of matter visible under the magnifying influence of the most powerful microscope is of such dimensions that 50,000 such particles placed in line would be required to extend across the space of one centimeter ( about two-fifths of an inch ) . If we calculate the cube of this number , we find that 125 thousand billion such particles could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But Professor Rutherford 's census of the atoms , as just outlined , shows us that twenty billion times that number of helium atoms would exist in the form of gas in the same space . Of course , the molecules of a gas are widely separated . So it follows that the smallest particle of solid matter visible through the most powerful microscope contains many times twenty billion atoms . Very recently Sir Joseph Thomson has discovered yet another method of making individual atoms give visible evidence of their presence . The medium through which the record is transcribed is in this ease the photographic plate . In a word , Professor Thomson literally photographs the atoms . His method of letting the atom transcribe its own record on the sensitive plate is by far the most delicate method yet devised of analyzing the constituents of a gas . The gases to be tested are introduced in exceedingly small quantities into a glass bulb , which is called a vacuum bulb because it is supposed to contain nothing at all . When an electric current is passed through this vacuum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the now familiar phenomena of the cathode ray are manifested ? the cathode ray consisting , as we have seen , of negative particles of electricity . It has now been shown that particles of another type traverse the tube in the opposite direction to that in which the cathode particles are streaming . A perforation being made in the electric cathode , these retrograde particles pass through the aperture and impinge on the glass bulb back of the cathode . Because of the method in which they are tested , these rays have been called " canal rays " by the German physicist Goldstein , who first observed them . Sir Joseph Thomson tested these rays by subjecting them to the simultaneous influence of an electric current and a magnetic field . Electricity deflects them in one direction , and magnetism in another , so that as a result they are diverted from their direct path and assume an elliptical orbit . The record of their divergent flight is instantaneously impressed on a photographic plate . To casual observation the photograph suggests a shower of shooting-stars or tiny comets , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Joseph Thomson has been able to demonstrate that each streak of light represents the flight of a particular type of atom , and that different atoms are deflected in degrees precisely dependent upon their atomic weights . The hydrogen atom , for example , being very light , is deflected more than the helium atom , and this in turn is deflected more than the still heavier atom of oxygen . So here again the individual atoms are made to record their presence . The method has great interest for the chemist because it enables him to detect the presence of quantities of a foreign gas too minute to be indicated by the spectroscope . The rays are registered within less than a millionth of a second after their formation , and Sir Joseph Thomson suggests that when chemical combination or decomposition is occurring in the tube the method may disclose the existence of intermediate forms which have only a transient existence . Already it has been shown that even an elementary gas may consist of a mixture of a great many different substances . In the case of oxygen , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atoms and molecules , ranging from individual neutral atoms of oxygen to molecules composed of six atoms with a positive charge of electricity . Thus the physicist not only photo-graphs the atoms , but records their in-timate transformations and combinations . We have seen that the atoms which thus give up their secrets to the photographic plate are billions of times smaller than the smallest particle of matter that is directly visible under the microscope . It would seem , then , as if this recent feat of Sir Joseph Thomson , together with the spectacular demonstrations of Professor Rutherford , must carry us into the realm of the invisible almost to the limits of imaginable minuteness . But , in point of fact , there remains one other step that the physical investigators of our time have been able to take , which would still further tax credulity were it not certain that the things recorded are the results of definite experimentation and not of mere day-dreaming . The final feat of analysis to which I now refer is that which demonstrates that within the smallest atom there is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a something that is detachable from the atom , and susceptible of being measured as to its mass and tested as to its electric charge with the aid of apparatus actually in use in the laboratory . This ultimate particle of matter is called the electric corpuscle or electron . We owe our knowledge of it chiefly to Sir Joseph Thomson . It is the smallest thing in the world ; and it is probably the basal substance out of which all matter of whatever character is built . Our present view of it must be confined to a brief reference to the manner in which it has been weighed and measured . The electron was first revealed in the cathode ray , which , as we have seen , is generated in a vacuum tube when eketricity passes through it . The cathode ray , as such , consists of a stream of electrons driven off from the negative pole or cathode . The fact that these particles are deflected by an electric current shows that they are tangible substances , and the amount of deflection with a given current @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carry . The electron appears again as the constituent of the so-called beta ray given off by a radioactive substance . Electrons may also be liberated from ordinary matter when any substance is heated to a very high degree , or when rays of ultraviolet light impinge on a metal at ordinary temperature . Yet again , they appear in ordinary gases when a heavy charge of electricity is forced through the gas -- say , a lightning-stroke . They are likewise liberated in a gas subjected to the X-ray or to the so-called gamma ray , of radium . It required a vast deal of experimenting to show that the electrified particles which appear under these diverse circumstances are in reality one and the same thing . The demonstration was made , however , and several means were found of testing the quantity of electricity which the particle carries , and even of counting the particles themselves . The simplest method of counting the particles is by passing the X-ray through a portion of air , and then allowing the air to expand in a receptacle . Expansion cools the air and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miniature dew-drops ? upon the electrons . The particles of water thus formed constitute a fog which begins to settle toward the bottom of the receptacle . The rate at which the particles settle can be determined by direct observation of the upper surface of the fog . Heavy substances , as everybody knows , fall under influence of gravity at a fixed rate , regardless of size or weight . But minute particles , on the other hand , make their way downward through the atmosphere at a rate that varies with their size , in accordance with a law named Stokes 's law , after its discoverer . This direct observation of the rate of settling of the particles of water condensed on the electron gives the size of the particles . Another computation shows the total amount of condensed vapor ; so a simple division gives us the number of the droplets , and hence of the electrons . Then the total charge of electricity carried by all the electrons can readily be measured with the electrometer , and again all that is necessary is to divide this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of electricity which each conveys . The experiment shows that the unit charge of electricity carried by the electron is always the same . Professor It A. Milliken , of the University of Chicago , has recently confirmed this by a series of ingenious experiments , in which he isolates a droplet of oil and observes it through a miniature telescope while it takes up one or more electrons from the air . His experiments permit him not only to measure accurately the electric charge of an electron , but to deduce the number of molecules in any substance , the force of molecular energy , and the weight of the atom . The experiments show , further , that the total mass of the electron is due to its electric charge . Stated otherwise , the electron is not merely a unit particle of electricity ? it is nothing but electricity . It is not matter in the ordinary sense of the word . It is a center of force , a concentration of energy , and may perhaps be thought of as a little whirl in the ether . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be thought of as occupying a definite position in space , and as having what might be called an atomic structure . But the amazing thing is that its mass is found to be about seventeen hundred times smaller than the mass of the hydrogen atom , which had hitherto been the smallest thing of which the imagination of men of science had taken cognizance . We have already reviewed mystifying rows of figures , showing us that the helium atom is trillions of times smaller than the smallest particle - visible under the microscope . Yet we know that this helium atom is four times as large as the atom of hydrogen . And now it appears that the electron is seventeen hundred times smaller still . It taxed the imagination to conceive even in the vaguest way the all but infinite littleness of the helium atom ; yet to build up the structure of one such atom would require almost seven thousand electrons . As regards bulk , the electron is , according to the French physicist Jean Becquerel , billions of billions of times smaller than the atom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electrons in an atom to a swarm of gnats gravitating about in the dome of a cathedral . As we penetrate thus far and farther into the realm of the infinitely little , seeing in imagination the smallest visible particle of matter resolved into myriads of molecules , each molecule into sundry atoms , and each atom into its teeming swarms of eleetrons , the question naturally arises , What lies beyond ? The answer is , that , so far as present-day science knows , the electron is the last term of the series . Since the mind can not grasp the conception of empty space , physicists imagine an all-pervading ether , permeating everywhere between the particles of matter , and serving as the medium of communication whereby energy is transmitted from one particle of matter to another throughout the universe . Light , electricity , magnetism , radiant heat , are various manifestations of energy transmitted , as it is believed , in the form of waves in the ether . This ether , as the physicist conceives it , has neither weight nor discrete substance . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nor matter . Its importance from a human standpoint may he summarized in the statement that but for the ether neither light nor heat would come to us from the sun . When we reflect that the ether is supposed to penetrate everywhere between the particles of matter , and that material substances , so far as experiment goes , move through the ether without being in the remotest degree obstructed , it will be obvious that this all-pervading medium is an ever-present mystery . It has been a puzzle to surmise how the particles of matter could produce waves in a medium which seemed in no wise to obstruct the activities of these particles . But now it appears that the link between the structureless ether and matter , with its atomic structure , is found in the electron . This infinitesimal particle grips the ether somewhat as material substances grip the air , and its activities set up waves in the ether which are as tangible as the waves that radiate out from a pebble dropped into the smooth surface of a pond . The ether-waves set up by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But they move through space at a uniform rate of speed which has been demonstrated to be about 186,000 miles per second . Waves of a certain degree of agitation we interpret as heat ; waves of another order we interpret as light ? red light , or green or yellow or blue or violet , according as the waves are longer or shorten Still shorter waves produce ultra-violet light , which affects the photographic plate , but is invisible to the eye . Waves of yet another order constitute clectro - magnetic currents , such as are used in wireless telegraphy . But , according to the view of presentday physics , no one of these sets of waves would agitate the ether were it not for the activities of the electrons , which , grouped in various fashions , are hurtling hither and thither within the structure of every atom of matter , or are dashing at breakneck speed from one atom to another . Some imaginative physicists think of the electrons as making up planetary systems within the atom , and as circling about with infinite speeds in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of planets and stars of the visible universe . Other physicists caution us against drawing too close analogies between the stellar and atomic systems . But all are agreed that the activities of the electron , whether thought of as orbital or as vibratory , are enormous . Sir Joseph Thomson estimates that an electron once dislodged from its atomic system may dash hither and thither from one atom to another at such speed as to change its location forty million times in a second . Be that as it may , the demonstration seems complete that the activities of the Plectron , and these alone , produce the manifestations of energy which we interpret as light , radiant heat , and electricity . All chemical action is likewise held to be due to the activities of the electron . It is suspected that gravitation is of the same origin . The electron which thus seems to be responsible for all manifestations of energy is regarded by many physicists as the sole constituent of matter . Different kinds of atoms , in this view , differ from one another only in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It seems well within bounds , therefore , to say that this inconceivably minute particle , which is far and away the smallest thing of which present-day science has any knowledge , is at the same time far and away the most important thing in the universe .                     