@@486771

To a rather unusual degree , the Wall Street community has displayed interest in the rearrangement of membership in the firm , announced by J. P. MOrgan &; Co. , whereby George W. Perkins , a partner since 1501 and a leading figure in the spectacular finance of the ensuing decade , retires , and two new partners of highly conservative antecedents are admitted ? W. H. Porter , now president of the Chemical Bank , and T. W. Lamont , vice-president of the First National . The public 's particular ground for interest was undoubtedly the great place which this banking house has filled in American financial history during the decade past . In the financial world , personalities play at times as large a Dale as events ; indeed , when , one reviews the notable chapters in recent Wall Street history , it is not easy to say which is the more important key to the story of the period  --  the influence of personalities on events , or the influence of events on personalities . No doubt the conspicuous individual achievements in the financial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1909 would have been impossible but for the particular underlying conditions in each of the four years . But , on the other hand , it is extremely doubtful if events would have shaped themselves exactly as they did , on any of the four occasions , but for the personal qualities , ideas , methods , and influence of the conspicuous financial leaders . The history of the world 's great banking houses , in this and in former generations , is a fascinating study . But it is apt to be difficult to discover from it just how , large a part , in any given instance , the individuality of partners played . From the beginning of great financial operations , the power and prestige of such a house depended also on the private capitalists with whom it coald surround itself . Sometimes , membership of that surrounding group has been the focus of public interest , rather than membership of the banking house which acted for it . But , on the other hand , there are numerous instances where the leadership of the banking house itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to obscure completely the individuality of outside capitalists numbered in its following . The familiar episode of Mayer Anselm Rothschild 's getting his start in high finance through safeguarding the Elector of Hesse-Cassel 's fortune after Jena , and returning it with interest nine years later , in the Waterloo year , was an individual achievement . But the great place which his five sons acquired in European national finance resulted much more obviously from their power of massing the financial resources of their race . Nobody but the Rothschilds could have defeated , as punishment for the expulsion of the Jews , Russia 's extensive plans of 1892 for borrowing in Paris ; yet that action was hardly a matter of individual initiative . It was action by the group . But the bold and aggressive stand taken by Nathan Mayer Rothschild in defence of British public credit , during the darkest days of the Napoleonic period , was a personal achievement ; even his associates began to criticise him as a man who took rash chances . As a rule , the high traditions of great houses have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this there have been exceptions . Walter Bagehot pays the highest tribute to the older members of the great London banking house of Overend , Gurney &; Co. : but he adds that , later on , " the rule in it passed to a generation whose folly surpassed the usual limit of imaginable incapacity . " This led to 1866 . The inside history of the house of Baring Brothers has not been convincingly written . That house , too , was a family institution , and the family was and still is a very remarkable one ; Lord Cromer , the financial administrator of - Egypt , is one of its members in the later generation . But something went very seriously astray with the business judgment of the house in 1889 and 1890 . The episode was the more extraordinary in that the natural following of the house in Lombard Street was drawing cautiously away from Argentine investments , at the very hour when Baring Brothers were underwriting and bringing out loan after loan for the Buenos Ayres government . Among financial houses of the really highest grade , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relative position of such houses are constantly going forward . The house of Morgan cut no such large figure in New York finance , two or three decades ago , as it does to-day . In the United States government 's operations in the money market of 1878 and 1879 , August Belmont &; Co. easily held the centre of the stage . Probably Wall Street would say that the successive steps which real-15 , gained for the Messrs . Morgan their more recent commanding position were the government bond syndicate operation of 1895 , the railway reorganizations of 1897 end the railway combinations afterwara , and the industrial recapitalizations of 1901 . These were in very large measure individual achievements , made possible by the remarkable personality of the head of the house . One of the interesting problems of the day is , whether the country itself may not have passed into a new economic era , which will give no further opportunity for achievements of that peculiarly spectacular character . If so , the great finance houses will have different problems of policy to solve . However this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finance on the modern scale has prevailed , in Europe and America , has established at least these Principles : First , continued maintenance of a great position of the sort , by any banking house , depends on continuance of absolute public confidence in its character , capacity , and financial judgment . Beyond this , it is essential that the career of such a house should be marked by continuing achievement in large affairs  --  along the lines , however , of real conservatism . That such attributes will be largely created by the personality of those who direct the great financial houses , is the teaching of all the century 's history ; and that explains why financial markets watch with the largest interest all changes which come , in the vicissitudes of time , to the membership of such houses . 