@@680641

txt Somewhere in Chicago is a man whose automobile killed a 5 year old boy . The man ran the little boy down at Thirty-ninth street and Grand boulevard . He stopped his car after running forty feet beyond the child 's body . He helped to carry the small form Into a drug store , where he learned the child was dead . Then the man slipped from the crowd , extinguished all the lights on his automobile and drove away . The boy was George , son of Peter C. , president of the Knickerbocker Concrete company . Mr. lives at 5 ( 144 Grand boulevard . The boy , with his brother Charles , T years old , and his slater Mary , 9 , slipped away from their home to buy some soda water . The parents did not know the children had gone until Charles and Mary came running home screaming hysteriGirl 's Story of Tragedy . According to Mary the trio had almost reached Thirty-ninth street on Grand boulevard , when they decided to cross to the other side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sister followed . Neither of them saw the automobile , which was running south op the west driveway . Just before the machine struck George his sister Mary saw it and screamed . She caught Charles by the arm and I dragged him back . The machine threw George 's body ten feet in the air . The car went on about forty feet before the driver stopped . The man sprang out . He and 9 year old Mary reached the child 's side at screamed and fled . Several passersby , among them John Hirsch. brother of Dr. Emil G. Hirsch , carried the boy Into a nearby drug store . His skull was crushed and his ribs were broken . A physician said death was instantaneous . In the excitement no one thought to ask the driver his name . Those who noticed the automobile number did not try to memorise it . Turns Out Lights ; Several noticed the driver slip Mit to his automobile and extinguish the lights . The engine was still running , and before any one was aware of his intentions he started @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motorcycle policeman who arrived a few minutes later started out in pursuit but failed to locate the machine . According to witnesses , the machine was owe panacs claimed to have noticed the number disagreed . The numbers given the police wets " 64228 , " " ** and " 12205 . " Owners of cars bearing the two latter numbers were located . They denied knowledge of the accident and their machines did net answer the descriptions The owner of the machine bearing license number " 54220 " Is being hunted . Witnesses do not agree as to the speed of the car ' when it struck the boy . William Handley of IMO Vincennes avenue said It was running thirt7 mues on hour . Sohn Hirsch of 5612 Grand boulevard said he thought the car was not exceeding eight miles an hour . Mrs. MeArdle ; mother of the boy , is under the earn of a physician .                     