@@681596

txt Cole L. Blease ended his stormy career as Governor of South Carolina to-day by resigning at neon , five days before his term of office would have expired . He was succeeded by Charles A. Smith . Lieutenant-Governor , who took the oath of office immediatel before Chief Justice Gary , in the rooms of the Supreme Court . Gov . Smith 's first official act was to appoint Blease a notary public . Smith will be formally inaugurated Governor tomorrow at noon , and will hold the office until noon next Tuesday , when Richard I. Manning , the Governorelect , will take the reins of office . Not even Blease 's most intimate friends profess to know why he resigned . His letter of resignation to the Legislature merely said : " I hereby resign my office as Governor of South Carolina . " There has been talk of attempting to impeach Blease , a local newspaper demanding it editorially for the last three days , but while the matter is said to have been the subject of a caucus on the part of some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of it : Blease had been frequently quoted as saying he would not be succeeded by Manning as Governor , and some think his determination not to take part in the ceremonies incident to the inauguration ? of Mr. Tannin may have prompted him to retire and leave that duty to the Lieutenant-Governor . Hounded by Pardon Seekers . The theory most generally advanced . however . is that the Governor withdrew from office to escape the hundreds of petitions and entraties that are pouring in upon him for pardons in these closing days of his administration . Up to to-day he had exercised executive clemency in 2,704 cases , and for the last week delegations from every part of the State had lined his pathway , crowded his office and intruded upon his home seeking pardons and paroles for friends . His last official act was to reduce to ten years the life sentence of Clyde C. Clement . a youth convicted of the murder of his infant daughter . There has been a fight between friends of the Governor over the case . Blease 's political career has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While practicing law in Newberry , S. C. , he became active in politics and in 1800 was elected to the State House of Representatives . He also served in the Senate and was President pro tern . in 1007-0S . After a hot campaign , in which Blease defeated the Prohibition elements ' candidate in the Democratic primaries , he was inaugurated as Governor in January- , 1011 . Soon after lie assumed office he began extending clemency to convicts in the State Penitentiary , declaring that a privately conducted institution at the prison was a " tuberculosis breeder . " One statement attributed to the Governor at that time was that " he would free at least one prisoner for each day he served as Governor . " Several days ago he signed a blanket pardon restoring citizenship to approximately 1,000 men and women whom he had paroled . Blease was re-elected in 1913 . His second term was marked by the dismissal of practically all the notaries from office , the dismissal of several Magistrates who had incurred his disfavor , and his participation in several public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other officials . He also became involved in a dispute with the Federal War Department over State militia affairs . Several days ago he issued an order disbanding the entire militia organization . Blease and the State Legislature seldom have been in accord . Records show that more hills have been passed over his veto than over that of any Governor in the State 's history . Last August Blease was defeated in the Senatorial primary . In his last message to the Legislature he said : " I have attained the highest ambition of my life . My life 's work , so far as my personal interest is concerned , has been completed . If my people want my services in the future , I will give them , but I shall ask for nothing more . " To Reorganize Militia . The matter of reorganizing the South Carolina militia will not be taken up ! seriously until after Mr. Manning becomes Governor . Senator Tillman , whol sent a telegram to the militiamen of the Stadte immediately after Blease 's action , advising them to " sit steady @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " I think it an opportune time for Gov . Manning to co-operate with the United States authorities and have the militia take an entirely new start and thoroughly reorganized . The State is now charged with a good many thousands of dollars worth of munitions and . arms that are lost and can never be recovered , and I believe the War Departmen will be entirely friendly toward the proposed reorganization and in starting a new slate . "                     