@@683044

txt THE PEOPLE WILL FOLLOW A STRONG LEADER . Their Response to the President 's Lusitania Note Shows the American Temper . BY FABIAN FRANKLIN . New York , Feb. 28,1917 . To the Editor of The New York Times : In his address to Congress last Monday the President said : " We are jointly the servants of the people , and must act together and in their spirit , so far as we can divine and interpret it . " But how is the spirit of the people to be " divined " ? It can not be done by any medhanical process. - Indications of it there are , indeed , of all possible degrees of trustworthiness and untrustworthiness ; but out of this confusion of sounds there is no method of singling out the dominant note . And the vast majority of the people are silent . A public man who undertakes to " divine " the spirit of a people must do something more than merely observe and estimate . He must stake something upon his own insight ; he need have faith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people  --  provided it is not contrary to their traditional sentiments ? is the . spirit of the people . And when that man is President of the United States , this duty rests upon , him in a supreme . degree . In the present crisis , in the successive crises that have preceded it during the past two years , the people have shown an almost pathetic readiness to follow where the President leads . When he has spoken out strongly they have rallied to his call . When he has ' been silent or wavering , they have been ready to wait . if he has any difficulty in " divining " their spirit at this moment , it is solely because he has not given them a chance to manifest it . There was not the faintest doubt as to their response to his dismissal of Count von Bernstorff ; had his speech on Monday sounded as clear a note there wduld have been no more doubt as to how they stand on the issue of the vigorous and uncompromising vindication of American rights , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As it is , the country will rise to him as one man the moment he strikes that note of genuine and vigorous action to which alone a hearty response is possible on the part of a mighty nation . Such a note he did or tile scent to strike , on May 13 , 1915 , six days after the sinking of the Lusitania . The whole country rose to it . Nobody doubted the completeness , the spontaneity , or the earnestness of its ' approval . What was seized upon by ? everybody as its essential purport was the declaration that our Government would omit no word or act necessary to the maintenance of the rights of its people on the high seas . Nobody shrank from the consequences , though everybody knew that the consequence might be war , and though nearly everybody thought that the consequence was almost sure to be war . To quote The Evening Post 's language is to make all other quotation superfluous . In its editorial of May 14 on the President 's note it said : In words that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this country is prepared to maintain with the last ounce a its energy . And he makes no attempt to hide the great gulf that is fixed between the rights which the United States will insist upon and the practices . of the German naval officers . One or the other must give way . That IA what makes the situation so ? critical . President Iv tson has left no narticle of uncertainty What this Goverament will do . It will not " omit any word or act necessary to the t.erformance of its sacral duty of maintairtng the rights of its citizens and of safeguarding their free exercise and enjoyment . " There we take our stand . We can do no other . The rest is for the German Government to decide . ' All Americans hope for a peaceful settlement . Bin : Germany can make the issue war if she chooses . Such magic was there in the forthright words of that Lusitania note  --  the words that said , or were clearly understood to say , that this nation would go to war rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even The Evening Post speak of the readiness of our country to maintain its rights " with the last ounce of its energy , " to declare that " one or the other " of the two Countries must give way , and that it could not be this country ; and that ' l-Germany can shako the issue war if she chooses " ? If those brave words sufficed  --  to accomplish this , can there be any doubt that they had the unhesitating sanction of the spirit of the American people ? Today the country is confronted ? with the same ' issue , and in vastly aggravated form . Shocking as was the ennui of the Lusitania , the declaration under which it was committed was incomparably less ruthless , and Incomparably less defiant of our rights , than tho edict of Jan , 31 in pursuance of which the Laconia was sunk and countless other crimes committed . There is not a shadow of doubt as to . the response which the President would get to any such clear call as that which was contained in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be no North , no South , no Middle West ; there would be just one great people ready to stand behind their chief in the manful sIssertion of their rights as a ea. - lion and the ? manful perfo  --  nanee of their duty to the whole family of nations . Let hin ? but snake it plain that he means really to accomplish that which , up to the present time , tie has only indicated that he thinks of making some more or less earnest show or trying to accomplish , and there will be . no donut of his being backed by the whole peoi.le in the exercise of all the power that can be devolved upon the /Executive head of the nation . It is infinitely easier to rally to a flag boldly Unfurled than to one that is but half displayed and whose colors it requires an effort to discern . FABIAN FRANKLIN . 