@@684519

txt PROHIBITION ON TRIAL . Further Observations on the Work ing of Dry Laws In Maine . To the Editor of The New York Times : SO many TIMES readers have replied to my communication in re prohibition which appeared in your columns on April 20 that I would be glad to address them again , if possible , through the same medium . Many of these letters were from well meaning people , and to these I make reply , but others came , apparently , from people with disordered brains , and have not been considered , save by a passing thought of pity . After reading these letters one fact glared vividly , and that was that not one of the writers had the vaguest idea of what prohibition really means . They are all firmly of the opinion that the prohibitory law can be enforced and the manufacture , sale , and consumption of alcohol be blotted out forever . Apparently they believe that Kansas , Maine , and other prohibition States are truly " bone dry . " What a revelation would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for even one brief Summer ! Some of my correspondents appear to have jumped to the conclusion that I am addicted to liquor , others that I do not understand the nature of alcohol , and still others that I do not . realize how " much better oft " we are all going to be when the prohibitory law is under Federal enforcement . To the first I would like to say that not even a quarter of a century In New York City has made me other than an ardent advocate of temperance . and seven years of study of medicine , pharmacy , materia medics. , clinical work , &c,; did teach me the nature of alcohol . As a student of sociology I familiarized myself with the inmates of hospitals , sanatoria , asylums of many sorts . and penal Institutions , and no intelligent person having had a similar experience could possibly accept prohibition as an antidote or cure for existing conditions . Further , as to the country being better off under prohibition , all I have to say Is , as the State so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scenery , her excellent climate , how about her growth of population in the last thirty or forty years ? How about her industrial growth , her water power develgpment , her commercial advancement , and her record for divorces and drunkenness ? Did any of my correspondents , I wonder , ever look up the latter , compel. - irg one after another Maine city with cities of approximate population and similar industries in license States ? Prohibition makes ft more difficult to distill liquor , hence it oneoursges extra effort in the matter of production . it makes it impossible for any aut the wealthy to procure pure liquor , hettee the consumption of vile concoctions with consequent rapid mental and physical deterioration . Itamakes It a crime to be " caught with the goods , " hence the speedy resort to deceit , cunning , and hypocrisy . It , taboos the street saloon , hence the innumerable " kitchen barrooms , " " hides , " " bootleggers , " and " pocket peddlers . " It inculcates contempt for law and influences self-determination in the wrong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ securing of liquor in a prohibition State , no risk too great in the matter of transportation , and no pleasure more keen , to the offender , than outwitting a Sheriff . Even the satisfaction of buying a deputy is exceeded by the joy of fooling him . It becomes a mania with many how to get liquor and distribute it without discovery . To have read even a few of the newspapers published in Maine and other New England States during the last year would have been a liberal education to my communicants . They would have heard about " booze autos , booze cops , booze centres , - and booze specials . " So familiar is Maine with all these things that each and all seem a part of the State 's assets and liabilities . Tho condition of espionage , especially by the class that takes up this sort of spy work , is offensive in the individual State ; It will bo intolerable it no relief is to be found over any State border . Further , it will grow worse and worse under Federal direction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As to the statement made by prohibitionists that the drinking of alcohol is " in defiance of natural taw , " I can only ask , why , then , did nature herself place a still in every stomach  --  a reagent in every gastric juice -- whereby alcohol might be made out of innumerable foods which , in their original state , like grains , fruits , and berries , were her own production ? I shall expect to hear soon that propagation is a " defiance of natural law " and the early extinction of the unfit a thing contrary to the law of natural selection . Unquestiohably , nature is opposed to the excessive use of alcohol in the human system , just as she is to the excessive use of acids , alkalies , fatia and minerals , and every normal human being coincides In her opinion . One 's innate sense of individuality , self-respect , and autonomy resents overmuch impudence on the part of others . That there should be some drunkards in no more surprising than that there should be some gluttons , some egotists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the conscience that , choosing between two evils , selects the worst ? Will a nation of lunatics he preferable to a nation of booze consumers ? For if alcohol is prohibited , what then ? The crime-committing stomachs of the populace will retain their cravings . For some , sugar or near-beer will do , while others will resort to the most vicious substitutes . Are the prohibitionists prepared to protect civilization from what is likely to happen ? LURANA SHELDON FERRIS . Old Orchard , Me. , April 26 , 1919.                     