@@684016

txt As General WILLIAM BakilcsErt of the British Royal Air Force says , " war has been the making of aviation . " Its progress has been prodigious under the spur of necessity . Hardly any venture in the air can be proposed but it seems feasible to the credulous who stand agaze at wonders already performed . To the scientific mind no improvement of the airplane motor seems impossible , and it is upon the development of the motor that longer and more secure flights depend . Greater things will be done in the air than have yet been attempted , and when the crossing of the Atlantic this year of 1918 is declared by General ' BRANCHES to be practicable , will any one be rash enough to cry the enterprise down ? We fancy , however , that some of the aviation experts will not be so optimistic about the success of it as the British authority appears to be . They will be inclined to postpone the achievement to a later time , doubting whether any known motor could be made to function well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practicable route , as the General says , would be by way of the Azores , starting from Newfoundland . Cape Race is more , but not a great deal more , than 1,000 miles from St. Michael 's , and from that island to Cape da Roca on the Portuguese coast the distance is 830 miles . General BRANCHES sees success in a machine carrying 750 horse power motors and capable of forty hours ' flight at a speed of eighty-five miles an hour , but he speaks of a descent at the Azores , whose Pico Alto ( 7,612 feet ) is discernible long before the voyager reaches the islands . If a plane could keep the air for forty hours , Portugal might be made in one flight ; in fact , the destination could as well be France or England . It may be inferred , therefore , that General BRANCHES is not sanguine , quite the contrary , about any longer initial flight than the 1,000 miles and more to the Portuguese islands . The most successful long-distance flight recorded in the war is that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ horse power engines from Hendon , near London , to Constantinople , about 2,000 miles . Stops were made at Paris and Pisa ; and leaving Pisa the adventurers flew by way of Otranto across the Albanian Alps ( varying from 8,000 to 10,000 feet ) to Saloniki , where they descended to overhaul their plane and refit for a bombing raid against Constantinople . From Saloniki to Constantinople and back is 640 miles . The Britishers reached Constantinople , and dropped bombs to destroy the Goeben , which they failed to do , but they did other execution on craft alongside . Two of their bombs fell on the Turkish War OffIca.dieroantling it , . They returned safely to Saloniki , with one engine disabled and twenty-six bullet holes in their planes . This performance promises well for the achievement of the Atlantic passage . In making ' the , attempt , General BRANCHES would use much more powerful engines . It may be argued that , if the raiders of Constantinople could stay in the air while they traveled from Saloniki to the Golden Horn and back , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in one flight . No one should be positive about the matter either way . ' A flight of more than 1,000 miles over the Atlantic would be a sterling record in the calmest weather . Success would not be possible if the Aviators encountered , as they neared the islands , one of the tempests not uncommon in those seas . The weather would be a factor to study carefully before the pioneer feat was attempted . There is this to be said : aviation enthusiasts , a term that includes men of science and quiet pulses , will be greatly disappointed if the crossing of the Atlantic is not risked before the end of 1918 . There would be no - lack of volunteers with the necessary flying skill : it is simply a question of powerful and reliable motors , and favorable weather .                     