@@682503

txt The reported victory of the German High Sea Fleet in the greatest naval battle of the war has electrified even the Germans . who have long been accustomed to digesting good news soberly . The report even temporarily eclipsed the news of the restrictive meat ordinances in popular interest , which is saying a great deal nowadays . Berlin is flag decked and the school children are to have a holiday . The satisfaction over the reported crushing defeat administered to the British Grand Fleet is particularly intense , because the dreadnought at ? last has beep engaged in open battle . It is pointed out here that the sinking of the battleship Warspite , the battle cruisers Queen Mary and Indefatigable , and two armored cruisers of the Achilles class , cost the British Navy a loss of more than 100,000 tons , whereas the only big German unit lost , the Pommern , was less than 14,000 tons . The Reichstag session was the scene of a great patriotic demonstration when President Dr. Kaempf announced " a great naval victory " on opening the day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are still lacking it is obvious that our young navy has achieved a great and beautiful success .. To be sure , we , too , have losses to regret , but those of the enemy are many times greater . Above all , it has been demonstrated that our fleet is able to stand against the much stronger English fleet and win a victory for which we owe the heartiest thanks to our whole navy . " All the Reichstag members arose and cheered with the exception of Leader Haase and his colleagues of the extreme Socialist wing . The Socialists were overwhelmed with cries of " Shame ! " In a statement to the Reichstag . Rear Admiral Hebbinghaus , Director of the Admiralty , gave the particulars of the battle . He said the entire German high sea fleet and the greater part Of the English fighting fleet , including at least thirty-four battleships and battle cruisers , participated . " On the afternoon of May 31 , " he said , " our fleet engaged in battle with a very greatly superior English fleet of at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ o'clock in the evening , when it became dark . During the night a series of single engagements between torpedo boats and cruisers took place . " The result of this action is a joyful success for our fleet against a very much stronger enemy . The absolutely certain losses of the English , which in part have been confirmed by rescued English sailors , are as follows : The dreadnought Warspite , the battle cruiser Queen Mary , the battle cruiser Indefatigable , two armored cruisers of the Achilles class , the destroyer scout ships Turbulent , Nestor , and Alcaster , and , in addition , nine or ten destroyers , of which six alone were sunk by the battleship Westfalen in the course of the night attacks . " Our losses are the battleship Pornmern , the cruiser Wiesbaden , and several torpedo boats . The cruiser lerauenIeb was seen in the course of the night engagement with a strong list to port , so that it is assumed she sank . " Regarding the damage we suffered and the loss of personnel , no final figures are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , understood that some of our ships have been considerably damaged . The main portions of our fleet have already returned sto home ports , according to reports at hand . Both the men and ships made a splendid showing . The spirit of the navy is excellent . " The Admiral 's statement was reI ceived with loud applause . Captain Persl us. writing in the Tageblatt , says : " The great naval battle , which by many on both sides of the North Sea was expected at the opening of the war , now , after twenty-two months , has been fought out , and the result Is of a kind to evoke the liveliest joy and satisfaction throughout Germany . Until further ' details 1 are available , the only general verdict we can give is that our High Sea fleet has achieved success over the English fighting forces . What arm in the first line led to this success , whether artillery or torpedo boats , or submarines , is at the present writing unknown , but so much is certain that the English losses were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ achieved , were extraordinarily slight . " The losses of the English fleet include the most modern ships ; on the German side the lineshlp Pommern has been repeatedly reported by the English as lost . The Wiesbaden , one of our newest cruisers , is not yet contained in the fleet lists , which were closed ? at the outbreak of the war . Our High Sea fleet returned safely to home ports after having given victorious battle to the world 's mightiest fleet , and that without any assistance from coast fortifications . " All Germany thanks its leader , all commanders , and crews . " Captain von Kuehlwetter , in the Lokalanzeiger , says : " At last ! We had hardly dared to hope any longer that England 's fleet would show itself again in the North Sea , after giving the lie to the boastfrig wish to dig us out of our holes by1 keeping their ships in safety while ' our fleets vainly cruised about the North Sea and found them not . Our1 fleet was eating its heart out with a ; burning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get at him . It was forced to wait , ever wait , while the army i fought glorious battles . What joy , what relief , when at last the enemy 's main battle fleet was sighted ! What 1 anxious expectations whether they Would really stand and fight it outi As in the battle off the Doggerbank , here , too , the odds were on the side of the enemy , but the odds have never frightened us in this war . At last the big brothers of our submarines have been able actively to help . " We will not underrate our enemy . Honorably he fought and held out , but was n't equal to us . For the first time our High Sea fleet is able to inscribe victory over the English fleet in history 's book . We know now that no goal is unattainable by us . The crushing import of this victory does sot lie in the ships that England lost , but that It lost the victory . Coronel , the Dardanelles , and the Battle of the North Sea are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain has now begun to realize that its tradesmen calculations regarding a cheap economic war against a whole people were false . In that case we shall come nearer to the end . " From full hearts we cheer our fleet which at last could harvest what was sown in so many years of labor . " The moral effect of the reported vie . tory may well be watched with the closest attention , according to observers here .                     