@@681292

txt The Chicago Herald prints the following as " An Independent Newspaper 's Creed : Every newspaper receives each day letters from readers  --  fault-finding. often jeering , letters of commendation , advice , and protest . The number of communications is gauged by the spirit in the newspaper . So far as The Herald is concerned this is not a protest against them . They are welcome . TheY are interesting and also consoling . Both in the variety of their fault-finding and in the uniformity of their protest they strengthen conviction and confirm faith . There are some that are uniform in denying The Herald 's description of itself as " an independent newspaper . " Their variety is in the grounds on which they base this denial . For ex-ample : Here is one which declares that The Herald is not independent but " Democratic " because it commended the president of the United States for an official act both well-Intentioned and patriotic  --  and Mr. Wilson sees fit to wear the label " Democrat . " Here is another which declares that The Herald @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which show that the Democratic tariff is n't working as its framers thought It would . Still another declares that The Herald is not independent but a " Progressive organ , " and playing the part of " assistant Democrat , " because it printed Mr. Roosevelt 's Pittsburgh speech in full . Yet another is in the same key , but varies the sequence of accusation by terming The Herald an " assistant Republican " for printing Mr. Roosevelt 's indictment of the Wilson Administration in that same speech . When we set them side by side we perceive that these accusers answer one another . In reality their definition of an independent newspaper is " one which gives our side the best of it . " Unconsciously they confess " Orthodoxy is my dozy ; heterodoxy Is your doxy . " Now and then one sincerely asks , " What is an independent ' newspaper ? " The Question is pertinent . Here is The Herald 's answer : An independent newspaper is one that realizes that no party or other combination of men has a monopoly of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspaper that deliberately preserves Its freedom to stand for what it conceives to be the right wherever it finds it  --  no matter what label it may bear . It is a newspaper that insists on finding its opinions in the mental processes of its makers , In contact with the realities of life , instead of having them cast in the molds of the official pronouncements of partisan chiefs . It is a newspaper that makes no pretense of infallibility ; that shirks no issue where it believes a vital issue exists ; that declines to be drawn into personal , partisan , or political controversy on the mere assertion of interested parties that a great issue is involved . But over and above all this the Independent newspaper seeks the " higher ground " of agreement between opposing factions that are sincerely struggling for the public good . A good French priest once said substantially this  --  we quote from memory : " I care not to argue with my opponents . I care only to be united with them In a higher synthesis . " Always to seek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who stand for the public good in a common effort ; Always to try to perceive amid the fret and fury and inconsequentiality of faction some higher ground that embraces all that is vital and patriotic in the views of all parties : Always to proclaim this higher ground when once it is clearly perceived and to endeavor to rally good citizens to it by all the means within its power That Is the really independent newspaper  --  the only newspaper that can make the title a true badge of honor .                     