@@680757

txt Some of the efforts of the lawmakers at Washington to express in intelligible and legally binding English their ideas of what they want to enact are nothing abort of Pathetic . One fixed purpose of the framers of the income tax bill has been to enable the collection of a surtax on all incomes of individuals id excess of S20,000 . The first draft of the bill levied a graduated surtax on all " net income " of individuals in excess of $20,000 , but provided that in computing " net income " deduction might be made for all dividends ' received from corporations which had paid the normal tax of 17 , on net income before the distribution of the dividend . The Wall Street Journal pointed out that this would leave free of surtax the $600,000 of dividends received annually by the Astor Estate , and also made it possible for Viricent Astor ( used merely as an example ) to incorporate his other investments and thereby avoid the payment of the surtax on all his income by paying it to himself in the form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not being taxable in the hands of the individual . An effort was made to remedy this defect by inserting in the text the words " for the purposes of the normal tax , " so that the bill then read : " That in computing net Income for the purpose of the normal tax there shall ba allowed as deduction . " etc . This still left the question of a surtax on income derived from dividends high up in the air , for while . obNiously , the insertion of the additional words was intended to catch the surtax , the effect was to add nothing to the levy day ? cribed in the bill , but actually to restrict the method of *computing net income to the purposes of the normal tax . TWO SENATE AMENDMEN1S . When the bill gut to the Senate the following amendment was adopted by the Finance Committee : - For the purpmse of this additional tax , taxable income shall embrace the share of any taxable individual of the gains and profits of all companies . tihethcr incorporated or partnership , who would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whether divided or distributed or otherwise , and any such company , when requested by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue or any district collector of internal revenue , shall forward to him a correct statement of such profits and the names of the individuals who would be entitled to the same if distributed . " Here at last was an enabling clause which actuary levied a surtax on distributed earnings , but it also attempted to levy a tax on undistributed earnings . In The Wall Street Journal of : July 9 it was pointed out that such an attempt to tax individuals on suppositious income . which might disappear or the ownership of which might change before distribution , had already been declared illegal by the courts . The next attempt at amendment was to insert the words printed below in italics , so that when this section left the Democratic caucus the paragraph read : " For the purpose of this additional tax , taxable income shall embrace the share of any taxable individual of the rains and profits of all cornoanies , whether incorporated or partnership . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or division of the same , if divided or distributed , whether divided or distributed or otherwise , and any such company , when requested by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue or . any District Collector of Internal Revenue . shall forward to 11 ; m it correct statement of such profits and the names of the individual . who would be entitled to the same ; f distributed. ? FINAL EEFVRT IN SENATE . When Senator Root took a hand . He supported Tre Street Jcurnars contention of the unconstitutionality of the proposed procedure and made such a powerful argument that the paragraph was recommitted to the Finance Committee for rewriting . As it emerged finally the completed bill passed by the Senate reads : ? For the purpose of thii. additional tux the taxable income of any individual shall embrace the share to which he would be entitled of the gains and profits , if divided or distributed , whether divided or distributed , or not , of all companies , whether incorporated or partnership . formed or fraudulently availed of for the purpose of preventing the imposition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profits to accumulate instead of being divided or distributed : and the fact that any such company or partnership , or that the gains and profits are permitted to accumulate beyond the reasonable needs of the business , shall be prima facie evidence of a fraudulent purpose to escape such tax ; but the fact that the gains and profits arc in any case permitted to accumulate and become surplus shall not be construed as evidence of a purpose to escape the said tax in such case unless the Secretary of the Treasury shall certify that in his opinion such accumulation is unreasonable for the purposes of the business . " POWERS stoUUSII O. TREASURY . This rewording narrows the attempt to collect a tax on undistributed earnings to companies " formed or fraudulently availed of for the purpose of preventing the imposition of such tax . " but it in no way strengthens the act as to the collection of a surtax on incomes derived from the enormous total of dividends from " legitimate " corporations not used for fraudulent purposes . The anomalous situation is now presented of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxation contained in the original draft and at the same time throwing on the Secretary of the Treasury the responsibility and authority to decide whether or not a corporation is fraudulent and whether it permits its gains and profits to accumulate as surplus beyond the reasonable needs of business . It would be difficult to conceive a more drastic power or a more weighty responsibility than for one man to be charged with the duty of deciding which of the thousands of corporations in this country are fraudulent or used for fraudulent purposes , and what are their legitimate business requirements in the way of surplus . COPARTNERSHIP TROFITS ALL TAXED . Although by the section last quoted the duty of deciding as to fraudulent partnerships as well as corporations is imposed on the Secretary of the Treasury , another new provision in the Senate bill directly levies the . tax on all partnership profits , thus eliminating any question as to the character of the partnership , This clause reads : " Provided further , that any persons carrying on business in partnership shall be liable for income tax only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profits of a partnership to which any taxable partner would be entitled if the same were divided , whether divided or otherwise , shall be returned for taxation and the tax paid , under the provisions of this section , and any such firm , when requested by ? the Commissioner of Internal Revenue , or any district collector , shall forward to hint a correct statement , of such pfolits and the names of the individuals who would be entitled to the same , if distributed . " 