@@682189

txt Governor Whitman will not be indorsed for the Presidential nomination by the delegates from his own State to the Republican National Convention , and under the circumstances may be regarded as out of the running in the Presidential race . It has been decided by the Republican leaders that the delegation from this State is to go uninstructed . Rumors that this plan would be adopted have been hi circulation for some days , and they were confirmed by a score of Republican- leaders after the meeting of the State Committee held yesterday at the Republican Club . The Whitman program involving a fight against , the proposal to hold an unofficial Spring Convention and against any move bringing ex-Senator Elihu Root into the polal limelight was ditched hours before the meeting of the State Committee was called to order . The meeting adopted a resolution providing for a State Convention to be held at Carnegie Hall on the evening of Feb. 15 and another resolution making Elihu Root temporary chairman of the Convention . Both resolutions were adopted by unanimous vote and without a protest from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a week ago the Governor 's followers at Albany announced that his friends would go into the meeting prepared to make a fight which would definitely establish the Governor as the de facto Republican leader in this State . George W. Aldridge , the Republican boss of Monroe . who is regarded as the Governor 's spokesman has been in this city for many days preparing for the expected test of strength . On the eve of the meeting it was made evident to Mr. Aldridge that any attempt on the part of Governor Whitman 's personal followinng on the Committee to upset the plans for the proposed unofficial State Convention and for the selection of ex-Senator Root to deliver the keynote speech would mean defeat . Whitman Gave Up the Fight . The Governor , who came down from Albany in order to be within easy reach , was in communication with Mr. Aldridge and some of the other leaders before the meeting was called to order . When he was apprised of the real situation he urged that nothing be done on his behalf to disturb the harmony of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declares that It is to meet for thespurpose of recommending to the voters at the primaries four candidates for delegates at large and four candidates for alternates at large to the National Convention " and to transact such other business as may properly come before the convention . " This includes the drafting of a Republican declaration of principles in regard to issues that are to be in the foreground in the national campaign . , Governor Whitman will be one of the four delegates at large if he should de ( four it . It is regarded as likely , although not by any means certain , that ill he goes to the convention he will go as head of the New York delegation . A prominent Republican , when this question ' arose in a discussion among some of the leaders after the committee meeting yesterday , remarked sententiously that Theodore Roosevelt and Benjamin B. Odell when they were Governors were content to go to the National Conventions of their day as delegates at large and did not object when somebody else was chosen to act as head of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " There was considerable speculation as to the  --  make-up of the " Big Four . " The names of Governor Whitman , ex-Senator Elihu Root , United States Senator James W. Wadsworth , Jr. , and Nicholas Murray Butler , President of Columbia tiiiiversity , or Dr. David Jayne Hill , former United States Ambassador to Germany , and William Berri of Brooklyn were the names most frequently heard . Ex-State Chairman William Barnes , who , as representative of this State on the Republican National Committee , could lay claim to a place among the " Big Four , " has eliminated himself from the situation by his declaration this week that in order to be in a better position to fight Colonel Roosevelt he would not be a candidate for delegate to the Republican National Convention at all . Contrary to custom in a Presidential year , the - . State Committee at its meeting yesterday did not adopt a resolution indorsing the Republican Administration at Albany . It was said after the meeting that the unofficial convention undoubtedly would take action along these lines and possibly recommend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the committee is likely to be more strongly resented by Governor Whitman than the selection of Elihu Root for temporary Chairman of the convention . It is known that Governor Whitman , . who entertains no friendly feelings toward Mr. Root , whom he regards as a political rival , was bitterly opposed to any move that would bring Mr. Root into the limelight . In delivering the keynote speech at such a representative gathering as a convention of Republicans in the most important State of the- Union , it was pointed out yesterday , a master of statesmanship and oratory like Mr. Root would have a rare opportunity to . bring his name prominently before the country on the eve of the Presidential . primaries and the Spring conventions in the different States . Senator James W .. Wadsworth , whom most of the organization men look upon as the coming leader of the Republican forces in this State , is slated for permanent Chairman of the Feb. 15 convention . 836 Delegates in Convention . There will be 536 delegates in the convention . These will be elected from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . if one-third of the enrolled Republican voters in a district should petition the committee , at unoftidal primaries to be held not later than a week in advance of the State convention . The representation from Assembly- ' districts will be on the basis of the vote cast for Governor in tali . Harmony prevailed at yesterday 's meeting . There was a lively debate on a resolution by Joseph Levenson of the Second New York Assembly District urging the Legislature to amend the election law so as to permit the members of the new State Committee to be elected in the Fall instead of at the Spring , primaries . Mr. Levenson said this would be expedient in view of the fact that the ' . present Legislature is to make a reapportionthent of the Senate districts , vaI that a readjustment of the Assembly ; districts and a change in the representation from many counties in the Assembly was bound to result . The Counties I of Kings , Queens , Bronx , and Richmond . I in this city , Mr. Levenson pointed out . would come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . while Manhattan would Use some . Under the circumstances , he declared , and State Committee elected on the basis of the apportionment now in force , would not be representative of proper constituencies after the State has been redistricted . The committee by unanimous vote decided to refer the question to a committee of five which State Chairman Tanner was authorized to name . Fight on Tanner Is Off . Philip Elting of Kingston introduced a resolution calling on the Legislature to amend the election law so as to have the Congressional district instead of the Assembly district the unit of representation in the State Committee . This was the old system , replaced when the direct primary law took effect . The change as proposed would reduce the membership on the State k'oremittee from 150 to 43 . This question , too , was referred to the Committee of Five . It was learned from the up-State leaders who , a few weeks ago , were determined to have State Chairman Tanner replaced by an up-State man , have abandoned their plan for the present , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ re-election . WHITMAN PRAISES ROOT . Both Are Speakers at Hamilton College Alumni Dinner . The Alumni of Hamilton College met last evening in the Savoy Hotel for their forty-eighth reunion . Chester S. Lord , ' 78 , sent a note saying he had just learned of the death of E. M. Rewey , one of the editors of The Sun , and a graduate of the class of ' 73 . Governor Whitman made a short address . He was greeted with the Hamilton yell , given with great vigor by some of the young alumni . The Governor paid a tribute to Elihu Root . Mr. Root also spoke , eulogizing the late Professor C. H. F , Peters of Hamdton . Dr. Dwight Holbrook , ' 75 , was toastmaster and . other speakers were President M. W. Stryker of Hamilton ; George E. Dunham , Elihu Root , ' Jr. , and Judge Frank L. Young of Westchester . Among the alumni at the dinner were Hamilton B. Tompkins , Charles H. Duell , Dr. Dwight Holbrook , Clarence Le Barber , Archibald N. Shaw , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S. F. Engs , Norman J. Marsh . Reuben Leslie Maynard , - Samuel Hopkins Ad- ? arns . Oren Root , Warren I. Lee . RichLrd . Sherman , ' , loyal P. Stryker , and Hen Platt Bristol . 