@@681825

txt The ** Journal prints the following : " From an authoritative source The Journal is enabled to print this morning the details of the statement made by Ambassador von Bernstorff to President Wilson yesterday during the course of the Interview requested by the Ambassador . " Count von Bernstorff begged the President to take Into . consideration , before Making any definite reply to the German note , that communication between himself and his Government was very difficult : first , because of inability to make use of cables that do not pass through enemy 's country and , second , because of the rapidly deteriorating static conditions surrounding the dispatch of wireless messages from Sayville and-Tuckerton at this time of the year . " He added that if it had not been for these conditions the German note would have gone more thoroughly into the questions at issue . but that he had been unable to properly acquaint his Government with the real sentiment in this country before the note was sent . Chance for Concensiono . " He expressed his conviction that if time permitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secure from the Imperial German Government the following so-called concessions to American sentiment : " First  --  That Germany Is willing to discontinue its submarine attacks on vessels aboard which there are known to . be citizens of the United States , if the United States Government , on the other hand , will suggest to citizens of the United States that in the future , when taking passage for Europe , they should travel only on such vessels as are known not to be carrying contraband of war . " Second  --  That the Imperial German Government will not attack merchant vessels of any country with submarines until such vessels are positively known ' to be carrying contraband of war . " Third  --  That Germany 's course will be made much easier in this direction if the President will issue a proclamation stating that ships of belligerent nations carrying contraband of war must not accept United States citizens as passengers . In that event Germany will be able to conduct her submarine warfare in the future without coming into any conflict whatever with the United States . " Fourth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government brought about the condition outlined above , not to attack by submarine any 1 merchant vessel whatever , belligerent or 1 otherwise , traveling the high seas with pasengers , whether carrying contraband of war or not , without first giving passengers and crew an opportunity of seeking safety in boats and rafts . " The Ambasador could not give any guarantee that Germany would make an undertaking covering the points specifically mentioned , but he believed if proper opportunity were given to him to make the right representations to his Government , that he could secure compliance with all the suggestions made by ' him . Shells on the Lusitania . " The Ambassador , during the course I of the interview , is believed to have referred constantly to the sinking of the Lusitania and ' Us have declarco to the President that he had specific knowledge that the Lusitania 's cargo contained war material of a character barred by the United States passenger act and orders issued by the Steamboat Inspection Service since the beginning of the war . He stated that the manifest would , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with regard to the designation of the shrapnel carried aboard the Lusitania , all of which was declared in the manifest to be non-explosive , and so marked . " The Ambassador is believed to have told the President that the consignment he referred to was shipped by the Bethlehem Steel Company , of South Bethlehem , Penn. , and consigned to the Deputy Director of ordnance stores at Woolwich Arsenal , Woolwich , England . It consisted of eighteen cases Of fuses valued at $7,921 ; 1,250 cases of shrapnel valued at $4i9,450 ; 750 cases of shrapnel with filled shells , and OW cases of shrapnel shell . " The total weight of this shrapnel shipment , lie said , was 10:3,528 pounds , and was believed to consist of fully 5,000 shells . ' The Ambassador left with the President a memorandum of these figures and called attention to what , he said , was a deliberately incorrect marking of cases . of shrapnel which , while they bt re the words non-explosive , ' appeared on the manifest as shells filled . ' Brings Up Food Issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Ambassador von Bernstorff sought to secure from the President a suggestion that if Germany could be led to consent to the compromise outlined such a pledge would be followed by a note from President Wilson to Great Britain , immediately upon the adjustment of the present difficulties between Germany and the United States , demanding a discontinuance of the interference by England with United Slates trade with neutral nations . The Journal has in its possession positive proof of the fact that the figures presented by Ambassador von Bernstorff to President Wilson in connection with the alleged illegal consignment of ammunition on the Lusitania were not in the hands of the Ambassador until over two weeks after the sink , ' ing of the Lusitania , and that this al ' leged information has not even yet reached Berlin , and therefore could in no way have figured in the decision to destroy the Lusitania . " The Ambassador 's entire attitude during the interview was an apparent effort to suggest to the President , without the words themselves being used , that the Ambassador felt bitterly disappointed over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it appear that if he had been able to have free communication with his Government before the note was sent its purport would have been materially different . " As a matter of fact , Ambassador von Bernstorff 's assertions of his inability to communicate with his Government and his regret over his inability to have made suggestions to Berlin before the receipt of the von Jagow note are not based on fact . The Ambassador is not only in constant communication with ' Berlin , both by wireless and cable , but he actually read and edited the von Jagow note and sent it back to Berlin with some minor changes , made by himself , before it was delivered to Ambassador Gerard . "                     