@@678890

txt A nonpolitical , non-religious National daily paper was suggested to Andrew Carnegie to-day as a means of spending some of his surplus millions . Mr. Carnegie thought at first glance that it was a good scheme and promised to think it over . He even promised to establish such a paper if , after investigation , it seemed feasible . The proposition was suggested to him to-day by the Washington Heights Women 's Club of Pasadena . The club 's proposal to Mr. Carnegie was the outcome of a resolution by Mrs. Elizabeth Boynton Herbert , one of its leaders , who moved that he be advised to consider such a proposition . After enthusiastically adopting the resolution the women waited on the millionaire in a body . Mrs. Herbert expressed the hope to him that the suggestion would find favor . " It does find favor at the start , " replied Mr. Carnegie . " I like the plan , but , of course , I can not decide such a question off hand . If It seems good after investigation I will act upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " ASTOR ESTATE REAPPRAISAL . Appellate Division Sustains Surrogate 's Refusal to Accept $1,631,236 . The appeal by John Jacob Astor , Marshall Orme Wilson , and William M. Cruikshank as executors of the will of Mrs. Caroline W. Astor for a confirmation of the appraisal of the value of the estate was dismissed yesterday by the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court . The estate was appraised by James Yearance to fix the transfer tax , at 81.631,236.82 . Surrogate John P. Cohaisln refused to accept the report of the appraiser on the ground that he was " not satisfied that the transfer tax appraiser has given to this proceeding that degree of care and efficiency which a proper regard of the interests of the State of New York demands . " The executors refused to accept the findings of the Surrogate and appealed to the Appellate Division , By yesterday 's decision a further appraisal and report will have to be made by the executors as ordered by the Surrogate . LAWYERCOMPLAINS OF POLICE IArrested in the Subway While Espousing an Errand Boy 's Cause . Robert M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Beare of 79 Wall Street warned Capt . Dominick Henry of the Mercer Street Station last night that ho would appeal to Mayor Gaynor and also take out .... arrants for the arrest of Policemen Flood and Williams of that precinct , who had . arrested him because he refused to move on when ordered to do so in the crowded Fourteenth Street Subway Station in the 6 o'clock rqsh hour last evening . The Subway station was choken by a crcwd through an altercation between Special Policeman 470 and Bernard Levy , an errand boy of 883 Prospect Avenue . whose bundles fell apart at the ticket chopper 's gate . Several witnesses said that the special policeman shook the boy . Mr. Moore was taking down the names of witnesses when arrested . A crowd followed him to the Mercer Ftieet Station . where Capt . Henry . after hearing all sides of the case , ordered him released , and provided him with a hat to go home in . Moore had lost his own in the crowd . He said the policemen were responsible for that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , inflicted , he said , by handcuffs . This the policemen denied , saying mat they had merely twisted she sleeves of Moore 's coat to make him come with them .. Several men volunteered to appear as witnesses for Mr. Moore if he reported the men . SUBWAY GUARD SAVES BOY . Pulls Him from Between Cars as the Train Rounds a Curve . But for the quick action of James Powers , a train guard on a north-bound Lenox Avenue express In the Subway , elevenyear-old George H. Carr of 187 Railroad Avenue , Newark , N. J. , might have been ground to pieces near the 110th Street Station just before 6 o'clock last night . The boy had come here to visit over Saturday and Sunday with his cousin in Harlem , and was standing on the forward platform of one of the cars of the express train with many other passengers , when he was thrown forward off his feet as the train rounded the curve approaching the 110th Street Station . He fell between two cars , and was sinking down between them . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his arms and held on , while some of the passengers assisted him in pulling the boy away from danger . At the 110th Street Station the boy was placed upon a news stand , where Dr. Elliott of the Harlem Hospital found that he was only suffering from contusions of his foot and shock . He was soon able to continue up to his cousin 's home in 12 ; ith Street . 