@@682215

txt The re . sult of the anxiously awaited debate In the House of Commons yesterday on thEt blockade question la that the British Government adheres to its existing policy . A resolution introduced by Arthur ; Shirley Benn , Unionist member ' for Plymouth , that the entire overoceanid traffic ) with Germany should be prevented by a blockade , was talked out and the subject dropped , thus leaving the position exactly as before the de . bate , except that Parliament ' seen:lea more converted to the Government policy . Interesting figures published by the War Department shattered the elaborate structure raised by the newspapers , ana Sir Edward Grey 's effective speech appeared to finish the work thus begun . After the Foreign Secretary had spoken , Commander Bellairs said he had expected that nine-tenths of the House would be against Sir Edward ' Grey , but since his speech he had o admit that nine-tenths were with him , , In fact , after the Foreign Secretary sat down , the House gradually emptied , and at one time during the debate only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the Opening . At the opening of the debate the House was crowded , the representatives of all the business sections being very conspicuous , and the galleries also were filled , notable visitors being the American Ambassador , the Swedish and Danish Ministers , Lord Fisher , and Lord Stamfordham , Private Secretary to the King . Mr. Bean , on introducing the motion for an effective blockade , urged the Government , in conjunction with the Entente Allies , to declare that the entire over - oceanic traffic with Germany should be prevented by a blockade . he Bald he did not think America would object , as the blockade would be on the same principle as was the blockade declared by President Lincoln . Mr. Benn repudiated any intention of embarrassing the Government . Some persons , he said , thought that a greater use of sea power might have Shortened the war , but ne realized that the Government had difficulties to face . However , he added , there was no doubt importations by neutrals had gone on increasingly , and that Germany bad ob @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Orders in Council had neither sausfieu the neutrals nor prevented uermany from getting the supplies , he contended . " If , instead , we had issued the declaration of a blockade on the lines of that proclaimed by Lincoln in the civil war , " he said , " coupled with the emphatic enforcement of the law of continuous voyage and the doctrine of ultimate destination , I believe we would have prevented Germany getting a great many commodities she already has re. ; ceived . " I hope the Government will abolish the Orders in Council and issue in conjunction with our allies a strong declaration that the Allies have decided from now on that the entire over-oceanic traffic to Germany shall be prevented by a blockade of German ports . From Norway to Gibraltar " Lines should be drawn from outside the Norwegian three-mile limit to Scotland and across the English Channel and the Straits of Gibraltar , and every- , Elting going Into Germany , or coming , should be stopped there , even if we are accused of violating the rights of neutrals . " We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force at once if we are convinced that it will bring the war to a speedier close . " From what I know of America I do n't think she will object , for it will be on the same principle as the blockade declared by Lincoln , and the blockade would be an American blockade . " It would hearten our people and would let the Empire and the world know that.our rulers had the courage to act in a way to which I believe we have a legal and moral right . " Calls Critics , Figures MIA-ending . Sir Edward Grey opened his speech by saying that it was a difficult and complicated subject which the House had under consideration . He had . gathered from the debate that there was a real misappreherisl on concerning the amount of trade passing Into Germany and regarding what this Government was doing to stop that trade . The figures given in ' the press had created a grotesque impression in. regard to the amount of leakage and ' would . not bear investigation . He asserted that the ate tack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government , for they did not take into consideration the fact that the United States had merely made , supplies which neutrale formely drew from Germany . The figures given for exports dealt only with goods which left the United States , and gave no information concerning their arrival . , Sir - Edward - referred ; as- an =example , to the case of meat cargoes consigned to neutral countries/and bow . before ; - English iirize courts . He proceeded to analyze ' go-me - cif the published figures to demonstrate that they were mis-leadingAs a ? - matter of fast , he said , the Government was doing what the supporters of the blockade policy demanded .. " We can not do more than we are already =doing. " he said . With regard to wheat ? the Foreign Secretary showed that , so far from Scandinavian and Holland having sent 31,000,000 bushels into Germany . those countries had not imported more than their normal requirements , and he emphasized the fact that under any system , - whether there was a blockade or not , there must be some leakage . He asserted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than might have been expected . Denies that the Navy Is Hampered . Sir Edward warmly repudiated the suggestion that the Foreign Office was hampering the navy , and he explained at length the method of dealing with cargoes brought into British ports . The Contraband Committee , which included two representatives of the Admiralty , the speaker said , had done its work admirably , and last year there were only three cases in which ships were dealt with without consulting that committee . Sir Edward said it was time these attacks coosed , for they must have a dispiriting effect on the nary , because they led the officers and men of that service to suppose that their work was being undone by another department . Continuing , Sir Edward said : " The task of the Foreign Office is a burdensome one . It has to do its best to retain the good-will of neutrals and see to it that the source of certain supplies for ourselves and our Allies be not cut off . At the time , it has to explain , justify and defend our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tine of blockade , we must do it consistently with the right of neutrals , and we must let through bona fide vessels forfo neutral ports . " That is the intention of the supporters of the ' blockade resolution , and that is what is acually being done . We are unable to do more than attempt to stop all goods entering or leaving Germany , and that is being done . " We are applying the doctrine of continuous voyages . " Sir Edward said . " We quite agree that we want common action with our allies , and that is what we had with France when the Order in Council was issued . France to Join in Answer to Es . " We are going to answer the last United States note , but in the first instance in consultation with the French Government . That consultation is now Place , and consultations with other allies who are concerned in the carrying out of our policy may follow . " With regard to neutrals , the - Government is perfectly ready to examine any other method of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the one now adopted , which might be more convenient and agreeable in practice , so long as it was effective . " I would say to neutrals that we can not abandon our rights of interference with enemy trade and can not exercise that right without considerable inconvenience to their trade . They must answer the one main question : " Do they admit our right to apply to the full the principles applied by the American Government in the civil war . and to do our best to prevent trade reaching the enemy through neutrals ? " If they answer ' Yes , ' as they are bound in fairness to do , then I would say , let them do their best to make it easy for us to distinguish . " If they answer that we are not entitled to prevent trade with the enemy , and if the neutral countries take that line , it would be a departure from neutrality . I do not understand that they will take that line . It is quite true there were things in the last American note which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Great Britain to prevent goods . even contraband , going wholesale to the enemy : but I do not understand that that is the attitude of the t'nited States or any other Gov-ernment " Contrast of Germany 's Attitude . Sir Edward , in scathing terms , contrasted Germany 's attitude in regard to neutrals with that of Great Britain , and said : " If ever there was a war in which we and our allies could employ recognized belligerent rights to their utmost extent , it is this war . What would have been said by neutrals if we had done what Germany has done ? " The Foreign Secretary emphasized again what was the aim of the Allies . and concluded by declaring : " We shall see this thing through to . the end . " The Foreign Secretary made considerable use of the figures given in the statement issued by the War Trade Department yesterday , and he warmly protested against the injustice done the Government by misleading statistics published in the press . The Government , he said , was being doubly attacked  --  by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in prize courts , and by the British press , on the ground that those self-same goods had reached the enemy . For this reason he recommended a very careful study of the department 's figures . His contention was that the utmost ingenuity would not prevent smuggling , and , in this connection , he mentioned the name of Lord Farringdon , who , before he was elevated to the peerage . was Sir Alexander Henderson . Lord Farringdon had visited neutral countries to investigate the control of trading and as the result of his inquiry made a very satisfactory report , showing that the amount of trade passing through neutral countries to enemy territory was much less than might have been expected . The general tendency of Lord Farringdon 's report , said the Secretary . was to show that the maximum was being done without serious trouble with neutral countries . Questioned as to - whether the House might see the report , Sir Edward replied that it would be impossible to publish the report without giving information to the enemy , which would reduce the power of getting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interested perusing the report To a question as to whether the decision of the Contraband Committee could be overridden , the Secretary replied . in the affirmative and instanced the case of the steamer Stockholm , which was of extreme interest to Sweden . The steamer had been seized while making her first trip in the service of a new line , but on request of the Swedish Government was released on the latter giving the required assurances respecting the destination of her cargo . Neutral Good Will Essential . The Secretary insisted on the importance of retaining the good will of neutrals in order to facilitate obtaining supplies of munitions and other products for the Allies , declaring that Great Britain must not wrongfully interfere with neutrals obtaining necessary supplies for themselves . " You have no right to make neutrals Suffer , " he declared . He contended that it would be impossible to establish an effective line of blockade and forbid all ships to go through , adding : " Neither could we put every cargo in prize court . If we had done that , the War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole world would have been against us , and we and our allies would have collapsed under the general resentment of the whole world . Therefore , if such lines are established , we must allow ships for neutral ports with bona fide neutral cargoes to go through . " What I understand is meant when you say ' blockade ' is that you are going to discriminate , and that Is exactly what is now being done . " The Secretary repudiated the idea that a technical blockade would be . more palatable to neutral countries , and Lasaid : ' If anybody wishes to realize the usstification of our present policy he only to read the correspondence with the United States . If he wishes ' to read the objections taken to it  --  objections which any sort of policy might meet with , be can read the American notes to Great Britain , especially the last note , which has not yet been answered . " In this connection Sir Edward said that consultation with France was with a view not merely to pursuing the same policy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same ease before the world . On the general question be said that tbs Goverisinent , yowl trying to avoid friction with the neutrals by securing agreements , not with the Governnients , but with the traders , to facilitate disc crimlnation between genuine and enemy goods . He laid stress on the fact that Great Britain had a duty ' toward the Allies in this matter , although , he added , had Great Britain had ? no allies . doubtless site would have ? done precisely- the same thing : " , " - ? After Sir Edward Grey had concluded . the discussion lost interest . Gershom Stewart , Unionist , thought it would be advantageous to allow France to conduct negotiations with America respecting the blockade . William A. Hewins . Unionist , thought that Sir Edward Grey had failed to make as good a case as he might have done , and contended that Great Britain had not yet touched the German economic machine . He wanted to see Germany wrecked on the economic as well as the military side . The Right Hon. Sir @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason to be satisfied with the debate . He suggested that food should be absolute contraband . Fatal Errors Possible , Says Cecil . Lord Robert Cecil , Parliamentary Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs , assured the House , on the authority of Lord Farringdon , that there was no word of truth in the charges brought against British representatives In neutral countries . He regarded with suspicion those in neutral countries who were urging the Allies to declare a blockade . " We are trying to do , with some success , " he said , " something that no nation ever tried before , namely , to blockade Germany through neutral countries . It is not a case for high-handedness , but rather for great caution and circumspection . It would be easy to make mistakes which might be so serious as to prevent our winning the war . " 