@@684431

txt Tobacco Products Export Corporation has been formed to handle all of the foreign business of the Tobacco Products Corporation . It has taken out a charter in the state of New York and will be capitalized as follows : 10,000 shares of 8% cumulative preferred stock of a par value of $100 each and 88,000 shares of common A voting stock and 40,000 shares of common 13 non-voting stock . The common stock of both classes will be without par value . I The following officers have been chosen : R. M. Ellis , president ; Gray Miller , vice-president ; J. B. Jeffries , treasI urer ; W. A. Ferguson . secretary and F. Slitner , assistant secretary . Mr. Ellis has been associated with George J. Whelan ever since the formation of the Tobacco Products Corpora-1 tion . He is one of the best knOwn tobacco men in the country and started with the American Tobacco Co. in 1902 . In 1907 he became affiliated with the Meiachrino Co. and when Mr. Whelan took over the Melachrino con-1 cern as a subsidiary to the Tobacco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the stock of the Tobacco Products Export Corp . will he owned by the Tobacco Products Corp . It is the intention of the new concern to go after foreign business all over the world . The new company has already taken over the Tobacco Products factories in Cannda , England and Cairo , Egypt . Gray Miller , vice-presiI dent V the new company left yesterday on a tour around the world in the interests of the new concern . It is the intention of the export company to open new factories during the current year in China and Australia and probably in India . Ultimately it is likely that the new company will handle foreign business for other tobacco concerns of this country in addition to the Tobacco Products Corp . In this respect it will be much similar to the Steel Export Corp . which . handles steel products for many companies in this country . This marks the entry of an American company in the foreign tobacco field . Ever since tle old tobacco trust was formed by James B. Duke the understanding has prevailed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divided would leave the foreign business to the BritishAmerican Tobacco Co . But the Tobacco Products Corporation which was an independent concern formed in 1912 by Mr. Whelan is naturally not bound by any such restrictions . Furthermore it has the added advantage of being able to go into the British Isles which privilege does not extend to the British-American Tobacco Co . When the war was on back in 1901 between the British-American Tobacco Co. and the . Imperial Tobacco Co. of England , controlling interests got together and made an agreement that the Imperial concern would have exclusive rights to the British Isles while the British-American concern could go anywhere else in , the world with the exception of course of the United States where the tobacco business was controlled by the Arherican Tobacco Co . The British-American Tobacco Co. at that time was a subsidiary of the American Tobacco Co. 