@@679066

txt The newly invented electric bulletin press , which has been printing bulletins in one of the Broadway windows of the Times Building since last Monday , will I be used to present with a rapidity and clearness heretofore impossible bulletins on the fight at Reno on Monday afternoon . The crowds which have daily ' watched this invention handle ordinary bulletins for a week will see it tested for speed to-morrow . The new press bulletin is as far ahead of the now ancient methods of bulletining as the typewriter is ahead of handwriting , so far as speed and clearness are concerned . As fast as the matter for the bulletins comes in over the wire it will be sent to the desk of an operator siting at a keyboard near the Broadway window . He will repeat the bulletin on his keyboard , and the complex machinery connected with the keyboard will cause a big type wheel in the window to reproduce the bulletin on a roll of paper in the window . It will take little more than a minute to print a bulletin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter comes into the office . MAY RAIN ON THE FOURTH . 08 Degrees Yesterday 's Hottest ? Thirty Prostrations . It may rain on the irourtn . The district weather forecast says that in this section it will be partly cloudy and continued warm to-day , with light to moderate winds , mostly from the west , with probable rains Sunday night and Monday . Yesterday morning at 8 o'clock the United States weather observers found there were only three places in this country hotter than New York . Galveston , Mobile , and Marquette , Mich. , showed 80 degrees to . New York 's 78 . And there were only three other places in all the country that equaled New York 's temperature at that time  --  Chicago , Detroit , and Philadelphia . At Durango , Col. , It was - ie . Starting at S o'clock with 78 degrees registered on the thermometer , the temperature here went up steadily yesterday until it reached SS , the highest point , at 4 : ? 10 e ? elock in the afternoon , with the humidity all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which has been engaging the attention of the weather men for the last day or so in the Southwest stayed stationary there yesterday , and in consequence there was rain over the Gulf States , the South Atlantic States , Tennessee , and the Southern Missouri Valley . There were thirty heat prostrations in the city yesterday , of which thirteen were in Brooklyn . The only death noted ac due directly to the heat was that of Thomas Higginbotham , ( 32 years old , head keeper of the Coney Island Lighthouse for fifteen years . He had been in the service for thirty years . He was a brother-inlaw of Capt . James Burke of the Lighthouse Department . Mr. Higginbotham was stricken while waiting for a car at Tompkinsville , Staten Island , to take him to New Dom where he was to join . an outing of lighthouse keepers . STEER ADRIFT IN THE BAY . Was Making for Staten Island When Overcome by a Tug 's Wash . A black steer , battling with the waves off St. George , S. L. attracted the attenAtion ef @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The steer seemed to have waged its fight for a long time and to be weakening . Its eyes were bloodshot , and several times the water bubbled as it covered the panting nostrils .. Just as the animal seemed to be gaining toward the land two railroad tugs , each drawing several floats put out from St. George . The steer tried to avoid them , but was buffeted in their path . It was caught midv. - ay between the two strings of floats , and the heavy wash from the tugs breaking over its head engulfed it and it did not rise again . It is believed that the steer escaped from a cattle boat . SWAN SONG OF HORSE CAR Sung by Receiver Whitridge  --  Storage Batteries to be Used . After experiments with gasoline and storage battery cars , the Third Avenue Railroad has decided to do away with all of its horse cars and to substitute storage battery cars . The new equipment , consisting of thirty cars , has just been ordered by Receiver Whitridge and will be ready for service in the early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new cars will do away with horse cars on the Avenue B. Dry Dock , Canal Street , and St. Nicholas Avenue lines , which long have been the subject of jokes and criticism . Bodies for the new cars are being built in the Third Avenue Company 's barns , while the motors and batteries will be furnished by a company which guarantees their operation and contracts to maintain the batteries for five years .                     