@@680273

txt What may be regarded as the chief message of President Teter is dignified and candid in tone and wise in its main suggestions . Two points are of special weight , because they are in no sense contentious and involve permanent interests of great importance . We refer to the treatment of currency reform and to that of the policy of the United States with reference to the Philippines . The President indorses the general plan of the Monetary Commission with regard to the currency . He states simply and clearly the defects which experience has shown in our present system ; its lack of conformity to the . changing conditions of business ; its tendency to make disturbance in business worse and to encourage expansion when restraint would be wholesome ; its helplessness in periods of stress , and its unfitness to meet the conditions of growing strength and energy . Mr. TAFT grasps also the urgent need of a central organization of our vast banking Interests which , while avoiding carefully the risk of undue control , shall give to each bank the aid of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for common advantage . He approves of the general principle of federation while emphasizing the expediency of preventing too great concentration of power and influence . He makes an earnest plea for respect to the candid and honest opinions of financiers , who alone can devise a system adequate to the needs of all . He recommends the Commission plan , but would give a greater voice to the Government in the Reserve Association , and asks : Is it not the duty of Congress to take up the ; plan suggested , examine it from all standpoints , give impartial consideration to the testimony of those whose expi:rience ought to fit them to give the best adviee on the subject , and then to adopt some plan which will Secure the benefits desired ? The question really can be answered in one way only . The matter is not partisan , is not in any true sense political . As Mr. TAFT justly says : A banking and currency system seems far away from the wage earner and the farmer . but the fact is that they are vitally interested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volume to the amount needed and which shall prevent times of artificial stringency that frighten capital , stop employment , prevent the meeting of the payroll , destroy local markets , and produce penury and want . Equally removed from party differences is , or ought to be , the policy of the United States toward the Philippine Islands . On this Mr. TAFT speaks with authority . He is intimately informed as to all that has been done in the islands and all that remains to be thine . He knows the aim of our Government and how far it has been attained . He lthows at once the great results that have been got , the difficulties that have been overcome , and those that must still be ? met . He is absolutely opposed to the bill pending in Congress to give immediately to the people of the Philippines substantial autonomy , and In eight years to give them complete independence . His opposition is not based on considerations of our own interests , but solely on the interests  --  on what may be called the essential rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our intention to give them independence when they are capable of self-government . We have undertaken to train them for self-government . We have given to them a ' steadily increasing measure of selfgovernment , and , meanwhile , we have sought to promote their welfare in all possible ways  --  by education , by sanitation , by improved transportation and public works , and especially by the spread of a common language , the indispensable condition to an effective public opinion . Mr. TAFT believes that the people of the islands will certainly , in the end , respond to these efforts and be fitted to govern themselves . When they are he would leave them entirely free to decide their independence . To make that decision for them now would be an act of cowardice and cruelty . The President says : A present declaration even of future Independence would retard progress by the dissension and disorder it would arouse . On our part it would be a disingenuous attempt , under the guise ofconferring a benefit onthento relieve ourselves ' from the " heavy and burden which thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be a disguised policy of scuttle . It would make the helpless Filipino the football of Oriental politics , under the protection of a guarantee of their independence , which we would be powerless to enforce . This is the counsel of responsible statesmanship . We trust that it will meet with proper response                     