@@682857

txt Francisco Villa 's automobile , which he was using to direct his campaign against the Carranza troops , was struck by shell fire today , and was abandoned near Fresno , southwest of the city . Villa drove in the machine to within about three miles of the city from the northwest yesterday afternoon , and the car was then shelled by long range guns , but he escaped . The shell holes and bullet marks were plainly seen on the sl , es of the b g automobile today a h , : n it was tound on the : battlefield after Vila abandoned it and rode away on horseback . The battle today ( Saturday ) started soon after telegraphic communication with Juarez was cut . The wire went down at 10 o'clock A. M. , and the battle started raging by 11:30 A. M. The baadlts ' attack covered the entire reuthern front , with flanking operations t ? the east and west . The most desperate fighting occurred in Zarco Avenue within the city . The bandits threw their best equipped forces aga.nst @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ street , and street fighting followed . ? The invaders made every possible effort to take these intrenehments , which were the key to the defenses of the city proper The de facto infantry met thew charges with countercharges and the battle waged back and forth in this narrow street until the Villa bandits were driven out of the mouth of the avenue on to the plains , where they were raked with mach:ne-gun fire from the housetops and the artillery fire which had supported effectively the infantry efforts . General Trevino is prepared for another general assault . Although the indications today were the enemy would not attack again , Trevino is not relinquishing his vigilance arid is prepared for a surprise assault from any one of the four quarters . At the time this message was dispatched by courier there were no bandits to be seen west of the city . General Carlos Ozuna 's cavalry charges in that direction completely freed that sector of Villa forces . The losses on both sides are reported to be heavy , as some of the fighting of the last twenty-four hours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fell outside of the city could not be rescued from the " No Man 's Land " beyond the first-line trenches because of the firing by both the bandits and the Government forces . It is expected rescue parties will be sent out undercover of night tonight to bring in the wounded and bury the dead . The wounded who fell within the city are being cared for at the Municipal Hospital . Women are serving as volunteer nurses in this and other hospitals of the city . The troops on both the bandit and Government sides appear very tired after three days of almost constant fighting . The Government forcer. however , are in good spirits . They celebrated the victories which they claim over the Villa bandits , as they hudrVel around their camp fires in the first trenches . A small band of Villa bandits late yesterday afternoon took a foothold in the Church of Santa Rio de Guadalupe . They were driven out by gunfire from their stronghold , and cavalry dispersed them . This morning small groups of enemy cavalry were shelled by the artillery of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who has already left Santa Rosalia with 3.500 cavalry , is expected to reach here Sun -- day and drive off the remaining bandits . Villa is expected to withdraw soon to the hills as his forces have been scattered by the shell and rifle fire of the de facto forces and his efforts to capture the city are growing less and less forceful . He is believed to have learned of the advance of General Maycotte . Officers of General Trevino 's Genera : Staff expect to d.sperse the remaining forces of the bandits and declare the situation will be completely cleared by tonight .                     