@@679488

txt Announcement ... as made at the Brooklyn Navy Yard yesterday afternoon that orders had been received feorn Washington transferring Naval Constructor Willlam J. Baxter from Brooklyn to the Boston station . Tire transfer caused great surprise because of the Important work which Capt . Baxter has in hand in the completion of the battleship.Florida , and the laying down in the near future of the keel of the great battleship New York . There was deep resentment in the yard , and an official there said last night that there was some talk among the workers Of holding a Mass meeting to discuss the change . Capt . Baxter has been highly praised for his work in the building of the Connecticut and the Florida , and the People of the yard say they can see no good , reason for supplanting him with another man at this time . Capt . Baxter has been rigid in his Inspection of armor plate for the two great fighting ships he has built , and has rejected all plates found to be in the least defective . Some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the steel interests . Capt . Baxter goes to Boston on May 1 . There he will succeed Constructor George H. Rock . Constructor Rock will go to Washington to take the place of Constructor Robert Stocker as a member- ; of the Board of Inspection and Survey . Constructor Stocker succeeds Capt . Baxter in Brooklyn . The authority of Capt . Baxter In the local yard has in the last few months been curtailed by the authorities in Washington , In February , two years ago , he was placed at the head of the manufacturing , department , a consolidation of various-bureaus . Last December this department was split into two divisions , and Constructor Baxter 's authority was restricted . Now he Is to be sent back to a post he held twelve years ago as Commander , after large experience in Important warship construction . He has been at the Brooklyn Navy Yard seven years . At the yard yesterday afternoon it was said that an unofficial explanation from Washington as to the transfer was othat It had been ordered in line with Secretary Meyer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than four years in any one yard at a. stretch . The Secretary , it was said , desired . to give as many of the constructors as possible ex- , perience in the building of big warships . The work of constructing the New York , which Capt . Baxter expected to begin soon , will now fall to Constructor Stocker . He is said to be well equipped for the task . Capt . Baxter himself declined last even- , ing to discuss his transfer to Boston . Rear Admiral Leutze , the Commandant , I said : " Naval Constructor Baxter has been a very good officer , and we are all sorry to see- him go . " Another official said : " We think it is a mistake to take Capt . i Baxter from the yard at this time , an1 ; there Is some talk among the men of holding a mass meeting at which resolutions may be adopted , requesting the Secretary of the Navy to keep Capt . Baxter here until work on the Florida has been completed , and the keel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I wish it distinctly understood , how , ever , that if anything of the kind is done it will not be for the purpose of entering any protest against the transfer , as we , in no Circumstances , would think of trying to tell the Secretary of the  --  Navy what to do , or try to influence him in any way in making changes or transfers so far as this navy yard is concerned . " When it was learned to-day that Capt . Baxter was to be transferred to Boston great surprise and deep regret were expressed by , all the employes . Mr. Baxter has been here ror a longer period than any other constructor . He has made good , having built such fine ships as the Connecticut and the Florida . Now that the plans for the. ? New York have been perfected , material for her construc tion has been ordered , and everybody here feels that Capt . Baxter should re- I main here until her keel has been laid . " The transfer of Capt . Baxter just now might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the , carrying - out of the work ; already planned and under way in this yard . Personally , I believe in the idea , that when we have a good man here he ' should be retained or at least kept here until the work started by him has been completed . " I do n't know , of course , the reason for the transfer , but some of us here , whether right or wrong in our opinion , . , believe that Capt . Baxtermay have been a little too severe in his tests of armor plates  --  and other material for the construction , of battleships and that this may have made certain manufacturers of armor plate antagonistic to him . " 