@@683214

txt For the sake of avoiding civil war , the Lvoff Government consented to a compromise . Talk of a separate peace has ceased , and the Government , now socialistically parti-colored , will labor to induce the Allies to lay down their arms if Germany will agree to do the same . At least , the Socialist part of the Government ' will strive for that . Neither party is to make any annexations or seek any indemnities ; everybody is to shake hands and let things be as they were , and the war Is to have no decision . The Allies will agree to no such program , but Germany will be well served while the fruitless attetnpt to make them do so is going oh . If they did agree to it , the war would be a drawn battle only in name , the victory would be Germany 's . Unscathed save by the loss of lives , she would be in a.positIon immediately to begin her preparations for the next war . What she would have gained would . be the virtual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Austria , Turkey , and Bulgaria are now her vassals and would remain so . Their formal incorporation in the empire might wait in-definitely without affecting this situation one iota . France would return to peace in a shattered state , open to the next German attack ? with far less power of resistance . Where Germany 's next attack in her fight for a world .. empire would fall would depend entirely on the sagacity of her autocrats ; it might be Brazil this time , or China , or , as is more likely , France.and Belgium again . Tho war would have strengthened her as it would have weakened all her opponents except Japan . and the United States . The peace , which would be practically only an armistice , would be as short or as long as she chose to make it , and its duration would depend only on the length of time it took her to make ready for the new attack . - . The other Powers-would , of coprse , . seek : to ' prevent , her - from realising these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than they have ever armed before , ' ang , arming permanently . ? All the threatened nations , including those that have never armed before on ' any large scale , would have to bid good-bye to the ways of peace and turn themselves into camps , for the great nations that now protect them , England and France , would be at a disadvantage , and manhood would have to be called from industry to war preparations . These preparations would necessitate the continuance and increase of war taxation in the countries now at war and the laying of new taxes in all other countries . For generations to come men would live under the shadow of war and under  --  the pressure of intolerable taxation . The nineteenth century would pass into history as the Golden Age , the age In which the taxgatherer was the least Of a citizen 's concerns . It is for this that the pacifists and Socialists of Russia are working , and it is of no consequence that they do not know they are working for it and imagine they are working @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests of labor , but they are working to doom labor for generations to poverty and hardship and military rule . They think they are working for the millennium , but they are working to end prosperity and bring about poverty throughout ' the world . They think they are working for Russia , but their proposal to give up the access of Russia to the sea is a proposal to force Russia back into the dungeon which has prevented her taking her place among prosperous commercial nations ; or perhaps they are too ignorant to know that commerical prosperity in a nation extends to all classes as well as to the , traders . , They think they are working for peace , but they are working for a world in arms , feverishly preparing for Armageddon , for a war compared with which this one will sink into the second place . , ..                     