@@680354

txt It looks for the first time as if a distinct movement toward American-designed fashions for American women were under way . In the past we have had spasmodic waves now and then , and they have left only a splash on our shores . But this time the question has assumed a distinct form , and the whole discussion bears the marks of a movement that has come to stay . As if by maglo the question leaped to the surface a few months ago , and since that time the newspapers in all parts of the country have contained hundreds of articles and editorials on the subject . The " trade " journals devoted to the textile and women's-wear Industries have devoted pages to the topic . The largest department etores In the great cities , that are always barometers peculiarly sensitive to public demand , are In their advertisernents striking the American keynote side by side with the Paris note . So powerful a newspaper as THE NEW YORIC TINES is conducting the first prize newspaper contest for an American-designed hat and dress . Shopkeepers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first time within their knowledge , their customers are asking about American designs . Two of the most fashionable dressmakers on Fifth Avenue in New York , hitherto large importers of Paris models , have already felt the demand so strongly that they have come out openly for American designs and have discarded almost entirely the Paris models . Thus the wholesale manufacturer , the retailer , the department store , the newspaper , and the public are lining up on the side of what all declare to be " the new era of woman 's dress in America . " " Where will American fashions come from ? " some ask . The answer Is simple : From the same historic sources from which come the French . fashions . For one thing must be clearly borne in mind : the French dressmakers never originate ; they adopt . The Russian dancers make a sensation at the Grand Opera House in Paris , and we have the Russian blouse . A Balkan war comes on , and immediately there is a Turkish feeling In the styles from Paris . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The French dressmakers go to their libraries and art galleries , study the designs of a period , adapt them , and lot we have the source and inspiration of fashion . It is idle to say that this skill of adaptation is impossible to the American . We must all , concede that there was a time when Paris absolutely led the world in the matter of clothes , when French fashions were marvels of art , of design , of color , and of line . The men who made these designs were consummate masters of their art : they stood unrivaled ; but they took years sometimes to create these masterpieces . They were the dressmakers of royalty and were paid by the State . Did these men alter the styles every year or six months ? Not at all . A style would last for years , end did not change until the mind of the artist received a distinct Inspiration , and then the idea would be translated into a hat or a gown or a bodice . But what are the conditions now ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the blood has run out . They are tradesmen pure and simple : Then , too , the original masters of French dress never designed for the American market . They had in mind only the women they knew , the - women of the Latin races . The American woman never entered Into their ken , - for the simple nd slatialetat reason : that lino did not exist. ? ?                     