@@680134

txt We all pay Federal taxes , although not all of us know it or appreciate how much we . pay . Accordingly , we all are interested in whatever increases the burden of the Federal taxes . The deficit in the District of Columbia finances is one burden , which is both considerable in itself and significant beyond its total for the evidence which it affords of maladministration by the National Legislature which is engaged in instructing everybody else how such affairs ought to be managed . The investigating committee reports that the District " is assessed irregularly , un " scientifically , without system , and " with gross discrimination between " section and section , between class and " class , between land and improve " ments . " This produces an undervaluation of $414,000,000 , . true values of $744,000,000 being taxed for only $330 , - 000,000 . This undervaluation is the more obnoxious because practiced in favor of the rich . Properties ranging from $200,000 to $2,000,000 in value , belonging to millionaires ' and distinguished persons , are underassessed , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case a machinist did 50 cents worth of painting , and his assessment was increased $500 . On this class of property the assessment is 00 per cent. , while the millionaires are taxed on 50 per cent . Thus the rich are undertaxed , even according to the rule to rate property at two-thirds real values , and the poor are overtaxed on the same rule . Willowtree Alley , where 2,500 persons occupy unfit tenements , was raised this year from 20 to 40 per cent. , and a few days later the buildings were condemned as insanitary and ordered to be torn down as worthless . Representative GEORGE , who drafted the report , is identified with theories of land taxation which are not generally approved , whatever their merit . But his findings in this report are not associated with single tax vagaries , and the Publication of the facts must be approved by all . The recommendations , it is agreeable to remark , accord with the practice of the New York Tax Department . The George committee advises publication of land value maps and assessment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon individual properties . The report raises an interesting question regarding the duty of good citizens who are underassessed . The difficulty in the way of their assessing themselves was disclosed when GIFFORD PEICHOT ' attempted it . The officials replied that it wag their duty to make assessments , not his , and that this was not the year for making corrections , Washington valuations being triennial . Probably there would be no difficulty about Mr. PDICHOT or any taxpayer with a tender conscience making contributions to the conscience fund . A better way would be feasible if the recommendations of the George report were adopted . In that case , any citizen regarding himself overassessed might insist upon his neighbors being assessed up to his standard . ' The result of this standardization upward would be an astonishing increase of income , and a corresponding reduction in the rate of taxation . Those overtaxed who . seek reduction of assessment both standardize taxes downward and increase the rate . There are cases of relative overassessment , but comparatively few of actual overassessment . Good citizenship therefore is satisfied as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he ought compared with yourself as by requiring the ' reduction of your own assessment to a ' lower standard . This is just as true of the City of New York as of the District of Columbia , with the added fact to the credit ' of our department that the materials for standardization are available now . No New York taxpayer has any excuse for not knowing whether he is undertaxed or overtaxed , and it is easy to call to the department 's attention any ' inadvertent injustice . If an are taxed equally high , there will be no problems of unust taxation of either sort .                     