@@680955

txt In conferences to-day with the Senators and Representatives who will have charge of the anti-Trust legislation in Congress , President Wilson emphasized the point that he wanted the subject to be considered in a spirit of conciliation and with due regard for business interests . The President 's coming address on antitrust measures , it was brought out , will trust measures , it is asserted , will set forth clearly that the proposed interstate commission will be mainly a body for malting , inquiries and giving information , and that it will not have power to fix prices for the sale of trust commodities or exercise such supervision over industrial affairs as the Interstate Commerce Commission has over railroad rates . At the same time the legislative programme is intended to be of a farreaching character . Its salient points are : 1 . Prohibition of interlocking directorates and " communities of interests " in interstate corporations , the law being so framed as to reach persons not serving as Directors of supposedly competitive concerns , but , nevertheless , exercising control over these concerns through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interstate trade commission , having supervisory and regulatory powers , but without powers to fix prices . 3 , Extension of the period of the statute of limitations , fixed by the Sherman law at three years , to five years . 4 . Passage of a supplemental provision to the Sherman law giving individuals the right to begin suits in equity under that act against combinations in alleged restraint of trade and commerce . Under existing law only the Federal Government has this right , and at present individuals may only sue for damages . 5 . Addition to the Sherman law - granting to individuals the right of intervention if Government suits bring it under that law . 6 . Another addition to the Sherman law providing that individuals suing for damages under that law shall have the benefit of any findings by the courts or otherwise in any suits that the Government has brought under that law . As the law now stands , an individual suing an alleged illegal combination or monopoly - for damages must from start to finish prove his case showing that the Sherman law has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by utilizing-findings in . Government , Suits , the individual ; only ? have to prove his damages . It is said- ? also ' that there - will be an eliniinatiOn of all uncertainty as to what constitutes a restraint of trade under the Sherman law through specific definition of monopolies and trusts ; that all possibility of " immunity bathe " Tor offending corporations or individuals will be removed , - and that provision will be made for penalties based on individual responsibility and ? personal guilt . - The Interstate Trade Board is to be a sort of committee on - conciliation . It is apparently based on the idea that. - the Attorney . General 's policy -1 endeavoring to induce ' alieged illegal combinations to dissolve- and reotganize. voluntarily will be consistently successful . The Trade Board will be expected to assist the Attorney General in this work and when such work Is not provided it will seek to make itself acquainted with the affairs of industrial corporations to ascertain whether the laws are being observed . As it is understood now , the board will be an extension of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Joseph E. Davies , the present Commissioner of Corporations , will be its Chairman if Congress enacts this proposed legislation . Mr. Davies is in the full confidence of President Wilson In the drafting of the anti-trust legislation programme , and is to have an intimate part in the arrangements for putting the ' proposed new statutes into operation . Significant Talk of Newlands . An inkling of the purposes the President and his Congressional advisers have in mind in the suggested formation of the Interstate Trade Board was given to-night in a statement by Senator Newlands of Nevada , Chairman of the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce , who was one of those called into consultation by the President today in connection with the anti-trust measures . While declining to discuss his conference at the White House , Mr. Newlands announced his continued advocacy of his own bill for an industrial commission . " I still believe . " said Mr. Newlands , " that the organization of such a commission would be a most efficient instrumentality for bringing ' big business ' - in harmony with . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigation , and correction , would be of great service in effecting compliance with the law without resort to the courts and also of service to the courts and the Attorney General in the dissolution and reorganization of corporations organized in violation of the Sherman ' Anti-Trust law . " Such a. commission , while having no Power to give immunity , would be an effective agent in speedily adjusting the organization of big corporations which are now showing a desire to conform to ' the law . This course . would be conducive to industrial peace , under which big business can go on without violent readjustments prejudicial both to the public and themsewes . " ' The first conference at the White House to -- clay was attended by Chairman Clayton . of the House Committee on the Judiciary and Representatives Carlin , Webb , , and Floyd . of Arkansas , Democratic members of that committee . Late this afternoon tile President - had a conference with Chairman Newlands and ? the Democratic Senators on the Committee on interstate and Foreign Commerce . To the Senators and Representatives who Saw ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislation  --  and found his visitors in thorough accord with his ideas . The Trade Board as provided for in the proPoSed . law will . consist of five members , not more than two of whom shall be of the-same political party , thus making it a bipartisan bony similar to the Interstate Commerce Commission . One of its functions will be to see whether decrees of ' the ' Federal Courts for the dissolution of- combinations , in- restraint of trade are.being observed - in letter-and ' spirit . Thus- the board woulchtake. out of the hands - of the Attorney-General his present inquiry-into. the - allegation that the court decrees dissolving the Tobacco Trust had been ineffective . The board is to have power to undertake such inquiries of its own initiative . Generally , it will work in harmony and co-operate with the Department of Justice . In large measure , as the Attorney General seeks to punish corporations that do not obey the law , the board will endeavor to persuade such corporations to be good , and thus escape an application of the punitive power of the Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Next Wee While it was the expectation of those directly concerned that the President would deliver his address to Congress Monday or Tuesday , no definite date for his appearance at the Capitol has been fixed . Much will depend on the progress made with the measures intended to carry his ideas into effect Tentative drafts of these bills Have been prepared , but it was not decided today whether they should all be embodied in one bill or divided among several bills . It is also to be determined whether the bills shall be amendatory of the Sherman anti-trust law or supplementary to it , or both . President Wilson , however , has expressed the conviction that the Sherman law should be allowed to remain intact , and it is likely that his wish will be followed . it was made clear to-day that the new legislation should be directed excluslvely by the Democratic Party . Republican members of the committees concerned will not be consulted , The Democratic leaders believe that the party will obtain much credit from the new trust legislation , and they are unwilling to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The experiment of letting Republican members of the Senate Committee on Banking and Currency participate in the preparation of the amended Currency bill enacted did not turn out happily from the Administration 's viewpoint , and it is not to be repeated in the disposition of the anti-trust bill or bills .                     