@@679790

txt The decision of the State Supreme Court ousting the Harvester Trust from Missouri and imposing a fine of $50,000 contains this passage : The evidence shows that the price of harvester machines was net materially higher after the New Jersey corporation entered the field than It was before , until 1908 , when it was increased 8 or 10 per cent- , whilst In the meanwhile there had , been a greater increase in the price of the material and labor used in their construction . The evidence also shows that , whilst harvesting machines were the chief products of the companies absorbed by the International Harvester Company , that company has greatly enlarged its business and extended it to many other farm implements , and has thus put itself in competition with the many concerns that theretofore were , and still are , engaged in manufacturing snob other farm implements , and the farmers generally have profited thereby . The evidence also shows that the machines manufactured by the International Company have been greatly improved in quality and the item of repair material placed within closer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence shows that the International Harvester Company has not used its power to oppress or injure the farmers who are its customers . There could be no question , however , that the International Harvester ComPans , of America , which was the representative in Missouri and the selling agent of the parent corporation , the International Harvester Company organized in New Jersey , bad a substantial monopoly of the trade in the State of Missouri . The court , therefore , proceeds : When men deliberately and intelligently go to work and acquire power that will enable them to control the market , if they choose to exercise it , there is no use for them to say that they did not intend to control the trade or limit competition , nor , when the legality of their act of acquisition is in question , is It any use for them to say , We have not used the power to oppress any one . ? ? ? The law regards such power acquired by such a combination as dangerous to the rights of the people , and forbids its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be " an unlawful combination to suppress competition and regulate prices within the meaning of our statute , and therefore it has no right to do business in this State . " The Icourt further declared , however , that if the International Harvester Company desired to do business in Missouri Ithrough the agency of its subordinate company , it should take out a license in its own name and pay a reasonable sum for the privilege , and if within sixty days it would consent to these conditions and pay the costs of the suit , it might be permitted to take out such a license . The record to which the court refers ' fails to reveal restraint of trade or detriment to any intrinsic interest of the public . It is in evidence that this monopoly enlarged all its plants and closed down none of those which it acquired . There is no suggestion of watering of capital , or of declaration of extravagant profits . Seventy-five dealers in implements testified that the monopoly practiced no unfair or oppressive methods toward competitors , customers , or dealers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the agricultural interests of Missouri . It then is cause for inquiry In what the " gigantic and nefarious scheme " consists , and what makes it so obnoxious to the law that it must reorganize under Federal law , as well Ls cease doing business in Missouri . It does more than nine-tenths of the business In binders and mowers , and it operates through a combination of corporations. , It is obvious that a hundred-million-j dollar corporation ? vimald be severely plialized if it paid taxes In each eta* on the full capital . Accordingly the business is done in the several States through a corporation organized for that purpose with only one million cap- I ital . There is no deception , the facts being notorious and of record , but the ' States which rejoice to gather taxes discriminatingly against foreign corporations dislike the adoption of methods of evasion . The purchasers of the goods have bought more of them , of better quality , at reasonable and stable prices , and have profited relatively more than the " gigantic and nefarious " schemers . Yet it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the combination which makes a score or more of farming implements must be dissolved because in two of them it possesses a near monopoly . EX .. tenuating nothing of what the record makes indisputable , it may well be asked whether the case does not present problems for the honest haters of big business , and for others not haters of big business who are perplexed and alarmed by theoretical objections to big business . Must we give up large scale advantages because they are so great that small scale business can not live under fair competition , and is it necessary to punish good monopolies because there also are bad monopolies ? The case illustrates well the difficulty of obeying the law even with the best intent . The President of the harassed trust plaintively says that he had hoped for a judgment on the substance of its trade practices rather than on the technicalities of statutes , and that he had tried to do business in accordance with the laws of the various States and the Interests of customers . The Missouri case Is but one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Texas sued tor penalties of $1,180,000 and collected $83,000 . Arkansas acquitted it of being a trust or monopoly , but collected $20,000 . Kansas failed in collecting a $60,000 charter fee , but subjected the concern to a judgment of limited master , a Sort of observation or purgatorial period like that suggested by Attorney General WICXERSEAM and rejected by the Federal court , The trust voluntarily withdrew from Kentucky because of litigation of a certain sort by counties . In one case a judgment of $5,000 was all distributed in fees among the officials . The harrying can not be expected to stop eo long as it is popular , and it will remain popular until either experience or reason shows that it is bad policy to worry big business unless it is bad , when no excuses should be made for it , and no fear of material loss should prevent its punishment . The foundation question is whether bigness is itself bad .                     