@@683062

txt Lacking legal authority to establish general censorship , the administration tonight appealed to the patriotism of the country 's newspapers and cable companies to suppress publication and transmission of information about the movements of American merchant craft , now to be armed against German submarines . " The best news that readers can have , " Secretary Daniels said in a formal statement to press representatives , " is that the government will protect the rights of Americans to the freedom of the seas . " The publication of details . can servo no good purpose and might jeopardize human life . " Mr. Daniels has determined not to reveal any of the department 's plans for carrying out the policy ordered by President Wilson . He previously has stated , however , that the navy is pre . pared with guns , ammunition , gun crews , and all other necessary equipment or personnel to carry out the instructions . Navy yard commandants will superintend one actual installation of guns on merchant craft . The rifles , ammunition , mounts , range finders , and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from heavy six inch rifles to three inch weapons and smaller guns . The number of guns to go on each ship , the personnel selected from the active list of the navy or from the reserve , to handle the guns , the time of sailing , or the ? mines . of ships that have bed ' armed will not he disclosed .. Secretary Daniels In his sizacment to the newspaper men said : " You have read the statement issued from the White House , and now you know that the president has the power to arm American merchant ships making trips on the seas on lawful errands , and is free to exercise it at once . I do not think you ought to ask with what guns they will be armed , or how they will be : , panned , or exactly when the power will be exercised . The government should be trusted to carry out the policy In the best way . " I do not think you ought to ask when the ships will he armed ; or print when they will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to send out any news about ships sailing to or from Europe . The wireless stations are under the direction of the navy department , and no news of sailIngs will go out by radio . " I am going to request you and every newspaper and every news agency in the United States not to print any news about the arrival of ships , or when any of them will sail for European ports . There is no power of censorship in our country . The president does not have authority over the press . In this time of national emergency 1 feel sure that every newspaper will accede to the request not to even give a hint or speculation of the sailing of American ships . Such publication might result in the loss of life . All patriotic Americans are ready to make sacrifice for their country in times of emergency . The press can render the highest patriotic service by refraining from printing at this time what ordinarily it would freely print . All readers surely will applaud the papers in responding to this appeal . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be necessary for the navy department to issue instructions to gun crews as to the manlier in which the weapons are to be employed . In that will be involved a declaration of policy as to whether the appearance of a submarine in the neighborhood of a ship is sufficient warrant for opening fire . Officials would not discuss this aspect of the situation . When the application of a ship owner for arms has been approved by the navy department the commandant of the nearest navy yard will be instructed to place the guns aboard . Most of the work probably will be done at the yards , where facilities are available for handling heavy weights Contracts for additional guns of suitable size are being speeded up . It is expected that they can be completed so that weapons will be quickly available for converting merchant craft into naval auxiliaries if war comes . New York , March 9 . ? P. A. S. Franklin , president of the International Mercantile Marine company , said today that as soon as official notification came of the government decision to arm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Six American line ships are now tied up here , as yet without cargo or passenger bookings , and with crows scattered . In accordance with the request of Secretary Daniels " The Tribune ' , this Morning omits Its customary reports of ocean steamship mailings ; arrivals at American ports may still lie reported.                     