@@684123

txt New light on the crisis that has arisen between the Bolshevik ) and the representatives of the American and Entente Governments anctis fast coming to a climax , is furnished by a series of dispatches which the State Department received today from De Witt C. Poole , Jr .. the United States Consul at Moscow . After the arrest of the Consuls General of Great Britain and France , Mr. Poole , fearful that his own consulate would be violated , destroyed all his code books and records and turned over the care of American interests to the Swedish Consul General . The arrested Consuls were subsequently released through the good offices of the Swedish Consul General , but permission to leave the country was refused to the French and British Military Missions in spite of a previous promise of safe conduct . It was on July 29 , Mr. Poole 's dispatches say , that Lenine declared repeatedly before an official gathering of the Soviet that a state of war existed between the Russian republic and the allied powers . The allied consular body asked Foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the declaration should not be . taken literally . What Lenine meant , he said , was that a state of defense rather than a state of war existed . The Government desired to continue its relations with the Entente . The Consuls called for a public announcement to that effect . Tehitcherin 's reply was unsatisfactory and the Consuls told him that they could not see in his attitude anything but confirmation of Lenine 's declaration of the existence of a state of war . Tchitcherin then said that he would give a reply within three days . Tehitcherin Evades Dome . " On the night of Aug. 2 , " continues Mr. Poole , " a reply was received from Tchitcherin . It stated that inasmuch as Lenine 's utterances were made behind closed doors in a meeting at which an agent of the Allies could be present only owing to a special courtesy on the Part of the Soviet Government , public explanations could not be given about a nonpublic utterance . As to the members of the military mission , Tchitcherin said that negotiations had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Petrograd to Stockholm for these officers , passage through Archangel being impossible because British cruisers had already begun the bombardment of the islands covering Archangel . " Referring to the arrests of British and French citizens at Moscow , Mr. Poole says that on the afternoon of Aug. 5 there was a conference between Tchitcherin and the Consuls General of Japan , Sweden , and the United States with the following results : First , the Soviet Government gave solemn assurances that allied persons having diplomatic or official character would not be molested ; second , Tchitcherin stated that the allied military missions would not be allowed to depart as had already been promised ; third , that civil persons arrested were hostages for the lives of Soviet members in territory occupied by the Allies . Tchitcherin said that these persons were civil prisoners arrested in accordance ' with the practices of war , for internment . He added that no responsiblity would be fISSU med for their future safety because Great Britain and France had attacked Archangel without a declaration of war . Mr. Poole answered that he was without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but warned Tchitcherin that the peoples of the allied nations could not he intimidated , and that the initiation of a system of reprisals by the Soviet Government could only result in individual members of the Government being held personally responsible , and in the loss by the Bolshevist cause of whatever respect it might now have in the minds of the civilized world . The consuls had asked for safe conducts and were preparing for departure from Moscow , probably by way of Petrograd and Stockholm . The German Embassy had recommended that the safe conducts be granted . Secretaries and other officers of the allied embassies at Vologda , from which their Ambassadors departed on account of Bolshevist threats , were still in that city on Aug. 0 . the date of Mr. Poole 's last message . The American Minister to Sweden has reported to the Department of State that he had been informed by the Swedish Foreign Office that on Aug. 5 the Swedish Consul General at Moscow took temporary charge of American as well as English and Japanese interests . President Wilson called at the office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to the purpose of the visit . It was suggested that ho wished to discuss the Russian situation and the propriety of undertaking retaliation against Germany for the use of poison gas and the destruction of fishing vessels and lighthouses along the Atlantic Coast of the United States . WASHINGTON , Aug. 14 , ( Associated Press ) . ? A dispatch from Archangel today says the diplomatic corps of the Entente nations are living aboard warships in the harbor owing to lack of accommodations and the crowded conditions of the city of Archangel . It is possible that , since the sending of Consul General Poole 's telegrams , which began At July 29 and continued until Aug. 0 , the situation may have changed , because it is reported that Lenine and Trotzky , the Bolshevist leaders , have fled , and the Soviet Government in Moscow may have been overthrown . In that event , Mr. Poole and the Entente missions may find themselves in a better situation . But should the situation be unchanged , the American Consul General 's action in turning his office over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Consuls in Russia , as they have been working with the local Governments throughout Russia where pro-ally feeling is strong . Not at War with United States , AMSTERDAM , Aug. ** Bolshevist Government of Russia , as late as Aug. 0 , considered itself still at peace with the United States , although at war with Great Britain and France , according to a note delivered on that date by Foreign Minister Tchitcherin to Consul General Poole at Moscow , as quoted by the German semi-official Wolff Bureau . The Bolshevist Minister said he had placed at the Consul General 's disposal the Russian wireless station and asked Mr. Poole to inform his Government that an unjustifiable attack was being made upon the Bolshevist Government . M. Tchitcherin protested against tho allied landing in the north . His note , as sent by the Wolff Bureau , in a dispatch from Moscow , under date of Tuesday , reads : " Dear Mr. Poole : At the time when Citizen Lenine , in a speech referring to the unjustifiable Anglo-French invasion , declared that the British and French were in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether peace or war existed between us and whether you were to remain with us , I replied that our people were still at peace with yours , and that to enable you to Continue acting as representative of the United States the same facilities would be granted you as heretofore . " This possibility still holds good as far as we are concerned , inasmuch as the Interruption of cable commubleation by way of the kinsman coast Is the work of Great Britain , not ! aura .. As the only possibility of communicating with your Government , we have placed our wireless station at your disposal . " We , therefore , request you to inform your Government and peoples abroad that a completely unjustifiable attack and a pronounced act of violence is being committed upon us . We have done nothing to deserve such an attack . Our people want nothing but to live in peace and friendship with the masses and workers of all nations . Despite the existing state of peace , Anglo-French armed forces have invaded our territory , taken our towns and villages by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members , and driven them from their homes without any reason possibly warranting these predatory acts . " Without a declaration of war and without the existence of a state of war hostilities are opened against us and our national property is pillaged . Toward us no justice is observed and no law acknowledged by those who sent these invading troops against us , for we are the first in the world to establish a government for the oppressed poor . Barefaeed robbery is held permissible against us . " Act Like Barbarians . " " These people , who did not declare war against us , act like barbarians toward us , but we , who represent the oppressed poor , are no barbarians like these invaders . Our retaliation against those who shoot the members of our Soviets does not take the shape of similar acts against representatives of these Governments . The official Government representatives enjoy an immunity which is refused by the latter 's official departments to our Soviet members . " While we take this attitude toward the official representatives of Great Britain and France , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regard you as the representative of a nation which , to use your own words , will undertake nothing against the Soviets if we retaliate with precautionary measure against the warlike measures directed against us . " It is in pursuance of this that we intern the nationals of invading powers in concentration camps . We regard these nationals as civilian prisoners . We apply these precautionary measures only against the members of the property classes , who are our opponents . No such measures arc taken against our natural allies , the workingmen of these same countries , who happen to be here . The working classes of the whole world are our friends . " Precisely at this moment we say to these countries whose armies proceed with open violence against us , and we call out to their peoples : ' Peace be to the homes of the poor . ' " As you stated to us that your nation does not propose to destroy the Soviets , we ask you now if you can not tell us plainly what Great Britain wants with us . Is Great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world has ever seen , namely , the councils of the poor and the peasants ? Is her aim a counter-revolution ? " In view of the acts referred to by me , I must assume that that is true . We must believe that her intention is to re-establish the worst tyranny in the world , namely . the hated czarism . Or does she contemplate seizing any specific town or territory she can name ? " Remembering your kindness , I hope you will help us to elucidate these problems . " U. S. Force at Archangel . Small . LONDON , Aug. ** American force which participated in the landing and subsequent operations of allied contingents at Archangel on August 2 , following the overturn in the government in this important Russian district on the White Sea , comprised a small landing party from a cruiser , it is announced here .                     