@@679515

txt The legislative bribery scandal is growing in proportions every day . Detective ' William J. Burns declares that nearly fifty members of the Legislature have been caught in the net . " The real , big story is yet to come . " he said to-day . " Marked money was used in paging the bribes solicited . Of all the bribery investigations with which I have been connected the evidence in this is the most conclusive , the most unquestionable , and was obtained by the most up-to-1 date methods . I have every confidence in the men I have at work here . I have tried them before and know what they are . They are thoroughly reliable , and furthermore , they are gentlemen . " You will find that there will be no scandal of any lcind following this investigation . What I mean is , no scandal from our side . I will say for the grafters in Columbus , that of all the grafters it has ever been my lot to know anything about , they are the most persistent I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the time and would take anything . " " How long have they been at it ? " he was asked . " From all I can learn , they 've been at it ever since they came to Columbus . " In their Investigations the detectives learned of other deals during the present session of the Legislature ; of bills which were passed and bills which were killed ' by the use of money . All of this evidence they have in shape to present to the Grand Jury , and so sure are they of their ground that they say : " Before this thing is over the legislators will be falling over each other to get to the Prosecuting Attorneys ' office to tell him all they know , just like the Councilmen did in Pittsburg . " The discovery was made to-day that the bills in the sealed envelope given by Representative George B. Nye to Speaker Vining , and which Nye is alleged to have said was the money given him as a bribe , were not the original bills given him by Detective Harrison @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the safe of Clerk Kemple of the House of Representatives was opened in the presence of Gov . Harmon . The detectives had taken the numbers of the bills , and those in the envelope were not the bills given . Speaker Never Saw the 3loney . It turns otf " th  --  al  --  this money was never seen by Speaker Vining . who merely received a sealed envelope from Nye with the statement that it contained a bribe . The detectives say that they have positive evidence that Nye 's suspicions were not aroused until last Thursday , and that he gave the envelope to Speaker Vining on that day and not two weeks ago , as Nve asserts . Speaker Vining completely repudiated Nye to-day . The detectives point out that Nye 's statements in the warrants he swore out , that money had been paid to him , would compel him to admit the truth of the dictagraph record of his conversations , and that the only question would be one of intent . Bearing on intent , they pointed to a discrepancy of dates . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ payment was made to him on April 7 . Nye stated that he told Speaker Vining about it on April 15 . The Speaker said Nye did not hand the envelope to him until last Thursday . The detectives said it would be shown that Nye waited three weeks before turning the money over to the Speaker , and ( ) lily after he had become , suspicious that there was a trap . Attorney General Hogan says the case against Nye Is now complete . Hogan also says : " We have before us enough stuff to convict in the cases in which we are engaged . " He declared himself quite sure that the prosecution , representing that State , will not be in a hurry to give immunity baths to obtain testimony to convict the guilty . Judge A. Z. Blair of Scioto County , who became known throughout the State because of his investigation into the vote buying in Adams County , came to Columbus to-day to offer his aid in the investigation of the legislative bribery charges . Judge Blair says that he is willing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the Grand Jury . Judge Blair has interesting information concerning a bill introduced in the Legislature a short time ago by which it was expected to legislate him out of office by changing his district , and throwing his county into another district . It is understood that a member of the Legislature went to State Printer Crawford and told him that the bill could be reported from the committee and that the steering committee would put it on the calendar for passage if $500 was forthcoming to distribute among " the boys . " Another story Is that the same man went to another person and offered the same thing on the same bill if $1,000 was given to him to be given to " the boys . ' For Legislative Inquiry . Senator Stockwell gave notice to-day that after the Grand Jury has completed its work he will ask a legislative investigation to inquire into the action of those Senators who , while they might be culpable and subject to expulsion from the Assembly for improper conduct , could not be indicted under the laws . Representative Lawrence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a similar intention . Gov . Harmon to-day made a personal appeal to Representative Lawrence K. Langdon . Republican floor leader of the House , to influence the Republicans to get together with the Democrats and clear up the clouded atmosphere which has overspread the actions of the present Legislature . The Governor urged that the measures which the people want should be passed , and that no hindrance should be placed in the way of progressive legislation . " We are all Buckeyes , " said the Governor to Mr. Langdon . " We should now obliterate party lines and stand together to clear up this situation if it takes six months . Let the Republicans and Democrats form an alliance to do what the people of the State want clone , and forget politics for the time . " Penreeentative Langdon told the Govel-per that the Republicans had no intention of blocking any legislation and that t ' - ey were anxious that the investigation into the alleged bribery in the Legislature be thorough . He said that he was ready to do anything he considered right in the furtherance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ session . High legal authorities consulted today by Attorney General Hogan say that public officials accused of bribery or solicitation of bribes are considered as guilty under the law whether they are victims of a trap laid for them or not . In the Ares , ent instance detectives set the pawns for . the game , and the legislators , according to the statement of the detectives , joined in . This fact would constitute no bar to their prosecution , it is stated . Governor a Witness . Gov . Harmon was one of the first witnesses examined by the Grand Jury today . The jury is composed of seven farmers , four business men , one banker , one contractor , and one State University Professor , who is the foreman . Several legislators and lobbyists were present on subpoenas . The Burns operatives will not likely be called to testify until the last . The Prosecuting Attorney has all of their evidence . About thirty members of tile House and nineteen members of the Senate . it is reported , may be enmeshed in the web of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Superintendent of the Anti-Saloon League , has been sumInoned to appear as a witness . He is expected to tell about the sums of money expended by the liquor men in their efforts to pass the Dean bill . Others summoned are the officers of the Cleveland Underground Railway Company . which is seeking to have enacted what is known as the Subway bill , giving certain rights to such corporations . The advancement of this bill upon the calendar is at the bottom of one uf the current stories of corruption . Exciting scenes occurred in the Legislature this evening , and two of Gov . Harmon 's pet measures became ' laws . In the House Speaker Pro Tern Russell demanded the resignations of Nye and Callie as members of the Calendar ( 7onunittee . Both refused . Then the other six members of the committee resigned . Confusion followed , and the Speaker asked for an adjournment to consider the matter . This was granted . The bill creating a Board of Control to be appointed by Gov . Harmon became a law . Neither branch of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which much of tile bribery was attached . The Democrats in both the Senate and House had bitterly fought the bill to embarrass the Governor . The Committee on Conference reported favorably on the bill . The report was accepted and the Ibill becomes a law . The Senate passed the Oregon bill , providing for the election of United States Senators by popular vote . The Democrats in the Senate had refused to pass this bill at Gov . Harmon 's request . but since the bribery expose they changed their minds . The vote on the bill was 18 to 16. only four Democrats voting against it . The bill has already passed the House , and only awaits the Governor 's signature to become a law . The Mounts School Book bill , providing that book firms can not charge more for hooks in Ohio than they do in other States . als ) passed the Senate and became a law . SHOOTS WIFE , KILLS HIMSELF Yonkers Man Was Jealous and They Quarreled About Money . Ernest York , SO years old , of 10 Palisade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at his home last night and then killed himself . Mrs. York , who was shot in the back of the head ? is in St. Joseph 's Hospital in a critical condition . York is fifteen years his wife 's senior and was Jealous of her . He was once wealthy , but lately was in straitened circumstances . He had been out of work since Nov. 1 . Mrs. York was well off before her marriage , and her refusals to give York money led to frequent quarrels . Several times in the past few days he beat her , and yesterday morning , after blackening her eyes , went out after saying . going to end it all ; but you 're going first . " In the evening lie returned with a revolver fully loaded . He was drunk , and as he staggered into the kitchen he drew the gun and cornered his wife . She tried to pacify him , and then finding him determined , begged for her life . For answer ' York pointed the revolver at her forehead . She grappled with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the back of his wife 's head and fired . Mrs. York fell , and York , thinking her dead , put the revolver to his forehead and fired . The bullet entered his brain and he died instantly . Brave Dogs In the Work Horse Parade . Dogs of merit are to escort the animal exhibits in the fifth annual work horse parade on Decoration Day , when the parade takes place under the auspices of the New York Women 's League for Animals . A branch of the work of the organization , recently started , decorates such dogs as have performed acts of unusual bravery . In addition to enrolling their names and giving them medals , the league has offered to let the bravest of the brave march ahead of the work horses up Fifth Avenue on IN/ay 30 . It will be a new feature of the yearly turnout of well-cared-for draught horses .                     