@@684004

txt The American military force in France has become so large that General Foch , Commander in Chief of the allied armies , has informed General Pershing that it is desirable to maintain our forces , as far as possible , as purely American unitet . This information was given to the members of the House Military Affairs COMmittee by the War Council at a joint conference today . In accordance with this policy , which tends to atrehgtheri OW fighting morale Of the . American soldiers abroad , two full American divisions are now engaged in the fighting near ChateauThierry where the Germans have been making their drive . Secretary Baker informed the committee that in another two Weeks this American force would be doubled . The policy of the allied commander will be to increase weekly the American unit by decreasing the number of Americans brigaded with the Frenoh and British as the American soldiers become more proficient in military training under actual war conditions . If the plans of General Foch are carried out the American army , fighting as an American unit and holding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will reach 400,000 within another six weeks . This will be brought about by speeding up the preliminary training Which some of the less seasoned American troops will receive by being brigaded with the , French and British veteran forces . The fighting qualities which the American marines and army regulars displayed in Picardy , Secretary Baker told the members of Congress today , have received the praise of General Foch and hastened him to advise the placing of American units on the front under American commanders . Satisfactory progress in the production of Liberty motors was reported to the committee . It was said that 2,000 of these motors had been furnished to the army and navy and that 200 had been sent to the Allies . Production of bombing planes is proceeding rather rapidly now , it is said . The latest reports show that 200 Haviland bombing planes have been sent abroad and that 200 Handley-Page machines and 200 Hispano-Sueze machines are now ready for shipment to the allied armies . The first shipment of twenty-four eight-inch howitzers , sufficient to equip a regiment  --  the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progress is now being made in ordnance production , it was said . 500,000 Landed . Svice Drive Began . WASHINGTON , June 14 , ( Associated Press . ) ? Official announcements show that approximately half a million American soldiers have landed in France since the German drive began . Already they have aided in stabilizing the lines as they now stand . . At a recent date , American forces held no more than fifty miles of the whole western front . One element of General Pershing 's mobile forces , by direction of General Foch , guards the way at the apex of the whole German wedge near Montdidier . Cantigny , recently recaptured from the Germans by these forces , is very close to the point of maximum penetration achieved by the ' enemy in nearly three months of desperate fighting . Secretary Baker 's reaffirmation yesterday of American confidence in General Foch was made with full knowledge , for Mr. Baker , was in Europe in conference with the allied chieftains when the plan of campaign now being followed was worked out . lie knows why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the enemy . Many officers who do not know are frankly puzzled , and can not understand why some of the obvious openings for a great counterthrust have not been seized . Members of the House Military Committee at their weekly War Department conference today were told that the stream of Americans steadily moving to the front had resulted in a noticeable stiffening of the whole allied line . The Germans , it was said , apparently had encountered greater numerical strength than they expected to oppose their third great drive , and had suffered heavier losses than they probably had anticipated . On the whole , the legislators ware informed , there were many encouraging features in the present situation on the west front . Among other things disclosed was the fact that Major Gen. Hunter L. Liggett had been selected to become corps commander when the American force reaches that strength , and to command the first American field army when it is organized . That . General Liggett would be ? chosen has been generally understood at the War Department , but there has been no announcement on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now . These forces , not including troops brigaded with the British ant 1 , : rench : comprise two complete divisions , fully equipped and operating under French corps commanders. , Many interesting facts were given to the Congressmen about American artillery at the front and other phases of American participation in the fighting , which must be treated as military secrets .                     