@@682608

txt The echoes of grumbling from the National Guard still come from the Mexican border and probably will continue to come until the guardsmen return home . This need not be a matter for surprise or misgiving . It is , in fact , rightly considered , one of the best evidences of real Americanism . The guardsman , transferred suddenly into active military duties from the walks of peace , still exercises his American freedom In a way which is not permitted or possible to the average European soldier in the ranks . At home , when things do not go to suit him , he is accustomed to grumble , and it would be difficult , perhaps impossible , to arrange any mobilization of the troops , on the border or elsewhere , without that American concomitant . It was so in the civil war , but the troops did not fight less gallantly on that account when the need for fighting came . In the Spanish-American war , also , it was the same , and even men higher in the ranks took their part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ round robin , " concerning which a certain Colonel , afterward President , could give interesting details , if called upon . No country in the world produces finer soldiers , however , than these same grumblers when trained I and brought Into action . Recent events in Canada show that the Canadian soldiers , now being recruited and trained for the war in Europe , seem to be stirred by somewhat similar emotions , and their grumblings are quite like those we have been hearing from American troops on the Mexican border . In fact , they go further and are made against the Government and Canadian Military Department about the conditions at Camp Borden , where 32,000 Canadians are now being drilled into shape as soldiers . The men had been in training at London , Canada , but , according to a Montreal paper , they were " yanked " from that pleasant and sanitary camp to the big pine plains at Camp Borden , chiefly to gratify the whim and passion for military display of Sir Sam Huanns . The pine Diana had been prepared for military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the stumps out of the sandy soil . Space was requisite and that was obtained , but when the soldiers were called to participate in a review before Sir SAM libeling , the results were far from satisfactory to them . The camp Itself was described as " a great , dreary sand waste , " which some of the soldiers likened to ' the Sahara and others td Hades , though they used an uglier and shorter word in their description . The result of the grand review Waal one man dead and 150 in hospitals from heat prostration and overdoing of the hardening process . Doubtless such drills help to eliminate the PhYsically unfit and , therefore , may be justified in military plans . But the point we are illustrating is that Canadians find mobilization and drill quite as trying as Americans find them , even under the hotter southern sun of the border , where to heat and dust are added tarantulas , rattlesnakes , scorpions , and cacti to give variety . Soldiering , in short , for those not ammo tOmed to it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Sunday-school picnic . whether the soldiers are Canadians or Americans . In time these soldiers will come to laugh at experiences which are not now to them a laughing matter . Their experiences in the end may not be very dissimilar to that of the Eton boy whom the Master ' one cold morning found sniffling because of the cold , and merely said to him in passing : " This is no girl 's I school , " The boy stopped his sniffling and braced up . Years afterward , ae an officer in the English Army In India , the order came to him to lead his troops in what seemed a desperate charge . He lifted his head and remarked to his brother officers : " Well , " as my old Master at Eton said , " This is no girl 's school , ' " gave the order to charge , won a victory , but lost his life in the charge .                     