@@678768

txt A new organization , whose object is to protect immigrants coming into this country from petty frauds and impositions , and to assist them in other ways , has recently been formed in this city . It is called the New York State Branch of the North American Civic League for Immigrants , which was founded in Boston some two years ago by D. Chauncey Brewer . While the New York body is in a manner an outgrowth of the older society , it was explained by one of the officers yesterday , it was called into being because of the need felt for a body of private citizens to carry into effect the many suggestions made by Gov . Hughes 's Immigration Commission . The newly formed body will not only try to influence the passage of the remedial legislation reccmmended by the commission for immigrant aliens . It will also constitute a permanent organization to assist the Bureau of Immigration , if one is authorized by the State Legislature , and it will at the same time carry on work in the interest of immigrants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hammond is Chairman of the new society ; Frank Trumbull , Vice President of the Chesapeake &; Ohio Railroad , is Vice Chairman ; Frank A. Vander-lip of the National City Bank is a reasurer , and Miss Frances A. Kellor , member of Gov. liughes 's Immigration Commission , is Secretary . The other members of the committee are Jaisob A. Riis , Felix M. Warburg , Thomas M. Mulry , and John B. Carse . One more member is yet to be selected , and offices will soon be opened preparatory to a general ' campaign for square dealing to the immigrant . According to Miss Kellor , the campaign will be a militant one , and will be carried on along diverse lines . Vs , bile the citizens who form the committee are busy men , they intend ? to give their time and personal attention to the various activities to be engaged ill , besides raising funds for carrying on their communal projects . It was explained that there will be no duplication of any of the work now being done for immigrants by existing organizations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Besides taking new measures for the protection of immigrant aliens in this State , the committee will seek to co-ordinate all the present activities of existing organizations and to act as a sort of clearing house for the advice , assistance , protection , and education of immigrants and their children . Will Stop Petty Frauds . The society will aim to put an end to petty frauds and abuses of immigrants on piers and trains . t'nmarried immigrant girls will be watched to see they reach their right destinations . Some action will be taken to safeguard the sayings of immigrants with private bankers . The abuses of ticket agencies and employment agencies will be fought . Asis  --  Ance will be given to immigrants in the courts . A central registry bureau may be formed , so that the thousands of immigrant children can be educated . An attempt will be made to change conditions in the labor camps up-State , where thousands of immigrant aliens are work- ing . The committee will attempt in time to put into effect a plan tor a wider distribution of aliens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be made to induce the railroads leading out of the city to establish immigrant agents , or agencies . These would keep the committee informed of opportunities for labor , and for the establishment of business and and obtaining farm lands along their routes . The committee would I keep this Information filed for the benefit of immigrants , and would co-operate with the various railroads in establishing immigrants . This is a plan of distribution . " said Miss Keller , " that has been tried with excellent success by some of the Western railroads , some of which spend from S30 , - 000 to sioomoo a year in establishing immigrants along their routes . It is to the benefit of the railroad and to the benefit of the State , and it is a plan that requires no vast fund or removal bureau to carry it Into effect . It would he a natural and economical system of distribuLion . For instance , there are several thou ' sand farms lying Idle and deserted in this State alone . Think of the aloe to the State , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he induced to establish themselves upon them . " Concerning protection of the immigrants from fraud , Miss laellor said that while there were existing organizations on Ellie Island , the great majority of immigrants practically came into the country unwatched , uninformed about conditions , and subject to imposition at every turn , " For instance , there is no Hungarian society at Ellis Island ; neither is there a society to look after the Poles . As for Ithalians and Hebrews , it Is for the most part only special eases that are taken care of . Shift for Themselves . " The great body of able-bodied Immigrants , men and women , leave Ellis Island , possibly tagged for their destination . The assumption is that they are able to make their own way , or that they will meet relatives or friends who will instruct them . These men , women and children have been subject to many petty frauds and abuses before they reach their destinations . " The first thing we intend to do is to establish an agent at Ellis Island , and one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England . A great many immigrants travel up to the New England ports on these lines . Probably in time we will have agents at each of the large stations in this city , if it is found to be neceasary . " What we will surely do , however , will be to perfect a system by which we can keep track of all the immigrants Who leave town for some inland destination , particularly of unmarried immigrant girls . " will get a list from Ellis Island of these immigrants , communicate with agencies In the different cities throughout the country wherever they are sent . and tell them to keep on the watch for them . If they do not arrive at their addresses , steps will be taken at once to find out what has happened and where they are . When they ao arrive , steps will also be taken to assist them , if they need it , to procure employment . Another work we intend to take up is to encourage the immigrants to do their banking here . Private bankers wilfully mislead immigrants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a remit millions of dollars of American money are sent abroad every year . We will warn immigrants to beware of private bankers , and try , to induce them to invest their money in American securities : or , ht all events , to keep their money here , instead of sending it abroad . with : he prospect of being robbed of it by the 1-ivate banker . " Then there is the registry of aliens n this State , about which nothing is beng done . The State knows nothing about he aliens who are coming into it by the mundreds of thousands , the number of hem , who they are , where they are gong , what their probable occupations will ) e . Such a bureau could assist incalcuably the enforcement of the child la.boi ? aw and in the education of immigrant children . " Investigation has shown that there are . housands of children being taken about he State by their parents , living in : amps , in some cases , where they get absolutely no education . It is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yf every child who is born . so as to look ifter its education and for other pur- ' loses . and yet here are 300,000 immigrant children entering the State every year aid no one knows anything about them . " Our registry bureau could send a no-Ice to Boards of Education in cities and listricts up State of the children who are morning to live in their districts , and in hat way the education of these future deitzns may in a slight way at least at ended to permission .                     