@@683529

txt MAN SUFFRAGE FOR WAR . Preparedness Lags When Women Have a Voice in Government . Until the outbreak a war in 1914 I was a believer in woman suffrage . In January , 1915 , I entered the preparedness campaign , and during the following two years devoted myself to the work of arousing our people to the-need for immediate military preparation . - Throughout this period more than 159 audiences passed under my observation in the territory lying between Maine and Tennessee , Utah and the Atlantic Coast , and a correspondence which embraced all of the States of the Union . My experience compelled me to abandon my advocacy of woman suffrage . I had seen enough of the behavior of women under the threat of war to conclude that they are unfitted to deal in advance with any of its questions , to take any action whatever of a preparatory nature , or to act constructively at all until after war has become a settled state and men have put their work into their hands . Also I found that the suffrage movement was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that its chief officers were to be found among the most active opponents of those who were striving to prepare the country for the very emergency that has since overtaken U5 . My conclusions may be summarized as follows : That not until society is stable and nations no longer have need to fear each other can the United States with safety to itself commit the full half of its governing power into the hands of the unmilitary sex . That to unman our Government in this hour of supreme danger , and suite the national security upon the success of an experiment in idealism dictated by considerations of sentiment which are blind to the naked essentials of military power , would be a reckless unmllitary action fraught with the gravest possibilities of disaster . That in our present undertaking to be strong is to prevail . to be weak is tp invite defeat : that the exchange of masculine strength for feminine weakness in our Governmental councils would prolong hostilities , would lessen the power of our blows , and would make for an inconclusive peace , leaving a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For the foregoing weighty national reasons I am unalterably opposed to woman suffrage . The last few years have taught . me that nations are safeguarded not by their gentler qualities but by their ability to crush with brute force whoever unjustly assails them . To create , to direct , to deliver brute force is assuredly a man 's , not a woman 's , job . First let us finish the war and rid the world of its tyrant nations ; not before then will it be safe for us to concirlar thin effeminization of our electorate .                     