@@681930

txt The State Department this evening made public the official teal of the appeal to the Mexican factionists to compose their differences and set up an orderly Government . This appeal , signed by the Secretary of State of the tinned States , the Ambassadors of Brazil , Chile and Argentina , and the Ministers of Bolivia . Uruguay , and Guatemala , suggests in I the courteous tone that characterizes the whole document that an answer will be expected in ten-days . There is no threat expressed or implied in the appeal . It is an appeal in the fullest meaning of the word . The signatories , of the communication offer their " friendly and disinterested help " to obtain a solution of the Mexican problem . They refer to their proposal as " this friendly appeal " No suggestion is contained as to any step that sight be taken if the appeal goes unheeded . Nailing in the phraseology of the document is calculated to give offense to the most punctilious Mexican factionist The direct proposal contained in the appeal is that the military and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together personally or through representatives " to exchange ideas and to determine the fate of the country , " with the intention of reaching an agreement for establishing a Provisional Government which would issue a call for a general election , in accordance with the provisions of the republic 's Constitution . It is suggested that the leaders or their delegate " meet far from the sound of cannon , " but within the borders of their country . All those who sign the appeal offer their services in concert or singly to help arrange the time , place , and other details . Envoys Act Independently . One of the striking features of the communication is the statement that it is signed by the Secretary of State and the six Latin diplomats . " severally and independently , " but " unanimously . " There is nothing in the note to indicate that these seven signatories signed the appeal in behalf of their Governments , although that might be inferred from the fact that they attach their titles to their autographs and in the preface to the appeal describe themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Severally and independently " has been authoritatively explained as meaning that , while all the signatures were attached to one note , each signatory was not bound by any joint agreement , but was free to pursue his own course as if the others had not been parties to the arrangement . It is also stated specifically that the signatory officials bad met- " informally " at the suggestion of Secretary Lansing . The impression evidently sought to be conveyed by the careful language of the note is that those who signed it were acting for themselves and not for their Governments in any formal way . Those who understand the character of the Mexican people are of the opinion that the appeal is of the sort best calculated to make a favorable impression on the leaders of the fighting factions and to remove any impression from their minds that the seven signatories approach their task in a truculent spirit It is viewed as the soft approach that invites a soft answer . Officials most concerned in the movement to bring peace to Mexico feel that , in giving the Mexicans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purpose is behind the appeal . the opportunity will be presented to leaders who are tired of the constant fighting to show a spirit of willingness to aahere to the ' lax .. - In sending out the appeal by telegraph , it has not been addressed merely to Caryanza . Villa , and Zapata , the heads of the factions usually designated by their names , but t othe Governors of the Mexican States , whether Carranzista . Villista. or Zapatista , and also so military and political chiefs of the various movements . For example , the appeal was cabled yesterday to Mexico City for distribution through the representatives there of the various nations concerned , to the Carranza generals . Other men not known in this country are leaders in the Mexican struggle will get copies of the appeal addressed to them individually . As is stated in the few lines of introduction printed on the official copies of the note . the communication has been sent to many prominent persons in Mexico who possess political authority or military power within the Republic . " Oziginal In Spanish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press by the State Department this evening is a translation from the Spanish , in which it was written originally . While in some respects it resembles the formal warning issued by President ' Wilson to the Mexican factions on June 2 , its language is softer and less direct Costisimpl on Page 4. - NOTE ASKS MEXICANS TO END THEIR WAR ; // and there is nothing in the note in the way of reiteration or suggestion of the President 's declaration that if the factionists can not accommodate their differences and unite for the purpose of setting up a Government " within a very short time , " this Government " will be constrained to decide what means should be employed by the United States in order to help Mexico save herself and serve her people . " The authorship of the note is credited to Senor Suarez-Mujica , the Ambassador of Chile , and it is also reported that the revision of the original draft was made by Dr. Naon , the Ambassador of Ar1 gentina.but owing to the reticence observed by the parties to the recent socalled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no stateMent in this connection is forthcoming from any authoritative source . General Carranza is showing a disposition indicative of a desire to demonstrate that he is preserving order in Mexico and has no unfriendly feelings toward foreigners , to whom he has assured the fullest protection . This attitude , however , is inconsistent with his open criticism of the proposed program , his slighting references to Senhor Cardoso , the Brazilian Minister in Mexico City , who left there because . he found matters intolerable , and his action in dismiss , sing from Mexico Senor Ortega , the Guatemalan Minister , supposedly to mark his protest against the participation of Guatemala in an effort to establish good government in Mexico . While the argument is advanced here that Carranza may be impressed by the tone of the appeal and may show a willingness to heed it , the more general opinion is that he has no intention of receding from his polity of opposition to the attempt to adjust Mexico 's troubles by suggestions from without the republic . Vera Cruz Mayor Ousted . The Navy Department today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that city naa been dismissed from office for permitting the antiforeign demonstrations there last Sunday . This ' Government 's reports of these demonstrations were so alarming that the battleships Louisiana . and New Hampshire were ordered to proceed to the Mexican port without delay . Reassuring messages came from Vera Cruz after they had departed from Newport , and it was announced at the Navy Department that , with other vessels , they would comprise a special squadron which would establish a base somewhere south of Hampton Roads , so as to be available in the event of serious trouble in any near-by countries . Yestet day the two battleships were off C ? J pe Hatteras . The department said It day that it was not known where the - , ouislana and the New Hampshire were , but they were still on their way southward . The department declined to say where the base of operations would be established . The Navy Department 's advices coni ' -e dismissal of the Mayor of Vera Cruz came in a message which the la. - partment summarized in this statement : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marietta. , senior naval officer at Vera Cruz , has informed the D ? partment that when General Carranza earned of the incendiary speech made by the Mayor of Vera Cruz on Aug. 8 , he was very indignant and thereupon removed the Mayor from office and placed him under arrest . Commander Scott further states that the local papers of Aug. 1.0 , quote General Aguilar as stating that the Mayor 's action was untimely and ill-advised . It is reported that the demonstration has been generaly condemned by the Mexican people as unwise . " A storm has delayed the United States cruiser Sacramento , which is hrin , ing Senhor Cardoso , the Brazilian NIioister , from Vern . Cruz to the United States . The Sacramento is expected to reach New Orleans tomorrow . Leon J. Canova , Chief of the Division of Mexican Affairs in the State Department , will meet the Brazilian envoy on his arrival and thank - him in the name of President Wilson for the services he rendered while in charge of United States interests in Mexico since the severance of diplomatic relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Secretary of State feel that too much honor can not be shown to . Senhor Cardoso , Mr. Canova will escort him - to Washington , but it could not be said today what arrangements would be made tor showing him the appreciation of the Government on his arrival here . From Washington Senhor Cardoso will go to visit Senhor da Gama , the Brazilian Ambassador , at Long Branch . The Sacramento is bringing also Senor Ortega , the Guatemalan Minister to Mexico , who was expelled from the country by General Carranza , presumably to show Carranza 's displeasure over the participation of Guatemala in the Pan-American peace conference . To emphasize its appreciation and gratitude for the manner in which Senor Cardoso had cared for American inter-1 ests in Mexico City , the State Department today made the following formal statement : " Senhor Dom J. M. Cardoso de Oliveira in 1890 entered the diplomatic service of his country as Second Secretary to Legation at Berlin ; from there he went to Berne in 1898 as Second Secretary , in 1899 as First Secretary at La Paz @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1900 , First Secretary at Paris ; 1901 , First Secretary at London , remaining there apparently until 1907 . " In 1909 he went to La Paz , Bolivia , as Minister , occupying that post for three years ; in August . 1912. he went to Mexico City as Minister , which post he has since occupied . " ' Upon the departure of Charge d'Affaires of the United States O'Shaughnessy , Mr. Cardoso de Oliveira took charge of American interests about the 1st of May , 1914 . Since that time the Brazilian Minister has , by his tact , courtesy , and exceptional ability , most worthily represented this Government unofficially before the numerous Governments that have been set up In Mexico City . A notable incident of his representation was at the time of the death of the American citizen , when , within eighteen days from the time of his death , the widow was paid the equivalent of $20,000 gold and apologies were made on behalf of the authorities . " 