@@684479

txt When Congress next meets Mr. GmLETT will be elected Speaker and Mr. FORDNEY Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee . Both have announced their policies on behalf of the Republicans who will give them their power . Mr. GILLETT proposes a " protective " tariff measure which will provide more " abundant revenue and prevent an " inundation of foreign goods produced " by cheaper labor . " Mr. FORDNEY thinks that we ought to raise as much from customs as England , something over a billion , instead of $172,000,000 in 1918 . These - declarations are welcomed joyously ... by old:fashioned Republican organs . There is no profit in partisan discussions : The world has so altered that Democrats and Republicans should reconsider their positions regarding the nation 's economic foreign . policy as well as its political . World conditions have altered in a manner and degree to which the Republican spokesmen show indifference . Yet they can not be ignorant that the . nations which used to " flood " our markets with cheap products have become high-cost countries . That is particularly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largest . Also , the United States has become a banking nation . These are fundamental factors , and they require new sorts of tariff both abroad and at home . Tariffs which are fit for one phase of national industrial and financial development are not suited for other phases . There are ages in the life of nations as well as of men , and no nation is exempt from the conditions of youth , maturity , and age . In the words of a British statesman , the r3 are " living and dying nations . " We certainly are much alive . England is far from dead . Its old age is marvelously lusty . The reason for drawing the comparison is that England has passed around the circle of tariffs , and we are succeeding to the phase England is now leaving behind for a renewal of its youth . The phases of national life are the agricultural , the industrial , the financial . They shade into each other as all economic cycles do , but they are distinguishable by others better than by those passing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufactures , as we did , and both were right . When England ? became industrial it dominated the . wdrld , not by its power but by its commerce . We are now joining England in that phase . Our commerce is outstripping the ? British at its best . The world 's largest foreign trade in total , although not per capita nor according to wealth , has passed the nursery stage , and no longer needs the protection which it ' followed England in using , and must follow England in discarding gradually . With the profits of its industrial phase England made itself the world 's banker , and in that , too , we are following in England 's footsteps . If we had not been crippled in our civil war we might have overtaken England in fair rivalry before this . Iv e are finding our fortune where we lost it . As the fortune of war we shall profit by England 's loss as she profited by our loss . The fortune of war has cost England its ability to finance the world as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to become the world 's purveyor , . ocean carrier , and hanker . Like England , through our industries we shall make profits which we must put to use , and can do so only by selling our goods and investing the proceeds above our needs in other lands . No one who follows the news can doubt that England is becoming a high-cosi country , under disabilities in meeting the competition of quantity producers , especially ourselves . The cables are crowded with reports of advances of wages in England , and shortening hours and production . Englishmen are rightly proud of the extent to which they have ' , wished blood and treasure in a cause to which we were late recruits . England is still very rich and strong , but less so . W.d are but in the gristle of our mature strength , and are about to set new standards of wealth for the world . But not in the manner of any Republican tariff we ever experienced . Rich as we are , we can not give our goods away . There never will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ account payable to us to eleven billions . The world does not own and can not produce the gold to pay us specie . We can and should take securities for our dues from abroad , but ? the process will be slow on account of our financial immaturity , and can never be complete : There are goods which we need more than gold or paper , and which we can not produce so well cs others. - If we are to ' sell our goods by must take foreign goods as ? liberally . The Republicans begin by declaring their intention to triple the Democratic tariff , erecting a hurdle with intent to make it so high that those wishing to sell as much as we need to buy ? in order that we may also sell what they nearl to buy ? shall . be under disabilities .                     