@@682014

txt Official advices have been received here that the Governments of Argentina , Brazil and Chile are in accord with the decision of the United States to grant recognition to the party led by General Carranza as the de facto Government in Mexico . It became known today that some of the South American Governments long before yesterday 's conference had authorized their diplomatic representatives to favor the recognition of General Carranza in the Pan-American deliberations . President Wilson has received from Secretary Lansing a report of the proceedings of the final conference , but Several days ago he indicated to the Secretary his acquiescence in the plan proposed . The form in which recognition is to be accorded has not been decided , but it may be done by formal notification to Eliseo Arredondo , authorized representative here of the Carrani.a , Government . The granting of recognition is expected within a week . This will result in the immediate order of an embargo on arms against factions opposed to the Carranza Government , a step which will materially weaken the resources of the Villa element which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carrothers , American Consular Agent , telegraphed the State Department the substance of a long interview he had had with General Villa at Juarez , in which the latter explained , in line with utterances to the press last night , that he intended to continue fighting Carranza . Although the documents presented to Secretary Lansing and the Pan-American conferees by Eliseo Arredondo on behalf of General Carranza , on which the decision to recognize the Carranza party was based , have not been made public , it became known that the First Ceief had given explicit assurances with reference to the protection of foreigners ' claims , amnesty for political offenses and the treatment of the clergy . An extract from a memorandum presented to the Pan-American conferees on behalf of General Carranza contains the following articles outlining the program of his Government : Definite Promises of Carranza. 1 . The Constitutionalist Government shall afford to foreigners residing in Mexico all the guarantees to which they are entitled according to our laws , and shall amply protect their lives , their freedom , and the enjoyment of their rights of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revolution may have caused to them , in so far as such indemnities may be just , and which are to be determined by a procedure to be established later . The Government shall also assume the responsibility of legitimate financial obligations . 2 . The first concern of the Constitutionalist Government shall be to reestablish peace within the province of law and order , to the end that all the inhabitants of Mexico , both native and foreign , shall equally enjoy the benefits of true justice and be interested in co-operating to the support of the Government emanating from the revolution . The commission of crimes of the common order shall be punished . In due time an amnesty shall be enacted in keeping with the necessities of the country and the situation , which in no way shall exempt those under it of the civil respons.bilities they may have incurred . 3 . The constitutional laws of Mexico known under the name of laws of reform , which establish the separation of the Church and the State , and which guarantee the individual right cf worship in accord @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall be strictly observed : Therefore , no one shall suffer in his life , freedom and property because of his religious beliefs . Temples shall continue to be the property of the nation according to laws in force , and the Constitutionalist Government shall again cede for the purpose of worship those which may be necessary . 4 . There shall be no confiscations in connection with the settlement of the agrarian question . This problem shall be solved by an equitable distribution of the lands still owned by the Government ; by the recovery of those lots which may have been illegally taken from individuals or communities ; by the purchase and expropriation of large tracts of land , if necessary ; by all other means of acquisition permitted by the laws of the country . The Constitution of Mexico forbids privileges and , therefore , all kinds of properties regardless of who the owners may be , whether operated or not , shall in the future be subject to the proportional payment of a. tax in accordance with a just and equitable valuation . 5 . All property @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may not constitute a privilege or a monopoly , shall be respected . 6 . The peace and safety of a nation depends from the clear understanding of citizenship : therefore , the Government shall take pains in developing public education ; to this end it shall utilize all co-operation rendered in good faith , permitting the establishment of private schools subject to our laws . Other articles refer to the plans for the establishment of Constitutional Government . first by me election of municipal councils and then by the election . of a fe.leral cong , ess . To this body the First Chief will render an account of the use he may have made of the executive power so that decrees previously made may be enacted or rejected . The congress . it is stipulated , will convene an election for President and Vice President throughout the renul ' ' c and as soon as this takes place the ? irst Chief shall deliver the executive power to the President-elect . VIllistas ' Plans to Fight On . M. Diaz Lombardo , Foreign Minister of the Convention Government . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tonight issued the following statement : " The decision reached by the PanAmerican conferees means that the American nations recognize the triumph of the revolution negun and led by President Madero and continues by Carranza and Villa . This fact is a source of satisfact:on to all who have contributed their efforts to the struggle against Cientifico rule . Our opinion is that it is very doubtful whether the conferees have acted wisely in declaring that the Carranzista faction is the only one with the essentials of recognition as the de facto government , inasmuch as that decision is based on recent military successes which can not be regarded as conclusive or permanent . The Conventionist faction has yet at is disposal powerful elemnts and has the advantage of possessing : territory within the boundaries of which there are no Carranza forces . The decision of the conferees has surprised us , because it is not consistent with the precedent established by the American Governments which took part in the conference . The policy previously followed was to recognize only the de facto Governments which were based on the consent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consent has been accorded Carranza 's rule . " Surely the Conventionist Party will continue the struggle . Sooner or later it will demonstrate to the world that the Mexican people wish the establishment of a legal Government and will not tolerate a dictatorship of indefinite tenure and inefficient administration , such as has been shown by Carranza 's failure or unwillingness to organize a Cabinet and suppress the frequent armed movements against his authority . "                     