@@679262

txt The topic of the hour in American and university circles to-night is the marked contrast between the attention the Kaiser bestowed at the University of Berlin today on Prof. Charles Alphonso Smith of the University of Virginia , the new " Roosevelt Professor . " and the chilling formality with which he greeted Prof. Hugo Miinsterberg of Harvard , the new " Exchange Professor . " When the two professors had finished their inaugural addresses the Emperor engaged them in conversation . As the Exchange Professorship outranks the Roosevelt chair in age , the Emperor turned first to Prof. Miinsterberg , with whom he chatted barely a minute . Then , advancing to Prof. Smith , the Kaiser held the Virginian in conversation for fully fifteen minutes . Several hundred notable guests , including Ambassador Hill and a number of German Cabinet Ministers and army officers , stood waiting for the talk to end , but it seemed to grow more animated from moment to moment . The Kaiser insist , ed on talking to Prof. Smith so very much longer than with Prof. Miinsterberg that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back turned to him , cut a positively embarrassing figure . The distinguished audience which watched the incident in astonished silence could not withhold its sympathy from one who almost looked as if he were the victim of an intended slight . Finally the ordeal came to an end , whereupon Prof. Miinsterbarg introduced his wife and daughters to the Kaiser . It caused some comment that- ; Prof. Miinsterberg- did not allow this highly formal function to be performed by the Empress 's chief lady in waiting , who was present for exactly such a purpose . Prof. altinstertierg 's friends think that his inaugural address mistakenly overemphasized his German " identity " and German " influence " at Harvard , besides making too heavy demands upon the personal pronoun . Prof. Smith created an unmistakably better impression . His typical American witticism set - the Emperor laughing at the beginning and kept him in lively good humor throughout the address . His Majesty was particularly merry over the assertion that war was unthinkable between the United States and a country which loved the " Leatherstocking Tales , " reveled in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " , . RUNAWAY TEAM OVERBOARD . One Horse Takes Swim and the Other Drops Into a Coal Cargo . A span of big white horses attached to one of a grocery concern 's delivery wagons ran away in West Seventy-ninth Street last night and bolted westward to the North River , where they got into all sorts of trouble . The animals struck a freight pier at the foot of West Seventyninth Street at a gallop and then plunged to the pier head . The heavy wagon stopped wen the wheels struck the high stringplece , but the horses pitched over , one falling into the hold of a half-filled coal barge me -- =red there , and the other striking the water on the further side of the barge . Although the horses had torn themselves clear of the wagon , they were still held together by sections of the harness . The driver of the team had been jolted from his seat when the runaways bolted , but he escaped injury and reached the pier a few minutes after the wild leap of the pair . Before his arrival , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the horses would strangle themselves , had cut the holding parts Of the harness . The crowd that gathered " had a glimpse of one of the animals heading for the Jersey shore , and the other kicking and plunging in the coal cargo of the barge . The latter was soon buried to its shoulders in the coal , for each succeeding struggle made it sink deeper . Three men in a small boat off the pier started in pursuit of the hourse that was in the water . They rowed about a hundred yards before overtaking the animal , and succeeded in turning it northward . Opposite the foot of Eighty-third Street they headed the animal inshore , and then dragged the horse on-to the beach at that point . In the meantime the driver of the team , who said he was Patrick Breslin of 236 West Ninety-fifth Street . had succeeded in interesting longshoremen in the plight of the other animal . The rescuers rigged some tackle and belting to the derrick used for the hoisting of coal and the horse was hoisted out of the barge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . WOMEN IN WILD AUTO RIDE . Four Supposed Actresses Are Wanted by the Yonkers Police . The Yonkers police are looking for four actresses who after enjoying a lark in an automobile , smashed the machine , had it repaired in the garage of William Lowa , lel ' South Broadway , Yonkers , defaulted in the payment of the bill , and after filching articles from the garage drove away like mad . Late on Wednesday night a gray automobile sped over the streets of . Yonkers at a furious rate . Policemen in several sections of the city tried to stop it , but the young woman who was driving and the three women with her only laughed derisively . Soon after 1 . A. ' M. yesterday the gray machine pulled up in front of ' Lowe 's garage . James Carsons , who has charge of the garage at night , was summoned to the sidewalk . He found that the car , in wIdch were the four women , had a punctured tire and was otherwise battered . The women said the machine had run @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carsons to repair the car and make a hurried job of it . When he had finished the work the one who was driving " the machine said : We have n't any money with us now , but it will be all right , as we 're good friends of your employer . Tell him . we 'll be back la-ter in the morning and make the bill good . " A minute later the automobile was whizzing down South Broadway toward . York . A short time afterward Carsons found found-that ' several articles were missing from the garage . BERLIN , Nov. 