@@681563

txt In spite of the repeated assurances of officials of the War . Department that they have had not a word of information to confirm the press reports from Manila that a revolutionary plot has been discovered , that many arrests have been made , and that Manila is being guarded by armed troops . the belief is gaining ground here that there must be some truth behind the positive statements that have conic from the , capital of the islands . Everything goes to show . however , that officials arc honest in their declarations that neither Gov. i Gen , . Harrison or any other officer in authority in the Philippines has sent ad vices that there is any foundation whatever for the press reports . The mystery of the affair is that when the Governor General was asked by Secretary Garrison several days ago , whether the press dispatches contained facts he responded with the meagre Information that the stories to which Mr. : Garrison called his attention were without foundation and failed to add anything to show the reason for their circulation . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interpretation that the press reports had been wholly false . According to a news dispatch from Manila today Governor General Harrison is away from the capital on an inspection trip , but this does not clear the mystery in the minds of officials as to why no answer has been received to another cable inquiry sent to him on Thursday with regard to further publications about alleged preparations for an uprising against t ie American authorities . Winfred T. Denison of the Philippines Commission is said ' to be serving as acting Governor General , and he would receive any message that was addressed to Governor General Harrison . If it should turn out that the press dispatches from Manila were well founded and the authorities in the Philippines had failed to apprise the Washington Government of the situation either through negligence or failure to appreciate the seriousness of conditions , disciplinary measures might be taken . What is known of Secretary Garrison 's attitude with reference to the reports from Manila leads to the impression that he wOuld not tolerate any such neglect or lack of knowledge on the part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the status of affairs in the islands . Mr. Garrison 's positive assertions on several occasions that he knew absolutely nothing to confirm the statements that a Filipino plot had been discovered were without qualification . and left no doubt of his entire honesty in making them . Some of those most concerned in the Philippire question expressed the opinion today that the press reports from Manila were being put out for the purpose of injuring the chances of the bill introduced by Representative Jones of Virginia to provide for the ultimate independence of the islands . That opinion was voiced by Manuel L. Quezon and Manuel Earnshaw , the resident Commissioners of the Philippine Islands in Washington . They said that they believed that the stories of an uprising emanated from business men in Manila who were anxious to create sentiment against the Jones bill . This measure has been passed by the House and will soon be taken up by the Senate for consideration . Next Wednesday the Philippine Committee of the Senate will begin hearings on the bill . and it was made known today that Senator Hitchcock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then call on the War Department for information as to the truth of the press dispatches from Manila . Secretary Garrison has expressed a view practically similar to that of the Philippines delegates , although he did not mention business men as suspected of promoting the rumors . The belief is widespread here that if an insurrectionary movement of any considerable proportions is begun in the Philippines the Senate will defer action on the Jones bill or defeat it . Delegate Earnshaw , who has just returned from the Philippines . said there was no truth in the report that Ricarte had returned to the islands . He was still in Hong Kong , Mr. Earnshaw asserted . Delegate Quezon said it was absurd to believe that a revolution was on foot . " We are convinced , " said Mr. Quezon . " that American business men , as well as foreigners resident in the Philippines , who object to independence and who prefer to continue to do business under the American flag , are furnishing these wild reports to the newspaper men in the Philippines , and exaggerating them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill is pending in the Senate , ordinary police cases are made to assume proportions out of all reason . " A real revolutionary movement can take place only when a people is actually under oppression . The Filipinos are not oppressed . They never were so happy as now . " No Confirmation from Officials . A long message was received from Manila by the Bureau of Insular Affairs ' onight It contained no allusion to any of the matters mentioned in the insurrection reports , and , standing alone , gave the impression that conditions were satisfactory in the Philippines . Though Governor-General Harrison has now had time to respond to the message of inquiry from the War Department , no word has come from him . It is understood that he has left Manila on a cruise after the adjournment of the Philippine Legislature this week . A news dispatch from Manila tonight indicated that the torpedo boat destroyer Barry has been sent to tell him of the disturbances . The Barry is one of the five American units in the first division of the torpedo flotilla stationed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Keller . The destroyers Dale , Decatur , Bainbridge , and Chauncey are also at Manila , as are likewise the submarines A-2 , A-1 , A-6 , A-7 , B-2 , and B-S . In the absence of reports from the Governor General or from Major Thomas H. Barry , commander of the army forces in the Philippines , officials of the War Department say they are unable to understand the persistence with which the detailed stories of the insurrection are being cabled to American newspapers . The War Department has been in daily contact with the civil and military authoritier. at Manila , and has received a number of long dispatches ; but the statement is made that none of the dispatches has alluded in any way to revolution . Had No Fear of Ricarte . The unofficial reports from Manila all indicate that the trouble centres about Ricarte . If this is so , and if there is a serious insurrection on foot , or about to burst In the Philippines , officials in Washington have been egregiously fooled , because . while they have been cognizant for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been considered unable to muster a respectable following . While.living in Hongkong Ricarte has frequently called himself Mr. Viper " and assumed the nom de plume of " La Vibora , " which is the equivalent of " The Viper . " American officials dealing with the Philippines thought his fangs had been pulled . Inquiry was made at the War Department today for . information concerning the record of Ricarte . The records of the department put his name down as Artemio Ricarte Vibora  --  all of which are assumed names  --  and show that he is an ex-General of the old Filipino revolution and one of the most noteworthy characters of the revolt in 1896 against Spain , as well as that of 1899-1901 against the United States . In June . MM . Ricarte was released from the famous Bilibid Prison at Manila by order of Justice Trent and was deported to Hongkong . He was deported because he had refused to take the oath of allegiance to the United States Government in the Philippines . He has never taken the oath and has several times refused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ release in 1010 was the result of habeas corpus proceedings instituted by his friends ; but , contrary to their expectations , he refused to swear allegiance to American authoritiy . He left Manila on June 28 , 1910 , on the steamer Teen for Hongkong , where he has been , watched by American agents . His revolutionary activities were known , but it was asserted by officials that his propaganda had failed to make converts . A General Under Aguinaldo . Ricarte is a native of Ilocos , and at the time of the Filipino revolution against Spain in 1896 was a teacher in San 4'ranChien de Malaban , Cavite . He was the leader of the outbreak in that town , directing the attack upon the barracks of the Guardia Civil . This is exactly what , it is asserted in the news dispatches from Manila , . Ricarte has been planning at this time , it being alleged that plans were laid for an attack upon the guards of the fortress on Corregidor Island , at the entrance to Manila Bay . the main defense of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ islands of Carabao and El Fraile , in Mag , nila Bay . In 1897 Ricarte became a party to the treaty of Biak-na-Bato and , in accordance with its terms , left the Philippines for Hongkong with Aguinaldo and the ratter 's staff officers . Ricarte returned to the Philippines shortly after Aguinaldo and was made a Brigadier General and placed in command of the native troops in Santa Anna before the capture of Manila . In February of the same year he instigated an outbreak in the City of Manila and through his agents set fire to part of it , destroying Tondo . Ricarte was arrested on July 1 , 1900 , by Capt . Lara , and on Jan. 7 of the following year was deported to the island of Guam . Be returned to the Philippines on Feb. 28 , 1001 , but refused to take the oath and was deported to Hongkong , where he joined the Hongkong junta . Jointly with Manuel Ruiz Prin he established the Universal Democratic Filipino Republican Committee , and in December , 191 ) 1 , went to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was arrested on ** 20. 1904 , while acting as a clerk for a Justice of the Peace under the name of " Jose Garcia . " His true name is not Ricarte , but Artemio Abodon y Garcia . His mail address in Hongkong during his first deportation was " U. G. Viper . Esp. , Ripon Terrace . Bonham Road , Hongkong . " During his present exile in Hongkong he has been publishing a newspaper , partly in Spanish and partly in the Tagalog language , under the name of " El Grit ? del Presente , " which means " The Cry of the Present . " lie has issued commissions to officers in his revolutionary army , and has collected funds .                     