@@680200

txt It was entirely cornTag Days mendable , of course , Are that the Mayor , as Mrs. Amos PINCHOT Detestable. admitted , expressed with courtesy his refusal to let the women of the National Progressive Party in this city raise money for it by means of - what has become much too familiar as a ' ? tag day . " It is equally commendable , however , that the . Mayor was not less explicit than courteous in telling his well-intentioned , applicants that what they purposed doing was both illegal and against public policy . This statement was of demonstrable accuracy , and it will be denied only by those who either have n't given any real I thought to the matter or who think only of the fact that money can be obtained in considerable quantities for almost any rause by this miserable combination of Imendicancy and blackmail and who ignore the fact that other effects of it are of varying degrees of badness up to some which are extremely serious . It has been a. matter of common observation by settlement workers and others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of the chance acquaintances formed on I these days of tolerated extortion more 1 , than a few have disastrous consequences , especially to the young women who are Permitted or encouraged to take part in ' these outrageous proceedings . What , these consequences are sometimes , and are likely always to be , is indicated by a recent episode , the facts of which are known to many . A young girl walking with her mother was accosted in the street by a stranger in a familiar way that moved the mother instantly to call a policeman and demand the man 's arrest . Thereupon the man said , " Why should n't I speak , . to her ? ? ' She not only spoke to me- yesterday , but " asked for money and I gave It to her . " The policeman , properly enough , refused to make an arrest , and he would have been perfectly justified If he had told the motiler that her own negligence and folly in letting her daughter become a street beggar were alone to blame for what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " regardless of the excellence of the cause which it is designed to promote , degrades , and demoralizes all who have anything to do with It . They are utterly detestable from every Point of view , economic as well as moral , and they are permitted only In towns wherek the municipal officials are either too stupid to know their duty or too vicious to perform it . A forecast , presumably Attacking correct , of the report a Last soon to be made by the English Divorce CornStronghold. mission as a result of its Prolonged investigation of this important subject , includes a recommendation that the law be so changed as to grant to wives freedom from their marriage bonds for the same causes , and for all the causes , that have hitherto given It to husbands . That there should be any discrimination between the sexes in Ibis respect  --  that a man , to get divorce , should only have to prove infidelity on his wife 's part , while a women should also he compelled to prove cruelty and desertion against her husband @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognition of the " double standard of morals " to be found on the statute books of any civilized natio : , . And that at this late date the British lawmakers should only be considering the question of abrogating a distinction so obviously abptird and iniquitous only illustrates anew the curious fact that , though England has already gone fast and far in economic experiments , she Is still amazingly conservative in what may be called social customs . It was but recently that , with many misgivings and many lugubrious prophecies about opening wide the doors to domestic murder , England ventured to legalize marriage with a deceased - wife 's sister . The reverberations of that great fight are still heard in the English sky , where they threaten to be long in dying away altogether , though its result increased the privileges of men as well as of women and therefore was waged on other than strictly sex lines . The proposition to put-men and women on an equality as regards divorce , however , is an abolition of ancient privilege and is therefore likely to excite even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ larger only because the opposition will be embarrassed by the necessity to put itself into words at last ' and can make no arguments that will not be equally offensive to common sense and common decency . In ' a few of our more backward States ' there still linger certain discriminations against women concerning the disposition of childikri and money in case of divorce , I but none remains as to the divorce itself j that can be recalled . And If the deceased wife 's sister Question ever came up here it was so long ago that everybody has forgotten it ..                     