@@680205

txt One of the best proofs of restored confidence  --  itself the most striking feature thus far of the year 1912 ? will be furnished by railroad companies between this time and the first of March of next year , for it is now in contemplation by one , at least , and possibly more , of the railroad companies to take up issues of short time notes which are to mature within the next four or five months . In the spring of this year the presumption was very strong that all the railroad companies would be compelled to renew or to refinance these obligations . It was the general understanding in the financial district that these short term notes would be ' extended . Should present conditions , however , be maintained throughout the rest of the year and in the early part of 1913 , it will be possible , by reason of excellent earnings , to pay off some of these notes and thus get them out of the way . Bat even if this should not be done , to any great extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ winter and early spring the railroads may be able at last to sell large issues of long-time bonds with the pro- ceeds of which they will be able to retire these short term noter . These notes are of themselves visible and unanswerable evidences of the straits in which the railways found themselves in the past two or three years . They were unable to negotiate to any extent long time obligetiars unless they were willing to pay heavy charges . Therefore , thc1c were compelled to turn to short time notes . Another change in sentiment reflecting the growth of confidence is the belief that , notwithstanding the enormity of the crops , the railroads will be able to meet the demands for transportation without any serious delay in the movement of the crops . As late as mid-August of this year the apprehension was general that a serious shortage of cars world cause congestion of a kind that might for a long time delay the movement of the crops . Now the leading railway men seem to he confident that the danger of cat shortage is practically over . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earnings of the railroads in the first six months of the current fiscal year have greatly eezeeded the most sanguine hopes in the beginning of the summer . THE LESSON WHICH IS IN OUR FOREIGN COMMERCE . Although the recent stupendous statistics which were issued by the division of statistics of the bureau of foreign and domestic commerce at Washington sufficiently explain the restoration of confidence which has been followed by a revival of business and commercial activity , by showing what the increase in the production of agricultural commodities has been in recent years , nevertheless a most instructive lesson is also taught by the figures which show the phenomenal change in one aspect of our foreign cornmerce -- namely , the exportation of manufactured products . It was not until the year 1895 that our manufacture= sold in other markets than.our own a larger amount of manufactured commodities than we imported . It was not until the closing years of the past century and the first year of the present century that expert observers detected the beginning of the change in our foreign commerce which at least has made us one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of manufactured comeiclitiee . Some of the bankers whose business is the handling of roreign exchange called the attention of the writer in the year 1900 to an increase in exchange drawn against American manufactured commodities sold abroad . They wondered whether that mos due to an ephemeral or exceptiontl conditior in that year . Some thought that it might ee explained by the fact that Great Britain was occupied with her war in South Africa and that American marefncturers were taking advantage of that to market in ether pertfi'of the world their own commodities . But the next year and the year after this increase in the sale of our munufactured commodities was also noticed both in the statistic ; furnished by the bureau at Washington and in V. ? offices of international bankers . It proved to be a very fortunate increase , for we were beginning to show lall:ny off it our cxpnrt of agricultural products , excepting cotton . ' Shortly before 's first election to the presidency , the percentage of exports of manufactured predaets to the entire exports averaged about f. ' 0% ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the year1911 our manufactured articles that were exported reached a total of a little over 4:1% of the total exports . Apparently this year the percentage will be larger and may possibly be in excess of Surf . coincidentally , and perhaps curiously , this increase in our exportation of manufactured products began to be noticeable about the time of the organization of the great industrial combinations . And when it is remembered that in the year 1911 the United States Steel Corporation and-the Harvester Company exported commodities somewhat in excess of a hundred million dollars ' value then , it is reasonable to infer that whatever evil may lurk in - these organizations certainly that evil does not extend to the foreign trade of the United States . It is possible , of course . that we should have increased our exportation of manufactured articles had there been no industrial combinations of the kind that were begun on a great , cafe in the latter half of 's first administration . Unless a great slump should occur in our foreign commerce for the calendar year the United States in going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harvests and the assurance that the cotton harvest will be in the ncighoorhood of 15,000,000 bales will make it possible to increase our exports of agricultural products . Whether we do or not we are sure to find , unless there be a slump in the remaining months of the year , that our exports of Agricultural products will be considerably incriessed as compared with the memorable exportation of the year 1913.                     