@@683780

txt The American artillery in the past twenty-four hours has bombarded vigorously certain towns in the rear areas , roads , and communicating trenches of the Germans opposite the Toul sector with excellent results . They shelled , a number of buildings in one . ' town in which enemy troops were billeted . They , sprinkled with shells a road being used for transport , and scattered the Germans in trenches , which were knocked in . An American combat patrol early this morning was discovered by the enemy in front of his wire and subjected to machine gun fire , but all the patrol returned safely . An unusual number of enemy machine guns nave been in action all along the line , but they did not damage anything . The German artillery bombardment at several points also was without result . Sniping continues to he most active . One enemy post was found in a tree and was driven out by American sharpshooters . There has been increased aerial activity and there is hardly a moment in the daytime when a hostile plane is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ front lines this morning and spattered the ground and trenches with machine-gun bullets , but without doing any serious damage . One German airplane wee brought down out of control within the American lines by a French anti-aircraft gun , a shell from which burst near the plane while it was high in ' the air . The enemy aviator 's machine gun was put out of commission and he was forced to land . Kill Germans on Patrol . WITH THE AMERICAN ARMY IN FRANCE , March 9 , ( Associated Press . ) ? Some of the Americans in a listening post in front of their line northwest of Toul early this morning discovered an enemy patrol at work on their own wire and promptly opened fire . The Germans retreated , leaving two of their number hanging on the barbs . Some hours after daylight a party of five Germans , two infantrymen and three Red Cross workers , emerged from the enemy lines and started for their comrades entangled in the wire . The Americans saw the Red Cross brassards and did not fire on the party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sniping activity along the whole of the American front during the last twenty-four hours . One enemy post gave the Americans special trouble during the night , placing well-aimed bullets on certain points of the line. , After daylight the post still continued working from shell holes with periscopes . American snipers tried to silence the enemy from their line , but were unsuccessful . A sniping patrol was then organized by the Americans , and went out in broad daylight . The result of this expedition has not been reported . The game of sniping the sniper is still continuing . Reports from various points show that enemy riflemen are endeavoring to pick off American troops . One American sharpshooter yesterday killed a German who was walking on a parapet , and other Americans scored hits . Today was the warmest in many weeks . The weather was fine , and with just enough ground haze to make sniping conditions ideal . All the Americans who were not on duty took advantage of the hot sun to thaw out and to dry their clothes . Last night and today the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ positions and mustard shells in the rear of the line . Three gas alarms were given on the front within a few hours . Owing to the quickness of the Americans ire adjusting their gas masks , the shells did no damage . The mustard sticks for many hours to the spot where a shells falls , and soldiers who are near experieeee a stinging sensation in their eyes . On one end of the American line the enemy laid down a barrage , after having concentrated a rather heavy bombardment . The American artillery put up a counterbarrage as a precaution against a raid , but none developed . While this was going on the enemy dropped a score of gas shells on a town directly in the rear , but the noxious gas did no damage . On the other end of the line the American gunners laid down a barrage on the enemy line . All along the front the American artillerists shelled . the German front and second line and communication trenches . Airplanes More Active . Owing to the return'of better weather conditions there was increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American line . One or two aerial encounters were reported , but they had no definite results . The American anti-aircraft guns fired on numerous enemy airplanes , but they were well out of range . American army observers today flew ; over the lines in planes of the French squadron . All of them returned safely . A small American patrol early yesterday morning met an enemy patrol in No Man 's Land near the Chemin des Dames and fired on it . A sharp skirmish resulted , the accurate firing of the Americans causing one enemy casualty and probably three others . The Americans returned to their lines without a man being scratched . The troops on the Lorraine front at the same time suffered an extremely heavy concentrated bombardment . Northwest of Tout the enemy fired nearly a hundred gas shells into one of the American battery positions in a short space of time , but not a single man so far has been sent to a hospital , because of the rapidity with which gas masks were adjusted . American artillery blew up an enemy ammunition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a flash , followed by flames and great clouds of smoke . The American artillery also heavily shelled the enemy 's first and second lines .                     