@@680635

txt co-zrxrior-inaNnu EMPEITEIrYTTREThe Hon. JOHN J. FITZGERALD recent17 made an elaborate argument before the House of Representatives on the method by which that body could and should exercise control over the expenditures of the Government In such manner as to secure that co-ordination sought through the creation of a Budget Committee . Mr. FITZGERALD Is Chairman of the Committee on Appropriations , in which he has had many years of active participation . He speaks with the authority of experience , and he is quite alive to the evils that have crept into this part of the Work of Congress . He pays attention first to the question of the relation of the expenditures to the revenues , and to the need of Congress that it should have before it an official statement of this relation , and with recommendations as to how a deficit can be avoided or met . He points out that by a provision of the Sundry Civil act passed in 1909 it is made the duty of the Secretary of the Treasury , when the estimated expenditures exceed the estimated revenues , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the end that he may , in giving Congress information of the state of the Union and in recommending to its consideration such measures as he may judge necessary , advise the Congress how in his judgment the estimated appropriations could with least injury to the public service be reduced so as to bring the appropriations within the estimated revenues , or , if such reduction be not in his judgment practicable without undue injury to the public service , that he may recommend to Congress such loans or new taxes as may be necessary to cover the deficiency . Mr. FITZGERALD is of the opinion that the faithful observance of this requirement , with a few modifications , would suffice cdmpletely " to establish " the system of responsible Executive control of our budget , while retain " ing complete control of the Treasury " in the representatives of the peo " pie . " The changes needed for this purpose are : First , to impose on the Secretary of the Treasury the duty of revising the various estimates to be submitted to Congress , and , second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ request for money or to originate any legislation imposing obligations upon the Treasury . In the last Congress Mr. FITZGERALD proposed a rule practically embodying these changes , but it was not adopted . He is convinced that ultimately ? it will have to be . In the meantime Mr. FITZGERALD believes that much can be done by returning to the practice of the first ninety-three years of the Union and Concentrating in one committee the control of all the general appropriations , abandoning the present method by which these bills are distributed among eight independent committees . His plan is embodied in several amendmeats he proposes to the rules . He says : The effect of these changes would be to enlarge the Committee on Appropriations sufLiciently to enable its work to be properly done . It would place on that committee the Chairmen of the committees which now have annual supply bills , so that they could continue in touch with the respective bills now committed to legislative committees over which they preside . This would largely reintroduce a practice which was followed from the creation of the Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress of having as conferees on the respective supply bills two members of the Committee on Appropriations and one member of the legislative committee having jurisdiction of the legislation affected by the bill . No legislation of any character could be incorporated in any appropriation bill . This practice seems to be universally condemned in theory , but advocated whenever the proposed legislation is satisfactory to those urging its inclusion in a supply bill . The House should rigidly enforce the xule , and to eliminate the abuse , -f such it be , the rule is proposed prohibiting managers representing the House in conference on any ap-propriation bill from agreeing to any , zinendment - Oried by the Senate " vi'hich ificdrpbWtes new- legislation unless authority to do so be specifically given by the House by separate vote upon each proposition . It will be seen that the aim of Mr. FITZGERALD Is in substantial harmony with that of a budget committee proposed by Mr. UNDERWOOD , which the Chairman of the Committee on Appropriations regards as impracticable . If the plan is carried out in connection with the work assigned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the President , there is reason to think confidently that great improvement would result . The prohibition of all legislation in appropriation bills is , of itself , an Important step in the right direction .                     