@@680665

txt Modern penology , Cases of with its new views as Mental to the placing of reDepravity. sponsibility for crime , looks more than a little askance at attempts to adjust the severity of punishment to the amount of viciousness shown in deeds committed . That is because it sees the criminal as the product , practically helpless , of heredity and environment , and therefore recoils from the idea of " punishing " at all . Its theories , however , work out in practice about as did their predecessors , for whether jailing on hanging is a penalty or a reformative or protective measure , the name makes little immediate difference to the object of these attentions . Whether the ultimate difference will be large remains to be seen . Meanwhile , law and common custom alike have a special sternness for what both call " depravity of mind , " and a special retribution or vengeance for acts believed to exhibit that quality . Just what the phrase means has not been very clearly defined , but of the thing itself recognition , in or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , certain automobile killings have recently been held to prove such mental depravity that , though actual purpose to inflict death was absent , they were held to be , and punished as , murders , not accidents . In the news of yesterday depravity of mind in this technical sense had two striking illustrations . One case was the doing to death by church robbers of the policeman , CAHILL , over in Brooklyn ; the other was that of the manufacturers who , indifferent to or forgetful of the terrible lesson of the ' Triangle fire , had not hesitated to invite another such disaster by locking the exits of their crowded factories , CAHILL , a model officer whose courage was notable even among associates as brave as his , was killed because he saw his duty and did it without thinking of possible consequences , a fact that makes his taking off so particularly atrocious . His murderers , if they have been or shall be caught , will find the law without loopholes for them , and as to the full measure of their responsibility there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of petty losses took the chances of wholesale slaughter , manifested , perhaps , even more depravity than did the thieves , but they escape with trivial fines ! Thus does the law blunder and fail to apply with consistency its own principles . It is more than a litTradition tie amusing that the and Headmaster of Eton , Education . in addressing a group of boy visitors from the United States this week , should have referred with such pride to the many " traditions " of his school and yet have confessed the fear that it has too many of them . If the ancient . customs to which he referred are such good things in survival that Dr. LYTTLETON commiserated with his guests for not having them in their home schools , why admit the possibility of an excessive number ? And if he felt the fear , why did he advise his hearers to build up as soon as possible traditions of their own to serve as guides and inspirations ? Possibly the explanation is that habit dictated the praise of Eton 's anciently established rules of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new conditions forced tile admission that traditions have their serious disadvantages . Not a few British educators have recently gone much further than this  --  they have openly ridiculed and denounced the continued use in their famous public schools of methods , and the continued maintenance there of ideals , which , though excellent at the time of their invention  --  when ? they were not traditions , but innovations , that is ? have long since become obsolete , irrelevant , and harmful . Strangely enough , and lamentably enough , certain teachers in this country , who also like to call themselves " Headmasters " and to be so called , are trying to gain for their own schools the reputation for being copies of the very institutions now on the defensive In England and sure soon to abandon these same anachronistic peculiarities . This is , of course , a most mistaken policy , and it would be a fatal one were it anything more than a passing fad or fashion , soon to be rectified under the influence of common sense . Not the best , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for youth of surroundings utterly unlike anything to be encountered later . That is what , necessarily , the school with " traditions " does . The school with associations  --  with a long line of illustrious names on its roll of graduates ? is or may be a wholly different thing . The more schools thus equipped we have the better , but the more we have with rigidly fixed ways the less worthy to be called " education " will be what they give and do to their unfortunate pupils , Secretary GARRISON A Warning does well to make Full public Danger . announceOf ment that the War Department shall not be used as a collection agency against its employes . Not quite so nearly ' certain , even very dubiously well , is it that he should also proclaim the purpbse of dispensing with the services of those who contract debts and without sufficient excuse neglect to pay them . Determination of the excuse 's sufficiency is a difficult and delicate task perhaps best left to the courts and their supposed experts . It is true that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his discharge on general principles is justified . Unless , however , the Secretary intends , as he doubtless does not , to make an elaborate investigation of every case of debt laid before him , his threat is likely to put an enormously effective instrument in the hands of the loan sharks with whom , according to all reports , Washington is more than abundantly supplied . Experience has shown other large employers of labor that while this is an easy way to save themselves from annoyance , its effects are extremely bad , and the more considerate and enlightened of them long since abandoned it .                     