@@680160

txt Howard Gill of Baltimore was killed and George Metach of France was seriously injured late this afternoon a. the Cicero ' . Aviation Field in a midair collision . Gill died while being rushed to the hospital . Mestach recovered consciousness a half hour after the tragedy , but his condition is grave . " I was forced into making the flight by the insistent demands of the spectators , " said Mestach . " It was too dark for safe flying with another machine in the air . When I got on the far turn of the course I heard the whirring of Gill 's machine , and saw him bearing down on me . I tried my best to avoid the collision , but could not get my machine to answer the levers quick enough . Then came the wreck . That is all that I remember . " The wreck of the two machines took place shortly before the close of the day 's exhibition . Mestach was racing to win the twenty-kilometer prize , when he was struck by Gill , who had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a height of 200 feet , and at the northeast corner of the field . Both aviators were hurled to the ground , and their machines were completely wrecked . Just before entering the race . Mestach complained to the officials that it was toe dark to fly safely . " I canrot see at all , " he declared , but the race was started , notwithstanding hisi protests , and the accident happened a few minutes later . As Mestach was rounding the corner of the field , after a beautiful bank . he looked behind him and saw Gill approaching at a speed of nearly a mile a minute . Gill was just rounding the pylon and was a few feet below the Frenchman , who was driving his Borel monoplane . Seeing that an accident was imminent , Mestach jerked his elevator , endeavoring to give Gill space to fly beneath him . He watched from the cockpit of his machine , but he was unable to get a good view of the biplane . Gill struck the monoplane , and the two machines thundered to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wreckage . Both aviators fell free.from their seats . The 5,000 people who were watching the aeroplane races broke into the field and rushed to the scene . Police and officials of the meet tried in vain to keep them back . Automobiles were run in circles around the wreckage to frighten away the crowds , but still the curious spectators pressed close . The injured aviators were removed in an ambulance to St. Anthony De Padua Hospital , where Mestach revived sufficiently to tell his story of the accident . Gill was a wealthy sportsman who was Interested in ? automobile racing until 1905 when he took up ballooning . In 1 ( 100 he began flying an aeroplane . Last Februray , at Los Angeles , he met with a serious accident when his machine fell seventy-five feet . On Oct. 19 , 1911. at St. Louts , Gill established an American aviation endurance record by remaining in the air 4 hours 16 minutes and 35 seconds . Gill was a son of M. Gillett Gill of Baltimore and was 30 years old . Darkness was the primary cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other day met his death at sunset . To-day 's accident occured even later . While there was light higher up it was , almost dark near the ground . ' Mestach said that just before the monoplane race was to start he protested to the officials of the Aezz ; tub of Illinois against racing in darkness , but the start was called , and he went up . " I did n't want the race to start right on the verge of night , " he said . " Right along the monoplane races have been placed at the end of the day 's programme . " Timekeepers at the pylons nearest the spot declared Mestach was In the lead and Gill , coming up faster from behind at the turn , tried to pass beneath . The two machines a lashed , the wings became entangled , and both came to the ground . Following this collision In the clouds hope was abandoned for the safety of Lie Lloyd Thompson , who started for Aurora early in the afternoon . As long as daylight lasted aviators scoured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scouring the countryside word was received that the aviator had safely alighted in a cornfield . Gill it would seem had a premonition of an accident . Just before he entered his machine he called to a friend to throw him a heavy oil coat which the man was wearing . " I 'm likely to bring back some blood on this , " he said with a laugh as he slipped it on . " When you go up you never can tell what shape you will be in when you come down . " Officials of the club to-night said the meet would continue to-morrow and all next week . There have been two previcus collisions between aeroplanes in midair during the four years of aeroplane flying . The first I collision occurred at Canton , Ohio , on Sept. 27 , 1 " 11 , between the late Eugene B. ally and Harry Atwood . It was while Ely was attempting to make a landing , when at a height of 100 feet , that he lost control of his machine and crashed to the ilground. hitting Atwood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minor injuries . The other collision happened on June 19 last at Douai , France , when Capt . Dubois and Lieut . Albert Peignan , French Army officers , met their death when the biplanes they were piloting collided in midair . They were flying In the early morning , and the haze was so thick that they could not see each other . Gill is the ninth . aviator to lose his life this month in a fall , and several have been badly injured . Two other accidents occurred this month in which five spectators were killed . The largest number of aviators to he killed in a single month is sixteen . Gill is the seventy-third airman to he killed this year . This equals the record year of 1911 , when seventythree were killed . The death of Gill yesterday brings the toll of those killed in ' aeroplane accidents since 1908 , when aeroplane flying began on a large scale , up to 182.                     