@@683605

txt The military situation along the western front is causing deepest concern to American and Entente military officials , and this concern.was reflected today in the warning note that characterized Secretary Baker 's weekly review of operations and , possibly also by the fact that when today there assembled in Mr. Baker 's office the new Super War Council , Including the five Cabinet officers , composing the Council of National Defense . and the heads of several war boards . President Wilson walked across from the White House and greeted the members . He remained but a few minutes , ? leaving the council to sit long in deliberation over its grave problems . A conspicuous paragraph of Mr. Baker 's review related to the evident massing of German troops on the western front , . and wound up thus : " It would not do for us to minimize its importance , " the Secretary warned . " It means that we must speed up our military efforts . " What new plans were made by the War Council for speeding up was not disclosed after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be increased co-operation between Govern-ent departments and between these and the war boards that deal directly with the industries of the country . It is certain that no publicity will be given i to the doings of the council except n isolated cases and where immediate result is to be gained . The minutes of today 's and subsequent meetings would doubtless be of more value to the enemy than any other information in the United States , for ways and means of carrying out the part of the United States in the campaigns planned by the International War Board in Paris must come before the sessions . Region of Itunstan Collapse . The collapse of Russia as a military factor and the disorganization of the Russian Army , it is plain , have enabled the German General Staff to strip the eastern front of troops , which are being massed against the western front from Belgium to the Pia  --  e . For the first time since the earlier days of the war the German General Staff is approaching the point of a numerical superiority in the west , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ break through the allied lines . To his review Secretary Baker says frankly that as a result of their increased forces the Teutons may have " for a time preponderant numerical superiority in the west , " and that they - may even be able to achieve some rela- ' Live advantages in the field . " Army officers generally agree with Secretary Baker 's interpretation of the situation . There is no- disposition to dodge the fact that German military power has been strengthened . On the other hand , there is no sign of discouragement , no faltering in the confidence of ultimate victory that has characterized opinion throughout the United States from the day war was declared . The Secretary 's review says at the outset that the German counteroffensive on the Cambrai front has been successful in winning back less than one-third of the territory captured by General Byng . The statement also notes that American engineer troops , " exchanging shovels for rifles , fought off the enemy side by side with the British . " The lesson of the German exhibition of strength is then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most powerful and successful blow aimed at the British during the last two and one-half years , comiug , as it did , immediately after . the British victory in the same area , serves to emphasize the reviving strength of the Germans in the west . A Change in Possibilities . " We must recognize plainly that the situation in the eastern theatre has brought about a very decided change in the strategic possibilities of the military situation in the west . " Germany , by leaVng only skeleton divisions in the Russian area , by concentrating all available guns , munilions , and men in the theatre of operations in the west , has been able to mass a relatively greater force than she has ever been able to mobilize in France in the past . " This explains the success which the enemy was able to achieve in driving the British back from Cambrai. it would not do for us to minimize its importance . " The enemy realizes that lie finds him.ielf temporarily in a singularly for . tunate position , and he can be counted upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a long time past he has been preparing his plans for just such an eventuality as would arise when Russia should enter upon negotiations for a separate peace , which has been a principal German objective ever since the battie of Tannenberg . We must expect that he will put these plans into execution . Thus he may have at his disposal for a time a preponderant numerical superiority in The west ; he may even be able to achieve some relative advantage in the field , such as those recorded during the last week . " The magnitude of the tank before us can be more fully realized when measured by the success which the enemy is still able to gain . " It means that we must speed up ' fur military effort . The united nation must stand squarely behind gur soldiers . " It is not sufficient to prepare to fight ; we must . prepare to win . " Flints of Thrust at French . The review also hints at an expected German thrust against the French front , saying : " The number of hostile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the-Argonne , in the region of SI . Quentin , in the Vosges , and particularly in Upper Alsace , as well as the increasing enemy artillery activity north of the Chemin des Dames , on the right bank of the Meuse , in Chaume Wood , Maisons de Champagne , and Upper Alsace , would appear to indicate that the enemy is feeling out the French front with a view of identifying the strengtb of the units opposing him . " The statement describes events on the Italian front without adding to published information as to what is taking place there or predicting the outcome of the Austro-German thrusts . It adds : " Our declaration of war against Austria now associates us immediately with the struggle now going on in Italy . " Discussing armistice negotiations on the Russian front , the statement says that the agreement covers the entire line " from the Baltic to the Black Sea , as well as the region of the Caucasus . " " The Rumanian armies , " it continues , " while repudiating all attempts made by the enemy to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compelled ' to accept the proposals for a truce . British Success in Palestine . Secretary Baker makes this statement as to conditions in Palestine : " The success of British operations in Palestine has had a very decided military effect throughout the Ottoman Empire , and much of the pressure , which the German higher command had hoped to bring to bear in Mesopotamia. with the view to recapturing Bagdad , has been relieved . " In Mesopotamia the British are carrying forward their operations on the right bank'of the Diale River with great success . It is interesting to record that Russ4t , n detachment co-operated - in hid engagement with the British . " 