@@683343

txt On the third anniversary of the beginning of , the war the centre of the scene has shifted back to where the struggle began  --  Belgium . For two day the newest effort to drive the Germans lack on the western front has been in full swing . It is still too early to judge its magnitude . The high command may be said already to be well satisfied . " Although inaugurated in the British zone , it is a battle of the Allies , there being many crack troops of the French Army now fighting side by side with the legions of General Haig . America Is represented by airmen , who an hour before the signal for the first infantry advance yesterday began their excursions over the lines . So many predictions regarding offensives have gone wrong that all that can he said regarding this one is that the confidence is such as I have never seen before and the tension greater . There is a greater gathering of international observers and so far as I can understand the high military strategy , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect upon the Germans . But whether it is the beginning of the end of either war or the German occupation of French and Belgian territory I do not venture an opinion . I was with the American army when the official source that permits me to follow the fortunes of the French armies in the field informed me that the hour for a Flanders attack was almost at hand . I rode here by automobile in order to be on time . Very soon after the moment set for the first advance I was following it as near as the German artillery would permit . As has frequently been the came ? I was accompanied by Mowrer of the Chicago Daily News , who was the only other American special correspondent in our party . The entire surface of the battle area is as flat as a pancake . We were both complaining of the bad visibility and wanted to get up near the infantry lines when we were bowled over by a German shell that for a few inoments caused all our enthusiasm to evaporate . It struck ten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I remember falling against a fragment of wall and a moment later hearing a volley of sound behind me from Mowrer , who lost a steel helmet In the melee and whose head was covered by a shower of diet , dust , and stones . He was very angry . I remained quiet until the storm passed , then got up very much shaken and bruised , but intact . On account of the low country and the mist it is quite impossible to follow the progress of the advance . We-could Judge from the racket , as well as the figures furnished , that the artillery fire is surpassing anything ever known before , although all artillery efforts are now so great that it is impossible to make an exact comparison , one against another . Naturally , I am barred from giving figures of the artillery concentration , but I can say that the firing is now so heavy , so continuous , and so awful it does not seem possible that it can ever again be surpassed . In riding along the front , through dozens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of nearly every house had thin strips of paper pasted and cross pasted in every direction to prevent the glass from falling from the concussion of the guns that actually shake the earth . From the sea southward almost to Arras , the entire Allied line is ablaze . Although air observation is impeded on account of bad weather , the bombardment , now twelve days old , is directed against both the German batteries and the rear . The heavy weather it impeding all operations today , but all the indications are that the German demoralization is I , setting in , their attempts at ' counterattack resulting in complete failure . Again figures are barred , but I am permitted to say that the French losses to date have been practically nothing .                     