@@679746

txt The defeat of MURPHY 'S Assembly candidates this year is an all-sufficient election issue in New York City . It might be argued that to destroy MURPHY 'S control over the Legislature , with the consequent avoidance of scandalous work at Albany this Winter , would be the best way to hold New York in the Democratic , column in the Presidential election next year . , Next year will take care of itself . Most voters will make their choice between Presidential candidates without much reference to what goes on at Albany . Besides , an argument for the defeat of MURPHY 's men in 1911 , to the end that New York might be carried by the Democrats in 1912 , is not of a nature to appeal with great force to Republicans , and the Republican organization in New York will supply the bulk of the votes to be cast on Nov. 7. - against the Tammany candidates . Some Iiusiontsts have expressed the fear that the Assembly issue in itself would not be sufficiently awakening , since the attention of the voters would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidates , but distributed over the entire list of nominees for , the Assembly in the city , 35 in Manhattan Borough , 23 In Brooklyn , 4 In Queens , and 1 in Richmond . But every voter who casts his ballot votes in an Assembly district , and has his choice of assembly candidates . The Assembly issue should appeal to every voter in each district with just as much force as if the result of the election were to - turn upon the success or the defeat of a. single candidate voted for by everybody . Every voter who inspects the list of candidates In his election district will find thereon the name of Alumni-Vs Assembly candidate and of the opposition candidate . In that way the issue is presented to him in a perfectly concrete form . It is between the continuance of MURPHY 'S control over the Legislature and its termination . No voter who has intelligence enough and public Interest enough to think about the question at all will be at all perplexed as to the way to use his vote against lluarar . The Assembly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ department . It is the issue between authorizing a continuance of lawmaking for the profit of Tammany or of putting a stop to it . The City Charter bill and the Levy election law must have given every voter of intelligence a clear idea of what Tammany control at Albany means . It took two months of hard I work on the part of many public-spirited men and many public bodies of this city to ferret out and expose the secret infamies of the Charter that Albany had planned to force upon the city before its meaning and purpose could become known . Nobody can say how many or what further jobs- and jokers and crooked provisions the instrument contains . The attempt to pass the Charter was a shocking abuse of the lawmaking power , and the Levy election measure , which actually passed and was signed by the Governor , was worse . That law was intended to confirm Tammany 's grip upon this city by making difficult or impossible any effective political combination against it . The bill was deliberately drawn for the purpose of preventing a fusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure went too far . The disfranchisement of certain classes of voters would have been the necessary effect of the law , and for that reason the Court of Appeals declared it unconstitutionaL Every voter who pays reasonably close attention to public affairs must understand what the Charter bill and the Levy , election law meant and he knows that they were fruits of MunPHY 's control over the Legislature . The Levy law Is out of the way , but the attempt to pass the Charter will certainly be renewed if hirritprrr can enforce obedience to his orders in the Assembly Chamber . That makes the issue all-sufficiently clear . The defeat of Munprry 's Assembly candidates is the great work to be accomplished on Election Day .                     