@@681163

txt A diplomatic mission in Washington has received from a corresponding mission accredited to Mexico advices that Gen. Huerta has authorized his delegates to the Niagara Falls conference to promise his resignation should circumstances make that surrender necessary to a settlement of difficulties . It is understood , however , that Gen. Huerta instructed his representatives to make this tender only as a last resort and to insist upon important conditions . These conditions are briefly summarized as a reservation to Gen. Huerts , of some voice in naming his successor , an American loan to Mexico of $400,000,000 and a ninety-nine-year lease of Magdalena Bay for naval target practice at an annual rental of $1,000,000 gold . This information caused a vast deal of speculation in Washington this afternoon . It follows information of a somewhat similar character known to have been received  --  probably from the same source  --  a week ago . That information was that Huerta woutd not resign in obedience to any demands from the United States , but that if the South American envoys told him his retirement was necessary to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he would do so . To-day 's announcement is in line with that sent to TEE Trams by its staff correspondent at Vera Cruz on May 6 , which gave the first intimation that the Huerta delegates would consider the elimination of the dictator if the United States would give some guarantee of aid in the pacification of Mexico . It must be added , however , that a week ago little faith was put in this information , notwithstanding its more or less official character . But it fits in to a certain extent with remarks ascribed to friends of the three Huertista delegates to the conference . But the delegates were supposed only to have said that Huerta 's power was crumbling and that his retirement was inevitable , not that he had decided to retire of his own accord , in return for concessions from the United States or the Constitutionalists . Moved by Fall of Tampico . There Is some ground for the belief that Huerta 's new decision , if correctly reported by the diplomatic correspondent in Mexico , was reached after his delegates started for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fall of Tampico had something to do with it . It also seems likely that the postponement of the Niagara Falls conference for two days grew out of this change of front . Official confirmation of this interesting and important story , however , is lacking at the State Department . Mr. Bryan I said this afternoon that he had heard nothing of it . The Huertista delegates had informed him of no such authority on their part , he said , and he seemed to think that he would have been informed if the report had been true . In other quarters , however , with particularly good opportunities for knowledge of the mental attitudes of principals in the Mexican drama , it was said that the report , on its face , was not unlikely . " Without knowing anything definite about it , " said one of these authorities , " it is logical to assume that having sent delegates to participate in the peace conference , Gen. Huerta should have authorized them to ' do in some way that which was desired . " Offer Comes Too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is true , but that Gen. Huerta 's change of heart has come too late to be a determining factor in the Mexican situation . It is not expected even to have much influence at Niagara Falls , unless Huerta attempts to Use it as a means for . putting the United ' States in a false , light before the world by saying that after he had agreed to all that was demanded of him the United States continued to persecute him . The conditions , however , that he is credited with attaching to his offer of resignation will go far toward neutralizing his efforts to embarrass the United States . In the first place the Constitutionalists may be trusted to spare the United States the task of meeting Gen. Huerta 's proposal that he have a word in the naming of his successor . The Constitutionalists have adhered vigorously to that position from the beginning , and with one Huertista stronghold after another failing into their hands they are not likely to change . The truth of the matter is that the Administration in Washington is so strongly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he will be swept from his place in Mexico within the next few weeks that his own views as to retirement are considered of little Importance . Already the Washington Government Is looking to the more difficult problem that will arise after Gen. Huerta 's departure . That is the real key to what will happen at Niagara Falls , although Gen. Huerta 's proposals as to his retirement may be used to strengthen the hands of the United States in its dealings with Carranza .. Loan Not Impossible . As far as the suggested American loan to Mexico is concerned . there is nothing repugnant to the Washington Government in that . When John Lind first went to Mexico the President through him told Huerta that an adjustment of Mexican afafirs satisfactory to the United States would incline hini to use his good offices with American bankers in Mexico 's behalf . And the lease of Magdalena Bay , if not its absolute purchase , would find warm support in the Senate . where the fear has existed for several years that Japan might somehow utilize it for a naval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's news that President Wilson and some of his advisors were working not only to set up a Mexican Government constitutional in essence , but to carry out certain special internal reforms that they hoped would work to the stability of the new regime , was confirmed indirectly to-day by two developments resembling each other only in their importance . One was that Secretary Bryan had made representations to the rebels at Tampico in an effort to " reduce and prevent " the imposition of an export tax on oil . This might be taken as the first step of the United States toward shaping the domestic policies of the Constitutionalists . The other was the strong assurance from the two highest authorities that the incident of Private Parks would not now precipitate a crisis neutralizing the effect of the Niagara Falls Conference . Doubt of Varies Fate . Some days ago Mr. Garrison , the Secretary of War , said that he assumed that Parks was dead and the inference was that he understood that his assumption was set forth in the communication Secretary Bryan transmitted to Gen. Huerta through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Washington . But that communication , as these dispatches pointed out , was in the form of an inquiry . To-day both Mr. Garrison and Mr. Bryan said without qualification that they Were not informed certainly even that Parks was dead . Mr. Garrison said to-day that every bit of information that had come to him about Parks 's fate told flatly of his death . It made no difference whether the report was that he had died , was shot , murdered , or executed , said Mr. Garrison . They were all the same story , coming from . different sources . But When reports from ' Vera Cruz set forth that the aceount submitted to the department vas ' from an . eye-wIt ? ness , the report always ended with a promise to try to confirm the story . " So I do n't think very much of the eye-witnesses , " said the Secretary with a laugh . " We are trying to find out ' the truth . No , the army at Vera Cruz is not in a position to investigate the matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through indirect means , is doing what he can to learn the facts of Private Parks 's fate . But more confidence is felt here in the efforts of the Brazilian Embassy in Washington working ' through the Brazilian legation in Meat. - co City . At the same time Huerta , in ways of his own , has promised an inisestigatior with the summary execution of the offenders if it is found that Parks was murdered by Mexicans . This promise has been conveyed to Mr. Bryan and Mr. Garrison by the Brazilian Ambassador . With the Parks incident thus temporarily at a standstill interest here is ( centred in the American representations to the rebels about the oil tax with its possible bearing on the future policy of Washington . It is suggested that Mr. Bryan 's use of the word " re ' duce " might apply to back taxes imposed by Gen. Huerta which have not been collected , but which the Constitutionalists are understood to be seeking . But the word " prevent " seems to refer to the tax itself for the future . which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ter cent . ad valorem on exports . No answer to these representations has yet reached Washington . The preliminary observations of Gen. Gonzales to Rear Admiral Mayo , following his occupation of Tampico , did not seem to indicate a willingness to pay exceptional attention to suggestions from American officials . The significance of Gen. Gonzales 's attitude lies in the fact that he ' is supposed to be Gen. Carranza 's man . His intimations that he would he pleased to have the Vera Cruz incident closed with honor to his country , give further ground for the Washington Government 's growing feeling that it has more to expect from " Pancho " Villa than from his titular superior . Easy Solution Avoided . But there is no blinking the fact here that whether Villa or Carranza is looked to , the Administration has set itself an extremely difficult task in Mexico . In the early stages of John Lind 's mission to Mexico many opportunities presented themselves that could have been utilized by President Wilson as a graceful exit from Mexican affairs leaving at the head of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the forms of Mexican law . But he was not content then to shirk the task he had assumed , and he seems now equally determined to ignore the easy solutions that may present themselves . A few clays ago , immediately following the fall of Tampico , it was thought that the peace conference as planned promised to preserve the status quo until Gen. Huerta fell before Villa . It was assumed then that with Huerta 's physical presence removed the victorious revolutionists , or at least a government set up under their auspices , would be Promptly recognized . The only stipulation then expected was that foreign Property and lives and foreign claims against Mexico should be respected . Spectators here would then have thought.that the President had accomplished all he proposed . Firm Stand for Justice . But the plan to recognize no Government in Mexico that does not set itself fully in accord with justice , even to its own citizens , adds darker tones to pictures of the future . President Wilson is not aware of this , and the indications increase each day that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army will have to ' take over the affairs of Mexico . The present revolution , he feels , is a logical outgrowth of the Madero revolution , which was won on a " platform " of social and agrarian reform . President gadero failed to carry out his platform . resident Wilson is determined that the onstitutionalists shall . Only in that way , he feels , can tranquilly be perpetuated . The peace envoys , if they undertake this wider task planned for them by the President and Mr. Bryan , will be confronted by peculiar difficulties bearing little analogy to the duties they have so far assumed . Upon the collapse of Gen. Huerta , which is expected in the next few weeks , ' the second party to the American-Mexican dispuate at issue at Niagara Falls will vanish . It will then remain for the South American diplomats , who have undoubtedly shown skill and tact so far , to shift their negotiations from the obliterated Federals to the victorious rebels . That will be the difficulty . Gen. Carranza rejected offers in the interest of peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Will he or the.Constitu // HUERTA TO RESIGN FOR MEXICAN PEACE // tionalist who may succeed him in control do more when victory is won ? No Withdrawal of Troops . That Is the most unanswerable question in the situation to-day . But in its tarn it answets very clearly questions raised by the military policy of the United States . It is the uncertainty of the course of the Constitutionalists when they sit in the palace of the Montezumas that makes it certain that the American garrison will not be withdrawn from Vera Cruz following the installation of a Constitutionalist Government . The permanent equipment of the regiments in Vera Cruz is being forwarded as fast as possible and preparations for strengthening them have not been countermanded . An unofficial report from Vera Cruz this afternoon said that Gen. Fanston had forwarded to the War Department a complete plan for his advance to Mexico City and his occupation of the capital . That might . in a sense , be true . But plans that Gen. Funston would prepare at this time would be simply details or corrections of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It can he said with authority that already the armies of the United States  --  rt , paper  --  have Invaded Mexico from ever ) , possible point and have occupied the entire country under several different systems . But this invasion is 110t now expected to precede the fall of Gen. Huerta or to have any direct relation to him or his misdeeds . That explains the little elation here over the unofficial reports that Gen. Huerta 's delegates to Niagara Falls are authorized to offer his resignation with certain conditions . Zapata a Danger . What might precipitate an American expedition to Mexico City would be the seizure of the capital by the bandit chief . Zapata . His proximity of the city has caused President Wilson to worry before this , and the pledge understood to ha ' e been exacted of Zapata by Carranza that he would delay his attack is paid to have been suggested from Washington . But in any case the ultimate separation of Zapata from the Constitutionalists , as he separated himself from Madero when he assumed the Presidency , might require @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bandit and no settlement of the Mexican controversy will be really complete until he is definitely quieted . The American delegates to the Niagara conference will leave Washington tomorrow at 9 o'clock . To-day Associate Justice Lamar of the Supreme Court of the ' United States . Frederick W. Lehmann of qt . Louis , and the delegation 's Secretary , H. Percival Dodge . were escorted to the White House by Mr. Bryan . They discussed the situation at length and in detail w-th President Wilson . The President gave the American Commissioners no spec'fic instructions . Ile told them to place themselves in a receptive mood and await proposals from the three South American envoys . But at the same time he outlined to them that peace in Mexico seemed to him to he condit'oned on the elimination of the Huerta Administration and the estab- I lishment in its place of a strong provisional Government which would conduct an election . giving fair treatment to all fact'ons and parties , and guaranteeing . moreover . a solution of the agrarian problem and other internal difficulties which have bred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The President wishes the Mexican question settled on comprehensive lines that will take into account the economic principles for which Zapata In the south ; as well as Carranza in the north , have been fighting , and will at the same time conserve the rightful Interests of the people in the territory now controlled by the Huerta Government . President Wilson , in his final talk with the American Commissioners , at which Secretary Bryan also was present , spoke hopefully of the conference . He is earnestly desirous that it shall succeed , and indicated that every power and legitimate influence at the disposal of the American Government would be exerted to make it succeed . The President la 'd before the Cornmif.sioners the entire Mexican problem as he saw it , emphasizing that the duty of the United States was to seek tinsel ' fishly to assist Mexico to set up a con ' stitutional government which could be accorded recogn'tion by the world , because of its canacity not alone to main , tain peace within its confines but to observe international obligations . ' In his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land question , speaking of it as a perennial cause of discontent and dissatisfaction , which had made it comparatively ' easy to raise a revolutionary army in Mexico .                     