@@683600

txt According to CARLYLE , " Poor Loris " sent away unsatisfied three deputations from the people , and , when he learned of their dissatisfaction , said " Why , - that is a revolt ! " " Sire , " answered the courtier. " it is not a revolt , it is a revolution . " There Is need that some one should inform our servants at Washington what has happened in the country . They think that the railways have " broken down , " and ought to be punished for their failure through : malice to enjoy the blessings of regulation . If this should be thought extravagant , preposterous , those who think so should rally their forces to defeat the resolution of Representative . SAsivrif , charging that the railways have deliberately failed to make any effort to increase . their facilities to relieve the congestion of freight in this country with the premeditated purpose of forcing the Interstate Commerce Cornmi. , , sion to grant further increases in freight rates . Accordingly , the operation of the railways is to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Washington shall be checked . If Postmaster BURLESON has his way , the telegraphs and telephones will be taken over also . The express companies belong with the railways . Only one Interstate Commissioner expresses a choice between the alternatives , regarding the railways proposed by the commission . If Commissioner AlcCnony 's views shall prevail , they will not be confined to the railways . We might better all become Socialists at once , and have the agony over the sooner , than reach the same result by degrees , beginning with the railways . It is the first step that costs , and therefore it is worth while to see just what has happened to the railways . They have not broken down. ? The history of railways affords no example of equal - efficiency under such hindrances . What has broken down is the attempt to regulate business . all business , including railways as one item , according to unbusinesslike theories . The perfectionists thought that they could enact scientific management , and moral precepts about how railways " ought " to be run . No one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be done , it would be desirable that some super-Congress should enact that Congress itself should make no mistakes . But , as the world wags , there is a predestined fate for all impractical and uneconomic proposals . There are more railways in receivership under regulation than at any other time . The railways need billions , and can not get them except by Government gift . The country must have railways , or suffer strangulation of its efforts to save its life . The country awakes to - the situation too late , - and sees that the Commission charged with the subject is still blind to the significance of its own ideas . If the public interest allowed , the Commission should be permitted to save its face , as it tries to do , by saying that the theories of regulation did not include wartime conditions . The fact is that the policy of the Commission was doomed from the start , and can no more succeed in peace than in war , . no more in the future than in the past . Among the many able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theory of ruling business by statute , none is the superior of the first Chairman . He said that there did not live the man who could control all the ' railways of the - United States by law . It has taken thirty years to prove it , and still it is necessary to argue the point , despite the demonstration . , Tie reason is immutable . . Conduct can be controlled by law , for standards of conduct change as slowly as the folkway ideas of right and wrong . In the field of conduct the Commission is entitled to all the credit its report just published claims . It has abolished rate wars , rebates , preferences , and other acts contrary to public and private interest , and contrary to good morals . For this all praise . The error was in trying to regulate by law acts whose quality alters with conditions . The Commission erred in company with both Congress and the highest court . All alike condemned " pooling , " which is the railway form of trust . All alike favored competition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are of trusts , and although the same sort of competition may be either good or bad , according to conditions . These errors go to the roots of regulation as we have experienced it . We must have regulation , or suffer a worse thing in the alternative of Government operation , with all the faults shown under regulation . It is not more possible to enact Government operation without faults than regulation without faults . Yet the centre of the stage is held by those high in Government councils who counsel Government operation as a remedy for evils springing up under their control . The Commission names only the alternatives of Government regulation or operation . There is a third way  --  that the merits of business should be recognized as well as its faults . It should not have free rein to work its will . But it neither can nor should be put into a straitjacket . There is po better business morality than the good practice of leading men a business . There is no sounder administration of law than by the juries who have freed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good conscience , and done according to the necessities of economics . The railways and trusts have survived slaughter by law . The revolution should be recognized at Washington , and in forty-eight State capitols . Or it will proceed to its predestined catastrophe . The Government has enough to do to govern us and wage war . Business will do better if left to business men .                     