@@683775

txt . To read Field Marshal Hue 's report on the Battle of the Tanks at Cambrai and the well-timed and powerful German counterattack la to feel that confidence in the skill and judgment of the British commander in France Is not misplaced . There came a time In the unexpected reverse when General HAIG had to choose between a ' counteroffensive and a retirement to Tiesquieres Ridge that would involve the loss of hard-won positions of no little strategic value . Consider that since the opening of the battle of the Somme on July 1 , 1916. the British commander had not known a serious check . He had won victory after victory , and was familiar with the backs of the enemy . The great drive of Sir JULIAN BYNG at Cambrai , five miles straight ahead with scarcely a breathing spell , was the pinnacle of triumph . After so . much . success , ' a General who. saw his troops thrown back , their lines broken and their ranks in confusion , positions torn from them , supports failing , might well have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believing that his army would be invincible when put to the test . But General HAIG , with a Scotch instinct for quick and cool calculation , " had no doubt as to the " correct course ' under the . ? condi " lions . " If . he had decided " on an " other offensive battle on a large " scale , " he would have fought at a disadvantage and might have been overwhelmed . But the second battle of Cambrai was not to be his Waterloo . When the score was cast up , a reverse , a ' - depressing reverse , had to be admitted ; nevertheless , the British line had been advanced two and a half miles . The reaction - was depressing because so much had been expected from the wide breach made in the enemy 's lines by BYNG 'S - vigorous assault , and the result after all was a return to ' trench fighting . " I am of the opinion , " says General Hale in his report , " that on the 20th and 21st of " November we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the realization of our full program " within our power . " That program was to take " the Hindenburg line In " the reverse from Meuvres to the " River Scarpe , " and compel a general retreat of the enemy . As the German counterattack did not begin for several days after the high tide of the British advance , why was the opportunity given the enemy to effect concentrations and " surprise " General ** army ? There are two answers . The British troops had fought themselves to a standstill by the evening of Nov. 21 . There is a limit to an assaulting army 's endurance . The history of wtrr is full of examples . There were many of them in our own civil war . Again , there was a lack of reserves , of fresh troops to strengthen the line . General limo had repeatedly called for reinforcements . With half a million more men within call , perhaps less than that number , there would have been nothing to prevent the capture of Cambrai but a very tired German army which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is now known that the German army was reinforced first ; the staff was on the alert to seize its advantage . From a tactical point of view the Germans must have credit for turning the tables on the British with a swift and skillfully executed stroke . General HAIG is no doubt right when he admits no more than a " local surprise . " He is much too good a tactician , and is too familiar with German methods , not to know that , a British army that does not ' move forward from positions won is in danger of attack at any ' time from a watchful enemy . As to the " local surprise , " it may be surmised that the British Staff work was at fault .                     