@@680360

txt John D. Rockefeller , Jr. , regarding whose activities for the suppression of the " white slave " traffic ) there have been many unauthorized rumors ever since the termination of the service of the so-called " white slave " Grand Jury , of which he was foreman , gave out a formal state5nent yesterday intended to rectify various inaccuracies in the reports about what is being done in that direction . Mr. Rockefeller 's statement makes the first authorized announcement of the formation of an independent organization , called the Bureau of Social Hygiene , for the study of the evils disclosed by the investigations of this Grand Jury of two years ago . The statement sets forth the origin , present aims and plans of this organization of social workers for the public good , and makes known its membership and the nature of the work upon Which it is at present engaged . Nothing whatever is said in the statementahput the source or the extent of the'lnancial.backing the-bureau . But Mr.-Bockefeller has previously denied the report that a special fund " of millions " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that as a matter of fact the expenses incurred in the study of the evils Under consideration are being taken care of as they arise . , His statement bears the simple caption The Origin , Work and Plans of the Bureau of Social Hygiene . " Here it is . Mr. Rockefeller 's Statement . New York , Jan. 27 , 1913 . The Bureau of Social Hygiene came into existence about two years ago , as a result of the work of the Special Grand Jury appointed to investigate the white slave traffic in New York City , which served during the first half of the year 1910 . One of the recommendations made by it in the presentment handed up at the termination of Its labors was that a public commission be appointed to study the social evil . The foreman of that body subsequently gave careful consideration to the character of the work which might properly be done by such a commission and limitations under which It would operate . In this connection , separate , personal conferences were held with over a hundred leading men and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physicians , business men , bank presidents , presidents of commercial organizations , clergymen , settlement workers. , social workers , labor leaders , and reformers . These conferences dqveloped the feeling that a public commission would labor under a number of disadvantages , such as the fact that it would be short lived ; that its work would be done publicly : that at best it could hardly do more than present recommendations . The conviction also grew that the main reason why more permanent results had not been obtained by the various organizations which had dealt with the subject of the social evil during the pee ten or fifteen years was that most of them were temporary . While active , they materially improved the situation . but as their efforts were relaxed , there came the inevitable return to much the same conditions as before . The forces of evil are never greatly alarmed at the organization of investigating or reform bodies , for they know that they are generally composed of busy people , who can not turn aside from their own affairs for any great length @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or later their efforts will cease , and the patient denizens of the underworld and their exploiters can then reappear and continue the traffic as formerly . Must be a ' Permanent War . So the conviction grew that in order to make a real and lasting improvement in conditions , a permanent organization should be created , the- continuation of which would not be dependent upon a temporary wave of reform . nor upon the life of any man or group of men , but which would go on , generation after generation , continuously . making warfare against the forces of evil . It also appeared that a private organization would have , among other advantages , a certain freedom from publicity and from political bias , which a publicly . appointed commission could not so easily avoid . Therefore , as the initial step , in the Winter of 1911 the Bureau of Social Hygiene was formed . Its present members are Miss Katharine Bement Davis . Superintendent of the New York State Reformatory for Women at Bedford Hills , N. Y. ; Paul M. Warburg of the. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Starr J. Murphy of the New York bar , and John COnfixtneibon ' . Page ROCKEFELLER WAY TO DEAL WITH VICE // D. Rockefeller , Jr . As the work develops new members may be added . One of the first things undertaken by the bureau was the establishment at Bedford Hills , adjacent to the reformatory , of a Laboratory of Social Hygiene , under Miss Davis 's direction . In this laboratory it is proposed to study from the physical , mental , social , and moral side each person committed to the reformatory . This study will be carried on by experts , and each case will be kept under observation for from three weeks to three months , as may be required . When the diagnosis is completed it is hoped that the laboratory will be in position to recommend the treatment most likely to reform the individual , or , if reformation is impossible , to recommend-permanent , custodial care . Furthermore , reaching out beyond the individuals Involved , it is believed that thus important contributions may be made to a fuller knowledge of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successful , the principle may prove applicable to all classes of criminals and the conditions precedent to crime , and lead to lines of action not only more scientific and humane , but alsb less wasteful than those at present followed . Study of Vice Here and Abroad . In entering upon its labors the bureau regarded it of fundamental , importance to make a careful study of the social evil in this country and in Europe , feeling that this problem , like any other great and difficult one , can be intelligently approached only , by means 1frf-Za " : -. ttiorciugh : , , arit1 ; . plete ' knowledge It ; fdP : : altAbe.factorsin involved ; as - *well as : exp.etlerice , or ' N'atidiTedia:Crlee-iin. : dealing eement8 were 14. therefore , in- the early part of last Winter to secure the servlcces of George J. Kneeland , who had directed the Chicago Vice Commission investigation . Since that time Mr. Kneeland , with a corps of assistants , has been making a thorough and comprehensive survey of the conditions of vice in New York City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , RSines law hotels , disorderly saloOtis , cafes , and restaurants , massage parlors , and other places where vicious people congregate , but also the personal histories of some 2,000 prostitutes ; and a study of all the case records for one year of a great majority of the , hOsPitals and dispensaries in STew York City , with a view to ascertaining the prevalence of venereal diseases and their ratio to all other diseases . Mr. Kneeland 's report is now in progress of Preparation and will be published within the next two months . At the same time the bureau was fortunate in securing the services of Abra- , ham Flexner , whose reports on the'med- ' ical schools-in this country and in Europe are so well known , to study - the social evil and the various methods of dealing with It in the leading ' cities of Europe . Mr. Flexner spent the greater part of a year abroad ; making a searching and exhaustive inquiry into the subject , and is now working on his report , - which will be ready for publication this Winter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be followed by others , in those cities in the United States where different conditions exist or where special methods of dealing . with the social evil have been . introduced , the object being to become familiar with all phases of the ' subject and all methods of handling It which have ( been- tried in this country and in Europe . Based upon all of these studies , which will probably be published by December of this year , it is the : hope of the bureau that there may be devised a practical plan for dealing with . the social evil in NewYork gity -- -a plan which public opinion can be brought to support . In conclusion , it can not be too strongly emphasized that . the spirit which dominates ' the work of the bureau - is not sensational or sentimental or hysterical ; that it is . not a Spirit ' of criticism of public , officials , - but that it is essentially a spirit of , constructive , suggestion and of deep scientific as - Well as ? humane intei'est in a ; great world problem : 