@@678782

txt With a view to establishing ? in New York City the greatest medical school in the world and creating one of the world 's centres of medical teaching and research , the Trustees of Columbia University yesterday made known their plans for the improvement of the College of Physicians am , Surgeons . The entire plan as proposed will Involve an expenditure of 8,000,000 . It provides for the complete recOnstraetion and removal of the College of PhYsiclans and Surgeons from its present site in West Fifty-ninth Street , near Tenth Avenue , to Morningside Heights , where the other faculties of Columbia University are now situated . The site of the new school will be the square block bounded by Amsterdam Avenue , 116th Street , Morningside Avenue , and 117th Street . When the ' university purchased half of this block last week at auction there was a great deal of speculation as to the source of the funds with which the prop ' arty was purchased , and also regarding the use the Trustees would matte. of the ground . It came out yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ site , and that the money was furnished by four donors . William IC . Vanderbilt , George J. Gould , Frank A. Munsey , and a fourth anonymous person contributed jointly the amount necessary to acquire half of the block , which measures 450 feet by 200 feet . The other half of the site is now owned by Mrs. Drexel of Philadelphia , and the Trustees expect in the near future to acquire this plot with money provided by gift Looking out from the highest point of Morningside Heights the new Medical school site from its east frontage cornma.hds a ' picturesque view of Harlem , the Bronx , Queens , and Long Island Sound beyond the Connecticut line . With the entire square block in the sole possession of Columbia , the medical school will be secure from Interference with its light , air , and quiet . The incorporation of the medical school as an integral part of the university is taken to . be the most important step in i. ' onerneirre et qad'y adVance as an educational system since its removal to Morning-side Heights fifteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usefulness of both the university and the medical faculty is hardly to ' be doubted . As the Trustees expressed it yesterday : " Medical students , not only at Columbia but generally elsewhere , are outside of the ' - associations and attractions of academic residence and of unadernio opportunity . The proposed rebuilding will bring both teachers and students of medicine into intimate relationships with teachers and students in other parts of the tnalversitY. ? As showing the attitude of the College of Physicians and Surgeons ' Faculty on the projected change it was stated ' yesterday that the Faculty , by a formal vote , expressed complete-approve/ - of the plan . Though the College of Physicians and Surgeons is officially a part of Columbia , at the present time it Is more so in name I than in fact . Some students of the Medical College , , it is said , first make their acquaintance with their alma , raster when on commencement day they go up to Morningside Heights to take their degrees . When the college moves from its present home on Fifty-ninth Street it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ site has been made . It first occupied a building in Rebinson Street , now Park Place . It afterward moved to Pearl Street , then to Barclay Street , and in 1837 was housed in a commodious building in Crosby Street . There it remained for eighteen years till there came another removal to Twenty-third . Street and Fourth Avenue . After settling down tlore for thirty-two years more the northvfard march of the city 's business interests forced another change , so that in 1887 the present site was acquired . It was remarked yesterday when the donors of the Morningside Heights site were announced that , just as Mr. Vanderbilt is one of the chief contributors to the present fund , so the Vanderbilt family in 1887 made a gift of the Fifty-ninth Street site and buildings . That the advance in medical science has given rise to an increased demand for medical facilities is one of theenrincipia .. 1 motives for this change . " In the interval since the present buildings were erected in 1885-87 , " say the Trustees , " medical science has advanced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of pathology , bacteriology , biological chemistry , and pharmacology have either come into existence or into entirely new relations with medical education , and for medical and surgical research equipment is now necessary of a kind and extent then unthought of . Laboratories and equipment unknown thirty years ago are now an essential part of medical teaching and research : Both at Harvard and at the University of Pennsylvania new buildings and equipment have in recent years been , provided for the medical school , but until the present time Columbia has been unable , through lack of funds to reconstruct its medical buildings in similar fashion . " The George Crocker millions lately bequeathed to Columbia for the purpose of establishing a bureau of cancer research will be used for that purpose solely , and a special building to be devoted entirely to medical and surgical research is provided for in the projected Morningside group of buildings . That the Columbia Medical School will be in a position when reorganized " to offer exceptional clinical opportunities for its students comparable to those of Paris and Vienna " is hardly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' There will be the Sloane Maternity Hospital , the new Gynecological Clinic built by Mr. and Mrs. William D. Sloane , and the Vanderbilt Clinic , together with the facilities offered ' at St. Luke 's , the Presbyterian , Mount ' Sinai , Roosevelt , Bellevue , the German , and other hospitals with which Columbia bears close relationship .                     