@@680127

txt Ex-Gov . Benjamin B. Odell was made a member in high standing of the Ananias Club by Col. Roosevelt to-night after he was ' told of Mr. Odell 's testimony in Washington , before the Senate committee Investigating campaign ' contributions , about the $240,000 raised by the late E. H. Harriman in the 1904 campaign . The Colonel listened intently while the newspaper men told him what Mr. Odell had said concerning the use of . $40,000 of the fund by the National Campaign Committee , and how it came about that the fund was raised . He then said : " I am not interested in . Mr. Odell 's hearsay evidence about what happened . No honest man can question what I said lat the time the letters were published . " Then the Colonel declared that he had never , directly or indirectly , asked Mr. Harriman for a dollar , and that , on the contrary , Mr. Harriman had asked that the National Campaign Committee give money to help Odell . The- Colonel added I that no man could refute what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Odell did to-day , without " branding himself as dishonest and untrue . " The testimony of Gov . Odell angered Mr. Roosevelt not a little , and throughout the interview he pounded on his knee with his clenched fist to emphasize what he was saying . Finally he dictated this statement : " I have not a thing to add to what was contained in my statement containing the letters published at that time . These letters speak for themselves , and Mr. Sheldon 's testimony bears them out absolutely . I never directly or indirectly asked Mr. Harriman for a dollar , and he never spoke to me about giving a dollar to the National campaign fund . On the contrary , he asked me to help him get for Odell and the State campaign fund some large sums of money from the National Campaign Committee , on the ground that my election was safe any how , and that it was essential to help Odell carry the State ticket . " Let me repeat that every fact was set forth intull.and irt-detai ? by me six years. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement contained my letters written . at I the time to Mr. Harriman , and neither ' Mr. Harriman nor Mr. Odell ever at-1 tempted to answer this communication of mine . And no human being can so much as attempt to refute any statement therein made without branding himself as dishonest and untruthful . Mr. Sheldon 's statement , entirely unsolicited , and which he of his own accord volunteered to make . corroborates everything that I said . I was glad to have it published , but the letters that I gave needed no corrobora- I tion . " That is all , gentlemen , " said Mr. Roosevelt with a wave of his hand as he brought the statement to a close .                     