@@679167

txt " KEEPING IT FOR A FRIEND . " It would be well . it seems to us , if New York 's great commuting class Were instructed by some competent authority ? an authority that would afterward enforce the instructions ? as to their rights as occupants of railway car seats , and especially as to the limitation of their rights . For not a few of them evidently think that besides acquiring an indisputable claim to one seat bytaking it before anybody else does , the same act gives them a like control of the seat adjoining  --  to " reserve " it , as the phrase is , for somebody who is coming later . When seats are abundant in a train , it is only common courtesy to let a man or woman do this , but seats rarely are abundant in the trains that serve the New York commuters , and the reservation habit is indefensibly practiced when it deprives of a chance to sit down anybody who comes before the person in whose behalf it is practiced does so , or even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chance of finding an empty seat in some other ear . Very often the question , " Is this seat taken ? " which it is well enough to ask before sitting down beside a stranger , is answered with a gruff and resentful " Yeb , " though obviously it Is not then " taken " by anything more than a hat or a newspaper or a valise . This reply is impudent , and it ought to result in a " scene , " more or less every time it is made . As a beginning of the controversy it would be proper to ask , " By sirlafenu by what , and 1,17 ? Insistence upon an anewer to each of these pertinent questions Will always do much to clear up the situation . and if the answers are not satise4otorY to the man who asks for them , an appear to the conductor or guard will always etc:it a statement of the facts and the law in the case that will tend to improve public manners . No man or woman who pays for only one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seat in the slightest 4Cgree ? as against anybody else and as a matter of right . Neither should he or she indulge in surly growls or sour looks when what is at best a , conceded privilege is for a sufficient reason withdrawn . In reality , the only " taken " seats in common oars are occupied seats . All others are free to the-first comer , and not at an as a matter of concession or favor , either , by the occupant of the adjoining one ,                     