@@680228

txt The Right Hon. James Bryce , the British Ambassa-1 dor , has notified President Taft that he has tendered his resignation to his Government , and will return to England . No date has been set for the retirement of the Ambassador . That will remain to be settled by the British Government . Mr. Bryce has been credited with con-1 templating this action for a year or more . Prior to his recent trip to Australia and New Zealand , It was reported that he intended to retire to private life soon after he resumed his post in Washington . Just before Mr. Bryce 's arrival here from his Australasian tour , on which he was accompanded by Mrs. Bryce , a question was asked in the House of Commons as to the rumors that Mr. Bryce would leave the Diplomatic Service . The response of Sir Edward Grey , the Minister for Foreign Affairs , that Mr. Bryce would return to his duties in Washington was taken as a denial . Ikas been the understanding do Washington that if Mr. Bryce should resign it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days in Great Britain and devoting himself to writing and , perhaps , to a limited degree of public service . But the Ambassador 's intentions , if he meant to relinquish his official duties , as long ago as when the rumors affecting him were started , did not become known in any authoritative way . It became known to-night that Mr. Bryce 's main , and perhaps his sole , reason for his intention to retire was that he felt that advancing years entitled him to give up the burden of a public career . He is 74 years old , hut to all appearances is still hale and hearty . He has been in Washington as British Ambassador since February , 1907 . This was his first diploa matic post , and it was said at the time of his appointment that his selection was intended as a compliment to the United States , in whose government and people Mr. Bryce had shown a deep interest . News was received . from London tonight that Sir Cecil ' Arthur Spring-Rice had been chosen as Mr. Bryce 's successor. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here when he was plain MT . Spring-Rice as one of the Secretaries of the British Embassy . He was very popular In society , and made many friends in the official and , residential social circle . Paisama Oliteritioin Pending . When Ambassador Bryce called at the White House yesterday to Inform President Taft that he had tendered the resignation , it was supposed that the purpose Of his visit was to discuss with the President the British protest against the action of Congress in granting free passage to American coastwise vessels through the Panama Canal . This is the most important pending diplomatic question between Great Britain and the United States . The protest was laid before the State Department last Summer in the absence of Ambassador Bryce on his antipodean trip , and yesterday was the first opportunity afforded to the Ambassador to bring the subject to the attention of this Government . It is expected that Mr. Bryce will enter into exchanges on the subject with Secretary of State Knox when the latter returns to Washington . Mr. Knox will probably be here to-morrow . No statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the British Embassy this evening . Formal announcement will probably be made through the medium of The OffidialGazette in London , or by Sir Edward Grey in the House or Commons . It is understood here that in tendering his resignation , Mr. Bryce expressed a desire that it be accepted without delay . Great Britain was the first foreign power to send an Ambassador to Washington . That was in 1893 , when Sir Pauncefote , afterward Lord Pauncefote of Preston , held the rank of Minister in this capital and was elevated to the rank of Ambassador in accordance with the example set by a law of Congress providing Ambassadorial rank in the American diplomatic service . Until Lord Pauncefote 's death on May 24 , 1903 , he was the Dean of the Diplomatic Corps . The present Dean Is Baron Hengelmuller , the Austrian Ambassador , but his retirement from this post has been gazetted and he will be succeeded as Dean by J. J. Jusserand , the French Ambassador , who was a member of the famous " tennis Cabinet " at the White House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington , Mr. Bryce malted next to Id . Jusserand , and would have been entitled to the Deanship if M. Jusserand had been recalled from Washington . ilir , Bryce Very Popular . Mr. Bryce has been very popular here on account of his great interest in and knowledge of American affairs . His appointment as Ambassador in Washington was very pleasing to this Government , ' and he was the recipient of many courte- ' sies upon his arrival here , which were intended to show appreciation of his selection . He has been in great demand as a lecturer and orator since coming to this country , and is regarded as one of the happiest afterdinner speakers ever heard in this city . After the publication of his most notable literaey work , " The American Commonwealth , ' it was said of Mr. Bryce that he I knew more of the structure and constitu-1 &mal; history of the United States Government than most educated Americans . His latest work , published very recently , was an account of his experiences during a tour of South America . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , In to Mr. Bce , and he devoted m study and attention to It . Since his resiuchdence here as a British Ambassador he has sought to perfect his knowledge of lAmerican institutions and tendencies , and devoted much study to the proceedings in Congress and to political affairs . generally .                     