@@683643

txt The Place of Our Chief Interests . The writer feels most grateful to THE TIBIES for the publication of the series of articles now appearing on your editorial page over the . signature of " An American Jurist . " , The broad apprehension displayed In these articles of the unique world position and independent interests of the United States renders these articles moat timely and gives them great permanent value . I wish to suggest that the aecond paragraph in the article appearing in your Issue of Jan. 8 ought certainly to be read in the light of the concluding paragraph of the same article . The seconttparagraph begins : " The Interests of America most concerned in the final treaties which will embody the consummation of this greatest of modern wars may be classified as ( 1 ) Mexican , ( 2 ) Canadian , ( 3 ) West Indian . ( 4 ) Asiatic and Pacific . " Of course , - the ' writer of the article has not for a moment overlooked the truth that for every nation those interests are greatest which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is feared that not every reader will apply the necessary modification . One is reminded of the teacher of political economy who , at the close of a " problem " course in which he had put a large share of enthusiasm , asked his students what three things would be most essential to a group of individuals cast upon.an isolated land . lie hoped , of course , ? to hear the . answer ? a fertile soil , a favorable climate , and some of the implements of husbandry . But so easily is the controversial emphasized and the obvious slighted , his students answered as with one voice  --  free trade , sound money , and universal suffrage . The purpose of the foregoing is to emphasize the hope that Americans will realize during the perilous discussion which will attend the close of the European war that their chief interests are still within their continental boundaries . If it had not been considered and were not still considered that these interests were endangered , America would not be , at this moment , a participant in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ events located . on European soil tends temporarily to dwarf the importance of domestic affairs and exaggerate that of foreign relations . It is important , therefore , at every stage to note how little permanent interest the people of the United States can have in questions of national boundaries or forms of government in other continents .                     