@@680856

txt It is quite likely that more indictments will be found against Everett P. Fowler of Kingston , who figures throughout the Hennessy graft charges as one of the " bagmen . " These indictments , it is expected , will follow Assistant District Attorney John Kirkland Clark 's latest trip up-State . Two process servers left the Criminal Court Building yesterday under orders from Mr. Whitman , and it is expected that they will serve subpoenas upon contractors whom Mr. Clark has questioned regarding Fowler 's activities as a money col- j lector . The practice of piling indictments on a man already under indictment is not j a new one with District Attorney Whitman . This always has been his custom In cases where the men under indictment have been defiant and where confessions were desired to implicate others higher up . The most noteworthy example of this was the case of Police Inspector Sweeney , against whom nearly a score of indictments were found. ; Sweeney was defiant to the end . Finally ; I he was sent to the penitentiary . His co-conspirators in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One of his graft collectors was indicted six times . Mr. Whitman . because of assurances he had received , was certain that Fowler would tell him everything he knew about the " sandbagging " of contract-1 ors . Now that Fowler has decided to stand trial . Mr. Whitman has concluded to let events follow their natural coursel in his case . The men upon whom Mr. Whitman Ls relying for further evidence ! against Fowler are the six contractors who stood outside the Syracuse office of William H. Kelley when Seneca P. Hull , the complainant against Fowler , left Fowler on Oct. 31 , 1911 . It is thought that Hull told Mr. Whitman the names of some of these six contractors , and that Mr. Clark went upState to search for them . Every new complainant against Fowler will be asked by Mr. Whitman whether any threats were made by Fowler . For each threat , it is expected , the District Attorney will seek a new indictment Blanket Indictment Expected . in the meantime it is expected that a blanket indictment , charging conspiracy to bleed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the General Sessions Grand Jury . This Grand Jury now is devoting practically all of Its time to the graf ? investigation . Secrecy has been maintained , but it was reported that three witnesses from up-State testified yesterday . The appearance of District Attorney Alexander T. Blessing of Schenectady at the Criminal Court Building gave rise to the belief that the witnesses had come from Schenectady County . Mr. Clark has obtained the names of more than 300 highway and barge canal contractors . His process servers , it was said , would serve subpoenas on most of the 30o men . Any of the contractors who have stories of " hold ups " to tell certainly will be placed on the stand in the John Doe investigation or before the Grand Jury . It will require at least three weeks to serve all the subpoenas. and few of the contractors will be heard by Mr. Whitman until after the Thanksgiving recess . In the weeks between Thanksgiving and Christmas it is expected that many State contractors will be called to Mr. Whitman 's office . Each one will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a political party . The questioning will take hincli time , hut in this way Mr. Whitman will get at Of : culprits . It was to - arry opt this investigation that Mr. Whitman asked the Board of Estimate for *10.0(0) . The board will con eider this request to-mororw . To Hear To-day . The John Doe inquiry will be resumed at 2:30 o'clock this afternoon in the Criminal Court Building . It will be the first session since the collapse on Nov. 11 of George H. again v.ill be the principal witness . has been in hiding since ! his breakdown . but his attorney , Henry A. Wise , said yesterday that he again was in good physicial condition . Mr. ' Whitman has not been informed as to how far 's admissions will go . but he believes that will tell : all he knows . An indictment charging ' perjury , it is believed , is hanging over 's head . Mr. Whitman was asking about his conference with John A. Hennessy at the Hotel ' Utica @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examination . Mr. Whitman will try today to get an admission from that it was he who gave a list of 43 " sandbaged ' ? contractors to Hennessy . If he makes this admission it will remain for to tell what he knows about " sandbagging " methods and he will also have to explain why he himself collected funds from certain contractors or . the Barge Canal . Henry P. Burgard of Buffalo , the man who beat William H. Fitzpatrick , Murphy 's man , at the last primaries , will also appear before Chief Magistrate at the hearing to-day . He v.111 testa ! : if time permits . Burgard has had cne conference with Mr. Whitman and left the impression that Ire was willing to testify , but that he could give nothing but hearsay evidence as to the holding up and shaking down of contractors . Since Burgard left the city , it is said , Mr. Whitman 's men have been skirmishing in his territory and Burgard will not be among the favored ones who will not have to sign immunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under subpoena . Martin W. Littleton . Fowler 's counsel . said yesterday that he expected to attend the John Doe inquiry . Littleton already has attacked the jurisdiction of Mr. Whitman in the Fowler case , and it was inferred from his talk that he Questioned the constitutionality of the whole John Doe Investigation . He suggested that one way to test the proceedings would be to get a witness to refuse to testify , and then submit to arrest for contelopt.                     