@@681197

txt On a grassy woodland slope near Madison , Wis. , stands a curious monument  --  a tall . shimmering shaft of white bronze . reared in cold contrast with the moss grown marble and granite gravestones around it . Water will not mark it . Lichens will not grow upon it . That hard metallic shaft has been on sentry watch over a waiting grave plot for years , a landmark and testimonial to the forehandedness of a strange man . In a few days the grave will be filled . Last night word came from Houston , Tex. , telling of the death there of Francis A. Ogden . Chicago 's most eccentric man , a lone , self-made millionaire and recluse . Mr. Ogden was found dead in a dingy hall room In a second class Houston hotel . He died as he had lived  --  alone , neither seeking nor offering companionship or sympathy . He leaves a fortune estimate in several uncounted millions and life history filled with mysteries created by his strange silences . He was about 84 years old . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of immense value , rich lands in Wisconsin , nausea , Georgia , Washington , and several other states . Claimants Start Fight . Last night a pilgrimage of relatives and claimants to share in his estate started to Houston , where a coroner Is turning over dusty papers and time stained deeds trying to reach a reckoning of the old man 's affairs . For many years Ogden lived on a self-prescribed schedule of abstemiousness . He allowed himself 9 cents for breakfast . 20 cents for luncheon , and 15 cents for dinner . His clothes cost him $0 a suit . He shaved himself and always took care of his own quarters . He kept informed on the world 's affairs by reading discarded newspapers picked frntrt tha . setre.fi , Valise of Deeds Missing . It Is doubtful if the old man 's wealth will ever be known . His collection of deeds , a valise full for each state in which he was Interested , has not been found . Investigators milling over the maze of scribbled memoranda and newspaper clippings preserved by Ogden find stories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , battles in courts over titles , claims , and notes of securities without end . The data already gathered may occupy the courts for years should controvery between heirs arise and property rights be brought into question . Ogden either enjoyed or hated publicity enough to preserve clippings of all that was published of his strange career and financial affairs . He Leaves No Will , Administrator N. B .. Knight at Houston.bas been unable to find any will . Notations left by Ogden indicated he fled from Madison , Wis. , which was for several years his home . to escape Wisconsin grafters and blackmailers . " These notes apparently refer to a prosecution of Mr. Ogden for leasing a piece of property to a man who used it for immoral purposes . Mr. Ogden fought the case In the courts for years . He offered Madison a library site as an evidence of good will and it was refused . Then he left for Texas . Mr. Ogden was a nephew of William B. Ogden , the first mayor of Chicago , and the man whose name is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Painted Post , N. Y. , some time about 1830 . He was a student of the University of Wisconsin . with the class of 1850 and entered a business career in Chicago soon after . The Chicago fire of 1871 gave him opportunity . He hurriedly took leaseholds on all the buildings he was able to cover immediately after the fire and re-leased at heavy advances . With the rapidly accumulating nrofitS he bought real estate with shrewd choice of prbpertles . ? But He Never Had Enough . Young Ogden intended to wed and settle down to a family life when his competence should be " enough . " Enough never came while the millions were piling up . " My brothers and sisters invested in families and children ; I invested in farms and real estate , " was the old man 's favorite boast . Now eight children of his dead brother . scattered over the United States , are to claim shares in his fortune . According to messages from Houston a sister living in Madison and other relatives had wired they were on their way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quarters in a hotel which he owned in- Madison . In his " den . " as he styled it , was a remarkable collection of curious and worthless trinkets . Conspicuous among the decorations was a large picture of a strikingly beautiful girl . Mr. Ogden always insisted he did not know who she was , but he treasured the picture , spending hours in adoration of it . Ogden did not spend money for decorations . His walls were covered with advertising chromos and calendar pictures and illustrated newspaper pages . Shortly before his departure from Madison Ogden went out to see his monument , taking a visitor with him . " This is wt.ere I plan to wind up at last , " Ise said . " I have alwayaloOked ahead . "                     