@@680935

txt Despite many predictions of failure . because merchants who were invited said it would never be possible to get WO of New York 's busy men of business together for a luncheon at mid-day to consider matters not intimately associated with the prosperity of any one of them , the first luncheon of the Merchants ' Association was held at the Hotel Astor yesterday at noon . It brought together not only the f414 ) merchants whom it was hoped would come but 200 in addition . The north ball room was packed and the east ball room connecting with it was comfortably filled before the last of those who came had been accommodated . The merchants had as their chief guests Mayor Mitchel , President of the Board of Aldermen , Controller Prendergast , City Chamberlain Bruere , and others connected with the new administration . It was the purpose of the luncheon to bring out from the city officials what they most needed in the way of support from New York 's merchants , and whether or not the merchants would be aiding the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bring about immediate charter revision . The speechmaking , in which Mayor Mitchel , President , Controller Prendergast , and William C. Breed of the Merchants ' Association participztied , resulted in the conclusion , unanimously expressed , that the need fur charter revision is not immediate and that , while it will be 01 l the programme of the administration , it will be a matter to be ta Kell up after many tests to see just what it is possible to accomplish under the charter as drawn . Mayor Mitchel took advantage of the opportunity to announce that he expected closer co-operation in all of the city departments in the future titan there has ever been in the past , and that for that very reason many thing : , might soon be accomplished in spite of the charter , however bad it might be . Pledges of " loyalty and obedience " were given to Mayor Mitchel by Mr. and Mr. Prendergast in a manner that brought a large amount of laughter from the merchants . " I think it is a new era in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. MeAneny. who was the first speaker . " It means that the old idea that the typical New Yorker is a coldly selfish man who is not capable of cooperating with others for the welfare of the city , will pass . It is , indeed , a new thing to see . men leaving their business and coming here as you men have , to talk things over and get a mutual understanding as to the needs of our city . " Mr. reviewed the history of charter revisions and said that when the next charter goes to Albany for adoption it ought to be a scientifically wrought out body of law which Would have the support of all tile people behind it . " I do n't like to throw rosebuds into the trio consisting of Mayor Mitchel and Controller Prendergast and int - self , " he said , " but Mayor Mitchel hi going to accomplish many things and the charter will not hinder him . We have not known about the city in detail enough . Mr. Bruere , the new City Chamberlain , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to the conduct of the city s government than the various administrations themselves . If there is one mischief maker I hate more than any other in New York , it is the one who says there will be disagreement or division in the Board of Estimate in the next four years . The Board of Estimate is going to work with the Mayor and , is going to provide for the appointment of a commission to consider carefully the matter a charter revision in the light of the present administration 's experience with the char-ter , " We recognize that the Mayor is handicapped because there is too much decentralization  --  because he has not about him the corps of responsible men he would have if authority was not so much divided up . The Charter contains too much non-enforceable law and too many references to matters that ought to be in the Penal Code and nowhere else . But with what effectiveness we may we are going to work together , with constant confidence in our chief , and to him I offer , in the presence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a chance to tell what lie thought of the pledge , as lie was the first speaker introduced after Mr. MeAneny . " I did not need to hear that pledge expressed , " lie said , " to be assured that I will have the advice , co-operation . and sympathy of the Board of Estimate through these four years . We understand each other pretty well . We have been able to work together and Will continue to work together . There has never been an opportunity to thoroughly test the present charter and the business methods have never been applied that we will begin to apply now . It is perfectly true that we can not attain complete efficiency in the City Government until some charter obstacles are reineved , but that will not deter us from testing the charter 's possibilities to the limit to find its weaknesses in delivering a government of business efficiency toward which we shall aim . " Controller Prendergast evidently thought that the pledge 3E had some reference in it to a recent report of misunderstanding between himself and Chamberlain Bruere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loyalty and obedience to His Honor the Mayor , " said Mr. Prendergast. " and so I. too , make my bow so that I may share in the spirit of loyalty that will be blowing all through the administration . Now Herman Metz , who is here , is taking notes . He no doubt knows a lot about the charter . since he said , with delightful honesty , after leaving office , that lie had never read it . Now I know Mr. Metz was in office before I was , but I think he was not in ' office where there was a period of the breaking down of bureaucratic spirit such as there will be now . " I tried to put in a reform in bookkeeping once , and a bureaucratic spirit was opposed to me . That was what was behind the letter Mayor Mitchel wrote to Chamberlain Bruere that caused misunderstanding last week . He was seeking to find out why it was I had been opposed in departments immediately under the Mayor . Yet when one of those ' : angels of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to me he was quite . confident there would be a ruction between myself and the Mayor . Of course there was not . The new spirit of this Administration means that bureaucracy , has got to fall , and those who insist on that old spirit have got to fall with it . " The luncheon was so successful that it was decided to make it a regular institution to come once a month if occasion waranted . All those present pledged themselves to do what they could to " make the cynic move to some other town " and to eliminate as far as possible the much talked of spirit of curtness in New York business affairs .                     