@@683037

txt The affirmation by the Supreme Court in January of the constitutionality of the Webb-Kenyon law giving effect to State laws prohibiting the transportation in interstate commerce of liquor consigned to persons in prohibition States abandoned the principle , long held ' by that tribunal , that the regulation of interstate commerce belongs to the Congress exclusively . It was approved even by opponents of prohibition , in spite of the obvious danger of future diminutions of the Federal power over interstate commerce , for which it might serve as a precedent . The enforcement of prohibition States that believe in prohibition is in every way more desirable than the imposition of it by a Federal amendment on States that are opposed to prohibition . This Congress seems to be as enthusiastic for prohibition by all methods as too many members of it are lukewarm or hostile to the enforcement of American rights . A week ago a majority of the House Judiciary Committee conceived it to be the duty of Congress to submit a prohibition amendment to the States . Now the House has passed by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Office Appropriation bill offered by Senator REED and passed by the Senate , absolutely prohibiting the shipment of intoxicants to . Any State or Territory that prohibits the manufacture or sale of them for " beverage purposes . " Prohibition is a term of varying meaning in the States classed as " dry . " Some States allow a certain monthly ration of strong or milder waters to be imported for personal use . Other States put no limit on that use . " Bone-dry " prohibition is , or soon will be , the law in ten States , and similar measures are before seven or eight Legislatures ; and there is a bill in Congress to make Alaska " bone dry . " ' At present , however , only eight of twenty-two States now or ' soon to become " dry " prohibit the importation of liquor forindivi dual consumption . The decision on the Webb-Kenyon law courtesies to States rights , yields to prohibition States a part of the exclusive Federal power to regulate interstate commerce . " We can have no doubt , " said Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority to prevent paralyzing of " State authority . " Now Congress uses complete authority to paralyze in more than a dozen States the authority of the State to permit the ' importation of liquors for personal use . Both by the assertion and by the waiver of the Federal power over interstate commerce is " bone-dry " prohibition to be served . , It would be interesting to speculate on the respective shares of sincerity , of politics , of the desire of statesmen to " get on the band wagon " now that prohibition is become popular , and of " wet " finesse in the great vote by which this measure was passed . Many opponents of prohibition hold cynically that the best way to fight it is to make it unpopular and odious by making it as severe , hampering , and absolute as it can be made ? . They hold that many prohibitionists hate the saloon but not the drink ; that they wish to benefit others , to improve the good order and-economy of the community without sacrifice of their personal habit . TEE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of that theory , and no objections , save on principle , to a prohibition that rests on the belief axed practice of the majority . It passes over here the questions of property rights and loss of Federal rerrenue under this bill . Grave doubts must arise , however , as to some of its ? provisions and implications. ? It excludes from the mails " every " letter , postal card , circular , news " paper , pamphlet , or publication of " - any kind containing any advertise " Trent " of or order for intoxicants of any kind if the addressee is in a State or Territory where such advertising or soliciting of orders is forbidden by law ; and it enacts that : If the publisher of any newspaper or other publication , or the agent of such publisher , or if any dealer in suet liquors or his agent , shall Imovringli deposit or cause to be deposited , or WW1 knowingly send or cause to bs MAI elerthIng to ? ipo ecerisred or delivered by mail is violet:Inn. of the ? provisions of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delivered by mail anything herein forbidden to be carried by mail , he shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months , or both ; and for any subsequent offense shall be imprisoned not more than one year . Any person violating any provision of this seotion may be tried and punished , either in the district in v.hich the unlawful matter or publication was mailed or to which It wag carried by mail for delivery according to direction thereon or in which it was caused to be delivered by mail to the person to whom it was addressed . The question of revenue from liquor advertisements in newspapers is here beside the purpose , but it is worth noting that an advertisement lawful ill New York , for example , is made unlawful if the journal in which it appears is mailed to Alabama . A Federal statute is to make a. publisher , innocent in New York , a criminal in Alabama . The alternative haling of the innocent-guilty , the criminal , limited , publisher to another jurisdiction is characteristic of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mere expression of zeal or malice ; but is the freedom of the press safe under legislation of this kind ? If the Government can edit advertisements , why ca n't it edit news and editorials ? Take out liquor advertisements , and accounts of a meeting of brewers or distillers , or an editorial opposing prohibition , might he next to be , excised . The Postmaster General is to make knowli by bulletins from time to time the names of States that prohibit liquor advertising . The map of innocence and crime by mail will change from year to year . It will be curious to see , in case this bill is signed by Mr. ? WiesoN , whether it impairs any constitutional rights or guarantees .                     