@@678897

txt When the three numbers Pittsburg of " The Pittsburg SurAgain vey " appeared , giving the Surveyed . results of the investigaSu tions , social and economic , carefully made by the experts employed by the Sage Foundation , the revelations were of a kind that hurt the city 's pride by refuting its claim to being a generous employer of skilled and intelligent labor . The abuses disclosed , however , could be and were excused as for the most part nothing more or worse than ordinary business practices , conducted on a large scale , and not es , , entially different from what until recently had everywhere been held legitima te . Now we are permitted to " survey ? ' Pittsburg from another point of view , and while the light shows less tragical scenes , the reputation of the city will probably suffer more than it did before . For the evils at present revealed are not to be palliated as of a newly discovered shamefulness , and they are not the incidental accidents that occur while a big machine is doing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as shocking because it is so petty as it is because it is so widespread . When men sell themselves for enormous prices they at least are not contemptible. and indignation is restrained by the memory that human nature 's power of resistance is limited . But when the price paid for the betrayal of public trusts is a hundred or two dollars  --  when it is figured down as closely as .. 550.10 ? then anger turns to disgust and the heinous becomes the ridiculous . They are such shabby , miserable specimens of humanity that are now scuttling to the confessional , not in repentance , but in fear of jail ! And their stupidity quite equals their baseness. since apparently a few more dollars given to the family of one of their creatures would have bought his silence during the brief term in prison to which he had been condemned for doing their work . But of course Pittsburg is not all bad . The vigor of its present prosecuting officials shows that , and the energy with which they are pursuing the bribe-givers as well as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city . The corruption has been widespread , but it has not been universal , and the second " survey , " like the first , is going to produce immediate results . Pittsburg is not dead in its sins ; It Is very much alive . That inspires hope . Now that CrnesrNGSuspension itAlt and KEENAN , the Does n't policemen who so . imIncapacitate-pudently took it upon themselves to arrest saloon keepers for the poor reason that they were breaking the law , have been suspended , until an adequate punishment for their crime can be thought up , it would he highly interesting if they were at once to go ahead and make some more arrests of the same dreadful kind . There is nothing in their present status to stop them from doing this if they are so inclined . To be sure , while their suspension lasts they are not policemen at all , but , contrary to the general impression , while a policeman is under a greater obligation than the ordinary citizen to enforce the law at the cost of time and risk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ else in dealing with criminals and misdemeanants . That he is usually stronger counts for much , of course , and his uniform is an assistance and a protection in many cases , as is the fact that resistance of an officer in the performance of his duty is itself a misdemeanor . But these are what may be called adventitious advantages , and , though they are helps in the making of arrests , they are not essential qualifications for it . Therefore are the two men , since they are at liberty , quite free to continue their curiousicrusade if they think it worth while , or even if it amuses them . It has been said , with almost obvious accuracy , that CTINNINGILAM and KEENAN have not been moved to activity by unalloyed zealousness to uphold and vindicate the law . They have been charged with a desire to embarrass their superior officers and with borrowing money from saloon keepers . These are grave accusations , no doubt , both of them , but they would seem to stand remote from the fact that all of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to conviction . That is a point upon which it is well to keep attention figed , as of much more public imporCance than the motive that prompted the arrests they made . ? Senator CARTER and A " Could n't " other Montana friends Open o f Mrs. CORNELIA WooLmAN are presumto Question . ably right when they declare her a most amiable lady , but when they vehemently declare that she " could n't " have tried to smuggle some pretty dresses Into the country they are venturing far into the domain of the uncertain . . For , while most men will do a tittle smuggling when they think the chances are In favor of escaping letection , the woman seems yet to be born who can ever see anything wrong in this particular crime , and it Is at least improbable that Mrs. WooLstax is of a perspicacity as exceptional as her admiring neighbors think -- or say they think . Her course while her bagga , ; e was under examination betrayed a highly feminine nature  --  which is another and kindly , but most inaccurate , way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calculated both to arouse and confirm the suspicions of the Inspector . She tailed them insolent when they seemingly only did their duty , and she indulged in pathetically ) futile threats when it was the part of wisdom to be suave and conciliatory . With her indignation at the law which subjected her private belongings to scrutiny and appraisal except the difninishing group of irrational protectionists will sympathize ; upon her inclination to smuggle , if she had one , nobody will visit any very severe reprehension ; but she made the worst instead of the best of a painful situation and caused entirely needless trouble for herself and everybody else directly or indirectly concerned in the unpleasant affair . What Senator CARTER ' can do for her except say " Too bad ! Too bad ! " in a soothing voice , it is hard to imagine                     