@@679093

txt Two or Three Months Needed , He Tells Village Folk About Bar Harbor . WILL VISIT BANGOR TO-DAY Then Goes to Ellsworth , Where He Will Be the ' Guest of Senator Hale Till Sunday . BAR HARBOR . July ' - . ? President Taft brought his stay in Bar Harbor to a close this afternoon . lie landed here On Wednesday from the yacht Mayflower . He left to-day as a member of a coaching party behind four magnificent horses driven by Philip Livingston and headed for Seal Harbor , eleven miles away . There he was the guest of Mrs. Marcus A. Hanna at her handsome cottage , which has just been completed . The Mayflower picked up her anchors at noon and steamed around to Seal Harbor to meet the President . She took him and his party to Northeast Harbor , where they dined with Charlemagne Tower , former United States Ambassador to Russia . Among the other guests wore former President Charles W. Eliot of Harvard , Mrs. Eliot , and Bishop Doane of Albany . The Mayflower anchored at Northeast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To-morrow morning she will steam across Frenchman 's Bay to the Mount Desert Ferry , where Mr. Taft will take a special train for Bangor . After visiting that city for two hours and making a speech , he will proceed by spe-cial train to Ellsworth , the home of Sena. : tor hale , whose guest he will be until Sunday afternoon . Mr. Taft will also make a little speech at Ellsworth . The President left everybody in Bar Harbor happy . After being lavishly entertained by the Summer colony , he met the townspeople to-day on the village gret'n and made a little speech to them . The clay was raw and blustery and rain began to fall as the President spoke . Itdid not dampen the enthusiasm of the crowd in the least . They all seemed glad to see the President . They cheered him as he alighted from the coach which brought him from the gulf grounds with a flourish of coaching horns : they cheered him again as he entered the hand stand on the green , and they frequently interrupted his speech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ husband to the band stand . She was quickly recognized by the throng and greeted with applause . The President was introduced by First Selectman J. E. Runitcr , Jr . There was not a suggestion of politics in the President 's speech . H ' - said in part : " In behalf of Mrs Taft and the party who have accompanied me here I wish to return a grateful acknowledgment for ycur vzrry cordial reception . The presence of the National colors and the flags on the various buildings here indicate to me what I know  --  that this reception is for the President of your country and . that It is for the office much more than for the person who for the time being occupies it . Nevertheless , the person who occupies the office enjoys the reception all the same . " One of the things which force themselves upon the mind of one visiting such a country as this is the fact that the American people have learned a good deal In the last generation . In my father 's time he thought , although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time during itrin the entire year , and when I came to the bar he suggested that if I stayed at home during the Summer months I would make a good deal more money than if I went away . " Bin the American people have found out that there is such a thing as exhausting tile capital of one 's health and constitution , and that two or three months ' vacation after the nard and nervous strain to which one is subjected during the Auturn and Spring are necessary in order to enable one to continue Ms work the next year with that energy and eftectiveness. which it ought to have . Mr. Justice Strong of the supreme bench , who lived to be S8 or to , told me that it was a part of his life to take sixty days each year out in the wpods away from the people . exercising and living in the open air , alut to that he attributed his long life . And . so the American people have come to the . conclusion that the women and children ' especially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can ex , " and their lungs and get exercise in the open . The men can go %then they can . " Under these conditions , a place like . this , that represents the most picturesque , the most vitalizing . Summer resort In the United Sates , is full of interest . In ? this region , where the mountains come , T down to the sea and the air from the mountains mingles with the air from the sea , we have all the delightful effects of ; champagne in a prohibition State , anal without the uncomfortable consequences ' that follow the actual enjoyment of that liquid . " It is not surprising that you have herel a collection of beautiful places that have made Bar Harbor known the world ; around . Those who have been brought , up in the Mississippi Valley and the lime-t stone regions , where the temperature . goes up to ii:j and leo during three months , that the corn may grow , feel that coming1 to this region adds years to their lives , and I congratulate all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fortunes have enabled them to come here . " Just what the Winters are here I do not propose to dwell upon , except to say . that I do not doubt that they have made an enduring and progressive race . Cer-I tainly those of us in the West can testify ; that every time you make an inquiry as to ; the origin of a successful man the chances are quite even that he has come either from Maine or Vermont , and I doubt not that among those whose palatial houses rear themselves among the trees and in the hills hereabout are many who as boys started without any opportunity for vacation in the Summer and who have come back to enjoy the breezes of the country of their boyhood . " I thank you , my friends , for giving tie this reception . The three days we have , passed in Ear Harbor will be red-letter days in my life . Good-bye . " MUST PRODUCE THEIR BOOKS . Court Orders Automobile Tire Men toTestify in Conspiracy Suit . Lee M. Bennett , general manager of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ W. Gilbert , director of the Conti- ' nental Caoutchouc Company , must testily before trial in an action brought by Leon D. Kaufman , President of the MotoBloc Import Company . in which he alleges that a conspiracy in restraint of trade has been created under the name of the Dealers ' Protective Association and that he can proceed against this organization under the Donnelly anti-monopoly- law . Justice Ford in the Supreme Court so decided yesterday . refusing the application of Bennett and Gilbert to vacate an ex parte order issued for their appearance and examination . This order provided that they should produce books and papers to show what agreement had been made by the manufacturer of automobile tires and accessories , " acting in concert in , a scheme to concentrate the business in the hands of a few dealers , - and to say v.-hat dealers are supplied and who names the firms that are to get tires at wholesale prices .                     