@@683881

txt Representatives of copper producers and refiners have been invited to confer with Government officials in Washington on May 1 and discuss some sort of an adjustment of existing contracts between . mining and refining companies . Earlier in the month representatives of refining companies went to Washington and acquainted the Government with the fact that they are virtually losing money on present contracts , pointing out that an increase of 11A cents a pound , mating the new fixed price dating from June 1 next 25 cents a pound , would enable producers to meet the increased cost of refining metal . This has been estimated at between one-half and three-quarters of a cent a pound . Copper circles attach special significance to the meeting next month . In the first place , it is well known that refining costs have been increasing almost daily for some time past , and in the second place it has been pointed out that some of the refining companies could abrogate existing contracts with mining companies , if they saw fit to do so . Agreements now in force contain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not obtain in time of war . It will not be an easy matter for the War Industries Board to adjust existing contracts . No two are alike as to terms . Some have been running for years , others are almost terminating . The various factors to be considered , and which are of a very technical nature , like the percentage of recovery in the concentrate desired by the producer from the refiner , would preclude the Government from naming a total refining charge ' that would be satisfactory to all concerned . Refining costs might go higher later on , and exceed the fixed charge . Some copper authorities believe that the War Industries Board will recognize the refiners ' demands for an Increased charge from producers as perfectly logical - and consistent , and will recommend tint the fixed price of copper should be advanced to cover this charge , spedifying , however , that producers must make new contracts with refiners , and thus pave the way for a record refinery pi.Niut this year . 