@@679882

txt Many physicians and surgeons who are residents of New York and Long Island have received envelopes from Washington , D. Cahnarked with the Congressional frank of Congressman John J. Kindred of Astoria , L. 1 . The envelopes are marked as containing a speech on " The Elec tion of Senators " delivered in the House of Representatives on April 13 , 1011 . On opening the franked envelopes their recipients have found a second inclosure , consisting of a six-page pamphlet much resembling a Congressional pamphlet in size and in the type used . It is a summary of a speech by Joseph J. Kindred , M. D. , of Rivercrest , L. I. The speech has to do wholly with medical matters having not even a remote connection with the service of the Congressman in whose envelope it is distributed . It was delivered before the Electro-Theropentus Association at Philadelphia last September . The speech is , in effect , an advertisement for the Rivercrest Sanitarium , kept at Rivercrest , Astoria , by Dr. J. J. Kindred . On the Congressional envelope is stamped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ return to Dr. J. J. Kindred , Rivercrest , Astoria , L. I. , N. Y. " Doctor and Congressman , One . At the Rivercrest Sanitarium It was declared last night that John J. Kindred , M. C. , who delivered the speech in Congress , and Joseph T. Kindred , D. , who delivered the speech on nervous and mental diseases and the Rivercrest method of healing them , are one and the same person . " Is Congressman John Kindred in ? " inquired a reporter at the sanitarium , where more than 100 patients are cared for . " No , he is in Washington , " was the reply of a man who said he was in ' charge . " Is Dr. Joseph J. Kindred in ? " was the next question . The representative of the institution laughed . " Do n't you know they are the same man ? " he asked . " And why the two names ? " " Oh , that 's easy . They call him all sorts of names around here . Sometimes they call him just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' sometimes ' Joseph John ' and sometimes ' John Joseph . ' " A glance at the Congressional enyelope and its inclosures indicated that nearly all of these appellations had been used . The Congressman 's frank was in the name of " J. J .. " the speech in Congress was headed " Hon. John J. , " the return stamp was in the name of " Dr. 3 . J. , " and the speech on ' maim topics was by " Dr. Joseph J. " The speech in Congress by the Hon. John J. on the election of Senators was very brief , requiring only two pages of type to set it forth , while the speech of Dr , Joseph J. on medicine was three times as long , and was printed on much heavier plate paper . A number of neighboA of Dr. Kindred were found last night who stated . that the sanitarium has recently been branching out and that Dr. Kindred is now busy building another sanitarium in New Jersey and has plans drawn for one at Bay . side , L. I. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very rich and very affable . He is well liked . A physician who sent a copy of Dr. and Congressman Kindred 's speeches in their original envelope to THE TiatEs called attention to the fact that the words " New York " on the envelopes were printed . indicating that the State address had been widely used . He stated that many of his friends had received the franked envelope and that all of them were puzpled to know why the two documents should come together , and whether the franking privilege covered such practices . Postmaster Not Warned . Postmaster John Wagner of Astoria stated that he never kept any account of Congressional franked envelopes passing through the Post Office unless especially instructed to do so from Washington . He said that he had received no such instructions in the case or Congressman Kindred , and so could not tell how many of the documents had been sent out . He said he was not interested in the contents of franked envelopes since he was expected merely to examine the covers . In the Congressional Directory Congressman Kindred is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of Long Island City . /t is stated that he was born in Southampton County , Va. , in 1864 , and completed his medical studies in the Hospital College of Medicine in Louisville , Ky . To secure this education he " paid practically all his expenses from savings by clerking in a country store . " Removing to New York in 1889 " without friends or money , he served as physician in many hospitals , and ' in 1809 he established the Rivercrest Sanitarium ' at Astoria . " Continuing the records say : " He has in no sense been a politician . His nomination and election to Congress came without any solicitation on his part . He is an active and liberal member of many civic , beneficent , and business organizations . " He was elected by 6,900 majority over his Socialist and Republican opponents , I leading the Democratic ticket in his district . "                     