@@683337

txt THE YOUNG DOCTORS . Major Richard Derby Urges Them to Join the Medical Corps . It is incomprehensible how any virile young American doctor , who has completed his medical school and hospital training , is not married . and has no dependents , can fall at this time to appreciate the need In which our Government stands for his service . And yet the age class that I have described has but few representatives at the three Medical Officers ' ' Training Camps now in session in the country . The average age of doctors here at Fort Oglethorpe Is just under 40 , and from what I bear from Fort Riley and Fort Benjamin Harrison this average is maintained In those two places . " Where are the younger men ? " is the question asked on all sides . And in the present crisis it is an ugly question and can not be answered without throwing ' discredit upon the younger men as a class . It is high time for those of the younger men who are holding out as alternates to base @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such units , and that furthermore the Government , in spite of Its inclination to make use of these alternates , will not in the stress of war change horses in the middle of the stream . unless illness on the part of the base hospital personnel makes SUCH change necessary . The war has amply shown that the work in base hospitals can be effectively , and in my opinion , better , done by men over thus releasing the younger men for field service work , for which they are so much needed . The younger men should know that they can not enter upon the duties of field service work with their professional training only as stack in trade . Careful training in tactics , sanitation and administration are a foundation without which they can not bold down the lowest rank the Government offers . Ask the men who have been at . For , Riley or Port Benjamin ' Harrison since the first of June . We have been at war with Germ fly for a Period of four months , and the present indications point to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you younger men make it necessary for the Government to draft you into the service ? What reason will you : 0111 , day give to your children for not having answered the call of your country in its hour of need 1 RICHARD DERBY . Major , M. R. C. , U. S. A. Medical Officers ' Training Corps , Fort Oglethorpe , Ga. , July 31 , 1917.                     