@@679661

txt Between S and 8:30 o'clock this evening an extraordinary spectacle was seen in the Strand . At that hour this great artery of London is usually palpitating with life and gaiety , the sidewalks crowded with theatregoers , and the roadway filled With vehicles of all descriptions carrying white-tied and jeweled pleasure seekers . The police at ordinary times have all their attention fixed on regulating the traffic , and pedestrians find crossing the street an operation requiring care and prudence . To-night a flock of sheep was being driven quietly down the Strand at the hour mentioned . It sounds incredible , but it is true . No incident could better exemplify the changes which prevailing conditions have brought about in this city , the upheaval in the regular course of metropolitan life , the dislocation of the services by which the needs of the greatest urban population of the world are ordinarily supplied . The cackling of geese saved the Capitol of Rome . Is the passage of a flock of sheep down the Strand-a portent : There are observers who see in the labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Anarchy " is the-only word that adequately describes some of the features of the situation . Parliament had arranged to adjourn next Friday , but it is being called upon to abandon all idea of a holiday until some permanent settlement of the almost universal disquiet has been reached . The Government to-day , by the mouth of Winston Churchill , the Home Secretary , admitted that exceptional measures were nn-e. , a.ry to deal with the exceptionally serious character of the task incumbent upon it to insure the observance of law and secure the food supply of the people . Troops have been prepared for action . At military centres cavalry horses are being shod for service in the streets of cities . Orders have been given to territorial regiments to detail men to guard their headquarters , where arms and ammunition are stored , and in Liverpool , where to-day incendiarism was added to the other alarming aspects of the situation , men of the territorial forces have been ordered to send in. their rifles as a measure of precaution . Liverpool , Manchester , and - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ centres giving the most cause for alarm . In Liverpool- the shipping companies , at the end of their patience , decided on a lockout , with the result that 2S,000 dockers were out of work at noon today because the full number of workmen did not turn up for work at the docks this morning . Tom Mann , a strike leader , whose name latterly has not often been mentioned , but whose energies have none the less been actively employed in fomenting , discontent , declares that he can bring out 75,000 men in Liverpool and . Manchester and completely tie up the passenger as well as the freight traffic of the railways and ships in and between the two cities . Mann adds that every seaman in Liverpool is now on strike . Chow ; and Anarchy Threatened . " Chaos and anarchy : - Ereaven knows how it  --  will end , " said a Liverpool strike leader to-day , and with yesterday 's rioting and to-day 's incendiarism as examples of what the Liverpool toughs are capable of , the threat seems no empty one . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correspondent who was a witness of it to write as follows : " The people I saw in the . riot this afternoon are little removed from animals . Their womenfolk trail around after the police , gesticulating at them in speechless fury . - Women with clotted heir and dreadful faces follow them about . They midi ont long red tongues at them , they place their hands outstretched to their noses , they make disgustingSirens , and scream disgusting words tyPich arc fortunately rendered into feel and almost meaningless jabber by the furious intensity of the hatein which they are uttered . " These furies and their male kind are the people from whom Liverpool has the most to fear just now . These people , with scarcely a leavening of honest working folk among them , are people whom nothing but blood seems to satisfy . The packer , like most people . NON fight once in a while , given a grievance . These people are blood letters from the outset . They are enemies of society , a blot on Liverpool such as few cities have . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Give us a. loaf ! Give us a loaf ! ' they shouted , with grins of mischief all over their dreadful faces . The vanmen gave one or two away , and that did it . They swarmed over the shafts and into the van in scores . The ' driver was helpless . A policeman came , and in an instant they had turned from the van to him . Bottles , bricks , and old pots came from everywhere . The dustbins which the corporation leaves as fixtures in the streets were ransacked for all the old tins and garbage they contained , and with zest the police , now coming to the help of their comrade , were greeted . There was a grim fight . " Fear of General Railway Strike . In the Manchester district a general strike of railway men is regarded as a serious possibility , although the heads of the railway workers ' unions declare that any of their men coming out on strike pending the , conference to be held to-morrow do so on their own responsibility . In London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other great centres of discontent . Here the strikes seem to have entered upon a more chronic phase . There has been a recrudescence of trouble at the docks , but though great quantities of provisions are in process of destruction , the metropolis is no longer in danger of famine . With regard to the possibility of a general railway strike throughout the country , various managers profess their ability to maintain , provided they have adequate police protection , an efficient if curtailed service which will insure food to the large towns and fuel and ! raw material in industries , even if three-fourths of the men cease work . The point of dispute in the railway world is that the men assert that the conciliation boards formed in 1001 are slow in working , and favor the employers . The latter , on their side , say the complaints against the conciliation boards are out of date , and refer to a time when they were being got into working order . The men , r , ocording to the spokesman of the railway companies , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and disregarding the agreements entered , into by the latter on their behalf , designed to prevent any strike until 11 ) 14 . " If these agreements are not adhered to , " say the employers , " how can we negotiate with trades unions , which have no control over their members ? Organized capital can come to terms with organized labor , but against anarchy we have no course left but to fight . "                     