@@680345

txt Congressman Joseph G. Cannon of Illinois , former Speaker of the House of Representatives , delivered to-day the first of a series of speeches as a preliminary to his farewell to public life on March 4 . The other speeches will be delivered from time to time in the next six weeks on various measures under consideration . To-day 's remarks from the venerable Republican leader were apropos of the consideration of the army appropriation bill . Mr. Cannon confined himself mainly to the Monroe Doctrine , the Panama Canal . the Philippines , and a large army and navy tO care for American interests . Throughout the speech he received close attention , and frequently evoked loud applause from both sides of the Chamber . " I am soon to retire from this House , " said Mr. Cannon . " There is no personal regret in my heart at going . I do not ask for leave of absence . I feel a little differently from ' what I felt twenty-two years ago , when I had a leave of absence for two years for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a pretty old man , but I feel as well as I ever did in my life . I am going home to Danville and retrain with the People who have honored , rile with twenty indorsements , coverink a period of forty years , and if perchance I should never appear in public life ailsin. which I shall not seek during the remainder of my life , I am going to perform as one man , one voter , my duties as one of the sovereigns of the United States in advocating those policies that I believe will tend to secure the well-being of our country , and which I hope will work under whatever we call ourselves , whether Democrats or Republicans ? these two great organizatons are the only ones I recognize as reliable  --  that we may accomplish the greatest good to the greatest number . " I do not fear for the perpetuity of the Republic . We have made mistakes that involve great penalties . We will in the future make mistakes ' that will require the payment of great penalties , but when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and having had the kindergarten Instructions when we make mistakes from any standpoint , whether it is touching our failures , whetheasitsis , . touching the Monroe Doc-. trine , ' whether it is touching economic policies , a majority of our people  --  and majorities rule  --  will insist on paying the penalty , and adopting what seems to ' that majority as the better policy . " I am a Republican partisan because I believe in the economic policies of that party , but I trust I am a patriotic American citizen . I know that all of you are such . " If , perchance , I desire it so ? I will not say hope , because hope is born of desire and expectation ? if , perchance , this great citizenship under your Democratic economic policies and other policies brings better results , or the people bring better results under your policy and leadership , there is no man in the length and breadth of the land who will cry ' Glory . Hallelujahs ' louder than I will , because it makes but little difference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy , as the proof of the pudding is in the eating of it . " I am not in harmony , " continued Mr. Cannon , " with the position that is being taken by the Democratic Party in its platform touching a proper policy for this great Republic . I am not in harmony with the outgivings of the President-elect touching upon the Philippine Islands . I am not in harmony with the outgivings of your great leader William Jennings Bryan , who is more responsible for the Philippines and our ownership of them than any man , living or dead , because it was that Peerless Leader who came to Washington and with his influence furnished the Democratic hosts that ratified the Treaty of Paris . " Then we had the issue of imperialism when Mr. Bryan was a candidate in 1000 . We have the Philippines , and the position of the Democratic Party , and of the President-elect , in my judgment , will lead to the loss of tens of thousands of men belonging to the army and navy , and to hundreds of millions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to consider the question , are not going to forsake their duty to the Philippines . You sari no more get rid of them than Hercules could get rid of the shirt of Nessus . Public opinion will not let you forsake them . However much in the future it will cost the country in treasure and blood to perform our duty , in the fullness of time our possession of the Philippines will be worth all they cost . However , we will all be dead before that problem is solved . " We have an army of 80,000 . With the great expenditure for fortifications , with Canal to defend , with 100,000 , people , the Monroe Doctrine and time Panama would not have an army of less than it is now . If increases are necessary I would give them , and I am quite in harmony touching the expenditures in connection with the militia . If we had had 100.000 well-trained men in the regular army in the war with Spain it would not have been necessary for us to have called upon the citizen soldiery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' We have our troubles down on the border land to the south with Mexico and with the South American republics . God knows we do n't want them . We have got to abandon the Monroe Doctrine , to play . a happy-golucky game , and take all things for granted , with the grandest , greatest , and most powerful Nation on earth , or we have got to realize the obligation that the coining future brings to us . ' Therefore . I am in sympathy with a good navy . I ' voted for the battleships . I stand ready to vote for men and munitions for the navy . I stand ready to vote for better supplies , powder , and mobile artillery . You may have ever so many men , and if you can not fight , then we are powerless and liable to be knocked out before we can get a good start from the old-fashioned way of fighting . When we are as thickly settled as Europe we will have 600,000.000 people . But long before that time the sons of Texas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and will cast their fortunes Into the South upon this continent . ' The Monroe Doctrine is pretty well defined . We have got to see under that doctrine that no foreign Government is located upon this continent , and exploitdng the various small republics and founding a monarchy . We had a , fair illustration of it - when in the stress of that great civil struggle of ours the combination was ? made in Europe to place Maximilian upon the throne of Mexico . A protest was made against it , but Our hands - were full of that great contest . But when it ceased the Confederate and the Union soldier stood ready to throw Maximilian into ' the sea . A portion of our troops went down to the border , but the old leader was able to do that lob him , self without anybody of the United States ' placing a foatsbn the soil of Mexico . "                     