@@680123

txt As a. sign of this country 's earnest desire for the friendship of Japan the President to-day designated Secretary of State Knox a Special Ambassador as his personal rep : resentative at the funeral of Emperor Alutsuhito on Sept. 12 . It is asserted that Mr. Knox 's visit to the Imperial Court at Tokio will have no political significance other than a general expression ' of friendship . Coming on the fleets of the Magdalena Bay incident , and not long after the immigration troubles in California , the visit of the ranking member of the Cabinet to the island empire can not but be construed as a serious effort on the part of the United States to win the good-will of Japan . Mr. Knox 's embassy will be clothed with all the pomp possible under the circumstances . He will be accompanied by an Admiral and by a General as his aide , and his secretary will be the present Chief of the Bureau of Par Eastern Affairs . MI s . Knox will also accompany him . Personally , the Secretary of State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently toured Central and South America , and he has paid a visit to Cuba and Porto Rico . The American Ambassador at Tokio will be present at the funeral also , and his staff will add to the dignity and importance of the American representation at the ceremonies . With the single exception of ex-President Roosevelt 's service as Special Ambassador at the funeral of King Edward , there is no precedent for such an appointment as that of Mr. Knox . Even the exPresident at the time of his designation was a private citizen , and he was also on the point of visiting England on his way home from his African expedition . Ordinarily , prominent citizens of wealth are designated to head these embassies . But in the present instance it was decided to express friendship for Japan by sending a member of the Administration . It is not believed , however , that Mr , Knox 's visit will have any bearing whatsoever on the recent reported understanding between Japan and Russia as to the gradual Partition of Manchuria and the extension of the Russian sphere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always Shown a willingness to construe loosely the open-door policy where that policy applies to territory directly adjacent to the two most potent nations in the Orient . And since those two nations have shown that they have forgotten their war and are at last working in harmony , this country has been more willing than ever to leave them alone . It is more likely , however , that the Chinese loan will receive some impetus from Mr. Knox 's visit . That loan has been hanging fire with fluctuating prospects ever since the ocerthrow of the Chinese dynasty . The trouble has been ascribed to various international groups interested in obtaining the loan , and it is possible that some steps toward straightening out the tangle may be taken while Mr. Knox is in direct touch with the Eastern situation . In this connection the service of Ransford Miller , Chief of the Bureau of Foreign Relations , as Secretary to the special embassy , is of particular importance . Mr. Miller . like Assistant Secretary of State Huntington , has served in the Orient , and he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other man in the United States . When Viscount Chinda , Japanese Ambassador to Washington , heard of Secretary Knox 's mission to-day , he asserted that it would be taken by the Japanese people arid Government as an act of the greatest courtesy and one calculated to make even warmer and more cordial the existing relations between the two Governments . Secretary Knox and his party will sail . from Seattle on the armored cruiser Pennsylvania . The party will leave Washington next Thursday , and leave Seattle immediately upon arrival . The ship will steam direct to Yokohama , and the passage will probably take about eighteen days . The voyage is about 4,200 miles , and to preserve her supply of coal for the long trip the Pennsylvania will not snake any faster speed than about 10 knots an hour .                     