@@680566

txt Four Cornell students lost their lives last night ' when a canoe in which they were returning to Renwick Pier from a cottage at Willow Point capsized in Cayuga Lake . The victims are : McCORMICK Miss MARTHA , of Troy . PI . sophomore in the College of Arts and Sciences . MALLET , Miss MARY CORNELLA , of Middletown. a - sophomore in the College of Arts and Sciences . BAILEY , BRAINARD , of Troy , a sophomore in the College of Law and a member of the Board of Editors of The Cornell Sun . ZIMMER , REINHART , of Rochester a sophomore in the College of Mechanical Engineering . Although the lake has been dragged at the point where the canoe is believed to have capsized , none of the bodies has been found . The university authorities have employed expert boatmen to resume the search early t6-morrow morning . The canoe in which the four young persons started out was found in the middle of the lake off Taughannock Point , eight miles north of where the disaster is supposed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and two cushions . Every other canoe at the Renwick Boathouse had been accounted for this morning , so there was no doubt of the identity of the craft and very little as to the fate of the students . The university authorities have abandoned all other theories as to the cause of their absence , and the families of the four have been notified . The two young women , who were members of the Kappa Gamma Sorority at Sage College , had been at the cottage of C. E. Stanion at Willow Point attending a house party . Bailey and Zimmer walked to the cottage yesterday afternoon to visit them . The ? canoe which the young ' women rented was to be returned this morning , but the two young men decided to paddle it back last night and the girls agreed to ae= company them . ? ? A little after O'clock the party set out from the cottage , taking -a southwesterly direction and making for Renwick Pier . That was the last seen of the party . It is believed that they Paddled out into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were caught in the trough of- the waves , and that the canoe capsized : No cries for help were heard , so it is believed that all . - Were drowned as soon as they were plunged into the cold water . A stiff south wind was blowing and the lake was rough . Members of the house party telephoned to Mrs. Gertrude S. Martin , adviser of women of the university , at o'clock this morning saying that the girls had not returned . Mrs. Martin gave the alarm , and university , city . and county authorities at once began a search for the missing stgdents . The parents of the students were notified of the tragedy , and Zimmer 's uncle arrived here late to-night . Miss McCormick 's brother and sister are expected to-morrow morning . Miss Mallet and Liss McCormick were registered in the Cornell College of Arts and Sciences . Both were popular in social circles ie Sage College , and had taken prominent parts In the activities of the women of the university . Miss Mallet took one . of the leading parts in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a student in the college of law and a member of tee Cornell Daily Sun Board , the student publication . He was the Sophomore delegate on the Junior Spring Day Committee . Zimmer was registered in the College of Mechanical Engineering and was a promising candidate on last season 's championship basketball squad . DIVES FOUR TIMES FOR BOY . Longshoreman Saves Lad After a Hard Struggle it the East River .. Sonic two hundred and fifty persons . most of them women and children , watched anxiously from the pier at the foot of Corlears Street - late yesterday afternoon while Paul Keenan , a longshoreman of 13 Broome Street , dived four times into the East River after Samuel Leaderman , 4 years old , of 252 Monroe Street , who had fallen into the water . The man came up from his last dive holding the little boy by the hair . and a moment later both . man and child were safe on land . Keenan was cheered heartily by the crowd . The Leatierman boy was playing on the pier with three or four boys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ edge into the river . Keenan heard the cries of those who saw the boy fall , and . without removing even his hat , he jumped after him. - An ambulance was called from Gouverneur Hospital , and the child was revived and taken to the hospital , where it was said his condition was not serious . Many of those who saw the rescue crowded around Keenan , and congratulated him upon his feat WOMAN SAVES A WOMAN . Exhausted Swimmer at Coney Island Rescued by Elma Lecomp . Elms , Lecomp , who recently became a professional life saver at Coney Island , and who , it is said , is the only woman life saver in the world , went to the rescue of a woman swimmer yesterday . I Miss Lecomp 's station is In front Of the Seabourne Inn at Seagate . There were some aquatic contests In the ocean at that point yesterday , Among the contestants was Hazel Bray , well known at Coney Island as a , swimmer . Miss Bray had won several events when an endurance contest was started . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three-quarters of a mile distant and back . When the swimmers turned , Miss Piety was leading them . ? She was within 200r feet .. of the shore when it was apparent that something was wrong with her . She had grown exhausted as a result of the previous races and seemed to be struggling to ; keep afloat . Miss Lecomp immediately struck out from shore .. She reached Miss Bray just as she collapsed , and , getting hold or her , kept her afloat and swam with her to the shore .                     