@@682322

txt When her husband , Arthur A. English , a prominent New York attorney and son of Thomas Dunn English , author of " Ben Bolt , " threatened her with a revolver , Mrs. Eloise Young English early today fired twelve shots from an automatic pistol and a revolver , five of the bullets lodging in the lawyer 's head , killing him Instantly . The murder occurred at the mountain home of the pair , dear Indian Springs , , three miles from Frederick . Mrs. English 's father was the late McClintock Young , an inventor of fame . Mrs. English says she shot in ? " " ktdefense when her husband , in a fit of anger , drew a revolver and pointed it at her . She was exonerated from blame for the killing by a Coroner'a jury here tonight after she and her three children , estified . Ruth , their seven-year-old daughter , was in the room at the time of the shooting . After killing her husband Mrs. English took her four children and hastened to the nearest neighbors on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home of Mrs. Minnie Crabbs while she and her eldest sun , Hugh , ran on to the home of Charles Simpson , about three-quarters of a mile away . Here Mrs. English told her story and telephoned to Dr , H. P. Fahrney in Frederick to hurry to the side of her husband . She then called Pollee Headquarters in Frederick and asked that a warrant be sworn for her husband , who she stated had threatened to take her life . She also said she had shot him . When Mrs. English was taken into custody she became reticent and would offer no explanation except that she had shot her husband in self-defense after he had attempted to attack her and had pointed a pistol at her head . Since the shooting Mrs. English has required the services of a physician . Her little daughter remained with her until she returned to Frederick . Before her marriage to English the woman was prominent in Frederick society . She married about twelve years ago . It was generally known that the pair were unhappy . They had separated several times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occupied the little property in the mountains where they made their home for the last several years . According to Mrs , English 's story , this morning her two young sons were put to work by the father chopping wood . Knowing that the elder boy was ill Mrs. English asked that he be allowed to stop . English flew into a rage , she says . Greatly frightened by his threats of bodily harm and by his manner , Mrs. English went into the house and to her room , where she got a small pistol which formerly belonged to her father . She tucked this in her dress and proceeded about her household duties . Shortly afterward English went into the dining room and took a hammer and broke furniture and smashed chinaware . His wife begged him to stop , but this made him only worse . When again importuned to desist he went to the bookcase and got a revolver , . saying he would finish her . As he raised his arm Mrs. English slipped her pistol from her bosom and fired . She emptied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the floor and fired all seven shots at him . She then rushed upstairs and filled the chambers of her pistol again and then left the house . Arthur A. English and Eloise Young English were matried in 1900 , five years after his first wife , Lucie B. Temple English , whom he had married in 1891. died . Thomas Dunn English , sr. , a son by the first wife , who has been practising law with his father at 27 Cedar Street , left yesterday for Baltimore when he received news of his father 's death . At his home at 287 State Street , Brooklyn , last night , Mrs. English refused to answer questions about her father-in-law . Born in New York . City on Aug . II . 1863 , Mr. English had spent all of his life here , except the few years he spent in travel and a period in Washington as an assistant attorney in the Department of the Interior under the late Cornelius N. Bliss and David R. Francis in the Administrations of Presidents Cleveland and . Thomas Dunn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " decided to educate his son for the law long before the boy had gone through the public schools and had entered New York University . He had private tutors teach his son the intricacies of Hindu , Greek , Roman , Hebrew , English , and American law . Not satisfied with giving Arthur a knowledge of law he gave him a foundation for years of study in history , science , medicine , literature , and languages .                     