@@679051

txt Formal announcement of his candidacy to succeed Senator Henry Cabot Lodge of Massachusetts was made to-night by Representative Butler Ames . The announcement was coupled with a bitter excoriation of " Boss Lodge and his political machine . " Mr. Ames expresses his inability to understand how former President Roosevelt can lend his political support to one " even though a friend , who has consistently violated in his State all the moral teachings of which he Roosevelt is the great exponent . " He adds that the people of that State will realize that the former President " could not have the intimate knowledge , acquired through sorrowful experience and possessed by each citizen of Massachusetts , and so would not appreciate that his support of Mr. Lodge was out of keeping with the facts . " It has been understood for some months that Mr. Ames cherishes ambitions to come to the Senate . Heretofore no formal announcement of his candidacy has been made . His announcement says : " Mr. Ames now makes the official announcement of his candidacy for the United States Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to lead the fight against Boss Lodge and his political machine . " This machine , backed by all tae 3arge corporations and by all the Sate and Federal patronage at his command , has served for many years as a ready and efficient tool to crush all political ambitions , endeavors , or opinions not sanctioned by Mr. Lodge . His orders have gone out to crush , not only to suit his own political ends , but also to advance the selfish financial schemes of the railroad , banking , and manufacturing interests be serves in the halls of Congress . as well as in the Massachusetts Legislature . " His machine , controlling for so many years the political destinies in the State , has been connected with , has been a party to , and has grown up with the lobby that plies its trade at the State House . The well-recognized leader of the lobby has been a member of the State Central Committee for more than a decade . In that committee he has been a leader , and his word was law . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political friends and advisers ? " This man was ditven from the Republican State Central Committee last Fall by outraged public sentiment , and though still the head of the lobby , has been kept away from the State House this year for appearance sake , and has done his work through lieutenants . His attendance at the State House during past years was so regular that his absence this year has been the cause of almost daily comment . It is of interest to know that in the successful campaign waged in Haverhill last Fall against the siamesing- of the State political machine and the lobby , Mr. Lodge was entertained at this man 's home in that city . " And for Mr. Lodge , the chosen representative of Massachusetts in the Senate of the United States , to try , by craftily worded amendment and later by attempted infl-rence on the Secretary of the Navy , to secure the purchase of two colliers not then needed or asked for by the navy at a price away in excess of that at which more desirable boats were bought in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so that they might stand by him with their wealth and power and influence at a time like this , was to take what belonged to the country for his political allies and reflects honor neither upon himself nor on the State . " While he is conscious of his own shortcomings no one recognizes more quickly than does Mr. Ames the talents possessed by Mr. Lodge , a scholar , a historian , an author of wide and varied experience , and whose Yera , length of service ought under ordinary circumstances to be a bar to his removal . " With all his gifts and opportunities , he has made such use of them that his continuance in public life depends not upon his service to the people of his State but to a political machine . This machine is used as a club for the individual of independent thought and action , while it serves as a willing tool to those of wealth of influence and power seeking undue favors . The public state of mind in the State to-day is the result , not of what has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dared to attack him , but of each individual 's own interpretation of his acts and utterances and of the conduct of the Toachine of which he is the moving force . The Lodge machine and the lobby worked in the Senate again this year to successfully defeat the Direct Primary hill , which had passed the House . With direct pr , imaries it is universally admitted Mr. Lodge would have no possible chance of re-election . " The issue of the coming- campaign will ' be Lodgeism and political misrule with the open connivance of the machine lobby with large financial interests to control elections and lecislative action . The defeat of Mr. Lodge and the termination of this machine will tend more than anything else to party success . not only in the State but in the ; Cation It will restore confidence in Republican management by divorcing the Legislature lobby from the political machine . and by defeating a                   