@@682417

txt The Chancellor's1 short visit to Berlin is pelieved to have been not only to talk personally to the American Ambassador , but also to take hack to headquarters certain fresh material bearing on the submarine quest ion and the controversy with America to be laid before the Great War Council in support of his wellknown views . It is no secret that the Chancellor is still , as he always has been , in favor of peace with America ; that he heads a powerful party which Is determined to avoid a break with America , even though it means full compliance with America 's demands . Nor is it any secret that Dr. von Bethmann Hollweg continues to enjoy the unshaken confidence of his imperial master . Those interested persons who are in a position to follow developments most closely and who judge the situation with reasonable optimism are pinning their faith largely to the known peaceful inclinations et ' the Kaiser and the Chancellor toward America , and the fact that the leading responsible German statesman Still holds the whip hand In the Kaiser 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outstanding feature of the situation was the increasing optimism in all interested quarters based on re . liable informationregarding important political developments here , the exact nature of a Melt may not be specifically indicated at this time . From half a dozen well informed persons I heard : " The worst is over , " The crest of thZ crisis is safely passed , " and similar expressions of genuine relief . While Germans with instinctive conservatism clunb to the idea that the situation was still exceedingly grave , there was no doubt that the political barometer was slowly but surely creeping back to normal ' fair weather . " Ambassador Gerard , while , as always , requesting not to be quoted , left no doubt in an interviewer 's mind that after his talk with the Chancellor he regarded the situation wit h at least reasonable hope and that there seemed to be every reason to believe that a fair probability existed of reaching a good understanding . Foreign Office More Cheerful . At the Foreign Office a more cheerful atmosphere prevailed than for several days , though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the absence of anything definite to say . In quarters close to the Government it was said in explanation of the growing optimism that whilto apparently no definite final decision had been reached , regarding the form or contents of the German answer , still the question had practically been solved in principle . Considerable . significance is attached to the fact that the political censorship permitted the semi-official Wolff Agency to circulate throughout the German Empire a long dispatch front America giving press comment on the President 's address and the American state of Mimi , from a score of representative American newspapersa from coast to coast , the editorial collection adequately attesting ever6to the German mind that the cauntry Was behind the President , The publication of this American news a t the present moment a German political expert interpreted as skillful advance preparation of the German public by the Imperial Government for the soft answer that is forthcoming . The publication of the American note , backed up by the above and such other scant American news as has been allowed to filter in has at least had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the long- fixed idea about a " ' bluff . " The people have come to realize that the American Govcernment is not bluffing , but means business and , with this dangerous fallacy at last dispelled , Germany is in a position to make the momentous decision at least with its eyes open and without pinning any false hopes to a possible Wilsonian bluff . Vossimehe Zeitung Debates Problem . The Vossische Zeitung , which is in a position to be kept well posted on the situation , and is somewhat optimistic regarding the possibilities of an understanding with America , says : " In a thoughtful mood that dampened all genuine Easter joy the German people ' have lived through the days since the publication of the Wilson note , for no matter how divided opinion may be regarding the far. - reaching consequences and the direct and indirect effects of a break with America , no thinking German is so light-hearted or light-headed as to view a break as desirable or even as a matter of indifference . " Opinions can only differ as to whether there is still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Germany can travel without the sacrifice of honor or without giving up one of its best weapons . " To answer this question affirmatively involves just as much responsibility as to answer it negatively . It demands equally a sensitive feeling for the national dignity and good sense for facts , which can not be confused by tern ' peramental exuberances . Both quailties are possessed : by the men who , in the last forty-eight hours in Berlin and Great Headquarters have been busy with the examination of the note and the preparation of an answer and whose decision will undoubtedly be made known very soon . " The first question - of all is whether on the part of America the good will for an understanding with Germany still exists at all or whether Washington is determined to force matters to a break . At the present moment it can not be determined whether a road to an understanding is left open . " The Vossische Zeitung says this afternoon : In well-informed circles ' the hope is still held that a chance will open up of arriving at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dignity and without rendering valueless our submarine weapon which is so absolutely essential to us in our defensive fight against England 's starvation plans . " The Tageblatt says : " Regarding the German-American crisis , one can only say that conferences as to whether and how an open conflict is to be prevented are being continued , but that the result of these conferences can not , even with approximate certainty , be forecast . " The recovery on the New York . Exchange has naturally resulted from the reports of conversations between the Chancellor and Ambassador Gerard , and the news that the German Government is not taking the standpoint of declining out of principle , and that means are being sought for removing the tension . " The Morgenpost says : " The ' fact that , regardless of the holiday , the responsible leaders of our foreign policy spent all yesterday in intense activity indicates the seriousness of the situation created by President Wilson 's demands . The officials concerned have not yet reached a final decision . " This decision depends on the weighing of so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conferences in Berlin . and probably also in Great Headquarters , will be necessary before judgment is made . " Whatever conclusion may be reached , the great seriousness of its consequences can not be overestimated . It is not a question of the torpedoed Sussex alone nor the present methods of the submarine war nor even of the submarine question as a whole nor America alone , but the great question is : How in. the one case or the other the Imperial Government 's decision will affect the duration and course and success of the whole war . " " The decision of the responsible leaders of our fortunes , therefore , does not depend on political or military or economic considerations , but on all these taken together . " It is as a matter of course , therefore , that the Chancellor is consulting with those personages who can pronounce an authoritative judgment on each of these questions . Everyone of these personages whose advice is asked can speak out his opinion without hesitancy , for we are fortunately in such favorable political , military , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is only a matter of stating not whether we shall be victorious , ' but how we can most surely win . " With much satisfaction we can state that the conferences , now going on within the Government , are being conducted , to be sure , with a full consciousness of the heavy responsibility , but without any fear regarding the issue of the war . " The public will do well on its part to assume the same serious but dignified tone and not permit themselves to be led astray by externals into premature optimism or pessimism . The public should no more draw conclusions from the fact that after his long inter , view with the Chancellor yesterday , Ambassador Gerard repaired to the Karlshorst races , which he followed for hours , than from the fact of a new journey of the Chancellor to great headquarters . Several days will pass before our answer to President Wilson is ready , and this answer . which , in any event , will be drafted only after the most mature deliberation , we will await with calm ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 