@@681153

txt The scene at the terminal station this morning when the Mexican envoys arrived from Mexico City was full of color . By prearrangement there was little evidence of the American occupation . Gen. Funston , in fatigue uniform , with Lieut . W. G. Ball , his aid , and Lieut . A. M. Cohen , Rear Admiral Badger 's aid , were the only officers present in an official capacity . The station and railroad yards were crowded with Mexicans and Americans . The delegates arrived here in a special car , there being about fifteen in the party , including Rafael Elguero , brother of Luis Elguero , who will act as secretary : Rafael Capetillo and Manuel Martinez del Campo , attaches ; Sefiora . Martinez del Campo , Senorita Rodriguez , and the four daughters of Senor Rabasa , who heads the commission . Senor Elguero , who is attorney for the National Bank of Mexico . a short . thick-set man , was first to descend from the car . He was followed by Serior Rabasa , tall and spare , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and has often been spoken of as a probable Ambassador at Washington . Then came Commissioner Rodriguez , aged and feeble , who had to be helped down the car steps . An Exchange of Courtesies . The three men stood in a little circle while Thomas J. Ryder , Second Vice President of the Mexican Eagle Oil Company , ( a Cowdray company , ) stepped forward and addressed Gen. Funston . " General , may I present these gentlemen ? " said he . " Certainly , " the General replied . Formal introductions followed , each delegate shaking Gen. Funston by the hand . Lieut . Cohen then stepped ' forward . " Accept the compliments of the Commander in Chief , " said he , saluting . All three delegates bowed gravely and smiled their acknowledgments . Lieut . Ball then saluted , and they acknowledged this in the same way . Mr. Ryder conferred with the delegates In Spanish , extending to them , in behalf of Gen. Funston and Admiral Badger , the hospitality of the American officers and transportation to the United States on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Commissioners would accept no hospitality , preferring to sail on the Kronprinzessin Cecilie . They were told that Admiral Badger had been holding the Morro Castle at Vera Cruz for them , but they insisted on carrying out their original plan , explaining that arrangements had been made with the steamship company . Gen. Funston acquiesced in whatever plan the delegates had in mind , and the party moved out of the station I surrounded by a great crowd , which at times threatened to separate the Amer , ican officials - and the Mexicans . But there was practically no show of force , even to keep the crowd back . Gen. Funston personally turned on the Mexicans when they crowded too closely and kept them off with a wave of his hand and a shout . When the party reached the exits of the terminal army automobiles were lined up to take the Mexicans to the steamer . Upon the urging of Mr. Ryder the delegates accepted the use of these and drove in the cars to the wharf . No escort was sent along , and no army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ automobiles took the delegates to the sanitary pier , the place where I the American bluejackets landed at the beginning of the occupation of Vera Cruz . Unattended , the delegates walked across the broad expanse in front of the Custom House to the steamer , which will ? probably sail to-morrow for the United States by way of Havana , touching at Key West . There the delegates , it is understood , witi leave the steamer and proceed north by train . Rode in Presidential Train . The trip of the delegates from the capital was made in the Presidential train , composed of gayly painted coaches which were first used by Porfirio Diaz . A detachment of Presidential guards . all of whom ranked as captains , under command of Gen. Ramon Corona , Huerta 's Chief of Staff , accompanied the delegates . In addition to these . there was aboard the train a guard of picked troops . The train left the capital last night on the journey to the gap in the railroad , which was made without unpleasant incident . It has been customary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about two miles and a half from the torn-up tracks , making it necessary for all passengers to walk about five miles . The delegates ' train was run through to the gap in the tracks , and there the official passengers mounted horses , while carriers began transporting their baggage . Another train , filled with refugees , most of whom were Mexicans , was waiting at the usual place . These refugees were brought into Vera Cruz on the train with the delegates , making it necessary for Huerta 's representatives to spend three hours in a special car which had been added for their convenience . Desire to avoid publicity and the curious gaze of the crowd caused them to swelter within the car . Senor Elguero was the only one who ventured as far as the platform on the trip in , and all were reticent regarding . their mission . None of the delegates appeared any too certain regarding the outcome of the parleys in which they were to participate . How long the conference would last was something they could not even guess . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Mexican lines , but the presence there of an American escort gave the Mexicans their first ocular demonstration that they were entering that part of their country controlled by Americans . Gen. Corona accompanied the delegates across the intervening space , but the guards were stationed some distance from the American train . Gen. Corona then rode forward and entered the car , chatting for a time with members of the party . The Major in command of the nearest Mexican outpost was always in evidence about the train , but he did not talk with the Commissioners . That honor was . reserved for Gen. Corona and a staff officer . Americans Admire Mexican Guards The natty appearance of the guards , who wore blue shoulder straps to indicate special service to the President . brought from the American soldiers surprised and favorable comment . Gen. Corona later brought forward a detachment of these guards , parading them alongside the car . Their rifles remained in their saddle holsters throughout the time . Just before the train started for Vera Cruz Gen. Corona said good-bye to the members'of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Leaving the car , he mounted and called the line of guards to ' attention , wniie a bugler sounded the salute . The General retired with his escort as the train started back into the American lines .                     