@@682128

txt The United States Government today cabled Ambassador Sharp at Paris for presentation to the French Foreign Office a note vigorously protesting against the removal by boarding parties from the French cruiser Descartes of six persons , Germans or .9 ustrians , from the American steamships Carolina , ( ' Dame . and San Juan . Immediate release of the men is asked on the ground that tile seizure of citizens of any nation from an American vessel on the high seas is without legal justification and constitutes a flagrant violation of American rights . The note was dispatched by Secretary Lansing with the full approval of President Wilson . It is understood to have been discussed by the President with his Cabinet at today 's meeting . Couched In friendly terms , the communication states the American point of view emphatically and cites the precedent presented in the case of August Piepenbarink. a German , who , removed from the American ship Wind ' . ber by the French cruiser Conde In November of last year . was released after representations had been made by the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men removed from the ships were not embodied In " the armed forces of the enemy "  --  the term used in the Declaration of London . It'is asserted , however , that there is no justification for the removal of citizens of a nation which is an enemy of France from an American vessel on the high seas bound to a neutral port , even if they could properly be regarded as military persons . To support this position , It is understood , the note points to the rule set down by the French Minister of Foreign Affairs in a note sent during the civil war to the French Minister to the United States in regard to the removal of the Confederate Commissioners , Mason and Slidell , from the steamship Trent . This note , considered especially applicable to the present situation , said : " She the Trent was carrying her ea.rgo and her passeng , rs to a neutral country , and , moreover , she had taken them on in a neutral port If it were admissible that under such conditions the neutral flag did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transporting . its immunity would no longer anything but an empty word ; at any time the commerce and navigation of third powers would have to suffer from their harmless or even indirect relations with one or the other of the belligerents . The latter would no longer be entitled merely to require entire impartiality of a neutral and to forbid him from interfering ill any way in the hostilites , but they would place upon his freedom of commerce and navigation restrictions the lawfulness of which modern international law has refused to admit . " The text of the American note , which is said to be brief , probably will be made public when word of its delivery to the French Foreign Office is received by the State Department . Officials of the State Department apparently think the French Government may see fit to contest the contentions of the United States and that the men will not be released until further communications have passed between the two Governments . This opinion is based on the assumption that the commander of the Descartes was acting in accordance with instructions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the intentions of the United States during a conference held late yesterday with Secretary Lansing .                     