@@679447

txt There is a general Impression among Influential Democrats in this city that the legislative deadlock over the election of a United States Senator to succeed Chauncey M. Depew will be broken during the present week . - There were some developments yesterday that seemed to confirm this impression . Most important among these were the reptlits emanating from friends of William F. Sheehan to the effect that some important public utterance from their candidate for the United States Senate might be looked for within the next forty-eight hours . What the nature of this utterance would be they did not propose to say , but it is generally believed that in it Mr. Sheehan will release the Democratic lawmtkers from their caucus pledges to him , now that it has been amply demonstrated that he can not be elected . Another indication that the end of the Senatorial contest is in sight was the information gleaned yesterday to the effect that a new conference or caucus of the Democratic legislators would be called some time this week , probably Tuesday evening or Wednesday morning . Last evening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the effect that , provided Mr. Sheehan would release the Democratic member from their caucus pledges , it would be agreeable to the Democratic leaders to call a new caucus . The Tammany leader insisted that this must be an unrestricted caucus ; that the insurgents must enter unconditionally and be . prepared to abide by its action , even though it should result in the election of Daniel F. Cohalan or some other Tammany man as little to the liking of the insurgents as is Mr. Sheehan . The insurgents have already indicated that they will not enter any caucus the action of which Mr. Murphy will be able to control . Gov . Dix had a talk with Tammany leader Charles F. Murphy yesterday . Mr. Murphy went to the Governor 's suite at the Waldorf and spent about a quarter of an hour there . After his talk with Mr. Murphy the Governor , in discussing the situation with a. friend , expressed his belief that the deadlock would be broken this week. - Mr. Murphy was very busy yesterday . After talking to Gov . Dix @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where he conferred with Speaker Daniel D : - Frisbiet-oftily and Senator Robert F. Wagner and Assemblyman Alfred E. Smith . Senator Wagner and Assemblyman Smith are leaders of the Democratic majority of their respective houses in the Legislature . Speaker Frisbie was Chairman of the Democratic conference that was held some three weeks ago in an attempt to break the deadlock . When that conference adjourned it did so subject to the call of the Chairman . Speaker Frisbie told Mr. Murphy yesterday only what the latter has heard from a majority of the up-State leaders , and from a majority of his own Tammany district leaders as well  --  that Mr. Sheehan should withdraw from the race in order to save the Democratic organization in this State land the Dix Administration further embarrassment . Mr. Murphy has made a careful poll of the members of the Democratic State Committee and of the leaders in his own organization . While he has received assurances that they will stand with him for Mr. Sheehan as long as he continues to give the word , nearly all of them have told the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absolute ruin to the party . Speaker Frisbie said , before he went to see Mr. Murphy , that there was a growing demand among the up-State Democrats for an immediate settlement of the Senatorial contest . " We must have a Democratic representative In the United States Senate when Congress convenes on April 4 , " said Mr. Frisbie . " That was one of the things that induced so many to vote the Democratic ticket in the last campaign  --  that a Democratic victory would mean an increased representation in Congress , where the tariff question , with its vital bearing on the cost of living , will come up at the extra session . The sentiment in the Democratic Party throughout the length and breadth of this State demands that the deadlock be broken . " Speaker Friable said that unless the contest be settled prior to the opening of the extraordinary session of Congress there is danger that the score or so of up-State Democrats who are near insurgency now will break away and join the out-and-out insurrectos . " It would be a shame to force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party ties that . are dear to them , and yet that Is what will happen , " said Speaker Frisbie . Mr. Sheehan , It was said at his office , spent the day at the Oakland Golf Club on Long Island . Daniel F. Cohalan , Mr. Murphy 's right-hand man , was said to be with , him on the links .                     