@@680020

txt ROBERT L. FRIER. , President of the Fidelity Trust Company of Buffalo , asserts that it is his duty to refuse Ito answer the questions of the Money Trust investigators , and gives the reasons so plainly that his motives can not be misunderstood . For his conduct as a banker he declares that he is responsible only to the State of New York , and the State 's Banking Department knows intimately and approves thoroughly his conduct as a banker . Beyond this he owes a duty to his clients , and that duty requires him to resist encroachment . upon their private business . That duty he proposes to perform because it is his duty also as a citizen . If he concedes to this committee the right to ask questions such as no banker ever answered , because they never before were asked , he also concedes to Congress tho power to ask any other questions , or to take any other course it pleases in matters which are no concern of Congress . whatever the excellence of the motives of Congress , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business which it Is sought to whip or to amend over the shoulders of the banks . It Is wonderful what courage a clear conscience gives a man . There are others with consciences as clear , no doubt , but there are also others " who could not have taken the same position with equal authority lest they invite suspicion that the motive of the objection was not the motive assigned . There are banking practices which ought to be restrained , but that is no reason why banks should be made the football of politicians for campaign purposes . Especially there is no reason why the constitutional relations of National and State Jurisdictions should be jumbled or ignored when there Is abundance of alternatives . New York is competent to remedy its own banking abuses , without the assistance of those without special qualifications , and without the hindrance of those whose banking ideas are so different from those of New York . The committee ? is dominated by a Chairman from a State where its chief clearing house was indicted for " crimes " of which our Clearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our Clearing House has been called to the bar of the committee . We believe the conscience of our Clearing House Chairman to be as clear as that of the President of the Fidelity Trust Company , but he is not in the same position to defy the committee . On the other hand , he has other Justification for taking a high stand , and not demeaning himself as a culprit . The plain truth is that Congress has itself as much to blame as the banks for whatever is to be criticised in banking . The Clearing House is only one of the extra legal devices by which banking has remedied the deficiencies of legislation that have produced the evils complained of . The Congestion of reserves in New York , their devotion to speculative commitments when there was nothing else for them to do , the enforcement of sound banking discipline by the Clearing House on points where the law is defective , these and countless other defects of legislation lie at the door of Congress and closer to the door of the Chairman of this committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ zeal now does not obscure neglect of finance reform and the devotion of this wasted energy to the casual politics of the moment . If this is to be a government of law the lines of division between State and Nation should be observed , even though the Money Devil survived I thereby . Nothing alleged of this horned and hoofed beast is so bad that our Institutions should be wrecked to get at it , at least not until an effort has been made to slay it within the forms of law . It is well that banking should comport itself with sincere regard for public opinion , but it should be an honest and enlightened public ) opinion , and not a politicians ' reign of terror . The idea that Chairman Puro 's committee has higher banking standards than that of most New York bankers , and especially our Clearing House , is preposterous . It is because the intelligence of Congress and its standards are so much below New York 's that we believe it would be a calamity to surrender our local affairs to inquisition . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In dealing with the facts in its knowledge that it is time to object to its learning what it has no right to know . It is time for business to resist unlawful encroachments and to stand upon its rights . To take this high position it Is necessary to be beyond reproach , and it Is a delight to remark that one branch of big business is in the condition of knowing its rights , and to be qualified to maintain therm                     