@@683346

txt Under a ruling made today by President Wilson complete embargo on such iron and steel as are required for ship construction will go into effect on Aug. 15 . After that date not a pound of iron or steel listed under certain specified classifications will be permitted to leave an ' American port without special license . Until Aug. 10 , according to the ruling , applications will be considered by the Government authorities for the export to allied countries of iron and steel and may be granted if it is proved that the materials are " destined for actual war purposes or will directly contribute thereto . " A complete embargo on iron and steel products necessary tor ship construction will mean that foreign nations will be deprived of the opportunity to obtain large supplies in the American market by offering prices far in excess of those which the Government believes are equitable and just . It will also have the effect of cutting off forthwith from Japan the supply of American steel for shipbuilding unless that nation can prove that the ships to be constructed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war against Germany . There has been an effort to bring more of the Japanese tonnage into the transatlantic trade , and it has been reported that this Government might at any time make it known that the steel product of the United States must be diverted to the came of supplying the Allies , rather than to ships that were to be used exclusively in the Pacific Ocean . The President 's instructions which will bring Japanese ships into the Atlantic were issued to the Division of Export Licenses and previde ' hat no steel or iron products shall go to allied countries unless they are to he used for actual war purposes , or will contribute directly to prosecution of the war . Japan has been a large buyer of American ship plates and has been building up a great merchant fleet . About 4 per cent . of her tonnage is in the Atlantic , and the remainder is carrying Pacific cargoes at extremely high rates . While nu interpretation of the President 's statement could be obtained from any official source today , it was understood that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of railroads ? supplies which are needed in Russia  --  would not be included in the embargo ruling . Text of Official Statement . Here is the official statement issued . by the Committee on Public Information : " The President today gave additional instructions to the Secretary of Commerce for the guidance of the Divsiion of Export Licenses in future shipments of steel and iron products and explosives . The new rules governing steel and iron shipments , which supersede all previous regulations , are as follows : First  --  That all shipments to those nations associated with the United States in the war are , until further instructions , to- be licensed freely , without reservation , and without restriction , except iron and steel plates , pig iron , iron and steel scrap , and steel billets , for which licenses shall hz . granted only in case said articles a rr. destined for actual war purposes cr will directly contribute thereto . Second  --  Licenses which may be properly issued will be granted for shipments of all iron and steel plates and structural shapes , and Other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following conditions only : 1 . The application for such licenses must be received by the Department of Commerce . Division of Export Licenses , Washington , D. C. , on or before Aug. 10 , 1917. 2 . , Such articles rhall be completely made up and manufactured on or before Aug. 10 , 1917. 3 . Such license shall be valid and shall indicate that it is valid only in case such shipments are covered by railroad or ocean bill of lading dated on or before Aug. 15. 1917 . " With respect to the general term ' explosives ' used In the proclamation of the President on July 0 , 1917 , the following chemicals are included in ins meaning : Ether , alcohol , sulphur , sulphuric acid and its salts , acetone , nitric acid and its salts , derivatives of benzol , phenol ( carbolic acid ) and its derivatives of toluol , mercury and its salts , ammonia and its salts , glycerine , potash and its salts , all cyanides . " Will Upset Contracts . Contracts have been made in this zountry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ iron , It is bald . No official would discuss this situation tonight , but from the text of the statement made public , it is probable that the embargo ruling will serve to abrogate all of these contracts which can not be filled by Aug. 10 . It has been stated recently that practically the entire output of the steel industry along lines to promote shipbuilding would be required by the program for a huge merchant marine to combat the German submarine warfare which the United States was preparing to carry out . One of the things IN embarrassed this program was 1 ... e fact that steel prices were soaring , due . to the willingness of Japan and others of the Allies to pay almost any price for quick delivery of steel . it has been stated that the price paid by the Allies in some iasta.nces went to over $150 a ton for . steel plates , despite the fact that the United States Government believed that the steel interests could turn out the plates and make a reasonable profit at a price anywhere from $1.5 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reports . indicates that the Government is planning to build a great merchant marine which will be retained by American interests at the close of the war , and that it is believed that the full resources of the country should be devoted to that end . An embargo on steel . it has been conceded generally . would have a far-reaching effect in stabilizing the market and bringing prices back from the war time level to somewhere near normal . It is believed that the action taken by the President will have a tremendous effect upon the steel industry and the shipbuilding activities throughout , the country . Will Commandeer Shipping . Conferences were continued today at the offices of the Shipping Board and the Emergency Fleet Corporation to speed up ship construction . At a meeting of the Shipping Board plans were discussed for commandeering ships on the stocks in order to put on extra forces of workmen and get the vessels on the water to make way for additional construction . It was said that action In this direction might be expected at any time . The question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put it to the most effective use also was considered , and this will be done within a very short time . It is probable that these vessels will be taken over by charter and not by purchase . The British and American Governments have about reached an agreement for a joint control of all -- the world 's tonnage , and the Shipping Board 's move toI:ard commandeering is a preliminary step in that arrangement . Under the plan the United States would operate most of the neutral tonnage and Great Britain would have under Its control allied ships . The arrangement would be used also to bring down freight rates . Great Britain , it was learned today , Is about ready to recall British ships that have been put at the disposal of her allies . Continued sinkings are said . to have made it necessary that every British vessel be used in supplying the British people and armies                     