@@684084

txt Directors of the American Sumatra Tobacco Co. at a meeting Wednesday , decieed to declare a stock dividend of 15% to holders of common stock and to increase common stock from $7,000,000 to $15,000,000 . A special meeting of the stockholders has been called for August 29 for the purpose of acting upon the proposal . It is planned that the stockholders be given the right to subscribe pro rata at par for the additional common capital stock to the extent of 50% of their holdings of common stock of the company . The directors will determine the date of the stock of record which will participate in the stock dividend . There are issued and outstanding 68,139 shares of common stock at this time . Reason for issuance of this additional common stock is that the company may retire its note obligations totaling $2,200,000 , and be furnished with additional working capital to be used in conjunction for tobacco experimentation on plantations and for other purposes . It is estimated that after the proceeds of subscriptions to new stock have I been paid , working capital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not intended to offer remainder of such additional common stock to stockholders for subscription at the p:csent time , but ' it is thought desirable to authorize the amount stated in the resolution of the directors so that any future issues which may appear expedient may be offered to the then stockholders which will avoid the delay incident to the calling of another special meeting . Offer made to stockholders and the payment of a stock dividend are subject to the approval of the Capital Issues Committee . The purchase of the entire issue of stock will - he underwritten . ? ? Vice-President William A. Tucker said : " The directors were convinced during the early life of the American Sumatra Tobacco Co. that they were cmducting a business that had possibilities for growth and determined to carefullycenssrve AbeApounuggiu. in rnings , ? bevnr1 thrpeceszary preferred dividends and withheld making any return to the common stockholders until the past year . " Their judgment has been confirmed by the development of the company . There has been a most satisfactory increase in the value of their properties during these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large proportions and the financial condition is gratifying in every way . The business of the company is on a sound basis and there seems to be full justificatior. for the belief that it will continue to grow . " There is not only an expectation of a steady growth of the business in the present lines of tobacco dealt in , but there is an added opportunity in the new branches that it is proposed to develop from the added capital secured from the sale of the stock that is now to be offered . " In proposing the stock dividend of 15% at this time , it is felt that there is full justification for taking this initial step in the effort to turn over to the stockholders a part of the increment that has been accruing to them during these years of patient waiting . "                     