@@682177

txt The basis for the settlement of the remaining points of difference between the United States and Germany in the Lusitania Lase has been delivered in writing to Count von Bernstorff , the German Ambassador , and sent to the Berlin Foreign Office for approval . The text of the tentative agreement is understood to have been handed to the , Ambassador during a visit to the State Department today , and is represented as having the approval of President Wilson , Secretary Lansing , and Count von Bernstorff . It is reliably asserted that the draft was dispatched by Count von Bernstorff today to his Government , and that , if approved in Berlin . the settlement will be announced at the end of the week . Count von Bernstorff and Secretary Lansing refused to make ally other statement than that the details of their negotiations were to be regarded as confidential . No official announcement was forthcoming . and none will be made until the agreement has been approved in langur .. ge satisfactory to both Governments . However , the best obtainable information as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following terms : First  --  Germany to declare that the attack on the Lusitania was illegal . Second  --  Germany to pay an indemnity for the loss of American lives caused by the sinking of the Lusitania . It is understood that there is rib flat disavowal of the Lusitania attack . but - that , the form in which Germany re-frildifito &4k-V111-be; a declaration to the effect that fr/A-attack was an act of reprisal against an illegal condition provoked by Great . Britain , and that , therefore , it was illegal . A tentative draft of the proposed agreement is said to have been placed in the hands of Secretary Lansing after last Friday 's conference . This , it is assertec , was sent to President Wilson at the White House for consideration , and was returned to-the State Department for use in the conference of today between the Secretary of State and the Ambassador . Wilson Changes Three Words . While the statement could not be confirmed , it was asserted in a usually well-informed quarter that the President changed just three words in the tentative agreement , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In any event a written draft of an agreement mutually satisfactory to those engaged in the conferences has been sent by the German Ambassador to his Government , which is expected to approve the settlement . Secretary Lan , sing and Count von Bernstorff are understood to have been in virtual agreement on the Lusitania matter for some days , but the real difficulty has been to phrase the agreement so as to make it acceptable to both Governments , and at the same . time accord with public sentiment in each country . In the conferences between the Ambassador and the Secretary of State it has been contended on the part of Germany that the attack on the Lusitania was in line with a campaign of retaliation against England for the blockade of neutral coasts and ports in an effort to shut off the overseas trade of Germany . In the note delivered to Secretary Lansing last Friday . giving guarantees as to the manner in which Germany , had conducted and would conduct submarine warfare zn the Mediterranean , the German Government ' Announced and pledged itself not to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any spirit of retaliation , and that there was to be no element of reprisal there . Germany has contended that the action of the Entente Allies , led by Great Britain , in paralyzing commerce between Germany and neutral ? OMtries has been in repudiation of international law , in disregard of the rights of neutrals , and that it has been aimed at the starvation of ale civil population of Germany . " We have been obliged to adopt submarine warfare to meet the declared intentions.of our enemies and the method of- warfare adopted by them in contravention Of international law , " said Herr von Jagow , in his note of July 8 , 1915 . Secretary Lansing has argued that a belligerent act of retaliation is an act beyond the law , and that the defense of an act as retaliatory is . an admission that it is illegal . " Illegal and inhumane acts , " said Secretary Lapsing in his note of July 21 on the Lusitania case , " however justifiable they may be thought against an enemy who is believed to have acted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when they deprive neutrals of their acknowledged rights . particularly when they violate the right of life itself . If a belligerent can not retaliate against an enemy without injuring the lives of neutrals as well as their property , humanity , as well as justice and a due regard for the dignity of neutral powers , should dictate that the practice be discontinued . "                     