@@680375

txt Any one sufficiently interested in the matter to undertake a study of the history of subway construction from its beginning would learn that the very persons and principles now marshaled I in the savage attack upon the subway contracts are themselves responsible for the existence of those contracts . If the city is making a bad bargain , it is they who have forced the bargain upon the city . Many years ago we had a referendum vote upon the subway question . The people were asked to say at the polls whether the city should at its own cost undertake the construction of the subway system . The vote was overwhelmingly in the affirmative . Under that sanction and that authority the existing Subway was built . But the ever vigilant and always active professional friends of the people soon discovered that under the contract for the operation of the Subway thus authorized and constructed the operating company would make money . To put a stop to this flagrant outrage the friends of the people secured an amendment of the law . They did their work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They put a stop to it altogether . But the need for new subways , for the extension in many directions and for many miles of the existing route , grew every day more urgent . The impossibility of getting these extensions under the amended law having been completely demonstrated , the law was amended . But instead of reverting to the plan under which the first Subway was constructed , , conditions were imposed which have made it necessary , if we are to have any new subways at all , to get them built under contracts such as those which the Public Service Commission has been enjoined from signing in behalf of the city . These contracts are the direct and necessary result of the benevolent interference of the friends of the people . Almost or quite alone among the newspapers of the city THE TIMES has pointed out the advantages , of constructing new subway lines under the original contract which gave us the present Subway . That would have been a much better bargain for the city in the money sense , and much better for its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have been saved . THE TIMES , therefore , was the original , the earliest . opponent of these contracts which the people 's friends denounce as flagitious and improvident . But under the law as the people 's friends caused it to be amended that was impossible . We were shut up to construction under such contracts as those awaiting signature , or some similar arrangement . When , therefore , the indefatigable labors of the committee of the Public Service Commission and the Board of Estimate had evolved the dual subway plan , it wag manifestly the best that was to be hoped for . It was practically the only way to get new subways , and THE TIMES again was almost alone in advocating its adoption . The opponents of the plan and of the contracts are ferociously assailing their own work . They do not mince their words . If what they say is true , then the members of the Public Service Commission and of the Board of Estimate who have assented to the plan , and would approve the contracts if not enjoined , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are accused of bad faith , of assenting to illegal procedures , of squandering the public money , and of concealing from the people of the city what they intend to do . Yet these men have for three years given their nights and their days to the subway negotiations , they have been unsparing of their time and their toil . And they are men Who are held to be as reputable , as honest , and as intelligent as any among the virtuous friends of the people . They are accused of attempting to " railroad " the contracts to execution , although they have given months to the study of terms and conditions , and the meaning of the contracts has been over and over again publicly explained . It would be easy , possibly it would be natural , to retort upon the assailants of the city 's officials and these contracts that their obstructive procedures are profligate , that they are undertaken not in the interests of the people , but in private interests , for motives and for ends that they would not venture to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be foolish to say them . Access to the courts is free , These gentlemen have a right to apply for injunctions . It is their right , however unwisely they may make use of it , to oppose these contracts . The result will be delay , and that is costly A year 's delay in beginning and finishing the new subways would cost the people more than the highest sum mentioned by these gentlemen in their somewhat venturesome estimates of ' the loss which the signing of the contracts would inflict upon the city . They would persuade the people that the city will be bound hand and foot for more than fifty years by the contracts . They sought to persuade Justice MCCALL that this was true , but he promptly discovered that at the end of ten years the city could put an end to the contracts by exercising its right to recapture the subways . However , the habit of overstatement is not to be severely criticised in those whose hearts beat so warmly for the people . It is well that everybody should understand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are abandoned with them . There is no alternative save municipal operation , and that is a dream . Dream subways will not meet the needs of the people . It is sufficiently evident that the city has made the best bargain possible under the law as it stands . To set aside these contracts would merely mean that after losing a great deal of time , perhaps two or three years , other contracts of similar tenor would be drawn up and signed . Otherwise , we should Wave to get along with the present Subway , which is already doing double work . The loud outcries we hear from the self-appointed friends of the people are only the voice of the shallows  --  the deeps are still dumb , that is , the great mass of the people , of the workers , the wage earners , the taxpayers , to whom the ? romptest possible construction of the new routes is of vital need , are taking no part in the controversy . Their silence threatens to bring loss and suffering upon themselves , for if they could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entirely confident are their feelings and their convictions , the gentlemen who are obstructing the subway work would be awed into an instant cessation of their voluntary labors . The case is better than it seems . Obstruction that leads nowhere and ends nowhere can not be indefinitely kept up . Besides , the people may find their voice .                     