@@683945

txt The President set a distinguished ex1lMple when he confronted the country With an accomplished fact regarding the taking over of the railways by the nation . Director General AlcAnoo follows the precedent when he makes himself the chief operator , and makes his subordinates the successors of all the railway Presidents in the land . Nothing more ruthless was ever done by the biggest and worst of the trusts before their power was broken , hut there is a difference . The old railway official who avowed his profane indifference to public opinion was thinking of his railways . The railways of the United States are not the property Of the Director General , and he is not thinking of the convenience or profit of the railways primarily . He is thinking first and last of the public interests , and acts in the manner customary with those responsible for the Conduct of a war . Never is a question asked about the Cost or profit or loss of any necessary act of war . That is why Government management is not suitable for normal conditions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Only question to he asked respecting the wisdom and propriety of the unprecedented action of the Director General is , What will be the effect upon the efficiency of the railways In their military uses ? Already there had appeared symptoms of a disposition to cling to old ways and to have independent opinions regarding what Should be done by the railways in the public service . The merits of such differences of opinion are debatable only by those not in the line of duty , whether in high or low degree . Those highly placed have great responsibilities and can not succeed if there is the least hesitation in obedience to orders . They alone have the right to think . Others in the line of duty should do what they are told , without consulting counsel or stockholders . Recourse to the courts to preserve either public or private interests in that manner is open to anybody except the officials under the Director General . From him to the humblest trackwalker or car cleaner there should be an unbroken line of authority and obedience . If the removal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is to he commended , whatever the effects upon the railways or however ruffling to the high railway officials ' susceptibilities . Those not in the line of duty to the Director General are less limited in their opinions than the Presidents of the railways . It is apparent that the plan is incomplete , and needs much working out of details . Perhaps it might have been better if there had been some delay to per ? .7. : t of a more complete plan and the announcement of the new officials . Now the roads are left headless for a time , and there ' is some danger of disorganization of operating forces . However , the Director General is as well aware of that as anybody , and there are passages in his announcement which reassure the working forces of the roads that they are secure in their positions as I soon as they know who is their chief . That may apply even to the Presidents . They are useful In varying degrees , and presumably those wanted will receive the opportunity to serve their country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ' matter of salaries . Some of the Presidents are indifferent to the pay ; others will work more cheaply for the Government than for private employers ; others , perhaps , may be paid both 67 the Government and the company when the matter of subordination is understood . It is a minor consideration at worst , for the Director General can have no difficulty in finding railway talent at one price or another . However the matter is arranged , it challenges attention by the fact that ' at is in the line of evolution . It has itiong heels proposed that the Governv meat should have representatives upo ; the railway directorates to learn th inside of the business which it wa regulating at a disadvantage . Not the situation is simply reversed . Th railways need somebody to watch th inside of Government operation fo the term of the lease . The Govern ment Is paying a rent sufficient fo . It to have control of the propert : without disturbance , but the propert : belongs to the lessor still , and then is an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which give : the owner the right to overlook wha is done . The Presidents have a nev function , quite enough to occupy them if they wish to work for tilos ( with whom they have had relation : hitherto . There is not a little of un . explored territory in the railway fieli about which the public has had toe little information . With the Director General on the Inside and the Presidents in positions of observation , there will remain little hidden . The dual relation will be good for the railways in whatever future there is in store for them . It must be clear that the more complete the reconstruction of railway operation , the more complete will be the destruction of the good-will of the various companies . Uncounted millions have been spent in making trade connections which now are scrapped . The railways had a value as going concerns which they no longer possess when they are made to go so differently . That going value can not be restored to them , however excellent may he the physical maintenance of the properties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new relations . There are such opportunities for the increase of earnings with the same plant and labor that larger incomes should result from less outlay . The railways are sure of their earnings for the period of the lease , and they may be made more valuable by what they gain from Government operation . regardless of what they may lose from old methods which never can be restored . We are in a new railway era , not altogether master of our doings , and should be open-minded to possible benefits , rather than stubborn in old Ideas , which , perhaps , may turn out to have been prejudices .                     