@@684784

txt General LUDENDORFF , when brought up for examination in Berlin last week by the Parliamentary commission , seemed to be ill-disposed toward all the world except his " faithful co-worker " BURG . He does not like the Germans whose war he lost for them , he does not like the committee which asked him why it was lost , he does not like Count VON BERNSTORFF , who had the bad taste to be right when LUDENDORFF was wrong about the probable effect of American participation in the war . And it appears he dislikes the American Army ; not for what it did , but for what it thought . " We captured Americans , " he complains , " who had an entirely wrong or vague " impression of what they were fighting " for . " Naturally , so serious an accusation against our democratic system of public education demands a .. reply . Perhaps LuDENDOAFF was confused by a variety of answers from captured Americans , and it may not have occurred to him that by 1917 the Germans had ' made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasons for fighting them ; if different prisoners gave different replies , it was merely a tribute to the German genius for being objectionable . Nor does the worthy General . take into account a tendency to jest with the serious-minded which , according to report , was somewhat prevalent in our army . Reports from German intelligence officers of answers given by our troops may have been darkly mysterious both to them and to their superiors . LUDENDORFF is a shining specimen of a type strange to America . Nevertheless , it would probably be possible for a private soldier from the Middle West by taking thought to understand LUDENDORFF ; but LUDENDORFF might take thought all the rest of his life without understanding an American private from an average small town . However , we can endure the imputation of igiiorance of our war aims ; what we must all regret is the disturbing influence American ignorance must have had upon LUDENDORFF . Indeed , every true German must feel ashamed that the war was decided against Germany by an army afflicted with what PLATO called " the lie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us for three years that if we went into the war we should be fighting merely to gratify French lust for revenge or British greed for the world 's markets , or to save Wall Street 's investments in Anglo-French bonds , it must have been discouraging to find American soldiers who had not learned their lesson . It should be remembered , however , that LUDENDORFF was quite as severe against the Germans . All through those chapters of his book which deal with the disastrous period between July 18 and Nov. 11 , 1918 , he bemoans the fact that the German people and German civilian statesmen have no political insight . They did not know what they ought to get out of a victorious war ; they did not understand what would be the consequences of losing the war ; they did not know how the war must be won . And all this despite LUDENDORFF , who had been telling the politicians what was what ever since 1915 . He did his best ; he lied about the day 's fighting whenever it seemed advisable ; he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so that the General Staff could tell the people what seemed good to it . for creating the will to victory ; he alone knew what was necessary and how to get it , and they would not listen . Surely such a case of unrecognized omniscience has not been known since the days of Cassandra . LUDENDORFF alone was the perfect possessor of absolute truth ; and friends as well as enemies chose rather to languish in the chains of error .                     