@@682396

txt Major Gen. Leonard Wood , Commander of the Department of the East . came to Washington today on orders from Secretary of War Baker . - Mr. Baker said , that his corning:Arad " no parttcular significance . " Secretary Baker also said that he would see General ? Wood tomorrow and go over with him plans for Summer training encampments . WASHINGTON . April M. ? An Army Reorganization bill that would produce regular army and reserve military forces in the United States aggregating ** 008 , men was passed by the Senate tonight without a recorded vote . It is  --  a substitute for the Hay bill passed by ' the House . and the , differences will be worked out in conference . On the eve of a ' Joint session ' of the houses of Congress to hear a message from the President on grave international iFsues , . ' the Senate hastened completion of the bill amid scenes of excitement . repeatedly rejecting all amendments tending . to reduce the proposed strengthening of the army . In the'closing hours of debate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a peace strength of 251.1,000 men , as compared with 140.000 in Om Hay bill , which . passed the House . retained by a close vote the plan for a Federal volunteer army reserve force , . calculated to aggregate-261,000.men , ' and federalized , the National GuardNorces of the . States , . at an estimated strength of 2S0.WO men . In addition to this combined regular and reserve force of 700,000 men , an amendment was passed to create a school and college youths ' reserve corps. which in time of waatior threatened war would recruit a force . of trained young men . schooled by officers of the regular army ; the estimated strength of which is any wherr from a00,000 te 400,000 . Willininnes View Grave . " We are creating here tonight a peace army of : a million men , " said Senator Myers in supporting an amendment by Senator Reed to make the regular army . 200,000 men . The Senate : lad agreed previously by a vote of 43 to 37 fib . an amendment by Senator Brandegee increasing it from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduction proposal was rejected , 42 fo 31. after a brief speech by Senator Williams , in which he referred to the solemnity of ' the occasion which would confront Congress tomorrow . " Are we or are we not ? threatened with war ? " asked Senator Williams . " Are we or are we not threatened with war with Mexico ? Are or ale We not threatened with war over the submarine controversy ? Have we not been called to , assemble in joint session tomorrow , ' the solemn purpose ' of which we do not ourselves definitely under-stand ? " If the army can not exceed a certain number ; except - in , a state of threatened war , we are now in a state of threatened war if the President of the United States thinks-so . For myself , think we p.re pretty seriously threatened with , international difficulties both from the aast and the south . " The apparently grave developments of the few hours preceding the passage of the bill probably served to sate the volunteer army provision . Champions of the National Guard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and it was retained by . a vote of 34-to 33 . Tonight Senator Lewis again moved to strike outtie section . Lt was saved this time b ) a vote of 40 to 37 . An amendment proposed by Mr. Sutherland of Utah was adopted increasing the coast artillery by 3,000 men at once instead of spreading the increment over a five-year period . lek d d It 1 ona 1 Features . Other important provisions of the Senate bill ? not in the House measureinclude the following : Appropriation of 515.000,000 for construction of Government plants for  --  production of nitrates to be used in manufacture of ammunition . Provision for vocational ecation of enlisted men of the regular . Only , compelling instruction either in , agriculture or the mechanical arts . Creation of a National Guard section in the General Staff of the army and requiring all officers and enlisted men of the National Guard to subscribe to an oath to support the United States , as well as the respective States . Provision for Federal pay okall National Guard officers above the rank of Captain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House will at once ask for a conference and that work of perfecting the final form of a new army measure will begin within a few days . One feature of the Senate bill that even its most ardent champions fear may be sacrificed in the legislative compromise Is the volunteer army reserve force , but in that event they confidently expect that the school reserve will be retained as a substitute . An agreement to vote on the bill to , day was reached two weeks ago , and Vice President Marshall , enforcing the determination of the Administration leaders to speed up the preparedness program , riled that a vote was required by midnight . As it turned out , so late a session was not necessary . Vote on Enlarging Regular Force . The amendment making the army 's peace strength 250,000 instead of 150,000 , as provided in the bill as framed by the Military Committee . was adopted by 22 Republicans and 21 Democrats voting for It . A proposal to make the figure 130,000 previously had been rejected 60 to 12 . A peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed by the House . The amendment to create a reserve regular army force in time of war to he composed of school and college youths , a proposal submitted by Senator Hardwick was agreed to 58 to 24 , the results coming as a surprise to Senators on both sides of the chamber . Senator Hardwick 's amendment provides for military instruction by commissioned army officers , under direction of the Secretary of War , in every school and college in the United States having 100 or more male students over 15 years of age , when authorities of such schools apply for such instruction , and the requisite number of students agree to accept the training and to become a part of the reserve force of the army of the nation . Application for the training would be purely voluntary , but all students over IS years old receiving training would he subject to a call to the colors by the President in time of war or threatened war during their training term . The Senate also agreed to an amendment reducing the proposed term of enlistment in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed term with the colors from four to two , thus giving each enlisted man three years to the regular reserve . Senator Cummins 's amtgdment to increase the number of officers In the Ordnance Department to 120. instead of the 85 at present or 100 provided for in the bill , was defeated , as was the Hitchcock amendment to fix the number of officers on the General Staff at 52 , instead of at 38 , as at present . or 07 as provided in the bill . An amendment by Senator Reed prohibiting enlisted men from leaving their posts to engage in any civil pursuit for hire , or otherwise , when it would Interfere with the employment of civilians , was passed . On motion of Senator Thomas an amendment was adopted making it a criminal offense for civilians . with certain exceptions , to wear army uniforms or to refuse admission to places of public entertainment to enlisted men in uniform . Another amendment adopted would require Adjutant Generals of the National Guard to be residents of the State or Territory from which appointed . Discussion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " This training system in the schools would develop 1,000,000 trained Young soldiers In the United States , " said Senator Hardwick . , While students would be subject to the call of the present in case of war or threatened war during their school term only , in no case would the service term he less than a year . No schoolboys under 18 years of age would be called to active service , and the regular armyl and national guard would first be called. , Officers and enlisted men of this schoolboy force would receive the same pay and allotments as regulars . Under no circumstances would they serve to , suppress strikes or riots .                     