@@680243

txt For the first time an . American Presidentelect stood on Bermuda soil to-day and received an official welcome as well as an enthusiastic greeting from American visitors and British residents who gathered at the wharf and along the streets to see the distinguished visitor . The Bermudian , bearing Gov . Woodrow Wilson and party , arrived in the harbor early this morning after a delightful voyage . The senior Alderman of the Hamilton Corporation put off in a yacht to invite Gov . Wilson to accompany him on the smaller craft to the city , but owing to the large number of women in the party the President-elect declined the invitation , and remained on the Bermudian until that vessel reached her dock about noon . A large crcwd had gathered at the wharf . They were mostly Britishers , but an enthusiastic American contingent was in the foreground , waving flags and shouting " Three cheers for Wilson , " the same for New Jersey , and the same for the United States , while Mr. Wilson stood on the upper deck and bowed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As the gangplank was lowered , Capt . Lawrence , the Governor 's aid , boarded the steamship and formally welcomed Mr. Wilson in the name of the colonial authorities . The Governor then went ashore , where he was received by officials of the city . In an address of welcome the Mayor of Hamilton said : " We trust that during your term as President the cordial relations between the United States and Great Britain will be maintained and unimpaired , and that the strong bonds of the union will be strengthened . " Gov . Wilson then delighted his British audience on the wharf by ' a response , in which he said : " As soon as I knew I had been sentenced to four years ' hard labor , I thought of a rest in Bermuda . The friendship existing between the United States and Great Britain is a very happy and natural one . I hope nothing will happen during my Administration to disturb the relations of the two countries . " When told by the Mayor in conversation that the tariff was to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invited to visit , Gov . Wilson remarked : " Good . That sounds familiar . I need information on that subject . My Country is deeply interested in the same question , and will soon draft a new law . Yes , I must attend your Parliament if you promise to pay no attention to me . " I As a matter of comity the customs officials passed the baigage of the GovHernor and all the members of the party without the usual inspection . They I were then driven at once to Green Cove ' Cottage , through streets lined with people , while private and public buildings were decorated with flags and bunting . The President-elect spent the rest of the day in rest and getting settled . Finding the cottage lacked one bed , he rowed across the bay alone to obtain it . 1 To Capt . Lawrence , who conferred with him in the Governor 's name as to the time of a formal call , he expressed the wish that it be deferred until to'morrow to allow him time to get the 1 cottage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Governor 's aid that he wished to remain incognito , so there will be no round of festivities in his honor . In other ways Gov . Wilson has made plain his resolute intention of doing nothing but play while here . This has put an end to all expectations of anything spectacular during his stay . The prevalent idea of a month of brilliant social gayety with him as the centre has been utterly smashed by the Governor 's own act . It is rumored here that Col. Bryan is coming to visit the President-elect . Of this there is no confirmation . IGNORED WILSON kiREET1NG . Capt . Morrison Says Skipper of the Bermudian Did n't Answer Message . Capt . E. W. Morrison of the Royal Mail steam packet Oruba , which arrived yesterday from Bermuda with 207 first cabin passengers , complained that Capt . W. ImeEenzie of the Quebec Steamship Com1pany 's liner Bermudian had ignored a wireless message , from his ship , conveying his respects to President-elect ' Woodrow Wilson . " At 10 o'clock on Sunday , " said Capt . hlorrlsbn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Scotland Lightship , I sent a message to Capt . giving him my position and the weather conditions Prom Bermuda . Before we departed from Hamilton on Saturday it was reported that Gov . Wilson was sailing from New York on that day on the Bermudian , and my passengers wanted to knew when we should pass her . At the end of the dispatch I added : ' If President-elect Woodrow Wilson is on board your ship , please tender him respects from myself and officers of the Oruba . " To my great surprise . " the Captain went on to say , " I received no reply from Capt . . I knew the message had . been ? delivered to the Bermudian because ; ii br operator got the Oi K. from her op                     