@@684473

txt Of the crnelties. of the . Germans to the natives German NesV " Guinea - the colony must long carry the marks . Even the Germans themselves , fearing the effect of ill treatment , Substantial slavery , disease , and death Upon the commercial value of the colony , endeavored , in the last days of their occupation , to manifest a little humanity ; ? and its last German Governor seriously undertook to protect the rights of the natives . To the German planters , however , a native laborer , or any black , was simply a beast to be flogged , to be exploited and ? driven to death . So the population of the numerous islands that constitute what used to be German New Guinea has steadily diminished , and the diminution continues even under the mild and just administration of the Australians . The supply of labor grows shorter every year ; and if it continues , the future development of the islands will be impossible . It is curious to observe that the gentle treatment of the natives by the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. THOMAS J. , in Chambers 's Journal , tells us that " the missionaries in many parts are " complaining that the natives are be " coming more useless and idle as they " become more protected . " In short , the native , having long . been treated with the utmost harshness , is inclined to consider his new . freedom as absolving him from all restraint and putting him under no obligation . . " Me no frighten ' Government " is what the independent native says . This reaction is intelligible and natural : the same sort of feeling is displayed by people or races long oppressed upon whom freedom comes as a new experience which they have to learn to understand . Of course , some discount has usually to be made for colonial feeling about natives and native labor ; and the colonial would n't be happy , probably no man of British , birth would be happy , unless he could grumble at the Administration . But we can not doubt the testimony of the missionaries . Mr. WsMAHON says that no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ management . of the natives is its weak point , and That they " are fast becoming less energetic , while " their powers of cunning are being de " veloped to an extraordinary degree . " For the health of the population , for the sick , for the children , the Administration is working vigorously . There ' are well-equipped native hospitals wherever there is a settlement . Over the sufferings , the plagues and abominations that " civilization " has inflicted upon these , as upon so many other native races , it is best to draw a veil . Whatever British , humanity and science can do for this evilly treated folk will be done . Whether natives should be taxed or not is a disputed question . The Germans brought the taxation system into New Guinea . Their methods were characteristically brutal . Now it is said that the natives have got used to it and pay promptly the annual tax of two dollars and one-half a year . Their delightfully humorous name for a tax is " throwaway money . " A race capable of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Capable of a. ? great deal more . The purpose of the . tax is not revenue , but to teach the natives - to work . If they can not pay the " throw-away money " they " ' work off ' ' the taxes , as the New England'phiase is ' or used to be , by repairing the district roads . Those that work for planters or anybody else , or for the Administration , do n't ? have to pay " throwaway money . " It is hoped that the native , seeing that work brings tax money , VIII be encouraged to work for money to buy tobacco and knives , and so on . These people , lazy as many of them are and dense as many of them seem or pretend to be , have great potentialities and capacities . Not a single one of the many tribes of the many islands , * Mr. MCMAHON tells us , " is low in the standard " of intelligence or the possibility of " usefulness . " At the missions and on some plantations you find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and some " even of literary abilities suffi " cient to make first-class teachers and " clerks . " They are in a period of transition , of uncertainty and puzzlement . The Germans treated them like dogs . The British " pamper " them . Former New Guinea has great resources and possibilities . The great problem of the Administration . is to prevent depopulation and arouse.ambition in the natives . " Pidgin-English " is the curious gibberish spoken everywhere in this former German settlement . German talks to German , Englishman talks to German , Englishman and German talk to the natives in this elegant tongue . If you want hot water for shaving , you tell your " boy " to bring hot water " to cut em grass . " If you ask for a bottle of beer , you tell the same youth to " fight em bottle , " a metaphor our Drys will appreciate . If you want a cross-cut saw , you use this pleasing formula : " Pull " him , he come ; push him , he ? go ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an engaging language , since its use seems to be founded on a misapprehension that may be compared to that behind " baby talk " or to the ingenuous habit some persons have of speaking loudly to a foreigner as if all foreigners were deaf . At the missions pidgin-English is not allowed . There the natives learn to read and speak good English and good German , each easier for them than the outlandish artificial dialect foisted. on them . Some mission " boys " " even set up : correct , English for printing . " It is the English and the German , - not The . native , whose want of understanding forces on the native this superfluous , absurd pidgin-English.                     