@@684430

txt Ian Koutnik , wao went to rar when he was 9 years old , who was wounded twice and is now 13 , is a man of adventure . If adventure does not come to him he makes it . Ian is in Chicago , a prot  --  g ? of Charles R. Crane . He Is stopping at the home of Prof. Frank TL Lillie of the University of Chicago , 5801 Kenwood avenue . Mrs. Lillie is a sister of Mr. Crane . The little prot  --  g ? had the Lillie home all on end yesterday for several hours . The police were notified that he was lost . The family remembered another time when he got lost  --  out in Los Angeles on Feb. 9 . That time he wandered Into a movie show , enthralled by flaring lithographs of wild west scenes . The Los Angeles police seized the strange boy , fearful that he was a " bolshevik spy " carrying revolutionary documents , or bombs , or something . Ian makes a poor fist at English . Finally it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Well , after hours and hours of mysterious absence yesterday , Ian was found late last night riding up and down on the Illinois Central . Ian has ridden across Siberia and Russia and across the Pacific and front the Pacific here . He got on an Illinois Central suburban train and they put him off . He got on another , and was put off again . He rode one suburban train after another all afternoon and until ten o'clock at night . Finally employees of the railroad notified the police to come and get a " nuisance . " The nuisance proved to be Ian , for whom they were looking . And thus Ian , whose life history reveals one of the strange tragedies of the great war , bobs again into the limelight . Me Strange Story . This is the story of Ian : His mother died Just before the conflict started . When his father was ordered to join the colors in Bohemia he had no one with whom to leave little Ian , so he took him , along . Ian and his father @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were with that division of Czecho-Slovaks whose hearts were not with the kaiser . The division broke through into Russia . Ian 's father was killed and Ian was wounded . The American expedition in Siberia found Ian and sympathizing doughboys learned his story . It Was decided to " pass 121112 on " in the hope that he would fall Into the hands of some one who would help him . It was in that manner that Mr. Crane heard of him and decided to assist the boy . They Go All the Time , but Stay ! Ian admitted last night , rather ruefully , that in all his world travels this is the first time he has found trains that go all the time and stay right in the same city . It may be a pretty good scheme , after all , for Ian loves to ride and have adventures .                     