@@681526

txt The obvious disposition of the AdMinistration to check the movement for a thorough and impartial investigation of the condition of the national defenses will meet with a great deal of reasonable dissent . There is no tendency among the American people toward militarism , but there is a just demand that we shall be prepared for emergencies , and there is ample testimony that our army and navy and our coast defenses need immediate improvement . A large standing army , even one of 500,000 men , which might not be unduly large for a nation of 100,000,000 inhabitants , is not now required ; it is even doubtful if a permanent land force larger than the one We now possess , on paper , is essential to safety . But our small army is much smaller in fact than it is in theory , and the means of its enlargement and the policy to be pursued in putting it upon an efficient basis are matters upon which military experts do not agree , which therefore require intelligent discussion . There is need for a larger number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a practical means of securing an effective reserve has yet to be settled upon , and the various arms of the service need better equipment . In the case of the navy many more men are required , and more officers , too . These are not matters of opinion . In the circumstances . President WILSON 'S disinclination to use his influence in support of Representative GARDNER 'S resolution will have a discouraging effect , especially as there is no intimation that any other adequate method of reaching the end at which the resolutions aims will be adopted . A deferred inquiry would not answer the purpose . A limited investigation in the lower house would not be conclusive . That the care of our national defenses should be removed from politics everybody agrees , but in spite of this general and patriotic agreement the influence of politics has too often been strongly exerted in army and navy affairs . Because the proposal for a thorough investigation comes from the political party in opposition Is no just reason why it should be frowned upon : a surer way could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issue , and it is desirable , it is essential to the welfare of the country , that it should not be a political issue . But it is not so much the rank and file of the Democratic Party that must be reckoned with in this sincere effort to secure a stronger national defense as the influence of the faddists and sentimentalists who are always crying for peace in warlike terms , and the overconfident ' citizens who are too fond of asserting that in the event of national danger every able-bodied man would be available for service . Men are not made available for military service without training . The resolutions adopted the other day by the newly formed National Security League set forth the opinion of the members that under the changed " conditions of international relations " It may not he wise to intrust our " national defense to hurried emer " gency measures . " This is stating the case with the utmost discretion . The idea of certain social reformers and a few philanthropists that the present conditions of human society would justify such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of danger may do credit to their hearts . but it is an idea which the people of this country do not accept . Very large sums of money are expended annually on appropriations for the support of the army and navy . As we read the signs , there is now a general disposition to call upon the Commander in Chief of our forces on land and sea to compel an accounting . That the money has not been expended as wisely or as economically as it might have been is generally believed . That the Product of our efforts to upbuild a national defense falls short of expectations there is no room for doubt . President WILSON will do well not to ignore the . call of the nation He seems to need enlightenment in regard to the army and navy which , by the way , lie has - put to more active service than any other ' Commander in , Chief since President MCKINLEY . He surely needs better advisers at this juncture than Secretaries BRYAN " and TheraeLs and the estimable but misguided social reformers who think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . An investigation of our defenses , thorough and impartial , by both houses of the national legislature , should be instituted without delay . Both the Army and the Navy League , composed of far-sighted and patriotic citizens , have issued clear statements in reply to the ill-judged arguments of the extremists among the peace advocates . They set forth actual conditions and indicate the remedies . Unanswerable arguments to the same effect were advanced at Saturday 's meeting of the National Civic Federation when a resolution was passed providing for the appointment of a commission to present the Federation 's views to the Military Committees of Congress . An awakening to the need of strengthening our defenses is reported from all parts of the country , and the movement to give practical force to the popular demand was not inspired by any delusion of immediate peril and is not directed by men who are either abnormally excitable or ill-informed.                     