@@679694

txt With a few hours remaining before the actual voting begins to-morrow , the campaigners for and against constitutional prohibition spent a busy Sunday . To-night both sides claimed victory . The no-license adherents were particularly active in the cities , Sunday school children parading the streets carrying banners inscribed with " Vote No , " " Vote for ** and similar phrases . More than 30,000 children were in line . In many of the churches fervent prayers were offered for the retention of the prohibitory amendments . The supporters of the constitutional amendment have continued their meetings up to the very eve of the election . In Portland Congressman Richmond Pearson Hobson of Alabama addressed two meetings , and scores of automobiles toured towns and villages , carrying speakers who made short addresses at convenient gathering places . The meet-ings in the cities to-day were the largest of the kind that have ever been held . To-morrow there will be even greater demonstrations . Those who seek to have the prohibitory clause removed from the Constitution of the State were none the less active , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meetings , but sent wdikers out among the crowds for personal talks with the voters . During the past few weeks they have sent tons of literature into every part of the State . The personal workers will continue their efforts until the polls are closed at night . George W. Norton , Secretary of the no-license movement , estimates that the returns will show a " no " plurality of at least 12,000 , while others of his workers are placing the figures anywhere from 12,000 to 20,000 . On the other hand , the managers of the campaign for repeal are claiming a majority of from 5,000 to 10,000 . Whatever . the result may be , indications are for one of the biggest votes in the history of the State . At the last State election , which the Democrats won , more than 140,000 voters cast their ballots , and with fair weather indicated for tomorrow that number is expected to be exceeded . The question on which the citizens will vote to-morrow is ; Shall tie : Constitution be amended so as to abrogate and annul @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ September , in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighty-four , relating to the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors 2 Should the vote on that question be " yes , " liquor could not be sold in the State legally until the Legislature had repealed the present statutory prohibition law and enacted some kind of a license law . A proclamation of a campaign to be started at once to place prohibition in the organic law of all nations and to place prohibition in the Constitution of the United States within a decade was read to-night at the Jefferson Theatre in this city by Mrs. Lillian M. Stevens , National President of the Woman 's Christian Temperance Union . The proclamation says In part : " In the name of the World 's and Na- ' tonal Woman 's Cnristian Temperance Union we hereby make this proclamation for a great crusade to carry 717775.11 truth to the peoples themselves in all ' lands , and through them to place prohibition in the organic law of all nations . ? ? ? " To America , ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second great battle of Maine ? ? ? that within a decade prohibition shall be placed in the Constitution of the United States , and to this end we call to active co-operation all temperance , prohibition , religious , and philanthropic bodies ; all patriotic , fraternal , civic associations , and all Amer- ' icans who love their country . " It was announced that a copy of the proclamation had been cabled to the International Congress against alcoholism , which opens at The Hague to-morrow . A TWIN SCREW CARMANIA Salts with a Turbine Disabled , but Expects to Make Schedule Time . After making a record in quick coaling since Friday last , the Cunard steamship Carmania steamed for Liverpool yesterday afternoon with her bunkers full and carrying 50 first , 110 second , and 200 third class passengers . Although the Carmania has only- two turbines at work driving two screws , Capt . Dew hopes to reach Liverpool on schedule time that the vessel may 130 docked for repairs to boilers and propellers . On bet last trip westward the Carmania was obliged to put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short , owing to the strike among the dock laborers in Liverpool prior to her sailing . It was shortly after leaving Liverpool on her last trip that one of her turbines became disabled and It was necessary to discontinue the use of the third screw . It was deemed advisable to have all the repairs to the engine and boilers made at her home port , and the vessel will be thoroughly overhauled before resuming her transatlantic trips . 