@@679566

txt ? 17 , F N-tE 1 ? 47 E E. I ? It 's the It 15 the army the Army itself , even more That He than Col. GArtmeme , . Endangeringthat has much rea-Is eon , and is likely soon to have more , to regret the indorsement which that injudicious officer wrote on young BLoom 's application for ad ' vancement to a commissioned grade . The Colonel 's private opinion of Jews or tailors , or the members of any other races or trades , is a matter of very little consequence to anybody except himself , and to him only , as the revelation that his opinions are ' mere prejudices may cost him the respect of men broader minded and more intelligent But the Colonel assumed to speak for the army , to describe social conditions as they exist in it , and until his right so to speak and the accuracy of his description are repudiated and denied by other army officers with some such indignant emphasis as was shown by President TAFT in making like repudiation and denial in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will suffer seriously in public esteem . And that it can not afford to do , needlessly . Perhaps our army is not aware of the fact , but it , like all other armies , is already on the defensive as an institution whose reason for being is open to question . Its past services are not underestimated , its courage and patriotism are not doubted , and yet there is a steadily growing tendency to regard it as something out of date  --  as little better than a vestigial organ in the body politic , and , like all such organs in the body physical , rather withdrawn from the circulatory system and prone to dangerous degenerative changes . The army is a caste , and we do not approve of castes , and the civilian , after recognizing through all other ages the soldier as a superior , has now begun to make inquiries as to the ' basis of the superiority and to wonder if this most highly paid of all servants will hereafter be worth anything like what he has previously cost . Such being the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man unnecessarily to call attention to the fact that he is an anachronism in more ways than one  --  to the fact that he judges men by other standards than those of personal worth and ability . This is what Col. GA.RRARD did , and in doing it he proved himself not so much un-American as uncivilized . The soldier , after all , is only a policeman in Government instead of municipal employ . and in these days it behooves him to be more than a bit careful where he draws soolal or other lines against his employers . Nothing has yet been Seeking an heard by the public as Excuse to why Gov . ' Dix deemed for What ? it necessary to send down here from the shores of Lake Ontario a layman to find Iout and report to him whether Dr. DOTY has performed well or ill his ' duties as Health Officer of this port . He chose to call this remarkable quest an " investigation , " which in the circumstances is a rather offensive term , but he did not choose to tell us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought before him to indicate that inquiry might develop reason for taking Dr , DOTY 'S place away from him and giving it to somebody else . In charity one would like to believe that the Governor , finding himself subjected to heavy pressure froth office-hume ; Ty politicians , had Sent ' his man down here to provide him-wieh -- arguMents - for re appointing valid ' tthat- even they would be silenced . Earlier in the Governor 's administration this theory would have been more plausible than it is now . At present one can more readily hope than believe the theory to be correct , and to hope so is not at all easy , since we have just seen the Governor , ignore the report of his own special Commissioner in another case of much the same sort , and , azting against the advice he had taken the trouble to get , put in the place of a competent man one whose competency , to say the very best of it , is still to be demonstrated . The two cases differ in this , that while . at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the Public Service Commission , no word of doubt either as to the character or the efficiency of Dr. DOTY has ever been spoken , and apparently the only accusation that anybody can bring against him is that he has served the city and the country not only well but long . Pew dare , nowadays , to call that a crime , or even a cause for removal . The New York Medical Record , viewing this curious state of affairs from the professional standpoint , says that it would be discouraging if it were not ludicrous . It would not have complained , or at least would not have complained so much , it says , had the " investigation " of " this most satisfactory and competent of Health Officers " been intrusted to a sanitarian , but the delegation of such work to a layman it considers no less absurd than outrageous . The conclusion of its remarks may possibly appeal to Gov . Every one knows why there Is a Democratic Governor in New York to-day , and one need not be much of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Such ae displacing Dr. DOTY would be , will result in an eager seizing , at the next election , of the alternative which was rejected last No-vember , Some weeks . ago there The Maine came from Havana reAgain ports to the effect that In Sight . conclusive proof of the destruction of the Maine by an inside explosion had been found . As nothing whatever bearing on that point had then been discovered , one can only say that it would be interesting to know the source of this report . A few days ago it was announced that the caisson built around the wreck had broken down , or in , owing to the incompetency of its constructors , and that the work would have to be done all over again . As the caisson is now standing up bravely under the pressure by the pumping out of the water within , this Yarn , too , can safely be dismissed as probably based on something else than fact . Before long the Maine will be wholly uncovered and then we shall know more about  --  well , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more about how she came to sink . We are pretty well informed as to that already , however , for she was carefully and competently examined soon after the explosion occurred , and any additional information to be - oured after an immersion of thirteen years in the most corrosive kind of tropic water will need skillful testing before it Is made the basis of anybody 's " I told i you so I " The one thing that the raising of ' the Maine will demonstrate beyond all question is that the Government was n't afraid to raise her . That is something  --  it will at least givo pain to birds of the sort that delight in soiling their own nests .                     