@@679475

txt There is some danger that under the pressure of need for room for the departments and offices driven out by the fire in the State Capitol at Albany , some of the chaotic and shameful conditions existing at the time of the fire may be continued or repeated . Since the Education Department , including the library , will shortly be sent across the street to the new building now nearing completion , a good deal ' of space will be left for the use of other departments . It ought to be practicable to arrange for these under a plan that will provide reasonable security against fire , together with decent light and air  --  all lacking in the whole of the Capitol . The urgent desire to get the offices ready as soon as possible may , however , easily lead to haste ' that will end in something far worse than waste . It is hard to imagine anything worse than the entire management of the building since its occupation . The plan , especially for the office rooms , was bad to begin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made its evils rapidly worse . There was no adequate provision for fresh air or for light , and this sure means of undermining the health and shortening the lives of occupants of the Capitol was made worse by the ' most amazing recklessness in installing fire-traps in nearly every room . The constantly growing mass of papers . records , and books which every Government office produces were stored in paper boxes on wooden shelving , arranged in tiers on wooden mezzanine galleries . In the State Library . where an effort was made at first to provide metal shelves and stacks , wooden shelves were built in between , resting on a floor of metal lattice . These rooms and nearly all the others were , when the fire came , In their general arrangement very much like the piles of kindling which a skilled housewife erects , to secure a Quick start and a roaring draught for her fire . Everything being minutely prepared for sure , rapid , and destructive combustion , the ordinary apparatus for prompt putting out of fire was ridiculously Insufficient or wholly lacking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end must be rebuilt . It is perfectly easy to.make the main construction entirely fireproof . Steel and concrete in every needed form and in ample quantity are available , not only for walls and partitions , but for floors , doors , and window casings . It will also he practicable to provide metal cases for all papers , and so to store these that , if not completely protected , they will be made very slow . burning . When these preCautionzi are ' Olen , it will be easy to provide means for putting out any small fire at the start . - The value of these , however , will depend on the presence of men whO know how to use them , and there should be in the Capitol a small corps. of trained employes subject to regular drills , which-should Include a careful inspection of all firepreventing or fire-extinguishing appliances . How much this is needed is tragically shown in the fact that the poor old man whd was burned to death last week was the sole watchman in the great library department , while only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He was not even able to save his own life . Meanwhile there should be some reasonable mode of administration provided for the building . At present it is under the authority of a Board of Trustees ? the Governor , Lieutenant Governor , and Speaker of the Assembly  --  who appoint a Superintendent of the Public Buildings situated in Albany . Responsibility is divided and thus practically destroyed . It should I be concentrated and defined . Above ' all the sneaking element of political patronage should be banished from the whole business .                     