@@681185

txt RURAL HOLIDAY MAIL Should Be Delivered Promptly by the Substitute Carriers . Another holiday is nearing ? it falls on Saturday . too  --  and carriers on rural free delivery routes in the nation are entitled to a holiday . This means that people served on such routes must go without newspapers or mail from the delivery on Friday morning to that on the following Monday morning  --  seventytwo hours . This is a hardship In many ways , the one weak spot in our United States postal service . I It is , perfectly proper for the hard- ' worked ' regular ? carriers to have their I day off , but thousands in every State want their mail , and do not wish to wait seventy-two hours for it . Under the old conditions , i. e. , those of small villages or town Post Offices , it would have been easy for one neighbor to drive to the office during the hour it is open on Memorial Day and get the mail for his locality . Under the new regime , however , three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from one central point in some large city office . Carriers drive over routes 24 or 28 miles long , so that it is manifestly impossible for patrons to get to the main office during the hours it is opened on that day . ' Saturday is a busy day in the country ; but with Sunday the rural folk have time to read , and the missing of papers and letters means a cruel arid unnecessary deprivation . Again , merchants who depend on mail order business are heavy losers , since many , city stores make a point of offering special Monday bargains . Then , too , letters held over 48 or 56 or 72 hours may contain messages of life or death , important business orders , et al . Now , nobody would begrudge the regular carriers their holiday ; but the whole people have some rights in the premises . Since no Congressman appears eager to win the plaudits and eternal gratitude of his constituents , it seems up to the newspapers to start a crusade to have this crying evil corrected . This tan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the men a day off , but let their substitutes  --  who wo n't balk at an extra day 's pay  --  drive over their routes on the holiday . With the money the Post Office Department is malting on parcel ; post it can well afford to stand the strain of having hundreds of thousands of patrons along rural routes served by this simple means . Heavy though the burden of rural taxes , it is safe to wager that if the Post Office Department considers itself too poor not a single suburbanite would de-. mur paying out of his own pocket , to be able to secure his papers before the news , had grown Mossy , and his mail when it is of some use . RURAL GRUMBLER.                     