@@679841

txt When the Michigan progressives arranged to have Senator La Follette speak in the State capital to-day they invited Gov . Osborn as a supposed progressive to welcome the visitor . The Governor accepted . Then he prepared an address of welcome , in which he assailed La Follette and his principles in violent terms , and demanded that both La Follette and Taft withdraw from the Presidential race in favor of Theodore Roosevelt or Alfred J. Beveridge . Senator La Follette did not hear the speech . In Saginaw this morning a cabman took him to the wrong railroad station , and he missed both his Owosso and Lansing dates . But Gov . Osborn appeared before the audience , which had assembled to hear La Follette , and read his speech of denunciation . There was some applause for the suggestion of a new deal in candidates , but in general the Governor 's plain speaking stirred his hearers to protest . When the Governor adversely criticised some of Senator La Follette 's acts and dubbed him a politician who looked out for himself primarily , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had no right to make such remarks in a hall rented by supporters of the Wisconsin Senator . ? , " What Did Yon Expect ? " " Well . what did you people expect when you asked me to preside ? " replied the Governor with emphasis . " You knew where I stood . Did you think I would allow you to censor my remarks ? I afn more sorry than you that the Senator was not here , but I am more than glad to pay for the hall if that makes any difference to you . " Gov . Osborn went on the platform at Masonic Temple , where the crowd was assembled , and announced that the Senator would not be there . Then he stated that he had prepared certain things to say , and in view of the fact that they were to be published , he saw no reason for not saying them . The Governor reviewed Senator La Follette 's public career , beginning with the District Attorneyship of Dane County , Wis . Referring to suits brought in Wisconsin by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deposits , which had not been turned over to the State , he said : " Senator Philetus Sawyer had signed the bonds of one delinquent Treasurer or more . Statement is made that he stood to lose several hundred thousands of dollars if the State won . The story is that he offered to retain Senator La Follette as an attorney in the cases . Sena. : tor La Follette 's story is that Senator Sawyer tried to bribe him . " I have never felt just right about Senator La Follette 's action in that case . Anottre thing I do not understand is why M ' would so bitterly condemn Sawyer and afterward make an offensive and defensive alliance with Isaac Stephenson of Wisconsin , who is exactly the same type of a man . Questions La Follette 's 17sefulness . " Some time afterward Senator La Follette became a candidate for Governor and was successful . His continual triumphs , placing him finally in the Senate , are recent history . But what have the People gotten out of all of this ? In every campaign Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agitator , and has always landed in a place of distinction and good salary . - I have always believed that he chose to make a profession of politics . I have always believed that he had his interests primarily at heart " Gov . Osborn went on : " The La Follette style of campaign tends to arouse the passions of the people and make for a condition of public intolerance . In Senator La Follette 's speeches and writings I do not think he distinguished between honest men in big business and dishonest men . We have got to have big business in this country if we are to compete in the manufactures and transactions of the world . But big business should not be permitted to oppress the People . " I hope Senator La Follette may be retained in the Senate during his entire lifetime . If he is made President his influence will he over in eight years , even if he is elected for a second term . If he stays in the Senate he will be on the fighting line for a quarter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be nominated for the Presidency . I do not believe that he can be elected if he is nominated . " if he is really interested in progressive Republicanism and in the welfare of the Republican Party , I propose that he withdraw as a candidate , join me in asking President Taft to withdraw , and then permit the party to settle upon Albert J. Beveridge or Theodore Roosevelt as a candidate for President . I will go with him to either man . This will calm the . conditions in the party , supply a candidate who has the respect and confidence of the people . insure an administration : that will make for the highest welfare ' IV the country and will present a front . t0 the enemy that will be invincible . "                     