@@680821

txt The proposal of a substitute for the Owen-Glass Currency bill by a New York banker , who had pronounced that Measure to be SO per cent . good , has caused surprise and wonderment among banking and commercial interests in the East . According to Jacob H. Schiff , these interests desire nothing so much as a speedy settlement of the currency question , and it has been made apparent that they would be satisfied with the enactment into law of the Owen-Glass bill , so amended as to reduce the number of regional banks and make the proposed note issue a bank and not a Government obligation . Discussing the substitute proposed by Frank A. Vanderlip for the Administration measure , Mr. Schiff said yesterday : " The Vanderlip proposition has come as a complete surprise to the financial community and is far from meeting general approval in banking circles . The strangest part of it is that oniy last Monday Mr. Vanderlip , at a special meeting of the Chamber of Commerce , made a report for its Finance and Currency Committee , of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House Currency bill  --  now before the Senate  --  provided certain stipulated changes were effected ; a report which with its recommendations ; the Chamber adopted without dissent . Within three days thereafter Mr. Vanderlip springs upon the country a plan entirely different from the one he had just emphatically recommended , except as to certain required changes , and which he had only very recently publicly commended as eighty per cent . good : " It is , however , unjust to charge Mr. Vanderlip , as has bean done , with a desire to break up the pending legislation , for he is surely actuated by high , even if mistaken , motives . " I think , however , I am justified in saying that a considerable part of the financial and commercial community of New York , and of the East in general , is anxiously desiring the settlement of the currency question at this time and is advocating the speedy enactment of the pending measure , with the changes that have frequently and forcibly been pointed out ; these are , notably , the proposed amendments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give a reasonable representation to the banking and commercial interests of the country upon the Federal Reserve Board . As a matter of principle , the desire is also justified that the proposed note issue be made the obligation of the banks and not of the Government , though this , under the provisions and limitations of the pending measure , is in effect more a matter of form than of substance . " What is most surprising in Mr. Vanderlia 's proposition is , that after all that has been said against the advisability of giving the Government sole . control through the Federal Reserve Board , an objection which no one has , I believe , emphasized heretofore more persistently than Mr. Vanderlip , he should now so completely reverse himself and . be willing that the Government alone be vested with the voting power of the entire capital stock of his proposed Central Dank , and thus give it control of both bead bank and branches . " Nor is it likely that the stock of a bank , to be subscribed for , as Mr. Vanderlip proposes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value solely upon uncertain and fluctuating dividends , can be prevented from becoming more or less the football of speculation , with all the ill effect this might produce upon the credit of the corporation itself , the standing of which is so important to maintain without the least blemish . With the eminent position Mr. Vanderlip occupies , and with the weight his views and opinion justly carry , his action may , it can not be denied , prove a serious menace to currency legislation at this time and to the final reaching of the goal , which is now in sight and almost attained . i " The responsibility Mr. Vanderlip has thus taken is very great , for if currency legislation be now defeated , who knows when we shall obtain it and what the consequences of the disappointment , the country will then experience , may prove to be . Students of financial history know that the enactment of National Bank legisla-1 tion of the early sixties .. which has helped so greatly in saving the very life of the nation , was attacked and ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important measure , but Salmon P. Chase , its originator , won the day . and his name continues to live , while his opponents are forgotten . In our own time sectional strife and class distrust are already all too rampant ; let us do nothing to further in- ' tensity this , but make every effort to appease it . " All important legislation has , as a rule , been the result of compromise , as this currency legislation must necessarily be , and if we shall succeed , after having successfully settled the tariff , to get now also currency reform reasonably adjusted , it is not unlikely that for a long time to come the country will have economic rest , which will . surely accrue to the benefit of every section and all classes of our people . "                     