@@680835

txt The amendment to the money bill adopted by a vote of 7 to 5 in the Senate Committee yesterday provides that the regional reserve banks , though controlled by the Government . shall be owned by the people . Subscriptions to capital stock will be open to the public , and if after sixty days any part remains unsubscribed , the member banks may take it This is a way of meeting the rather strenuous objection of the country banks fb compulsory subscriptions equal to 20 per cent . of their capital . The public , we imagine , would rather eagerly avail itself of this opportunity . The bill permits 5 per cent . cumulative dividends , and after that one-half goes to surplus up to 20 per cent . of the paid-in capital and one-half is divided between the Government and the subscribing member banks , 60 per cent . to the Government and 40 to the banks . There can be little doubt that the share capital of the reserve banks would be all subscribed by the public . If the shares should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be held by them in small lots  --  and we take it that is the theory of some of the supporters of this amendment  --  the act would be further amended before it had been long in force . It would be amended to provide that the reserve banks should do business not merely with member banks , but with the public , with individuals , precisely as banks of discount do now . This amendment would surely come , because it will often happen that the reserve bank discount rate to member banks would be lower than the rate charged to individual borrowers by the member banks themselves . If the official discount rate were , say , 4 per cent. , and the rate charged to individual borrowers 5 or 6 per cent. , and in some parts of the country it would be higher , what would happen can be readily foreseen . If the people owned the banks , they would say that their banks must give them the benefit of the lower rate , and not force them to go to the bankers ' banks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pressure upon Congress to order it done would be irresistible . It is not at all likely , however , that the shares of the reserve banks would long remain in the hands of small subscribers . If the system succeeded , if it were solidly established , shares would go to a premium , and ultimately would pass into the hands of the class of investors who are now the owners of State and ? National Bank shares . The banks that have viewed with apprehension a demand for an immediate subscription to reserve bank shares equal to 10 per cent . of their own capital will be comforted by this amendment . And if the reserve banks are owned by their own shareholders , which would soon be the case , they would naturally have little fear that the effect of the act would be to create great rival banks competing , with them for business in their own field . This is one of the lengthening series of amendments which are making the bill more acceptable to bankers . The two changes now remaining which Must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relate to the composition of the Federal Reserve Board and to the character of the note issues . All valid objection to a Federal Reserve Board made up of members appointed by the President would be removed if the bill were Made to provide that members of the Board should be men of large business experience . The composition of the 3oard of Directors of the Bank of England is the model . There are now six bankers on that Board , not jointstock bankers but private bankers , and the rest are merchants or members of acceptance houses doing a great business in the domestic or foreign trade . Such men are as competent for reserve board service as bankers would be . and there is the additional advantage that they would represent the business of the country , that is , the interest payers , rather than the bankers , the interest collectors . That is the short and sure way to exclude political influence from the management of the new banking system . And that It : should be- altogether removed is too plain to require further argument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amend the provision relating to note issues , notwithstanding the perfectly clear demonstration of the unsoundness of the provision which makes them an obligation of the Government . The amendment reducing the number of reserve banks from twelve to four or five is a change of vital necessity , but an element of great insecurity is introduced by the addendum that the number may be increased from time to time by the Federal Board . If the Federal Board were to be made up as we have indicated above , there might be little danger in conferring this discretion ; otherwise there would be a constant temptation to establish new reserve banks for political reasons . It is a danger to be averted .                     