@@682028

txt The Chronicle 's Parliamentary correspondent writes this morning : ' " Yesterday 's Cabinet Council , summoned originally for noon , did not meet until 2 o'clock , the postponement being due to the fact that in the morning the Prime Minister was slightly indisposed . Contrary to anticipation , the conscription issue did not come to a head , matters arising out of the Balkan situation . especially the enigmatical attitude of Greece ; occupying the whole time . " Sir Edward Carson was again absent from the meeting . This ostentatious aloofness of the Attorney General from the nation 's executive councils In the gravest crisis in our history is very unseemly . Late last night I learned on good authority that he had definitely withdrawn from the Government . " It is understood that leading aclvocat : . t. ; of compulsory service have not abandoned the intention of forcing an early decision on the question . " Before the week is out there may be sensational developments unless wiser counsels prevail . Ministerial resignations are freely talked about , and the very existence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ break-up of the Government would be an unmitigable calamity . Abroad and at home it would have disastrous effects , and that at a critical stage in the war . " Where is the alternative Government and who is to comprise it ? Even if the conscriptionists succeeded in pressing an Administration they would be without a majority in the House of Commons , and they would have at least half the nation arrayed against them . A conscriptionist Ministry would , from the nature of the case , be unable to enforce a policy of conscription , for it would be suspect from the beginning . " The only way In which the nation could be induced to acquiesce in compulsory military service would be on assurances from sympathizers with the voluntary principle , like Asquith , Kitchener , Grey , and Balfour , that voluntarism would not give us all the men we need . No one can say it will not until Lord Derby 's recruiting plan has been fairly and honestly tried . Any attempt ' to rush a decision on conscription in the meantime is inimical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Redmond , a very acute political observer , said in his speech in Ireland yesterday that the Government 's life is precarious , and that it is threatened with internal and external dangers . This description is not exaggerated The compulsion zealots will , unless they restrain themselvees , jeopardize the existence of the Government and destroy the unity of the nation . " Hints Differences Are Settled . The Daily Express , referring to the Cabinet meeting . says : " We believe that wiser counsels have prevailed and that the differences , which up to the moment - of the meeting seemed . to be insurmountable , have been patched up . It may be taken , therefore , that the hanger of a Cabinet crash is for the moment , at least , no longer to be feared , and that . the Government will now take up its task more harmoniously and with a vigor born of unison . Neither side may claim to have gained a victory on the disputed points , but the general conduct of . the war will , it is to be hoped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ torn with dissension . " The Morning Post says in an editorial article : " Sir Edward Carson has resigned on the Near Eastern question . The Government , against his strong advice and urgent counsel , have , as usual , allowed that question to drift , and Sir Edward , who had strong convictions- on what he regarded as the right policy for this country , refuses to share responsibility for the results of postponing and evading a decision . " We trust that Sir Edward , now that he has taken this definite step and has resumed his freedom , will use means to force upon the Government some sense of the dangers into which they are bringing the country by their refusal to look plain facts in the face . He commands , we feel sure , the confidence of the best part of the nation . Let him lead , and we can promise him a followMg . " The Daily News says : " It is deplorable that at the moment when the fate of everything we hold precious is at stake there should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disastrous to the country . The outward and virible sign of this grave menace was the continued and ostentatious absence from Cabinet meetings of Sir Edward Carson . " If this cabal against the coalition Ministry succeeds , if Asquith , Grey , and the other responsible Liberal Ministers are brought down , there will be far greater enthusiasm in Berlin even than in the office of The Times or The Daily Mail . A Curzon-Churchill-Milner Ministry , born out of intrigue and falsity , would rouse the country to bitter resentment . It would not take conscription from such hands , and the only resuit would be national confusion that would spell inevitable disaster . " The Daily Telegraph comments : " No doubt Sir Edward Carson has been moved by some very compelling motive to take this serious step , but when Cabinet unity was of such paramount importance , his resignation is to be regretted the more . It is not , however , unexpected . During the last ten days Sir Edward has abstained from attendance at Cabinet councils . Such abstention , especially when the House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to much speculation . " The reason of his estrangement has been variously attributed . Some say that he was opposed to his colleagues on the question of the expedition to Serbia . Others believe his action was designed as a protest against the Cabinet 's attitude toward compulsion . Others again are inclined to put it down to some Irish difficulty , connected , perhaps , with the cause of Ulster . It is possible that he will promptly set these doubts at rest by making a personal explanation of his reasons for the resignation . The Times says : " No public statement is made of the precise ground of the difference on which Carson acted . It is well understood , however , that his action has been taken on what he holds to be a fundamental question of policy , and that he is by no means alone in his at-titude toward the conduct of the war , " Carson 's Long Fight for Ulster . Sir Edward Carson entered the Asquith Coalition Cabinet on May 2d , when the Liberal Cabinet of twenty members was superseded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nominee . ( without portfolio. ) and one ( Lord Kitchener ( without any party associations , and the Ministry of Munitions was created and placed in the hands of David Lloyd George , Chancellor of the Exchequer in the former Cabinet . Sir Edward was made Attorney General . Al  --  nough he had served as Solicitor General for Ireland in 18112 and as British Solicitor General from leo ? to li4tAi , as Queen 's Counsel at the English and Irish bars , and had been a Bencher of King 's Inns , Dublin , and of the Middle Temple , London , he was little known outside of British legal and political circles until the home rule movement assumed its acute sensational stage more than a couple of years ago . After the General Election of limit ; Sir Edward , beginning to known as " Balfour Second " tor iii opposition to the Home Rule bill on behalf of the Conservative Protestant communities of Ireland , adopted Ulster as nis protata " , with a selfless passion that evoked the affectionate and unquestioning loyalty of the population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the many phases through which the Home Rule bill was ' passin- without describing his work  --  the legal obstructions he placed in the way of the bill and finally his preparations for armed resistance to its promulgation as a law . His untiring energy and his enthusiasm enabled him to overcome physical weakness ; his sombre eloquence inspired and his counsels curbed the pas : ions of the most determined and perhaps the most pugnacious section of the population of the United Kingdom . When the war began his voice was at once raised and his influence exerted to turn the magnificent force of Ulster - volunteers , whose potential strength had been his creation , into soldiers for the prosecution of the combat provoked by Germany . For ten months he labored with them , as did John Redmond , his sometime enemy , among the Catholic Nationalists , until he finally entered the Ministry . The most notable cases with which Sir Edward had to deal as Attorney General were the Board of Trade 's in-quiry into the sinking of the Lusitania and the proceedings before the prize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been seized by the British Government on the ground that they ware destined for Germany . Recently there has been unofficial talk in London of Sir Edward being at odds with other members of the Ministry over conscription , the Balkan situation , and the Dardanelles expedition . The Attorney General did not attend any of the Cabinet meetings held recently .                     