@@680612

txt Mrs. Sarah W. H. Christopher , one of the first women to be appointed a Fire Inspector in this city , said yesterday that she had accepted a place as Fire Prevention Adviser to the Cotton Garment Manufacturers of New York , with offices at 2 East Twenty-fourth Street . The organization represents more than 150 garment factories in the greater city . in which are employed fully 15,000 girl operatives . Mrs. Christopher has completed her plans for a system of fire prevention which contemplates the instruction of the girl ' operatives - In fire drills , as well as the organization of the ' employers themselves and the foremen . During her eight months as an Inspector of the Bureau of Fire Prevention , Mrs. Christopher made an investigation into the cloak . snit. and skirt industry . Her connection with the Fire Department was automatically terminated on May 1 last by the operation of the civil service rules . It was last September that Mrs. Chris-. topner went to Commissioner Johnson and applied for work . At that time one of the problems of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of cigars and cigarettes . Mrs. Christopher was assigned to make investigations into the causes of this kind of fire . After receiving some preliminary instruction from Acting Chief William Guerin of the Bureau of Fire Prevention , she visited clothing and other factories in all parts of the city , and to many of them , where she was refused admission in her official capacity , she later returned in the guise of an operative , ultimately to obtain such information as she desired . Her daily searches carried her from the basements of buildings , where slfe examined the heating and power plants , to the root tops , where she was often observed by people in the streets below , climbing the sides of a water tank at a dizzy altitude . Ever since Mrs. Christopher 's work for the Fire Department was terminated she has been impressed with the idea of factory organization for fire prevention . Accordingly , as she explained at- ? her home , 132 Wadsworth Avenue , yesterday afternoon , she went to Dudley D. Sicher , President of the Cotton Garment Manufacturers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a system of fire drill instruction in all the factories operated by the members of Mr. Slcher 's organization . A special committee of the Cotton Garment Manufacturers reported favorably on the proposal on Thursday , and Mrs. Christopher was straightway notified of her appointment , as fire prevention adviser Mrs. Christopher explained that she would start her new work this morning . She intends first to make preliminary visits to each of the factories of the association to inform herself of general conditions . She will examine the exits to see that there are no doors opening inward or locked doors . and she will also pay attention to other violations .. such as the accumulation of cuttings on the floors , the use of fire escapes for storage , and the habit of smoking in factory buildings . On her first visit to all the factories , which Mrs. Christopher estimates will consume about three weeks . she will give a general plan of the way in which the fire drills are to be conductea , and on her succeeding visits she will organize the workers . It-is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factory proprietor a fire chief , having the power to appoint his subordinate officers . He is to have charge of all matters pertaining to drills , and , after naming those of his employes who are to have charge of the various floors and exits , will see to it that every rule of the fire-prevention system is observed . He is also to have charge of the inspection of the lire escapes and is to be held responsible for any violation . The first duty of the proprietor will be to provide his establishment with the proper equipment for fighting fire . i Next in authority to the proprietor , or the factory fire chief , will be the floor chief , who will be required to make an inspection every morning of all the exits and doors to see that they are in the proper condition . Then there will be the room captain , who is to be instructed in the safe conduct of the squads to the different exits in time of an emergency . The constant use of the exits is to be one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mrs. Christopher , who says " an exit is not an exit unless it is used . " Furthermore , it is the idea of Mrs. Christopher to have all fire drills conducted in such a manner that every employe in the building will be warned of the exact location of the fire . This is one of the features of instruction which she considers most essential . When an alarm is sounded , indicating the exact location of a fire , . the operatives will be safely guided through the exits furthest from it . A system of signals will he used by the doormen , indicating what exits may be used with safety . The doormen will likewse be on hand to prevent a rush to the exits and to quiet any disturbance .                     