@@681224

txt Duplication of building inspection by Inspectors of the State Department of Labor and agents of the city departments has caused an expense of $15,000 to L. B. Prayor , manufacturer of fancy metal goods , 124 Pearl Street , Brooklyn , according to his testimony yesterday before the State Factory Investigating Commission , which held a public hearing in the Council Chamber of the City Hall . " Why , I 've actually had so much inspection that it has actually made me sick , " Mr. Prayor said . " An Inspector of the Labor Department has told me to do one thing , and when I have complied with his order , another Inspector of one of the city departments has told me to do it all over . If they issue any more orders , I 'll simply turn over the whole building to them and quit . There Is nothing in my place that can burn , and when an Inspector came to me not long ' - ago and insisted on having a certain change made , saying that even troy would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here and China . " Abram I. Elkus , counsel for the commission , made Mr. Prayor admit that a large part of his expense in providing safety appliances was due to the Installation of an automatic sprinkler system , which considerably reduced his insurance . The hearings are to be continued each morning and afternoon until Friday inclusive . The commission , of which Acting Lieut . Gov . Robert F. Wagner is Chairman , is asking for suggestions from all interested persons that will be of assistance in the recodificatlon of the proposed labor laws . The commission has heard real estate dealers , manufacturers , engineers , architects , and experts of all kinds . Mrs. Irene Osgood Andrews , Assistant Secretary for the Association for Labor Legislation , told the commission that she would make the Industrial Board of the State Labor Vepartment a reviewing body , and that ' many prosecutions for violations were thrown out of court because the Inspectors were unable to present strong evidence . Uninformed Judges did not pay attention to building requirements but to legal technicalities , she said , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be enforced not by clubbing but by co-operation . A general law , leaving the enforcement of the details to the Industrial Board was recommended by Maurice Wertheim , a member of the industrial Board . He told the members of the commission that their efforts to draft labor legislation reminded him of his struggles as a college freshman with examinations , because they had considered all the easy matters about which they readily got information , leaving the more difficult problems to the Industrial Board . If you want a fair and flexible set of laws , you are not going to get them by going around the State and trying to find out what Changes are wanted . " he said . " People will want changes every year . You should simply frame a general law and leave the details to the Industrial Board . You can trust the Industrial Board , because it is a respona sible body . You have the power to make it - responsible , and for that reason you should make it more important by paying larger salaries than $3,000 . I 'm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in December . I do n't hesitate to say that you should either make us an important body or wine us out . " Rudolph P. Miller , formerly Commissioner of Buildings , and now Superintendent of Buildings , said he believed it would be a good thing to have all those departments that had to do with the public safety brought under one head . to be known as the Commissioner of Public Safety . Mr. Elkus wanted to know whether such a plan was not in force in Utica , and if so what were the results from it . Mr. Miller did not know about the - Utica administration , but he said tho plan was successful In Philadelphia . Mr. Elkus explained that it had been tried by " cities of the second class . " Some of those who appeared before the commission were John M. Williams , exCommissioner of Labor ; Henry S. Lyons of 28 West Thirty-seventh Street ; Alfred K.irkus , representing the Merchants ' Association ; Julius Franke . architect , representing the New York Chapter American Institute of Architects ; George W. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Walter ? Phaelander , industrial engineer for the E. W. Bliss Company ; John R. Shillady , formerly Secretary of the Industrial Board ; Alois Kankul of the Slavonic Immigrant Society . Mrs. Marian A. Clark , chief investigator Bureau of Immigration , State Department of Labor ; Frances A. Killer . manager of the North American Civic League for Immigrants , and Joseph Mayper , General Secretary of the Legislation Committee of the same body .                     