@@680936

txt There were many shrewd thoughts end thrusts at the hearing regarding the establishment of Federal reserve banks . but none which recurred more persistently than the contention regarding the size of the New Toth brink . Mr. FriEw was among those who argued for a capitalization large enough to control the business belonging in this district . Mr. : NIc.ik000 objected that that would leave too little capital for the rest of the country , and Mr. Fris:w thought that was less his concern than the concern of those who had legislated so that the nation 's financial metropolis should be crippled , or that the interior should be crippled in order to give New York its natural position of predominance . Either alternative is objectionable . Ich lien  --  the merit of service ? is New York 's sole title to leadership . It does not ask that leadership shall be conferred , but only that it shall not be crippled . and that cot for the sake of New York but for the sake of those who have been financed in New ' York , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ units in the nation are large , and somewhere in the nation there ought to be financial concentration adequate to deal with any emergency of ordinary or extraordinary times . The proposal to dethrone New York can not be associated with a proposal to provide a substitute central banking focus anywhere else . Nowhere else is there such an aggregation of banking capital , nor can another be created , nor could business be diverted to it if it could be created . To legislate abnormal conditions is to obstruct commerce . It is singular that impossibilities should be insisted upon most strongly by the gentleman from New York who , as he said at the hearing , is to represent New York on the Federal Reserve Board . There are . considerations which reconcile the conflict between New York and other Federal reserve centres . The Bank of England is far from being the largest bank in London . There are several which surpass it . both in capital and deposits , and therefore in bulk of business . The Bank of England , nevertheless , dominates the situation because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it in size . The Bank of England by inspection of its accounts can determine the conditions of all the banks , and this information enables it to control the situation by controlling its advances . The - situation in New York will be similar . There is no prospect that the Federal reserve bank will overtop the largest Of the local banks . It is likely to be surpassed by some both in and out of the reserve system . But the Federal bank will deal ill rediscounts , and thus will control the reserves , which will give the Federal bank ? influence over member banks disproportionate to the volume of its transactions . It is a power such as has been exercised by the Clearing House , and always for good , although regarded with jealousy . This power is now recognized , organized , disciplined , and if it is not to exist in New York it will not exist anywhere . That would be a calamity in the opinion of all competent advisers outside of ? political circles . The power to establish branch reserve banks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ banks . A Federal reserve bank with ** capital , and several branches , would do the same *work better than the establishment of an equal number of Federal banks each with its own capital . An appeal from a . Federal reserve branch ? to its parent bank will get prompter response and better consideration than an order from the Federal Reserve Board to Federal reserve banks to help each other , although in no . relations to each other and not responsible to each other for the conditions which create the necessity for co-operation . The position of Boston , Philadelphia , and Pittsburgh sitting - at the table of the New York Federal reserve bank would be more influential upon the general situation , and Mori3 ; helpfuL . to ' themselves than onlf indirect recourse for such assistance as they have needed and have received heretofore , and which they will need hereafter , the establishment of the Federal system notwithstanding . Mr. CANNON 'S suggestion that member banks should be within fifteen hours ' mail time from their reserve banks amounts to a suggestion that reserve banks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To have several reserve banks in the Eastern district would be to provide a superfluity of resources , only to weaken the other centres . The establishment of branch banks In the Eastern financial market ; would release capital for the establishment ' of banks according to geographical considerations , which come next lo financial considerations in this country of continental distances .                     