@@684202

txt Our first impressions are excellent , " was the summary of available news of today 's operations of General Gouraud 's army in the gigantic battle given to me by the General himself at his headquarters . That means that not only have the opening moNlements of the infantry been successful , but that the conditions of e the preliminary bombardment compare more than favorably with the German artillery preparation for the offensive in the same region on July 15 . Whereas then the French knew the exact hour of the attack and were able to begin counter preparation with disastrous effect upon the German infantry massed in waiting a full hour before the German shell storm broke , the reply made by the enemy today was exceedingly feeble and grew weaker as the engagement progressed . On the main sector of the attack between the Suippes Valley and the western side of the Argonne , the enemy was evidently expecting an offensive movement , as General Gouraud learned yesterday that the Germans were attempting " to apply his own tactics of depth defense that proved so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which constituted the " outpost zone . " The General immediately sent forward skirmishers , who corroborated the news , with the double result that , unlike the enemy in July , the French . gunners did not waste projectiles upon empty targets , and , secondly , that the infantry were able to move forward to make the first bound from a point considerably nearer the main line of defense than had been expected . The foe 's : strategy had reacted against himself . . The enemy made another costly miscalculation , as he seems to have expected the weight of the French drive to come against the strong massif of Moronvillers , where , in of fact , Gouraud only feinted . Here wet* concentrated great numbers of German batteries , the fire of which was as violent as it was useless .. I spent last night on a high plateau behind the centre of the front of the attack on the spot where Gouraud had watched the bombardment start at 11 P. M. As far as the eye could see the northern sky was split up with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nearly all were the sudden , broad glare of French " departures . " But now and then a tiny triangle of light marked the explosion of a German " arrival . " Right ahead a crimson glow now rising high above the horizon , now scarcely distinguishable , told of a huge German munition dump that blazed for three long hours . Others . of less extent broke out in many directions . At brief intervals a white star shell or colored rocket would soar up from a German position . One could well imagine the desperate plight of some German commander as he called in vain for his own artillery to protect him against the inferno of destruction . As the bombardment swelled in volume toward . the dawn. , the words " drum fire " exactly expressed the sound . All night the air had been filled with an enormous and irregular tumult , in which the deep drone of the allied aircraft passing , as it seemed , in an unbroken stream , to add their part to the work of destruction seemed the leif motif of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was Iike nothing so much as the roll of a titanic drum , explosion so thick upon explosion ' that no separate sound could be distinguished . The success ' developed as the day advanced . I took luncheon with General Gouraud and his staff , - who were all radiant . They emphasized the importance of the victory , which in a few hours overcame , without the use of tanks , whose value would have been diminished by the broken character of the ground and the traps the Germans laid for them , positions fortified during a long period with every art of war known to the enemy . Over thirty , one behind another , had been detected by air photographs with all the accompanying barbed wire entanglements , at a speed . hardly inferior . to that of the Franco-American progress over Unprepared ground in the battle of ' July 18 . As far as can be judged , the enemy has tried . to refuse battle along the whole front , which accounts for the comparatively limited number of prisoners reported in the first hours , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the attack is pressed home captures of men and material increase and are beginning to include battalion commanders and other superior officers . Could better proof be required of the all important superiority of the ? Allies in morale than that the enemy should thus yield positions so strong and so long held ? It was a thrilling moment for the assailants when they first entered the old German lines . " The poilus cheered and rushed on with redoubled energy , " said an officer who had taken part in the attack . " For them it was a decisive proof of success . They cried ' Now we 've got the boche on the run ! ' and aftlr that the difficulty was to hold them back at all . " The operations are facilitated by splendid weather . The sky suddenly cleared last night at the exact hour the bombardment started , and today the - sun is shining in blue unflecked by clouds . The work of the aerial artillery observers was somewhat hampered this morning by a dense mist in the valleys , but by 9 o'clock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the aviators are making most of the advantage . The reaction of the German aircraft has been even feebler than that of the artillery , and the allied air superiority today is no less complete than the superiority of momale . Unless indications are fallacious , it may well prove that , just as Gounaud 's triumphant resistance of July 15 put an end to the German offensive period at high water mark , his attack of today may form an epoch in the war by introducing the commencement of a German debacle . 