@@682576

txt According to information from London . the rescinding of the British Orders in Council is to be followed by the ' declaration of a blockade , thus regularizing and strengthening England 's position under international law . The German reply to the abandonment of the Declaration of London . according to the Berlin press , is to be " an overpowering mobilization of submarines . " That is to say , since British procedure signifies in German opinion that " the supreme law is Britain 's will , " Germany will retort with a renewal of the sort of maritime warfare which Germany abandoned because its inhumanity offended all law , human and divine . It is singular that Germany should venture to reproach England for kits " emasculation " of the Declaration of London . Before the war England abstained from ratifying the declaration because It followed the Continental rather than the British doctrine of contraband . Food was to be contraband under the declaration when available for armies or fortified places . England feared that food consigned to any British port might be thought contraband @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Zeppelins of British ports as forts- supported this . British apprehension and justified in practice the British theoretical abstention from the declaration . German raids upon food cargoes further justified the British apprehension and preceded the British " emasculation " of the declaration . That afforded ' England a pretext for adopting national ' starration as a measure of war . The last doubt regarding the German position was removed by the decision of the German prize courts that no indepanity was due for food cargoes because it was.not proved that they might not find their way to military use , This action by Germany caused the Entente Allies ' extension of the contraband list . Germany 's official assumption of the administratiOn of food necessarily made food contrai band . Whatever shortage of food Germany may be suffering or fearing is due to her unauthorized and actual expansion of the declaration , ' previously too favorable for her against her enemies for them to regard it as international law . These events anticipated Germany 's submarine blockade , which she relaxed in deference to neutral representations as to its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to starve England has been to contrast the German and British views of international law and respect for neutral opinion . The practical effect has been ' to shorten the German food supply , while the British warehouses from , excess . of precaution have been so stuffed that the international grain- ? market is weak , and there is a surplus of marine freights for grain for England . If the " supreme law is Britain 's ? will " it is because Britain 's will is the law of rations . According to the German press , British procedure makes it neeessary to reconstruct international law after the war : Not . Bi-itis4 procedure alone . German opinion after the war will incline to establishing the freedom of the seas for food for noncombatants of all nations , arid not for Germans alone . German piecedare also will ? incline international Opinion toward ' safeguarding private property of noncombatants against military confiscation on land and sea ' alike . ? These have been rather American than British views for many years , irrespective of thetresent war . But never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been so outraged as by the German - requisition of the forced labor of Belgian civilians for their unlawful invaders . As the official protest published Wednesday says , such incidents are as inhuman as unlawful . It would.be to the honor of Germany if she pre- ' ( erred defeat to victory by such means , just as it is to the glory of Belgium that she risked ' death in resistance to unlawful aggressioh . There can be no ' sanction for international law until more nations emulate the conduct of Belgium and unite in disciplining conduct like Germany 's . The " supreme law " must rest upon . the opinion of mankind . not upon national interpretations . The Socialist manifesto circulated in Germany says : " War is the crime . " The starvation plan is only . the con " sequence of this crime . " That relieves England of its reproach . What tall be said of the reproach to Germany in the fact that , as the manifesto asserts , " all food in the occupied territory was requisitioned " ? Germany took the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be supported by the world 's charity , and made those thus supported work at the point of the bayonet . - When before did the world know such war , or such insults to the supreme law ?                     