@@680894

txt Frances trouble about a mere onequarter of the indemnity which it paid so easily to ransom itself from the German Army is symptomatic a the finances of the nations of the world . All of them are having trouble with their budgets or their bonds or both . The world may congratulate itself upon the fact , for the best hope for private borrowers lies in the check to public borrowing . So long as public Opinion will support the increase of public indebtedness private borrowers must possess their souls in patience until the passage of the time when the madness for good works by the expenditure of tax money shall be Moderated within the dictates of prudence . The excuses for overburdening the public credit differ for different countries and different times . France 's difficulties represent the typical European problem of preparing for war in times of peace . The preparation has been so thorough that war has now become almost impossible , first , because of the carnage made possible by the resources of civilization , and , sec- ' ond , because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there should be a war between the two triple sets of allies . Already the debts had become so huge that nobody thought of paying them . It has now become impossible to maintain the sinking funds or amortization credits . Nations no longer are run on taxes on income . The taxgatherer tekee tithes of capital , even filching from the fortunes of bereavement . Since Tif IELI6 financed the French indemnity so light-heartedly the issues of public securities have tripled . Europe now pos : , , E.S.St : 1 . M. TeEnr estimates , $150,000,000,000 of public se-. curities based upon $7,000.000,000 or $8,000,000,000 of gold . At a declaration of war everybody would seek to realize at once , and there would be such a deluge of lieuidation as the world has s4.t ould nut endure . It is almost : inco , -. ceivable . It Will nut happen , because the taxpayers are in revolt , both against the taxes and the toll upon industry . France is merely an example . Since 1STO it has expended upon armaments twice the largest public debt in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up in preparations for war , although budget deficits have been chronic . Only in details are the conditions of other European nations different . even though some Of them are enjoying a hectic prosperity , due to the expenditure of borrowed funds . No nation is stronger than England , and its Ie emier has publicly declared that he perceives a slackening in the velocity and volume of trade . In this country there is no burden of armaments , but there is a good substitute . It is not only in national finances that this is a billion-dollar country . More than a billion dollars of taxes is spent each year by smaller divisions , States , counties , cities . The debt of this city is larger than the debt of the nation , and it is carrying out an enterprise calling for hundreds of millions as a minimum , and likely to run to a round half billion . To enable this to be done tax valuations ' Were increased $800,000,000 in a single year . The income could not be increased in like manner , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public mortgage ahead of their private mortgages , thus diminishing the equity . Accordingly , there has been no mortgage money at rates property could pay . The conditions of New York are not exceptional . Railways have been as unable to borrow on time as owners of real estate , and have borrowed hundreds of millions on their notes of hand of near maturity . The reason is that the railways have bad to yield precedence to the public borrowers . It is no longer than twenty years ago that $100,000,000 wasp a maximum for city issues . For the last half dozen years cities have been borrowing at triple their recent maximum . at the very time that it was said there was no money for railways . : Cheap credit is as necessary to profitable industry as cheap bread to the workman , and here is the record and the explanation of dearer credit Than the world has ever seen before . faking the nations together . Private ? .. credit is dear because public credit has been overworked everywhere . Public borrowing must lessen before there can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - will lessen because the world 's taxpayers have revolted . The cry about the cost of living is the outward and visible sign that the private budgets are in a state as deplorable as the public budgets . In both public and private finance there is one common point  --  the cry of scarcity and exhaustion concurs with an unexampled abundance . Never were public or private incomes so large as at the time that the cry of exhaustion arises . The cause and the explanation are the same in both cases ? lack of restraint and sense of proportion in self-indulgence . With wages what they have been , self-denial would nave enabled other generations to grow rich on their savings instead of poor on their spendings . There is nothing the matter with the world except that it has run so fast that it is out of breath , and must stand still to recover it . If the resources of civilization are turned to production instead of destruction there will be plenty for all . If the Governments which are aiding the poor would lessen their taxes they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If the Governments would stop borrowing they would replenish the wages fund and allow the world to earn itself out of its slough . There is no need for a miracle , for a savior , for a regeneration of society . The world Is not perfect , but it is approaching perfection as fast , at least , as at any time in its experience . There is no greater deterrent than those who would unnerve the toilers by weakening their energies and increasing their burdens . Give the poor man work by ceasing to tax industry into starvation and leave his wages with him . It is better for him to do the rest for himself .                     