@@682193

txt The American Embassy has not sent any notification to the State Department that Great Britain intends to change the situation created by the Order in Council- into an actual blockade . Some time ago the Embassy notified the State Department by letter that there was a great deal of discussion in the British press and among the unofficial public concerning the possibility of a change in the blockade policy of the Government . British officials , however , declare that no change will be mate until the subject is freely debated in the House of Commons . A debate of this character is expected soon . It seems evident that the Foreign Office is weary of the criticism which its policy has been subjected to , and that it wiI1 be quite willing to have the subject freely ventilated in Parliament , but it is not regarded as likely that it will grant the demands of the extremists that the entire control of the blockade be surrendered to the Admiralty . The British answer to the latest American note on shipping is virtually ready to be dispatched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be sent as soon as the note has been submitted to the ' French Government for its approval . In connection with foodstuffs reaching the Central Powers through neutral States , the British Government recently sent a specially qualified business man to Holland and Scandinavia to ascertain whether the legations at the various cap ' itals were doing their work efficiently in supervising agreements and contracts for preventing leakage to Germany . On his return he reported to the Government ' that everything possible was being done Ito prevent such leakage . In behalf of the Government it is argued that , although in the early months after the Order in Council , large amounts of contraband did reach Germany , the blockade since June has been very strict and is every growing more efficient . Moreover , it is said , the Danish agreement only became operatinve in November , and if the statistics of trade since November were published , they would show that the blockade was continually tightening . How War Shifted Trade . The Daily Chronicle replies to The Morning Post 's demand for a more stringent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to neutral countries adjacent to Germany . The Chronicle says the figures mean nothing , . as they ignore the fact that before the war Holland and Scandinavia imported these goods largely from Germany and also that the Scandinavian countries are acting largely as relay stations for huge Russian imports . The Chronicle adds : " On the general question of the British blockade of Germany , two points must not be forgotten  --  one of right , the other of expediency . On the question of right . one must remember that international law exists . As to expediency. it is not to our interest to make enemies of Holland , Denmark , ' Sweden . Norway , or I the United States . - ! ' As regards the United States the problem is this : The ( tinted States does not suffer the hardships of being itself inside the blockade cordon , but it has , great trading interests and traditioaal concern with this branch of international law . We have throughout justified our action under the Order in Council by referring to the American development of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regard to contraband , the American cases justify us up to the hilt ; in regard to the blockade they are less conclusive , but one may say they support it in principle . It was perhaps a mistake that our oGvernment in drafting the Order in Council did not model its terms on earlier precedents . Americans did not suffer by this in substance , but American attachment to legal form was unsatisfied and affronted , and the question is whether we could not remedy this by altering ' the form of the Order In Council . Would Copy Lincoln 's Order . " A desirable thing , if possible , would be to substitute a proclamation as close as possible to the text of Mr , Lincoln 's blockade proclamation in 1881 . " The Westminster Gazette , which frequently voices the views of the Government , admits that more stringent measures should be taken to restrict overseas trade with Germany , but adds : " It is idle to suppose we can get all we want for the allied cause from neutral countries without making concessions in return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be framed and presented to neutral Governments jointly by Russia , France . Great Britain , and Italy . It suggests that the answer to the American note should go not from ? Great Britain alone but from The Allies in concert , and that it should contain a full statement of the objects for which the Allies are contending in the war and of their case against the Central Powers . 