@@678845

txt The result of the Governorship election in this State next November is now in process of determination  --  more titian eight months in advance . It depends upon the efforts of the two parties , respectively , to put their houses in order . If the Republicans of the Legislature persist in their efforts to confine the investigation into their own corrupt practices within the narrowest possible limits , if they succeed in that endeavor , and draw the curtain of silence and secrecy over guilty doings as yet , only in part revealed , they will be in the position of the Democrats in 1893 , when public indignation over the Maynard scandal turned a Democratic plurality of 45,000 of the previous year into a Republican plurality of 100,000 , to be followed by a plurality of 156,000 for the Republican candidate for Governor in 1S94 . If the Democratic organization frees itself from the dead weight of CONNERS , who is all the time dragging it deeper into the pit , and if it continue the work of reorganization until it is able to present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it will be in a position to deserve and regain the confidence of the people withdrawn from the Republicans . Not for many years has the outlook for the Democracy of New York been SO promising . The first step , of course , is to put CONNERS out of his Chairmanship . It is useless to talk of regeneration so long as he retains that office . Present appearances indicate a drift of the party toward the leadership of the men of the Saratoga Conference and toward the doctrines and principles they have proclaimed . That would mean a veritable new birth for the party . Delivered out of the hands of the architects of its evil fortunes and put once more under respectable guidance , the party ought to recall to its allegiance thousands and tens of thousands of Democrats of the older faith who of late have found themselves unable to act with their party . If with this return of old elements of strength there comes a reinforcement of Republicans disgusted with the debaucheries at Albany and revolting against unworthy Republican leaders , a Democratic majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probable . Furthermore , the drift away from the Republicans is helped by dissatisfaction - with the course of events in Washington . The kicking out Of a boss usually engenders a bolt . CONNERS will be angry , of course . He may make trouble in the Convention , and further trouble in Erie . But he has always made a great pretense of " regularity . " Perhaps that will fortify him to endure his humiliation without proceeding to the extreme measure of giving aid and comfort to the enemy : At any rate , the party is stronger with CONNERS against it than with CONNERS in the Chairman . shin . The expectations and prophecies , not alone of the cynics , but of the majority of observant men , are being realized in the State Capitol . Mr. WADSWORTH grows eloquent in protesting against broadening the scandal inquiry , and the Republican Assembly by a vote of 75 to 33 tables Mr. CHANDER 'S resolution for a thorough investigation . Mr. WADSWORTH is an honest man , but he is an organization Republican . It is a principle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stand together . We can not suppose that he has any sympathy with unexposed bribetakers , but he deludes himself with the belief that it will be better for the party to confine the present inquest to ALLDS and acts of bribery committed during the session of 1901 . Evidently he proceeds upon the theory that if the Senate can get quickly through this unpleasantness , make some kind of report , and then turn at once to the regular business of the session , the people will presently forget all about the matter . From the mere partisan point of view the Democrats could ask no better luck . ' Above the Democratic organization the clouds seem really to be breaking . Perta.ps the sun will again shine upon the Democracy . Over the heads of the Republicans the storm grows blacker and More threatening .                     