@@681504

txt Ex-Judge GEORGE C. Hour pleads , in the current number of The Independent , eloquently and indignantly for a I change in the policy . of our Government as to violations of The Hague Convention . He strongly approves the neutrality proclamation and the President 's advice to abstain from taking skies . But he points out that we are a signatory of The Hague Convention along with all the Powers engaged in this war , and with a number of others ; that this convention , " a " solemn treaty between all the parties " to it , " has been repeatedly violated , and that our Government has made no protest . Undefended places have been bombarded from the air ; floating mines have made the commercial pathways of the open ocean unsafe for neutral use ; the territory of neutral nations has been violated ; buildings dedicated to religion , art , and science have not been spared ; prisoners have been forced to dig trenches ; suspected spies have been shot twithout trial ; pillage has been allowed ; fines far in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; " in short , The Hague treaty , like the " original Belgian treaty , has been " cast into the waste basket like a " scrap of paper . " The protest which Judge Hour exhorts our Government to make against these violations of The Hague Convention and of international law would at this time be a step of doubtful wisdom . It will be noted that nearly all the violations , and especially the more serious of them , have been charged against the Germans only . In the case of some of them the charges are ncI , and at present can not be , based on conclusive evidence , and have not been , and at present can not be , impartially investigated . If the United States Government should present a protest to Germany against the list of offenses submitted by Judge HOLT , that Government might fairly challenge the impartial neutrality of the protesting Government . And in any event , such action would be hailed by the Allies with enthusiasm , while in neutral nations it might easily impair the reputation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as legal neutrality . Such a protest could hardly be expected to modify the conduct of Germany , and would , therefore , have no practical effect on the course of events save the undesirable one of exasperating the feeling of the Government and people of Germany against us . It would , we think , tend to impair the influence our Government may fairly expect to exercise . when the question of peace and the terms of peace shall be taken up . So far as the expression of public opinion and sentiment In this country is concerned , there is no reason that it should not be unrestrained save by considerations of candor and justice , and certainly it has been . As a contribution to that opinion , Judge Hotr 's article will have Its weight . The feeling that inspires it is very general in this country . His plea would be stronger if it were a little less sweeping . Some of the offenses he lays to the account of the belliA , , - erents are not clearly established , and are freely charged by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violation of neutrality , are the very essence of the dispute now undergoing the arbitrament of arms . We may have , and , so far as we inform ourselves carefully , we should have , our own views regarding them . It is not easy to see how our Government could take cognizance of them Without an Implied intention ultimately to take part in that arbitrament.                     