@@680963

txt Paintings by George Bellows and Charles Ebert in Galleries . At the Montross Galleries is an exhibition of paintings by George Bellows . Twenty-seven canvases include a wide variety of subjects . There is the big , handsome street subject , " The Cliff Dwellers , " which has been commented upon previously in these columns , and which easily takes the first place in the present exhibition ; there are shore scenes of men cleaning fish and pushing out dories ; there is " Jimmie Flanagan , " whose wide Celtic smile has become the fashion with a certain group of modern painters ; there are islands and chickens and valleys and hills , and the Palisades that come close and stare you in the face like an ill-bred interlocutor ; but . whatever the subject , the impression is given that Mr. Bellows has something to say about the world he lives in , especially about the weather and the fun of being out of doors . To talk.about his manner of paintipg would be foolish . He has chosen his own manner , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convey with it such facts as the freshness of the sea wind chopping up the waves , the toughness of the boatman 's fibre measuring his strength against the inertia of a dory that wishes to continue its nap on shore , the tremendous sweep of a " giant sky , " the struggle of a sailboat beating to sea , the intense color of a northwest day . One thinks very little about the pictures in which these facts are embodied , but a great deal about the shore and the sea and the people , which , we may fancy , is what the painter was after . The exhibition closes Jan. 31. sg , * The paintings by Charles Ebert in the galleries of the New York School ? of Applied Design are light , vivacious studies of aspects of nature , sometimes taken with too great a sense of responsibility . The Alps , for example , Mr. Ebert shows us the cheerful relationship between the human beings who live in the Tyrol and the great peaks that look down upon them in menace or protection . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the valleys , and the winding paths leading toward the mountain with a certain sympathetic appreciation not often found together with so large and synthetic rendering of mountain form . To get intu intimacy with a landscape of such grandeur of proportions is something like achieving a cozy chat with Brun/tilde , and the artist who succeeds provides us with a new kind of pleasure . sss We are getting accustomed to the invasion of German and Austrian schemes of decoration , and may be said to have passed through the stages preliminary to embracing these lively blacks and whites and the purple , yellow , green , and red posies that enliven thetas . The Prang Company now is showing the art as it is applied to interior decoration , advertising , textiles , pottery , and so on . The textiles are particularly beautiful , those turned out by the Munich and Viennese workshops having been designed by artists of a high degree of training and of personal inspiration . The ceramics , unfortunately , are not well represented in the exhibition , owing no doubt to the difficulties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " taste in the form of vivid bandboxes and rather disagreeable beadwork do not fully represent the ingenuity of the German and Austrian craftsmen in making small and useful objects highly decorative and individual . But even an unsatisfactory ' showing is better than none at all , since the work expresses the vitality that has come into domestic art abroad and that will be certain to reach our own domestic art with results better suited to our special tastes .                     