@@679319

txt Commander Nikolas Sirnopoulos of the Greek army , said to be implicated with another officer in a defalcation of Govern . ment funds involving $-1,000,000 , was made prisoner yesterday on the Greek Liner Themistoeles , on which he reached this port under an assumed name . The immigration officials have been on the lookout for the man , but when the vessel was approaching port a wireless was received by Capt . Spiridion Paramythioli , commander of the steamer , transmitted from the Greek Minister at Washington through the Greek Consul at this port , ordering the arrest of the man and his detention for deportation to Greece . Commander Simpoulos , admitted his identity . He was booked under the name of Spirus Souras . He was " locked up when the steamer came to her pier , near the foot of Hamilton Avenue , Brooklyn . According to the officers of the vessel the sp , eific cliar , ; e is nia6e that he embezzled The Commamler is a tall man with hair turning may , a dark mustache. and a military 1. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told he was wanted by the Greek Government . The skipper of the vessel , acting on instructions handed to him by a representative of the Greek Consul on the arrival of the Themistocles , declared to the immigration men that he would not surrender his prisoner , as he had been told to take him back with him . He Was reluctant even to consent to the examination of his passenger , Roman Dobler , Chief of the Immigration Boarding Division , who boarded the steamship at Quarantine , insisted , and Simopoulos was brought to the saloon and questioned briefly . He said he was 52 years old , and born in Tripoli . The prisoner admitted that fie had booked under another name , and said that while he had been an army officer , he was now a Greek merchant , as had been manifested . He explained that he was on his way to see ICyrialcos Bourkas in Milwaukee . He was asked why he had come to this country : and explained that his sister died recently and left him her heir . He was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Questioned as to his means , Simopoulos said he had $15 and no drafts . At the conclusion of his examination he was held for examination as a person liable to tecome a public charge . This is the reason given in many cases where a further examination before a Board of Special Inquiry is necessary . The Captain of the steamer was notified of the action taken , and told that as Simopoulos was a regular passenger he must be sent to Ellis Island . The Captain did not recede from his position to hold the man on shipboard as a person not landed and under the Greek flag . Mr. Dobler did not press his point . It will be fought out this morning when the detained passengers and immigrants are taken to Ellis Island for examination . A refusal means that complications will ensue , and it is probable that the Commissioner of Immigration will not only appeal to the Greek representative here , but will in-. yoke the immigration laws to have the man landed from the vessel . The order to detain Simopoulos came in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He was told to hold the man on board , and to see that he was taken back to Greece , there to face a trial . From what can be gathered from the officers of the liner Simopatios was connected with the Ordnance Department of the Greek Army , and stationed at the ammunition station at Piraeus . The defalcation is said to have been discovered some months ago , and the other officer implicated in the doing away with the Government funds is now serving a sentence in prison . In the notice sent to the immigration authorities it was simply stated that the man is implicated in the embezzlement of a large sum of money . The immigration agents resent the attempt to violate the immigration laws by keeping the man on the vessel and deporting him without a hearing . " This Government , " said one , " will not tolerate such an action . Neither will it refuse the man a hearing . We have received what is known as a confidential communication to hold this man , but the case against him must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is found that he is the victim of trumped-up charges or is guilty of some political offense. or i one not deportable under out immigra1 tion laws , then that man will be taken ifrom the steamer , even over the protest of her commander , and set free . If , on the other hand , he is guilty of an offense involving moral turpitude he will be dePorted . " It was said on board that there is no extradition law covering , the offense charged against Simopoulos , and the representatives of the G. , .. : k Government fear to have him take / off the Vessel , which is under the Greek flag , and sent to Ellis Island for a hearing in his case . This will be brought to an issue to-day , when the barges to take away detained and steerage passengers come alongside to carry them to Ellis Island . 