@@684143

txt The net result of the weeks spent in considering next year 's War Tax bill is a recess for the purpose of giving Chairman KITCHIN time to produce one different from any hitherto proposed . " Next week " there will be offered for the country 's inspection Mr. KITCHIN 'S cross between his bill to punish makers of profits above the percentage on capital which he approves and Secretary 's bill taking for war purposes four-fifths of profits above those made in peace times . Chairman KITCHIN learned last year that the ratification of his ideas by the House is no guarantee of their enactment . The country learned that the worst way to get a tax bill is through the hasty decisions of a weary Conference Committee . Nobody knew of the existing war revenue law until the country was confronted with the accomplished fact , ana Mr. KITCHIN is arranging a repetition of that experience . The last opportunity to enact the war tax law before the Fourth Liberty Loan is now gone . Mr. KITCHIN has issued a statement of the principles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was for the present excess profits tax , to which the country has become adjusted like a sleeper to a lumpy bed , and for a strict war profit tax , the method which proved more productive , to be applied by the Treasury . Mr. KITCHIN 'S manner of complying with the Treasury 's proposal is to increase the excess profits tax and to graft on the war profit tax the most obnoxious feature of the excess profits tax . In the excess profits tax there is a deduction allowed for what was established as a . normal return upon capital . Of course , there can be no such thing as a. normal return , and the arbitrary establishment of one was destructively criticised by Secretary . But Mr. KITCHIN is so enamored of his " invested capital " idea that he adds it to his conception of Secretary 's ' war profit tax . A " deduction " of 10 per cent . profit on invested capital is allowed before the 80 per cent . war profit tax is computed . This would be well enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applies to all corporations , including those whose war profits may have declined below the deduction allowed , thus annulling the tax . Chairman KITCHIN puts the teeth which he draws from the war profit tax into his excess profits tax . Alternative schedules are mentioned . One has three classes , from 35 to 60 to 70 per cent . of the excess above . the deduction of $3,000 and 8 per cent . The other has two classes , at 40 and 70 per cent . above the same deductions . Ninety per cent . of corporations making between 50 and 60 per ? cent . excess profits are capitalized at or below $50 , - 000 , and some corporations of large invested capitalization have a small return in percentage . Accordingly , such swollen corporations are to be taxed on 10 per cent . profits anyhow , apparently regardless of any loss . This might be thought absurd were it not a fact that losses are not allowed in the deductions under the present personal income tax law unless there are equal or larger profits , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been depleted during the year . The principle upon which the new law is being drafted is that Secretary 's proposal favors those taxed under the excess profits law , and discriminates against corporations taxed under the war profit law . The idea of making the war profit tax less severe and the excess profits tax more severe is to bring the two classes of tax nearer together . The committee gives a list of corporations favored unduly by Secretary , and includes one which has reduced its heinous income by reducing the price of its goods on Government contract by about 20 per cent . That was done before the new law was announced , and it may be that others will find it cheaper not to make excess profits than to pay taxes on them .                     