@@683101

txt The capitalist interests are rallying to the support of national interests in a manner which qualifies them to expect the co-operation of labor .. The united copper interests are ' selling to the Government below the market for others . The Government has accepted the use of HENRY FORD 'S great automobile plant on his terms of no profit to him . The Bethlehem plant , greater than Krupp 's , will work for the Government alone on terms of huge loss , ill comparison with what might be made in selling to general buyers . Ships will be built for the Government on terms of cost and a fair profit , not a wartime profit . The list is too long , for completion , and is a. fair challenge to labor to work also on its own terms , as announced on March 12 . On that day 147 representatives of three million workers announced from Washington that services " . more exhausting than the principles of human welfare warrant " should be asked from labor only when " the profits which the employer shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engaged have been limited " to fixed percentages . " These are 1 he economic conditions upon which t he officers of the national trade unions pledged their members " in " stress or in storm to stand unreserv " edly by the standards of liberty and " the safety and preservation of the " institutions and ideals . of our Re " public . " In this co-operation of capital and labor ? in the public service lies our best hope of avoiding some undesirable experiences abroad . There profits and wages rose competitively , without the restraint of such self-denying ordinances as have been imposed here . Under the stimulus of unlimited necessitous buying by the Government the cost of . living rose , and labor found itself benefited not at all . except so far as it refused to indulge itself . The British laborers who bought jewelry and music machines and went to their work in automobiles enjoyed a beggar 's holiday at the public cost , instead of raising their economic position . British labor emptied the Government cash box in defense of what it called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ woman labor , limitation of output , and the rest . of the trade union program .. It Is undesirable that the billion , or perhaps billions . which we are about to spend should be wasted in excessive profits or wages or in. protection of labor 's privileges just now . There is neither desire nor necessity to exploit either labor or capital . Wages and profits should both be fair , for this Government can pay its way , and ought to be beholden to nobody for anything except good citizenship . There should be no excess of praise for the capitalists who have shown the way of patriotism to labor . The trade-union leaders must be relied upon to hold the workers within bounds , according to the professions rpa.de when they protested against . profits at labor 's expense . There should be no such profits . And there should be no disproportionate gains for war workers at the expense of their associates in other employments . For the present , labor should waive its eight-hour propaganda , receiving overtime pay for overwork . If the men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service , they should assent to their replacement with women or children of . suitable age , however contrary to union principles at other times . Fair . even generous . treatment should be the rule , but no excess either of profits or pay . Neither should excuse the other , and the thrift which has been so tardily practiced abroad should be taught from the first here . We are the world 's general providers . and we make the good things of life dear for ourselves when we sell either goods or credit too dear abroad .                     