@@681319

txt The gallantry of the American men who arrived today by the American liner New York , which sailed from Southampton and Cherbourg on Aug. 1 , with 570 on board , just before the clash of European arms , was exceeded only by the self-sacrifice of the women . There were many men capable of paying their way first class who , because loll the cabin berths were taken , were forced to go in the steerage . Enough men gave up their berths to enable all the women to get accommodations In cabin quarter .. Women Use Their Wits . The married women then began to think of methods of getting their husbands out of the steerage . They arranged to double up , some women abandoning the staterooms of their husbands so that men might take their places . The result of this sacrificial arrangement was that three and four women were crowded into one stateroom , and the same number of men were forced to sleep sardine fashion . Most of the voyagers were citizens of this country , and they rather enjoyed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admitted that the bronze statue of Liberty looked a bit handsomer than usual . Many Surgeons Delayed . Dr. John U. Pennington of Chicago , who , with Mrs. Pennington , reached here yesterday on the steamship New York , said last night at the Hotel that about 000 American surgeons were delayed in London as a result of the European war . About 1,000 American surgeons , he said , went to London to attend the clinical congress , which began on July 27 and was concluded on Aug. 1 . Caserta in Port . Besides the New York , the only other passenger carrying steamer from Europe to reach port today was the Italian liner Caserta , which left Genoa on July 23 and Naples on the 26th , before any hint of war was in the air . It had 45 cabin and 178 steerage passengers . It encountered no warships . Loaded to its carrying capacity with provisions and coal , the White Star liner Olympia suddenly haft its pier here today and sailed for Liverpool . It had been announced to sail yesterday with passengers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were canceled by the British admiralty , and the paasengers were transferred to the Adriatic of the same line , on which they sailed . Mystified by Venezia . Something of an air of mystery surrounded the sailing today of the French steamer Venezia of the Fabre line , whose destination ordinarily is Marseilles . According to an official of the line , however . It cleared this time for Montreal and I went out in ballast . No explanation as to why It made for the Canadian port was forthcoming . Shipping men thought , however , that it Might either be destined to carry French reservists abroad from the Dominion or to take on a cargo of Canadian grain for Prance.                     