@@681328

txt England 's expeditionary army , sent to fulfill the country 's obligations to her allies , France and Belgium , has been safely landed on the shores of France . Everybody in England has known for two weeks that a large army was crossing the Channel . The troops had been assembled at different bases , one of the largest contingents embarking el Dublin . Many other regiments sailed from Liverpool , while still others took ship at Eastbourne , Southampton , and other ports along the coast on the English Channel . The great canvas camps at the military stations in England were struck only when it was known definitely that the flotilla of transports conveying the troops had finished , the oversee . movement under the escort of strong squadrons of warships . The transportation of the soldiers lasted several days , and during that time not a mention ' of the expedition was permitted to the newspapers here . Even now the strength of the expedition , the names of the regiments composing the contingents , And the ports where they landed are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a large proportion of the best troops of the British regular army are now on ? Continental soil . King 's Message to His Troops . A message from King George to the expeditionary force was read . out to each regiment as it left its port of departure under sealed orders . It was as follows : " You are leaving home to fight for the safety and honorRf my empire . " Belgium , whose ' country we are pledged to defend , has been attacked , and France is about to be invaded by the same powerful foe. , " I have implicit confidence in- you , my soldiers . Duty is your watchword , and I know your duty will be nobly done . I shall follow your every movement with the deepest interest and shall mark with eager satisfaction your daily progress . Indeed , your welfare will never be absent from my thoughts . " I pray to God to bless and guard you and to bring you back victorious . " Kitchener 's Homily to Soldiers . Every soldier in the expeditionary forces carries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's directions as to conduct . The little homily reads as follows : " You are ordered abroad as a soldier of the King to help our French comrades against the invasion of a common enemy . " You have to perform a task which will need your ' courage , your energy , and your patience . " Remember that the honor of the British Army depends on your individual conduct . " It will be your duty not only to set an , example of discipline and perfect steadiness under fire , but also to maintain the most friendly relations with those whom you are helping in this struggle . " The operations in which you will be engaged will for the most part take " place in a friendly country , and you can do your own country no better service than in showing yourself in France and Belgium in the true character of a British soldier by being invariably courteous , considerate , and kind . " Never do anything likely to insure or destroy property , and always look upon rioting as a disgraceful act . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be trusted . Your conduct must justify that welcome and that trust . " Your duty can not be done unless your health is sound ; so keep constantly on your guard against any excesses . In this new experience you may find temptation both in wine and women . You must entirely resist both temptations , and , while treating all women with perfect courtesy , you should avoid any intimacy . " Do your duty bravely . Fear God and honor the King . " KITCHENER , Field MarshaL " The iron veto of unauthorized intelligence from Belgium , upon which the War Office frankly told the newspapers that the three allied armies had agreed . has been enforced to the letter . The censorship of the British War Office follows closely that of the Japanese during their war with Russia , with the exception of this unique detail : Field Marshal Earl Kitchener communicates to the British press for your private information " the details of what is officially termed . " the British expeditionary force , " with the understanding that the information shall be published @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . , British Press Is Commended . - .2 .. - rederick E. Smith , the Unionist Member Parliament , who is acting as director Of the official Press Bureau of the British War Office and Admiralty , has issued the following statement to the English newspapers : " Field Marshal Earl Kitchener wishes me to add that he and the country are under the greatest obligation to the British press for the loyalty with which all references to the movements of the British expeditionary force and their landing on the Continent have been suppressed , " Earl Kitchener is well aware that much anxiety must have been caused to the English press by the knowledge that these matters were being freely discussed in the Continental press , and he wishes to assure the press of this country that nothing but his conviction of the military importance to this country of suppressing these movements would have led him to issue instructions which placed the press of this country under a temporary disadvantage . " Mr. Smith 's statement continues : " Field Marshal Sir John French arrived in Paris shortly after midnight on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to France . The Commander in Chief of the British expeditionary army was welcomed by several distinguished officers of the French General Staff , the British Ambassador in Paris . and a number of French Cabinet Ministers . French Ovation for British Troops . " As Sir John French , dressed in his khaki uniform , stepped from the train in the French capital a roar of cheering for England and France arose front the great crowd which had assembled , and the people then sang the national anthems of the two countries . " Sir John French drove to the British Embassy . and his motor car all the way through the streets was the centre of a human whirlpool . Even the police were excited , and they were wholly unable to restrain the populace , which surged around the car . shouting clamorously , ' Hurrah for Gen. French ! Hurrah for England ! Hurrah for France ! ' Women held children above the crowd to see.the famous English General , whose motor car was soon filled with small flags and cockades . " The coincidence of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French ' is regarded as a happy augury for the allies . " After sleeping at the embassy , Sir John French paid a visit to the Palace of the Elysee . where he had a long conference with President Poincare . " When the death of Gen. Grierson from heart failure was announced as having occurred ' while traveling on a train ' everybody in official circles understood that the General had been stricken in France . His death will be deeply deplored by the nation . " Enthusiasm iu London . Now that the ban of secrecy . has been removed from British troop movements and the official ? Press Bureau has admitted the arrival of British troops in France , great enthusiasm is exhibited everywhere in London over the safe arrival of the soldiers on the Continent and over the reports showing they were heartily received by the French . Loud praise is heard for the orderly mobilization of the ' arillY without publicity and ' for- the silences of the British newspapers concerning troop movements in England and Ireland . Americans returning to England from the Continent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hurrah for the English ! Hurrah for King George ! " and the English soldiers replied with " Hurrah for France ! " The troops of the allies fraternized immediately , and tourists say there was every indication that all orders were carried out with expedition and perfection of detail as a result of the complete harmony between the French and British General Staffs . At the points of debarkation signs had even been posted saying : " Teams turn to the right in France , " as a guide to the English teamsters and artillerymen . The official News Bureau says that not a single casualty occurred during the embarkation , transportation and debarkation of the men and stores of the British expeditionary force , and that everything was carried through with the greatest precision . Little Excitement in London . London displayed little excitement when it became known that the British troops were in France . There were no crowds around the bulletins and there was no rush for newspapers . There was a stolid , repressed , earnest crowd in the parks where the recruits are drilled and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The general routine is little disturbed , except for the unceasing movement through the streets of troops , ammunition trains , and hospital corps . Tailors and saddlers are rushed with business . The sign " Swords and Bayonets Sharpened " appears in the cutlery shop windows . No women or children cry as the troops depart . The attendance at the music halls and theatres shows no diminution , and many Americans spend their . afternoons or evening at the playhouses . " Rule Britannia , " toe " Marseillaise , " and the Russian national anthem are rendered by the orchestras , the audiences standing . As one Highlander regiment went through the Strand its band played " Marching Through Georgia . " - Private homes have been converted into hospitals , and the newspaper departments under the head of " What Women Can Do , " or 4orne similar caption , are the busiest . Signs are posted that Earl Kitchener , the Secretary ' of War , needs 100,000 men for three years , or to the close of the war . The newspapers are proud @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement of troops . of which much had been surmised but little known. , The seaside resorts face a ruined season and the hotels dread the return of Americans , for they would not be able to accommodate them . Food prices are lower , with the exception of sugar , which comes from Austria and Germany . ' The Nottingham lace factories are at a standstill . hut the shipyards are unusually busy and the Development Board is spending $15,000,000 on roads and other improvements .                     