@@681251

txt ' Sri his remarks at Philadelphia the President said : It was universally admitted that the banking system of this country needed reorganization . We set the best minds we could find to the task of discovering the best method of reorganization . We met with hardly " anything but criticism from the bankers of this country . We met with bardly anything but resistance from the bankers of this country , or at least from the majority of those who said anything . And yet , just so soon am ' atilt act was passed , on the ' Very " .11-nre Can there was a universal Chorus of applause from the bankers of the United States . Now , if it was wrong the day before it was passed . Why was it right the day after it was Passed ? The President 's words are a better . example of how to pass a statute , or bow to carry the country , than how to deal with economic and financial questions on the substance and the Merits . Such subjects are independent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics . It makes no difference what Washington does , or with what motives Washington does what it does , " Wall Street " will pursue its course With more reference to the results under the laws than to the reasons Why the results ought to be otherwise , or how the laws became what they are . The President speaks as if the new banking law were now perfect , ' and as if it were made so over the protest of the bankers . The facts are otherwise . The bankers are more responsible for the form of the law than the President , and he is indebted to them for the fact that the law is a source of hope rather than dread . The banking law , whatever its merits or demerits , or however it was enacted , is not a perpetual motion machine which will produce prosperity Of its own force and virtue . The administration of the law is more Important than its language , and the bankers are more important as the administrators of the banking law than the President Ire needs all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the law was passed As the law was introduced , in the form prepared by the President 's " best minds , " it was remarkable for Its effort to dispense with the principles of the Aldrich law . As the law was passed , its most striking features are the return to those prin4ples , which , of course , are not an Aldrich discovery , nor a personal Monopoly . The bankers never op- I posed the President upon politics . They directed their efforts solely to get a law which it was possible to work under , according to their knowledge of the subject , upon which the President had confessed specific lack of authoritative knowledge . The transformation of the bill can be fixed almost to a day . It dates from the presentation of the bankers ' view by Senator ROOT . The extent of the transformation can be measured by comparison of it as it stands with the Original text of it , and the description of it by Secretary Barax . It is pertinent now to recall his remarks upon Senator ALDRICH 'S account @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his own proposals . Then it seemed to Secretary BRIAN not an attempt to improve the country 's currency upon scientific principles , but as a measure designed to control the-Money Trust . It is lamentable that it should be tecessary to refresh the public recollection upon events so essential in their bearing upon future legislation . Wan . Street has forgotten the Currency bill , since there is no question about its form , whatever may be thought about it . But Wall Street is looking ahead to other legislation , - hich now is in the form from which the ' Banking bill was rescued by the force of the opinion which the President now describes as opposing him . And the President himself is on record regarding the manner of approach toward this Prospective legislation . his World 's Work article . in his irortnighilY Review article , and in iiulaie speeches - he has declared that ? : to ruezi of big business should be challenged rather than consulted . He has reconsidered this position , and the reconsideration is mentioned to , his credit . He can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as on the banking question , 1 but not by persisting in a course affronting to the intelligence of men of large affairs . He has no stronger I well-wishers than they , irrespective of Polities , for there is no politics in pure finance . Their morals and patriotism are as good as his . Their memories and intelligence upon subjects so intimately concerning them and the country are better than his . Their opportunities of access to the public are inferior , but they are awaking to their duties and abilities in this direction                     