@@681892

txt The German answer to the United States with regard to submarine warfare has caused the most intense satisfaction among the Germans and brought vast relief to them , for the mere thought that the submarine war would be abandoned would cause widespread resentment . The newspapers print long editorials approving the Government 's stand and " conciliatory " tone . Captain Perseuis , in the Tageblatt , says : " The opinion is reiterated in the answer that relations with America should continue to be friendly , and with this object every right thinking person will agree . Only the irresponsible pen heroes believe in mobilizing public opinion against alleged weakening tendencies , but that such outbursts are not advantageous for the negotiations is obvious . Certain circles should not lose sight of the fact that public opinion in a democratically governed country , riot participating in the war , compels consideration . " The new note makes clearer that the present course will be continued with the greatest possible consideration for American interests . It stands under the motto , ' On tie ? way to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to emphasize the firm determination that our interests must hold first place : in other words , that we can not surrender , 1 the advantages that the use of the submarine weapon gives to the German people . Humanity in Reality . " Whether the proposals will receive unconditional acceptance we must watt and see , and If so , whether the safety measures will work out in practice . With good faith , of which there is no doubt , a way to an vnderstanding can be found even here . " The passage referring to the guaranty of America that non-contraband ships may be used by Americans deserves especial consideration . If an agreementwere reached on 4his point it would be a notable sign that America had not merely the word ' humanity ' in its mouth , as has unfortunately been occasionally asserted in ill-wishing circles , but - that in a really humane deed America wished ' to show how awake she was to the high goal of kulture and civilization . " We are confident that as a result of the German note a complete agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Prue humanity demand that neutrals give up all favoring of one warring side . It would be a one-sided interpretation of the principle of humanity if America were to make a renewed attempt to induce Germany to give up submarine warfare while furnishing the other side with arms and ammunition . " Germany 's only weapon of war with which she can prevent the delivery of war materials to the enemy is the submarine . The transport of war material Js a military act of far greater danger Ithan the transport of soldiers . " We recommend this viewpoint for consideration . From this viewpoint one must be forced to admit that international law must suffer a few changes through the appearance of submarines on the scene . I " Our note illuminates these points exhaustively . We hope the American people will do justice to our Government 's arguments , and that from now on all political friction will be obviated . " Says Every German Will Agree . The Lokal Anzeiger says : , " Every German will be able to agree unreservedly with the tone and contents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unwillingness to give way to American wishes as from timid consideration of the unwelcome consequences of unchanged continuation of the submarine war against England . " The proposals mark a going to meet the Americans half way that should fully satisfy the practical needs of the , 1 Americans and which they will undoubtedly appreciate to the full . In I any event , the note shows to Americans most clearly that the German Government , so far as lies , in its power , is Continued on , Paste 2. - ? sproduced with permission of the copyright owner . Further reproduction prohibited without permission . BERLIN 'S COMMENT ON THE ANSWER // honorably concerned to preserve peace and friendship with America in future . It is now up to them to submit the pro1 Peseta made to unprejudiced cOnsidera , Hon. " Feeling has undowotedly cooled down somewhat on the other side of the water , and Americans will undoubtedly admit that it is not Germany that tries to monopolize the freedom of the seas for itself alone . " In any event , we have now done our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his advisers will think suitable . " Other Nations Can not Prescribe . George Bernhard in the Vossische Zeitung says : " The publication of the note means ! liberation from many of the doubts that have excited a large part of the German people in recent weeks . The note is firm and dignified . It means unconditional refusal to let any outsider prescribe to us how far and with what weapons we may defend ourselves ' ? against ngland 's hunger war . There is not a word to indicate that we should allow this sharp weapon which German technical genius has given us to rust or have its edge taken off . Humanity demands that we prevent by any means in our power the murder of German women and children by starvation . Humanity also demands that we prevent ammunition from reaching England . " We hail it with joy that the German Government has placed itself so clearly on the ground that its first line of duty is humanity toward our own citizens . " The proof of the extremely conciliatory spirit , which we are ready @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same right of search for contraband in the port of departure which England has demanded and received . gather the note trusts the loyalty of the American Government , something that England has never done . With those farreaching , practicable and valuable concessions , we give America the possibility of not only protecting its trade , but also unconditionally safeguarding its passengers . Voices a Clear Conscience . The Morgen Post says : " It is a matter of intense gratification that the answer is in every way worthy of Germany . It voices the calmness of a clear conscience , a conviction that right is on our side , an honest wish to mitigate the horrors of war so far as it is in our power , and an honorable attempt to live in peace and friendship with the mighty republic across the Atlantic . " Those who had advised that we ought to humble ourselves before America will be just as disappointed as those who thought we ought to bring the fist down on the table and answer America 's representations with a war threat . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will welcome the German answer and its clear , calm , earnestly friendly tone . " It must be admitted that the differences have not been adjusted by the note , and that they still remain , but the German Government goes very far to meet America , One can harbor the confident hope that this will be appreciated in America , " Germany expresses satisfaction at the possibility of making use of Wilson 's good offices . His way is now free . He will undoubtedly turn with proposals toward England and all the world will follow him with rapt attention and await the result of his laudatory efforts . " Reventlow Generally Approves . Count von Reventlow says in tonight 's Tageszeitung : ' The substance of the proposals is to create a situation making it unneces , vary for Americans to travel to Europe on ships under an enemy flag . " The note will make clear in America Germany 's willingness to concede the I needs of American passenger traffic I anti , on the other hand , will leave no doubt that the submarine war , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be brought into agreement with those American needs . " By exact regulation and loyal enforcement this arrangement will function and be practicable . " Fears Too ilinch Is Conceded . The Tegliche Rundschau says that the " answer , with gratifying decisiveness , guards the conscience of the nation in the question of continuing the submarine war , but it criticises the note for possibly going too far in making concessions , which may prove impracticable and result in weakening the submarine war , " It goes on : " The guaranteeing of American ships by special markings and previous announcement of arrivals and departures presupposes a certain amount of honor on the part of England toward I her American friends . After our experoiences so far nobody can expect honor among the English . A people who did n't hesitate at shameful wisuse of the American flag will not hesitate to use the special markings which might be agreed upon for American ships , as well as the information about the arrival and departure of such ships . " For any harm that might come to American ships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decline all responsibility . " The Rundschan takes particular ex , ception to the proposition alloiwng four enemy ships to sail under the American Flag for unhindered communication between England and America . The lireuzzeiting also sees in the comI promise proposals dangers and diffirculties for Germany 's submarines . It says : " While the proposals imply no limitation of the submarnie war in principle they , nevertheless , place practical WM , tations and difficulties upon submarines , whose far-reaching effect only an expert can judge , and which will only appear In practice . ' Every such limitation , considering the role that the submarine war plays in our fight for existence , means for us a heavy sacrifice . We hope Americans give us due credit for our willingness to make this sacrifice . "                     