@@682000

txt The fact that several Baltimore banks that had intended to subscribe largely to the Anglo-French loan have withdrawn has had no effect upon the other financial Institutions , and the subscriptions here at the close of banking hours today totaled more than $4,000,000 , and will go half a million more , as additional sub , scriptions have been made by local banking houses for clients through their New York correspondents . The manner in which the loan has been received in Baltimore has been highly gratifying to the : - bankin houses which have been connected with the un derwriting . Subscriptions have come ' from all the leading financial institu- ' dons , and hundreds of individual invest- I ors also have become participants in the syndicate . BACON CHAMPIONS LOAN . Ex-Ambassador Appeals to Americans ' Patriotic Ideals . ' Robert Bacon , former Secretary of State and former Ambassador to France , said yesterday : " The American loan to the Allies is an accomplished fact . Its financial success is assured beyond a doubt , but there remains an even more important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every American citizen with money to invest , whether it be $100 or a million , the opportunity to show in a practical way sympathy for England and France in the fight which they are making for truth and democracy . It enables every man and woman to enroll himself or herself on the side of the right . This call should go ' through every Middlesex village and farm ' in such a manner that the response will be the response of the nation . We can not fully appreciate what such art answer will mean to our friends . in their hour of trial , what it will mean to them morally , and the encouragement it will give to them as they continue the struggle for ideals which have been our own ever since we became a nation . " We shall soon celebrate the anniversary of Yorktown . It is well to reflect now upon all that we fought for and won there for the world , tor our brothers of England no less than for our own country which had revolted from the despotisms of Kings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only through the aid of FrenchmenRochambeau , Lafayette. de Grasse  --  and with French treasure . These men came to us in our struggle through no motive of ambition or adventure , but because they cherished the ideals of liberty . France loaned us money even when the loan threatened to strain her credit , sending us her millions without thought of repayment . Meaning of World Crisis . " I believe that 90 per cent . of our citizens are in sympathy with the cause of the Allies , but we do not appreciate generally the meaning to us of this crisis in the world 's history . Whether this nation is to endure as one of the leaders in the society of nations will depend upon the manner in which we realize and fulfill our responsibilities , and this world crisis is putting us to the test . That we have not adequately realized the significance to us of the war is due largely to the fact that It is only within the last few years that we have come into active membership of the ' society of nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Isolation by the inevitable trend of human af , ! etre . " We still apparently fail to grasp the fact that we must bear our share in the world 's suffering and sacrifice . We do not , as a nation , realize that on the outcome of this war will depend whether we too must substitute new standards of conduct for those which we have inherited through the years ; that we must give up everything we now stand for in the name of liberty . " Is even that small proportion of our citizens whose ancestry or birth instills compassionate sympathy for the Fatherland ready to substitute other ideals for those which first attracted them or their fathers to seek the protection of this country ? Are they really willing knowingly to exchange the liberty of democracy which they have found here for a militarism that inevitably means the domination of force alone ? " Men questioned at the beginning of this war what France and England and Russia could oppose to that scientific , mechanical , intellectual military organization which had been developed to a higher degree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world had known . It was appreciated that this monstrous thing could not be met and defeated with its own weapons ; that there must be something bigger and higher which could only come from the spirit of the nations . There was a question in the minds of men whether the national soul of France had endured . Spirit of the French . " The answer came promptly . This scientific , soulless war machine is already defeated in its aims and ambitions . In spite of the superficial appearance of degenerated standards and ideals , the soul of the French nation had been growing steadily stronger and greater through the decades and France was saved not so much by her arms or the numbers of her men as by the spirit of her people . " It is the soul of the people of this country of ours that must now be awakened to national consciousness . We must prove to the world that we have not become so fattened and sated with prosperity that our ideals have become I subservient to our material progress . We must rise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We hear a great deal about our international rights and the ' trade rights of neutrals. ' but how about the necessary corollary of such rights  --  our duties and obligations ? " I believe that long ago we should have planted ourselves ' squarely and unequivocally on the side of the right . We have been hedged about by many technicalities which have made our people hesitate to show their sympathy in a practical way for the nations which are fighting our battle . By force of circumstances , by our isolation in the past , and by our later abnormal growth and prosperity we may appear to the world to have degenerated in our moral fibre , but the ideals of our country are always the same if only the truth can be brought home to the national consciousness . "                     