@@679383

txt Mrs. Stephen B. Elkins has filed a written renouncement of the provisions made for her under her husband 's will in order that filer five children may ultimately inherit the greater portion of the large estate left by the late Senator . Under the laws of West Virginia Mrs. Elkins is entitled to one-third of the property . both real and personal . In the Senator 's will he provided that all his children , including the two by his first wife , should share alike in the estate . Mrs. Elkins was dissatisfied with the arrangement , and by insisting upon her dower rights she will obtain from 80,000.000 to 88,000,000 , leaving the remaining two-thirds to be equally , distributed among the seven children . By leaving all her holdings to her own children the widow can materially increase their proportion , though the amount they will snare will not be so large as they would have received had the will been allowed to stand . The share of the two children by the first wife , on the other hand . will be correspondingly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mrs. Elkins 's children are Davis , Richard , Stephen B. , Jr. , Blaine , and Katherine . The document filed with the County Court ** " Hattie Davis Elkins , widow of Stephen B. Elkins. deceased , under the provisions of Section 11 , Chapter 78 , of the Laws of the State of West Virginia , do , by this instrument , in writing , renounce the provisions made for me in the will of my husband , Stephen B. Elkins , which will was dated and acknowledged on the 29th day of September , 1910. and probated on the 7th day of January , 1911. in the County Court of Randolph County , West Va. , and declare it to be my desire and Purpose to take and have such share of my husband 's real and personal estate as I would have had if he had died intestate leaving children . " Given under my hand and seal this 13th day of January , 1911 . " HALLIE D. ELKINS . " STATION CLOCKS ON A SPREE . Some Fast , Some Slow , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Station broke loose at 4 o'clock yesterday afternoon from the control of the master clock and started to play practical jokes on travelers . Some went fast and some went slow . The fast ones gave arrivals at the great terminal a shocked impression that they had come too late . The slow ones male others Miss their trains . Those who watched the spree of the clocks say that the opening antics reminded them of the performances of trick comedy time-pieces as seen on the stage . Some wagged their minute hands back and forth and then with an air of solemn resolution swung them back anywhere from ten minutes to threequarters of an hour . The clocks that went fast jumped their minute hands ahead with starts and bounds . Electricians who witnessed the odd performance said that there must have been a strange play of conflicting currents over the switchboard controlling the various clocks . Now and then a clock would change from slow to fast and another from fast to slow . Some excitement was caused around 5 o'clock when a stout man ran the whole length @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ train which made connections for the South . According to the first clock he saw on entering the station , he had less than a minute to catch his train . When he- learned that he still had a twenty minute margin , because the clock be saw was fast , he had to lean against the railing for several - minutes before he could gasp out : " Well . what do you think of a blanked clock that would give a man a shock like that ? I was going all the way to Mobile and I could n't get another through train in time to make an appointment . I thought I was going to lose 8100,000 . " Even after the switchboard had been put in order , it was found that special attention would have to be given to each of the wayward clocks and electricians busied themselves for several hours setting them to rights .                     