@@681936

txt Former City Controller Edward M , Grout , who was found guiity of perjury in swearing to a false report of the financial condition of the Union Bank , I of which he was President , received ' a certificate of .. reasonable doubt as to I the legaiitY ' " nr-1111 conviction yesterday " afternoon from-i ? SuprSine Court Justice Townsend Scudder in Brooklyn . Mr. Grout was at once admitted to ball in ' . the sum of *5,000 , pending an appeali from the judgment of the trial court , and was released from the ? jail . The bond was furnished by a surety coin- , pany . Mr. Grout was convicted on July 24 , before County Judge Lewis , after a I trial which lasted about nine weeks . He was sentenced to Sing Sing Prison for not less than one year nor more than two years . A stay of execution of sentence was granted by Judge Lewis in order that Stephen C. Baldwin , counsel for the defendant , might move for the certificate of reasonable . doubt and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Baldwin in the course of the trial were considered by Justice Scudder , but the chief point which influenced him to grant the certificate was the contention that Grout was convicted on an affidavit other than that on which the indictment against him was found . It appeared that Grout was indicted for falsifying a statement to the State Banking Department , whereas he was tried on a published statement of the same nature . Although there was a difference of but a few words in the two statements , Justice Scudder considered that the divergence was such as to invalidate the trial . " If the record supports defendant 's contention that such change in the indictment was made by the trial court , " said Justice Scudder , " beyond question the judgment of conviction was obtained without the due process of law , as prescribed by the Constitution of New York , State , and is void . The trial court in this case , by its rulings , in effect did amend the indictment so as to place the defendant upon trial for different crime than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an offense for which he had not /been indicted by a grand jury . " There Is no power in a trial judge to indict . Yet- that is what happened here . The defendant was indicted for perjury in swearing to the affidavit attached to the ' Report of the Condition of the Union Bank ' and was tried and convicted of perjury without an indictment by the Grand Jury , in swearing M the affidavit attached to the ' Quarterly Report of the Union Bank , ' a different , separate and distinct paper . " The indictment upon which the defendant was brought to trial alleged no crime if the views expressed by the trial judge are correct , because it alleged no falsity in any oath required by law . The defendant was tried and convicted of a crime for which he had not been Indicted . and for which , without indictment , legally he could not be brought to trial . " Justice Scudder was one of the members of the judiciary criticized by District Attorney Cropsey in a public speech in which he referred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Grout case as " bosom friends " of the defendant and as " hand-picked " judges . When the application for a certificate of reasonable doubt came before Justice Scudder , Mr. Cropsey objected to Justice Scudder eltting in judgment in the matter . As to the District Attorney 's challenge , Justice Scudder had this to say in his memorandum yesterday : " The court , after due consideration of the District Attorney 's statements and the affidavits which he has filed , finds nothing therein to-justify the changing of its rulings made upon the hearing of the motion that it is not biased . The court deems itself without power to direct that this motion be heard by another Justice , and holds mandatory the la w directing applications for certificates of reasonable doubt to be made to- a regularly annotated Special Term et the Supreme Court                     