@@680943

txt Next to the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States the Federal reserve act , signed by President Wilson , December 23 , may be the most important measure ever placed before the people of these United States . Upon its wise administration depends the good or ill of a hundred million people and as a nation we shall probably live under it not only for the twenty years named in the act , but , with amendments found necessary from time to time , for possibly many generations . The miraculous thing about its creation is tnac it sprang forth in a few hours before the Christmas holidays from a new Congress that understood little of currency and less of banking and an Executive and a Cabinet that never made any pretepee to a clear understanding of financial - principles . Yet a Congress of - financial experts , with an Administration and a Cabinet composed of the leading bankers of the country , probably could not have produced so good a bill . Bunkers are not generally progressive or even open minded . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all changes they naturally regard with suspicion . Congress having no fixed principles -a as subject to no prejudices and the bunkers , who could never be induced to formulate a bill , unconsciously made one by their negations . This bill is the re-formation-of un absolutely unworkable and chaotic measure passed by the House . It was forced into shape by pressure from the Administration to do something promptly , as the nether millstone , and the determination of the banking interests of the country , to quit the national bunking system , as the upper millstone , should the act give evidence of being for them dangerous . Yet the bill in its broad principles is the result of currencyexpert and banking agitation that has been going on for well nigh a generation ; even before the necessity for currency legislation ' was emphasized by the 1907 panic . - Frnsr DRAFT Muid.1. -T DANGEROUS . The bill as it passed the House was so highly dangerous as to be undiscussable . Had not the financial papers refrained from criticism a panic might easily have ensued . Had the House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it might have disrupted the national bunking system and caused the sudden retirement of $700,000,000 of national bank currency . The country has never been informea of the quiet currents of expression that went on last autumn between leading banking interests . The sentiment of the national bankers crystallized in a quiet . but unrecorded , determination to make no acceptance of the Douse bill , and to avoid the creation of any panic by simply sitting still and leaving it to the Administration , if it so elected , So enforce the act and put the nationul banks out of existence through receivership . In other words , the banks would not themselves take the responsibility of a foreclosure upon the national bunking system , with a contraction of 3700 , - 000,000 in the currency afloat , which meant the sudden retirement of 405 , of the money in the hands of the people . This was the quiet sentiment of the national bank interests of the country as understood and privately yet individually formulated at the American Bankent ' Association Convention in Boston last October . Our readers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspapers nave so little discussed the currency measure while it was pending . The bankers were a unit in their declaration against political control of the credits of the country . They saw the dangers of absolutely free check collections , giving rise to check kiting from one end of the country to the other ; the impossibility of calling up the reserves from the banking interests of the country , as proposed in the Rouse bill , without disaster , and sundry other features of this bill that made it beyond the probability of any volume of money in the country to inaugurate , to say nothing of the amount of credit required to sustain it  --  the disaster of contraction to inaugurate it and if inaugurated the wild check kiting and inflation that must follow . A ) , IARVEL OF LEGISLATION . Now , miracle of miracles , with responsibility to nobody , and yet with credit to everybody , the millstones of banking sentiment and political legislation have ground out a bill that may prove , with wise administration , as much of a marvel as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While the bill was under discussion in the Senate it was changed so rapidly that the financial world , except for a few leading experts , lost personal interest in it , and refused to follow the matter in the news of the day . But during the past two weeks financiers have had time to read the full text of the conference bill , as signed by the President . and it is not saying too much to declare that they are astonished at its breadth and character , the evident sincerity of its purpose and its freedom from bias , prejudice or experimental notion . Singular as it may appear , the force , breadth , and character of this bill are really due to the pressure put upon Congress to nroduce a bill before the Christmas holiitays . At the last moment of the session , the several points in dispute were compromised by throwing them upon the new Federal Reserve Board , yet to be appointed ? just where the power should be lodged . In fact , the new banking bill puts in the hands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Board the construction , regulation , and government of a reserve banking system to be built out of the reserves of the national banks , gradually removed from the reserve and central reserve cities , and gradually mingled with the moneys of the United States Treasury . These moneys with the capital subscribed by the national , or " member " banks , constitute a basis for the re-discount of commercial paper from the member banks , and the issuance in this connection of a new national currency supplementing the present currency , yet protected by a 407 : - gold reserve obtained from the banks and the Treasury ; the whole system to be knit together at home and expanded abroad , with power in the Federal board to expand or contract at will , to officer and manage and regulate and name the discount rates for the Federal reserve hanks , with possibly more money in their pocket books than may be then held by the banks now constituting the national banking system . In discussing the new bank act , the text thereof will be followed , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act , which is in thirty sections , and as printed by the Government covers twenty-six and a half ordinary pages . 