@@683306

txt President Wilson issued a proclamation today , the object of which is to prevent military information regarding the movement and armament of American vessels reaching German agents through inspection of these vessels by representatives of insurance companies organized in Germany and which have been transacting business in this country since the outbreak of the war . The President 's proclamation places a ban on the transaction of the business of marine and war risk insurance by these companies during the war , either as insurers or re-insurers . The text of the proclamation follows : A PROCLAMATIONBY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA . Whereas , Certain insurance companies incorporated under the laws of the German Empire have , been admitted ' to transact the business of marine and , war risk Insurance in ? various States of the United States hy Means . of separate State branches established pursuant to the laws of such States , and are now engaged in-such business under the supervision of the Insurance Departments thereof , with assets in the United States deposited with Insurance Departments or in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the protection of all policy holders in the United States ; and Whereas , The nature of marine and war risk insurance is such that those conducting it must of necessity be in touch with the movements ' of - ships and cargoes , and it has been considered by the Government of great importance that this information should not be obtained by alien enemies ; pow , therefore , I , Woodrow Wilson , President of the united States of . America , by virtue of the powers vested in me as such , hereby decree and proclaim that such branch establishments of German insurance companies now engages in the transaction of business in the United States , pursuant to the laws  --  of the several States , are hereby prohibited from continuing the transaction of the business of marine and war risk insurance either as direct insurers or reinsurers ; and all individuals , firms , and insurance companies incorporated under the laws of any ; of the States or Territories of the United States , or of any foreign country , and established pursuant to the laws of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the business of marine and war risk insurance , either as direct insurers or reinsurers , are hereby prohibited from reinsuring with companies incorporated under the laws of the German Empire , no matter where located ; and all persons in the United States are prohibited from insuring against marine or war risks with insurance companies incorporated under the laws of the German Empire or with individuals , firms , and insurance companies incorporated under the laws of any of the States or Territories of the United States or of any foreign country and now engaged in the business of marine or war risk insurance in the United States , which reinsure business originating in the United States with companies incorpprated under the laws of the German Empire , no matter where located . ? The foregoing prohibitions shall extend and operate as to all existing contracts for insurance and reinsurance which are hereby suspended for the period of the war , except that they ' shall not operate to vitiate or prevent the Jnsurance or reinsurance of and the pliyment or receipt of pre- ' miums on insurance or reinsurance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the date of this proclamation , and such insurance or reinsurance , If for a voyage , shall continue in force until arrival at destination , and if for time , until thirty days from the date of this proclamation , but if for a voyage at that time , until the arrival at destination . ' Nothing herein shall be construed to operate to prevent the payment or receipt of , any premium or claim now due on .. which may become due on or in respect to insurances or reinsurances not prohibited by this proclamation . That all funds of such German companies now in the possession of their managers or agents , or which shall hereafter come into their possession , shall be subject to such rules and regulations concerning the payment and disposition thereof as shall be Prescribed by the insurance supervising officials of the State in which the . principal office of such establishment in the United States ' is located , but in no event shall any funds belonging to or held for the benefit of such com panies be transmitted outside of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establishment , directly or indirectly , of any credit within or outside of the United States to or for the benefit or use of the enemy or any of his allies without the permission of this Government . In witness whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. , Done at the District . of Columbia this 13th day of July , in the year of our Lord one ' thousand nine hundred . and seventeen and of the independence of the United States the one hundred and forty-second . WOOD ROW WILSON . ' POUR COMPANIES AFFECTED . German Concerns Here Got Much Data Regarding Ships . The four German companies doing large reinsurance business in New York are the Mannheim Insurance Company of Mannheim , Germany : the Nord Deutsche Insurance Company of Hamburg , the Alliance Insurance Company of Berlin , and the Munich . Re-Insurance Company of Munich , the latter with Offices in Hartford , Conn . The local agents of the Mannheim Company are T. Herrman &; Co .. of 41 Wall Street , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wolf and Charles A. Orr . J. Raymond Smith is the agent of the Alliance . Company . Karl Schreiner is agent of th Munich Company , with his headquarters in Hartford . He Makes frequent trips to New York . An important attache of one of these four companies has been " a subject of study by the United States authorities for some months . It is alleged that when the war began in 1914 he was living in England . On his estate was found a wireless outfit , it is said , by British detectives who arrived after the man was gone . According to Secret Service agents , he went to an acquaintance . a German American then in England , and- borrowed his . passport on which he came to this country . He established himself here in the insurance business . The work took him to steamship piers , where he went until the President 's proclamation . closed the barred zones to him . He live ? in New York at a well-known hotel in. a barred zone . His application for a permit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well-known bankers . A report covering the activities of this man both in England and the United States has been filed , Washington . He was not in New Yrk last night . Whenever one of the German companies insured a ship or cargo , or took a part of - he insurance from another company as reinsurance , it got the name and general description of the ship , her port . of departure , ha- cargo , her Speed , het destination . The time of departure was nct given . The New York State Department of Insurance recently made . an investigation of the finances of the German companies , which showed that the patrons were amply protected . A. high official of the department said he had- found that while one of the companies was under a. marl who Was strongly pro-ally. another company had as an American agent a violent pro-German. 