@@682700

txt While the tariff question daily is gaining in importance , the position of the Tarirf Commission is being lessened in authority . By a vote of almost two to one the Senate refused to put it on a - par with other Commissions which this Congress has ap ' pointed , and reduced the salary to be paid to $7.500 . The view which prevailed was that the salary had nothing to do with the quality of Commissioners . " Let 's double our salaries and thereby double our respectability , " said Senator S ERMAN . It did not occur to the Senator to Propose to halve , the Senators ' salaries and thereby double their respectability . That is the argument applied to the Tariff Commission 's salaries . Perhaps it may work . There may be men of public spirit who will give themselves to this work regardless of the pay . The same might be true of Senators . But there are few Senators who would accept the Tariff Commission 's rate of pay I and devote themselves to the work exclusively . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must submit the results of its labor to men who have signified in advance their small estimate of the Commission 's position In the scheme of legislation . It is not unlikely that a better tariff will come from the nonpartisan Commission than will be enacted by the partisan Congress . The present prospect is that the Democrats will repeat the Republican mistake , and enact a tariff different in object from that sanctioned by the people . The people twice have given a mandate for a tariff which should put the manufactures of the United States more nearly on the ! scale of the world 's markets . The Republicans lost public confidence through their failure to do so , and still are kicking against the pricks . The Democrats , nevertheless , are ambitious for similar discipline , for they are setting in motion the wheels which will mac it impossible for the United States to sell its goods to any other consumers than Americans . Both parties seem to think that Americans like to pay high for everything , and regard cheapness as an unpardonable sin . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will resent the depression of trade caused by production beyond the needs of this market . That is not the appearance of the moment , but it is a certainty of the future . The Webb bill was not attached to the Revenue bill , as a canvass of the Senate showt , d opposition . Therefore it was withdrawn , despite the support of the President . and the . Trade Commission . The situation , therefore , remains as it is , with good opinion that , according to the rule of reason , combinations for the promotion of trade , and without the effect of undue restraint , are lawful , in all trade , domestic and foreign alike . The Trade Commission can go far to make that undoubted , and the Webb bill proposed no more . Rather , it proposed less , for It applied only to foreign trade . The establishment of two rules of opposite intention would go to prove that one was contrary to reason or morality . Commercial necessity was the argument for the Webb bill . But commercial necessity would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good foreign practice authorizes combinations in both foreign and domestic trade would seem to indicate that the same rule is good for us also . To deny ourselves at home a facility of trade used abroad would seem poor policy . To justify abroad a policy condemned at home would seem hardly civilized . The Webb bill would do no more than remove an alleged doubt . The Trade Commission now has the opportunity presented to it to perform the same service , and it may be hoped that it will tackle the task masterfully                     