@@679295

txt When an old hero of the civil war dies , printed reminiscences of the battles in which he took part are inevitable . When a famous diplomat passes away the history of the treaty between nations he fathered or the delicate mission he successfully fulfilled becomes a part of the day 's news . When a witness in the Beecher-Tilton case dies , as inevitably the record of that unsavory. baneful suit at law , and the social and religious ( or church ) squabbles associated with it , must be again brought to light . Perhaps this is Just as well . The suit of TILTON against BEECHER has its place in our social history and development . It was a pitiful affair , but while it lasted it seemed to crowd nearly all other public matters out of the common mind in this neighborhood , and to hold the attention of ? the whole country . While it probably did not lower the moral tone of the community , permanently at least , it certainly served to increase the vulgarity of the habitually vulgar and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was discussed in mixed company more than any other similar case had been In this country before 1874 New and persistent slang phrases , some of which , indeed , still survive , were derived from it . From first to last the case was more or less of a mystery . The temper of the persons involved in it , and there must have been nearly 100. was never quite understandable to the multitude which devoured daily every detail of the evidence . The mystery was never solved . Men made up their minds for or against the defendant according to their own instincts and methods of judging character . The testimony of the witness for the plaintiff who died Thursday , Mrs. FR.A.NTH - Mout- Tox , was not the least of the puzzling features . Her cerity - , was ; notdotkl3ted .. , Yeta.ma ity:of the Jurors refereed=to believe , and other reputable witnesses who corroborated her testimony or testified to the same purpose . It was a much simpler community that was shocked and severely unsettled by the case and the various disputes that preceded and followed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quite so large a following , none ever enjoyed so prodigious a share of public admiration , as the defendant . That the religious feeling of the cornmnity was temporarily decreased by the scandal is not unlikely . There was little of the Christian spirit ever manifested in the discussion of it . For the time being it seemed a public calamity . No similar case could cause so much excitement now . The conditions do not exist . We live in a more sophisticated age . Yet the moralist might trace influences of the publicity of the Brooklyn church scandal even in the daily conversation of this time . The old phrases are still heard occasionally . And fwm the loss of reverence for forms and the outward show of piety it inevitably caused we have probably never recovered .                     