@@684669

txt Mr. LADIS LA s MICHALS K I , c:ty architect of Warsaw , is studying American cities in preparation for the twelve-year task of modernizing the transit system of the Polish capital . Warsaw has nearly a million people now , and after a few years of prosperity and independence will probably have considerably more . It needs subways , viaducts , bridges . Mr. MIC HALK I says : Germany has made bids to commence work on our subways and our street car extensions . But we are anxious to avoid commercial relations with the Germans because they are a dangerous influence . We want to buy our supplies from the United States and to adopt American plans of construction . It must be something of a setback to a gentleman who wants to do this to find that the best engineering description of the New York subway system which he can buy here : n New York is written in German and printed in Germany ; and the fact ought to convey some warning to American business men . Among the new countries or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are industrially the most important . The Czechs , in their long struggle to escape denationalization at the hands of the Germans , had to learn to , hold their own In business against the , Germans . They learned it , and when the war-began Bohemia was industrially one of the most prosperous parts of Europe . The country suffered a good deal at the hands of the Austrian Government during the war , but the natural resources are . still there , and the enterprise and industry of the People are still there . Poland in recent years has become a great manufacturing country . The Polish textile industry was severely injured in ' the war , when German and Russian ' armies fought in and around some of the principal manufacturing towns ; and the German armies of occupation stripped Poland of most of its movable wealth , which German buss ' ness men are now offering to restore in order to get whatever hold on Polish industry may be possible . The Poles and Czechs ' do not like the Germans . The Germans , for that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but we may be . sure that the Germans will do their best to dominate Czech and Polish commercial and industrial life . Poland and Bohemia have great ' natural wealth and enormous possibilities , ' but they need credit . They need raw materials . The United States has more credit and -a larger supply of raw materials than any other nation ; it remains to : ) e seen whether our business ' men will realize their opportunity . - ? - Before the war Warsaw and " Prague often ' had to ke credit ? froth Berlin and Vienna . . The war has changed the map , but - it has not changed geography ; Berlin and Vienna are still nearer than New York or London or Paris . Berlin and Vienna are not very well off , but they are already settling down to work ; trying to get what foothold they can in Poland and Bohemia . Paris and Lon , don have troubles of . their ' own , and are not likely to be able to extend very much of the credit that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York . Americans who can provide raw materials for Poland and Bohemia on long-term credits , who can lend ' money to the Poles and ? Czechs for the industrial development of their countries , will be rendering a very considerable service to two newly freed peoples who do not want to fall back into the sphere of Germany 's commercial influence . They will be making a direct and important contribution to the preservation of Polish and Czechoslovak liberty . They will be doing that much to prevent the future commercial aggrandizement of Germany . That in so doing they will , ultimately , win very great profits for themselves , profits which the industrial future of Poland and the Czechoslovak republic assure to those who furnish goods and credit now , may be an incidental consider:Mon or it may be the first consideration ; but in any event American bankers and business men who overlook this opportunity will be shortsighted .                     