@@680117

txt Would Have Rockefeller and Car- ' negle Join an Order . The position of the Catholic Church toward Socialism and private property was expounded yesterday at the Catholic conference a : Fordham University . The Rev. Dr. John A. Ryan of St. Paul University , St. Paul , Minn. , who was to have outlined the labor problems in the United States , was ill with throat trouute. and so the Rev. H. J. Maekel , S. J .. of Buffalo gave both lectures . Falliei Maeltel said that if so many men were unable to make both ends meet they ought to become poor by Joining one of the Catholic orders , and then have all they wanted . He mentioned the Rockefellers and others who say they are troubled by appeals for money , and invited them to become Capuchins and end their bother . If Capuchins were not to their liking , they might be Trappists , he said . " Old maids , of whom there are many , " he continued , " whose difficulties , too , are many , might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Catholic Church has solved the problem of community life , made most men and women in it happy and contented , and made them useful to themselves and others besides . . This is not always the case when men and women conduct their own affairs . Our idle rich , our improvident poor , might well take heed . " Father Maekel said the Catholic Church had always stood for the rights of private property and condemned commun .. Ism . So it condemned the teachings of the Socialists . Ho told how , as a Jesuit . he owned nothing , not even the clothes he wore , and yet how rich he was , having everything he needed . The difference between himself , as a Jesuit , and the teaching of the Socialist is that he took the vow voluntarily . The Socialist would compel men to act thus and so regarding property . He wanted the Carnegics to act of their owit free will If at all . At the morning lecture Father Maekel gave the difference between the Catholic Church 's position and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concept of society is to find out how to solve social questions . Man was not made for society , but society for the development of man . The proper course is to look for the factors that make real men . These are the family , the State , the Church , and private organizations formed by men themselves . All of these have their proper places . The Socialists would solve the whole matter by having the State dot all . Socialists forget that society was not made by men , but by God . The State , even in charge of Socialists , has no right to take away private property without compensation . To do so violates God 's laws . The Socialism of the State and the tyranny of the majority are alike to be avoided . if the majority lays down that which is not right , the reply must be that God is above the majority . Father Maekel , defending Pope ' ' Leo 's encyclical , said he was right when he asserted that Socialism intended to turn over all private property @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have his own home , his own plot of land , even his own automobile , and then they hasten to say that such allowance leaves some measure of ownership . Father Maekel declared , however , that Socialists in their platform forbade the sales of boosts no longer wanted , of automobiles no longer able to be used , and said that such prohibition was a , violation of God 's taws o ? private property , and of the Catholic Church 's teaching regarding it . Father ** will discuss to-day the minimum wage law which Pope Leo favored . To-night there will be a lecture by David Goldstein of Boston . The conference lasts through the week .                     