@@681818

txt The Italian generalissimo has lost no time in beginning a vigorous offensive . The army has already passed the Austrian frontier at a number of points , and Italians are now in possession of certain naturally strong positions from the Swiss border to the Adriatic . Fighting in any serious sense has so far been confined to the northeast frontier . On the night or the 2:id the Austrians began a furious cannonade of the Italian position on the Italian side of the frontier . The Austrians ' firing , though it was heavy , resulted in no less to the Italians . On the morning of the 24th , after the expiration of the period of grace allowed by Italy 's declaration of war , Italian artillery bombarded the enemy 's lines , ultimately silencing the enemy 's guns . Under cover of the artillery fire the Italians advanced , thejr soldiers cheering wildly . There was a great race among the infantry regiments for the honor of being first on Austrian soil . The Itali s advanced along the front for solve e - tent and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Venetian Friuli , which was ceded to Austria by the treaty of Campo Formio . They met with but feeble resistance , and found no difficulty in driving the enemy before them . The Austrians in their retirement blew up bridges and destroyed all passable roads and burned a number of houses inhabited by the poorer classes . The inhabitants of the invaded district are Italian in race and language . Many have been driven off by the retiring Austrians , who appear to have used them harshly . Those remaining received the Italians warmly on their entry into the towns , acclaiming them as their deliverers . At the sight of the Italian uniforms the people became frantic with joy , running to embrace the soldiers , and calling to them : " Our brothers ! Our brothers ! " The army of liberation , as it is designated , is in splendid fighting trim and looking forward to the next brush with the Austrians . Today the Italian flag is flying over Palazzo Chigi , which was the official residence of Baron Macchio , the Austrian Ambassador . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its battlemented walls and castellated towers , which gave it the air of a feudal fortress , no longer shelters Emperor Francis Joseph 's envoy to the Vatican . He , too , has gone , and the fortress , like the palace , is silent and deserted . A few carabiniero keep watch and ward before the main entrance , gently hustling along the little knots of curious who seek to loiter before the immense oaken , ironbound doors . A question of the ownership of the palace has now arisen . It was ceded to Austria when the Venetian republic , whose palace in Rome it was , fell , and it retained its extraterritoriality after her successful war against Austria . Italy did not forget the Palazzo Venezia , but in those clays Rome was not part of the kingdom of Italy . Now , by right of conquest , it will probably pass to Italy , and a very handsome and valuable spoil of war it will be . At Tivoli of classic memory , which Horace immortalized , is the Villa d'Este , which belonged to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ villa was invaded in a perfectly orderly manner by the populace , who insisted on the Italian flag being hoisted upon its walls . Fugitives from Trent describe the vengeance the Austrians are wreaking upon the unhappy Italian population which is today within their power . The Italians are made a target for every kind of spite and maltreatment . Austrian soldiers have sacked the houses , taking away provisions and beating and insulting the occupants when they found nothing worth appropriating . The principal houses of the town are occupied by soldiers , and their proprietors have been expelled or imprisoned and their property confiscated . All Italians of military age in the Trentino have been summoned to serve in the Austrian army . Those who refused have been shot . If news which comes from Switzerland be correct there was . for a time some uneasiness in Federal Government circles regarding the attitude of Germany on the question of neutrality and the inviolability of Swiss territory . To some minds it seemed that Switzerland as a short cut to Italy must be a sore temptation to the military advisers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a splendid shield to Germany 's southern flank . It is the general opinion that Berlin will respect the treaty of 1515 guaranteeing the . inviolability of Swiss territory . The Corriere della . Sera , giving particulars of the aeroplane attack on Venice early Monday morning . says that in addition to bombs . dropped , . Seas a steel arrow inscribed : " . French Invention . German application . " No one was hit .                     