@@681652

txt The Senate today took action tantamount to dropping the Ship Purchase bill . By an informal but binding arrangement between the Republicans and Democrats the Senate late this afternoon without a roll-call asked the House for a conference on the measure . Under the arrangement the bill will stay in conference until Feb. 27 , while the annual appropriation bills are disposed of . The bill may then be brought before the Senate again in the form of a conference report , but no one has any idea that in the remaining four days of the session a vote can be reached . Opinion is general that the measure is dead . This was the course practically agreed to yesterday , and this morning the President intimated his acquiescence . He has made up his mind not to call an extraordinary session to put the measure on the statute books , as he feels that in the present disturbed condition the country needs a rest from legislation . He hopes to put responsibility for the failure of the bill on the Republicans . Congress will now devote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the ShipPtirchase bill comes back to the Senate : That is an unprecedentedly brief period for passing so many important measures through the Senate , but with most of the debatable items eliminated the task is not impossible , If any bills fail to reach the President in time for his signature before March 4 a joint resolution will probably continue existing appropriations until the next Congress . The greatest stumbling block in the way of swift legislation is the River and Harbor now on the Senate 's calendar . That is the measure that Senator Burton , a Republican who retires to . private life on ' March 4 , killed almost single-handed in the last session by a remarkable filibuster . Mr. Burton is understood to have set his heart upon rounding out his career by . killing- the bill or pruning it of the " pork barrel " items that aroused his opposition last Fall . To meet his attack it is understood that the Democrats in charge of the bill have agreed to prune the meas .. ure heavily , leaving little more than appropriations for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrangement was made to send the Ship Purchase bill tcr a conference there was a lively few hours on the floor of the Senate . Many opponents of the bill had amendments to propose , and these had to be killed or tabled before the final vote was taken . Many of these amendments . were offered only to show the views of their sponsors , while others were offered in an effort to encumber ( the bill with provisions that would alienate some of the support it now has . The trouble began when Senator Bankhead , one of the seven Democrats opposing the bill , offered an amendment to the House amendments , under which the ships which were to be acquired by the Government should be admitted to coastwise trade . Mr. Bankhead 's willingness to interfere with the coastwise shipping as now established was doubted by many of his colleagues , but some Democrats were reluctant to vote against a proposal which they had long advocated . When Mr. Fletcher , in charge of the bill , moved . to table the Bankhead amendment , many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a curious shifting of votes the motion to table was rejected by a vote of 37 to 40 . Senator Stone , Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations , whose denunciations of the seven dissenting Democrats have not helped party harmony , again made a bitter attack on the insurgents . He read a clipping from a morning newspaper reciting the suicide yesterday of Col. E. W. Lillard of Danville , Ky. , who , six years ago , bolted his party in the Legislature , causing the election of the late Senator Bradley . a Republican . ' Two thousand years ago , " said Mr. Stone slowly , " Judas Iscariot betrayed Christ with a kiss , and six years ago Col. Lillard betrayed the party that elected him . We all know what became of Judas , and now we know what became of Col. Lillard . I call attention to this later incident as showing that there is always a nemesis that walks aide by side with men who act like Judas and Lillard . " Senator Reed of Missouri , who has ardently supported the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would support the bill if his amendment was offered . But Mr. Bankhead merely rat in his seat and chuckled . Several Senators said they saw no reason for voting against an amendment that was meritorious in itself regardless of the motives of its proponents , but most supporters of the took the other view , and as a majority of the Republicans refused to attack coastwise shipping conditions , the amendment was defeated 33 to 54 . The vote then came on an amendment , offered by Senator Hitchcock , another of the dissenting Democrats , prohibiting the exportation of arms from the United States to belligerent nations . His amendment was tabled , 51 to 36 . Senator O'Gorman , another Democrat opposing the bill , then offered an amendment providing that the Government . without waiving any rights or reversing its previous position on the subject , should not acquire any belligerent ships . His amendment went the same road by a vote of 45 to 43 . Senator Smith of Michigan then proposed that the subject be investigated by a commission , and that was tabled , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and forbidding any ships , to be acquired by the Government , from voyaging to ports in belligerent countries , was tabled by a vote of 48 to 37 . The vote then came on asking a conferenee , and that was adopted without objection . For the conference the managers on the part of the Senate will be Niessrs . Fletcher , Ra.nsdell , Martin , and Simmons . Democrats , and Nelson . Burton , and Crawford , Republicans . 