@@684592

txt Public Service Commissioner NixoN and Transit Commissioner DELANEY have made strong arguments against assistance to the subway companies , tut without exhausting the subject . We should suppose they would agree that present conditions are abnormal , and that abnormal coriditions should no more control the making of contracts for normal times than the other way about . The five-.cent fare became insufficient and unjust - because the War Board oriered an increase of costs with authority hardly ' less compelling ? than law , , and the law itself prevents , the increase of fare correspondingly . Both officials find a connection between the fares and the profits of the companies which is not contemplated by either ... the law or the contract , and which in itself is undesirable . ? Both agree that the nickel fare ' ought not to be altered without the most compelling reason , and yet both consider it desirable to use the present abnormal conditions to authorize , if not compel , a rate of fare altering with profits . There have been repeated proofs that it is difficult to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nickel fare ought to be a fixture , if it can be made so without doing great harm to many interests . Both officials think it fair to propose mutual concessions in the reform of the contract regarding the subways , although the effect of the contract is to the profit of the city and to the/ loss of the companies . Both officials argue as if a public utility were a private enterprise , , free to conduct its affairs in its own way , and not entitled to consideration on account of hardships imposed upon it by those who - should protect it , as well as regulate it , in the interest of the public as well as of the companies . In short , both officials err in regarding the cern panics as approaching insolvency as if they were free-will agents , responsible ' for their own condition , and not reduced to distress by officials whose attitude seems something less than judicial or judicious . It is most surprising of all that hots officials . think that the city should have a preference in the earnings , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which there is a present deficiency , due to no fault of the companies , and largely due to the fault of the city . If the city had fulfilled it ? obligations , tho subways would Shave been completed before the war upset all calculations on which the contract was based , and there might now be a profit instead of a loss . On balance there is a large debit against the city for its part in bringing it about that the companies are carrying full dt.pital costs and operating a system far from complete , and with construction made unneFessarily costly . Yet the city is complainant , although it is receiving large profits in , which the companies have no part . The city is now collecting taxes due to the values created by ' the subways , without which it would be beyond the constitutional debt limit and in a financial condition approaching that of the subway companies . The connection between nickel fares and tax valuations and receipts is as direct as between nickel fares and subway company profits . The situation is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contract , and that the companies are suffering a loss which was not contemplated at all . Yet it is proposed to reform the contract to the prejudite of the companies and in manner also harmful to the city . A shifting fare at the cost of shifting tax values will injure the city and proprtyi owners more than it will benefit ! arepayers . It would/ seem that the situation is so abnormal , and so unexected to all concerned , that no perr nanent alteration in ' Ur contract Should be ventured upon. , Nothing shows that it is a bad contract ; rather ; 110 contrary . What the conditions ; all for is temporary relief to the party Suffering , and that is not the city .                     