@@681458

txt Nearly 7.000,000 persons in Belgium face famine unless they receive help from the outside at once . The American Minister to Belgium , Brand Whitlock , says that less than two weeks ' supply of food remains in the cities , while conditions in the country districts are even worse . Though Germany has seized the food in some cities for her soldiers , she still disclaims responsibility for feeding the Belgians . Mr. Whitlock has had only peasant 's black bread for two weeks , and the supply of that is short . One hundred soup kitchens are feeding over 100,000 of the needy in Brussels . Families formerly rich are discharging their servants because they are bankrupt . Noblemen may be seen slipping into soup kitchens . The factories are closed . Many stores remain open , but have no business . The street cars are being operated , but the railway train service has been abandoned . The supplies of coffee , tea , flour , rye , and salt are practically exhausted . Reports received by Minister Whitlock from Louvain , Liege , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even worse than they are in Brussels . Louvain has only a four days ' supply of flour , while Liege has no flour at all . The peasants in many districts have been forced to exist on legumes , as the crops of beets and cabbages have been ruined . The meat and milk supplies have also been cut off , the army having taken the cattle . It is declared to be absolutely essential that food be obtained from England , and it is hoped that the first shipment is now on the water . People Wandering Hopelessly . Nearly half of those people who have been able to remain in Belgium are wandering helplessly from town to town . seeking shelter with friends and relatives . Malines , which formerly had 60 , - 000 inhabitants , has but few undamaged houses standing . A similar situation exists at Namur and Louvain . The road from Antwerp to Brussels is black with processions of people moving in either direction . Wagons and carts are filled with the wreckage of their household . effects . Thousands c n foot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but with no definite destination . Other , crowds are gathered about the ruins of forts and rifle pits , staring blankly at mounds that are covered with withered flowers and surmounted by wooden crosses upon which the helmets of dead Germans have been placed to mark their graves . Belgians of all classes appear disheartened . Old women and cripples may be seen sitting near their shattered homes in Malines , nodding mutely at the Cathedral with its shattered windows and tottering walls  --  damaged beyond repair by shell fire . Similar conditions are found in the small villages between Antwerp and Brussels . Few stores are open . Those attempting to re-establish their homes find their roofs , which have been pierced by shells , no protection from the rain that is now falling every day . The villages that stood near contested forts were literally razed , yet many of the inhabitants remain , living in rudely constructed sheds or tents . In Brussels the sides of buildings and billboards are plastered with German military notices printed in French , German , and Flemish . The streets are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the officers , carrying buglers to warn pedestrians , are dashing in all directions . The city is quiet . All the shops and houses are closed at 9 o'clock at night , though the buildings are brightly lighted . Jailed for Insulting Germans . By an official order there have been posted throughout . the country the names of Belgians and Britons who have been sentenced from a month 's to one year 's imprisonment for insults offered to German soldiers . Others ' ire warned to obey the military orders and are also advised that the Germans have no intention of seizing non-combatants . The Germans are paying for everything obtained in stores , the German Commandant having requested that the names of any , soldiers who commandeered bicycles or food be furnished to him .                     