@@681847

txt President Wilson 's note to Germany regarding the sinking of the Lusitania , which was made public this evening , " very earnestly and very solemnly renews the representations of its ( his ) note transmitted to the Imperial German Government on the 15th of May , and relies in these representations upon the principles of humanity , the universally recognized understandings of international law , and the ancient friendship of the German Nation . " What is regarded here as the mandatory part of the note is summarized in the last sentence , in which the American Government " asks for assurances " that Germany " will adopt the measures necessary to put into practice in respect to the safeguarding of American lives and American ships " the principle that the lives of non-combatants can not be placed in jeopardy In the destruction of unresisting merchantmen , and " the obligation to take sufficient precaution to ascertain whether a suspected merchantman is in fact of belligerent nationalty , or is in fact carrying contraband of war under a neutral flag . " The flat request in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany that the acts complained of shall cease is viewed in Washington as being measurably stronger than any passage in his first note on this subject . In the earlier note the President asked for " just , prompt , and enlightened action in this vital matter , " and he further invited the German . Government to disavow the acts of its submarine commanders . But the request for " assurances " is regarded here as meaning not only that Germany must lin fact stop the illegal practices , which , Might be accomplished inconspicuously , without any obvious surrender , but asks that assurances shall officially be conveyed to the United States of a radical change in its submarine policy . Other Features Milder . In every other respect the note made public today is regarded as noticeably milder than the earlier communicati:sn , which Mr. Bryan signed . Today 's note is not viewed in any respect as an ultimatum . It is in itself a polite discussion of the incidents that have already occurred , and it invites evidence , if Germany has any , in contradiction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phase of the most serious of those incidents arising from the destruction of the Lusitania  --  the question whether the ship was armed and whether it violated American laws regarding dangerous cargoes on passenger vessels . It is pointed out here that there is no reference in today 's note to a " prompt " reply , and there is no demand for the cessation of the submarine warfare pending the receipt of the assurances asked for , From the German point of view . It is said , the most promising feature of the note is the President 's statement that " the Government of the United States would consider it a privilege to serve its friends and the world " by again submitting proposals to either Great Britain or Germany regarding the lifting of the British blockade and the consequent termination of Germany 's submarine attacks . Germany has all along contended that the British blockade was the reason Land Justification for the submarine Outrage . In . Herr von Jagow 's reply to Mr. Wilson 's first note this subject was mentioned tentatively , and Mr. Wilson in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happy to observe " this intimation . The belief here is general that Germany will seize upon Mis friendly offer-of President Wilson 's with eagerness and soon present a proposal to be forwarded to Great Britain Indeed , it is expected that these proposals will constitute the major part of the German reply and the correspondence , if it continues , will centre Mere and more about this general subject rather than about the particular offenses of which the United States has complained . Freedom of the Seas . The President 's note today , It is pointed out , intimates that the United States would not be averse to this shifting of the discussion and the relegation of past offenses to a discussion limited to the amount of damages to be paid by Germany . He expresses himself as noting " with gratification the full recognition by the Imperial German Government , in discussing the cases of the Cushing and the Gulflight , of the principle of the freedom of all parts of the open sea to neutral ships and the frank willingness of the Imperial German Government to acknowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the German contention that the attempted flight of the Falba which ended ; before she was torpedoed , in any way lessened the right of the noncombatants aboard to preservation , but takes the view that the German statement was intended merely to explain how the commander of the subMarine was " hurried " into action , and not as a denial of responsibility . Marked attention is given here to the President 's " gratification " at the German statement regarding the Gulflight . In that case an American ship flying the American flag conspicuously was attacked by a German submarine ' under the impression that the ship was British . After giving the order to fire the commander saw the American flag , but for this mistake the German Government declared flatly that the commander was not to blame . In some quarters It is presumed , therefore , that if the German warfare should lead to a repetition of the incident , the United States , accepting declarations of regret , would confine itself to collecting deranges for injured Americans . The President declares without qualification that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board the Lusitenia " are irrelevant to the question of the legality of the methods used by the German naval authorities in sinking the vessel . " That sentence , taken alone , is regarded as brushing aside most of Mr. von Jagow 's reply . But the President himself discusses these contentions at some length . Persons discussing the note here tonight said that only in connection with the Lusitania was there any echo of the sharp characterization with which Mr. Wilson , in his first communication , denounced the German " acts , so absolutely contrary to the rules , the Practices , and the spirit of modern warfare . " Reference to these " clear violations of universally acknowledged international obligations , " " lawless acts , " and " inhumane acts " occurred repeatedly in the first note , which Mr. Bryan signed . But in the note which he says caused his retirement from the Cabinet , the strongest expression of this sort , almost the only expression , is one sentence declaring that the Lusitenia , was torpedoed without warning or challege and that " men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circumstances unparalleled in modern warfare . " Demand for Assurances . The question whether neutrals must lose their lives in this moaner simply because traveling on a belligerent merchantman is the one outstanding remaining subject of controversy . Mr. Wilson 's demand for assurances is regarded as applying to American ships as well as citizens on belligerent vessels , but the German Government. , in regard to the Gulflight and the Cushing , has emphasized its intention to at old attacks on neutral ships , and the President has expressed his gratification In that regard . The suggestion that the United States regards controversy at an end regarding attacks on American ships is contained in this paragraph following Mr. Wilson 's offer to act as intermediary between Germany and Great Britain as to the blockade . " In the meantime , whatever arrangement may happily be made between the parties to the we and whatever , in the opinion of the Imperial German Government , may have been the provocation or the circumstantial justification for the past acts of its commanders at sea , the Government of the United States confidently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Germany vindicated in all cases where Americans have been wronged or their rights as neutrals invaded . " The past tense is used unmistakably . One of the most striking omissions of the present , as compared with the earlier , note is all reference to " strict accountability . " It is pointed out that it is omitted in a way to attract immediate attention . The last paragraph of the latest note is almost word for word taken from a paragraph in the earlier note . But in a context that is literally identical the declaration to exact " strict accountability " is stricken out . In the construction of laws and treaties an omission of this sort of one phrase while the rest of the context is continued is regarded as an express repeal in cane of a law and an express withdrawal in international matters . A.Striet Accountability : , The first note on this point read as follows : " This Government has already taken occasion to inform the Imperial German Government that it can not admit the adoption of measures or such a warning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the rights of American shipmasters or of American citizens bound on lawful errands as passengers on . merchant ships of bel-ligeren , and that it must hold the Imperial German Government to a strict accountability for an infringement of those rights , intentional or incidental . It does not understand the Imperial German Government to question those rights . It assumes , on the contrary , that the Imperial Government accept , as of course , the rule that the lives of noncombatants , whether they be of neutral citizenship or citizens of one of the nations at war , can not lawfully or rightfully be put in jeopardy by the capture or destruction of an unarmed merchantman , and recognize also , as all other nations do , the obligation to take the usual precaution of visit and search to ascertain whether a suspected merchantman is in fact of belligerent nationality or is in fact carrying contraband of war under a neutral flag . " The present note says on the same subject : " The Government of the United States can not admit that the proclamation of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep away may be made to operate as in any degree an abbreviation of the rights either of American shipmasters or of American citizens bound on lawful errands as passengers on merchant ships of belligerent nationality . It does not understand the Imperial German Government to question those rights . It understands it also to accept as established beyond question the principle that the lives of noncombatants can not lawfully or rightfully be put in jeopardy by the capture or destruction of an unresisting merchantman or to recognize the obligation to take sufficient precaution to ascertain whether a suspected merchantman is in fact of belligerent nationality or is in fact carrying contraband of war under a neutral flag . " The President 's note will undoubtedly cause a feeling of relief in many quarters . Reports had been constantly in circulation that the President 's second communication to Germany would be an ultimatum in everything except the fixing of a date for compliance , and these reports were greatly emphasized by Mr. Bryan 's formal statement in his letter of resignation that he could not sign the note without doing violence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of war . " It is not expected that the present note will continue the feeling of critical suspense of the last few days . With the hope held out to Germany that the United States would gladly further any proposals she might make for a lifting of the British blockade in exchange for a cessation of the German submarine campaign , developments are expected in that direction . If Germany should accompany her proposal with a statement that nothing was further from her desires than to cause the death of neutrals and that she would exercise all possible caution to prevent it , this statement might be regarded asf coming technically at least within the form of the " assurances " asked by President Wilson . And if no other catastrophe like the sinking of the Lusitania occurred , that construction might be placed upon it .                     