@@684355

txt In the first instalment of Edward L. Doheny 's interview on the future of petroleum , Mr. Doheny told of the increased demand for oil which could be expected in peace and from what countries this heavy demand must be filled . In this the concluding instalment of his interview with Dow , Jones &; Co. , Mr. Doheny tells about the favorable trade position of American oils and advises the preservation of our high quality oils and the exploitation of heavier Mexican and Carribean oils for fuel purposes . He asse rts that our Government must protect oil pioneers . " Having in mind , " says Mr. Doherty , " the continued improvement of the motor engine and its extended application to nearly every use for which power is required , the necessity of reconstructing the neglected as well as the devastated sweas.which will bring into use the most modern up-to-date asses of machinery , the re-establishment on an adequate basis of the world 's Merchant Marine , a large portion of which will undoubtedly be reconstructed so as to use oil , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its various forms in the near future will be increasingly greater than it has been during the period of the War . ANEIUCAN OIL 'S FAVORABLE TRADE POSITION " The demand for oil production in the western hemisphere for use Trans-Atlantic should not be less than formerly because the oil fields of this continent are not less favorably situated for supplying the trade of Europe than ars the oil fields of the Eastern hemisphere , and the quality of American oil for many uses is much superior to the product of the Oriental oil fields . " Inasmuch as the Mexican supply is notably increasing and can , and probably will be still further increased by the construction of additional pipe lines from the oil wells to the coast , and the release of many tankers from war zone service , and their very much greater efficiency when operated by their owners than when in Government service , and the added production of the recently discovered oil region in north central Texas , there is little likelihood that the decrease in the quantity of storage oil in the United States will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope that the increase in the supply from both these sources may entirely relieve the storage situations and lessen the necessity which heretofore prevailed of hurried development of the largest possible petroleum output. , PROMISING OUTLOOK FOR PETROLEUN " As a whole , the future outlook for petroleum holds nothing but promise of prosperity to those engaged in the industry . I think the public at large has no cause for feeling over-anxious as to whether or not the supply will be sufficient to meet the increasing and new demands . While the supply from the United States ' fields probably could not be increased to meet a much greater demand than now exists , it is reasonably certain that many new and extensive oil areas will be developed within the boundaries of the United States , and that when the price and the cost of production taken together will justify , an immense new source of supply may be developed in the oil-containing sands and shales ' that do not yield their content by gravity , but will need to be mined and treated as are ores in order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undeveloped oil areas in the country to the south of us ; Mexico , as ' is well-known , having within its boundaries the most prolific fields not yet developed whose potential capacity is at least temporarily greater than that of the United States . The Mexican supply can be . and probably will be made available at a much greater annual rate than at present by the building of additional pipe lines to the coast , and the provision of sufficient tanker capacity to transport the same to the markets . To the south of Mexico there are many countries that have premising indications of petroleum , and in some of them , notably Peru , Ecuador , Colombia and Venezuela , substantial developments have already been made which to the initiated brings the conviction thlit the development of the use of petroleum will not outstrip the supply for many generations . MUST PRESERVE HIGH QUALITY oOLS " Notwithstanding that the ' requirements of the Nation have drawn upon the storage supply at the rate of nearly 80,000,000 barrels per annum , and notwithstanding the increasing amount of oil exported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there : s no need of haste in exhausting the developed areas within the United States . " It will be of greater advantage to this country to conserve and use for the most valuable service the high ' quality oils of our comparatively small wells and stimulate for bulk uses the development of the heavier grades of oil which are common to the fields bordering on the Gulf of Mexico and the Carribean Sea . GOVERNMENT MUST PROTECT PIONEERS " To this end the Government should continue to lend its influences to the protection of these pioneers and developers whose discoveries result in adding to the world ' ; ; supply of fuel and lubricants , that most staple of all staples which has been credited by such high authorities ' with such great value in war , and which through the mechanical genius of our great manufacturers will be made a means of more economically than ever producing and transporting the needs of those who have survived the great conflict . " 