@@681956

txt A message in writing from Pope Benedict to President Wilson in the interest of peace in Europe was presented to the President today by Cardinal Gibbons . The Cardinal said afterward that the President was greatly gratified . He made the important announcement that the message he delivered to the President was for the United States alone , and was not communicated to any other neutral nation . While the terms of the Pope 's communication are not disclosed , and there is no authoritative statement as to its effect upon this Government , it may be said that the United States will not undertake to make overtures to all or any of the warring powers unless It is assured In advance that its mediation will be acceptable to every great nation concerned . I In this connection It Is learned that the Government knows that Great Britain and probably ' the other members of the Quadruple Alliance would regard as unfriendly any effort of the United States to attempt peace negotiations at this time . Per this reason , In addition to'its own decision to follow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ granted that if neutral parties desire to initiate a peace movement at this time they must not look to the United States to act as the active peacemaker . This Government will act only upon a request of the principal belligerents or authentic assurances that they are now willing to discuss an amicable settlement of their differences . unless one group should make the proposal in the realization that its cause was lost ? In other words , sue for peace . There is a growing belief here that Germany and Austria are anxious for peace . Observers here insist that the Teutonic allies believe that under present conditions they are In a sit ong position to get advantageous peace terms . With the President a Half Hour . Cardinal Gibbons called at the White House by appointment at 2 o'clock and had an interview with the President lasting nearly half an hour . The interview took place in the Blue Room . the apartment where distinguished visitors are received . The Cardinal went from the White House to the State Department , where he talked with Secretary Lansing for another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mgr . William T. Russell , rector of St. Patrick 's Church of this city . From the State Department the Cardinal went to St. Patrick 's rectory for a few minutes , thence to the Union Station , where he took a train for Baltimore . In their interview the Cardinal and the Secretary of State talked of the Mexican situation incidentally , but they did not discuss the matter of the disposition of Catholic property or the protection of Catholic rights in that country . The major portions of the Cardinal 's interviews with the President and the Secretary of State were taken up , it was said , in discussing the peace proposal of the Pope . No statement was forthcoming from either the Executive offices or the State Department . Cardinal Gibbons said it was true that he had delivered to the President a message from the Pope , but he was unable to discuss it for publication . He said the interview with the President was highly satisfactory , and he was much pleased with his reception by the President . The entire situation was gone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Cardinal , " that the President was greatly gratified . " The Cardinal furnished the information , in response to inquiries as to whether it was likely that the Pope 's message to the President would be made public , that he was communicating with the Vatican , and might be able to have something to say in a few days . " The settlement of the questions at issue between Germany and the United States has brought the possibility of peace nearer , " said Cardinal Gibbons . ? I expressed to the President most decidedly my great gratification over the advantageous conclusion of the discussions with Germany . " In the absence of any disclosure as to the nature of the Pope 's message to President Wilson , it may be worth while to mention that In a quarter usually well informed on matters concerning the Catholic Church the statement was made that the Pope desired the President to draft and present to the European belligerents a proposal for a cessation of hostilities , during the pendency of which possible terms for a settlement of their differences might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say what value should be attached to this statement . Pope Acting Alone . Nothing has come to light in Washington to indicate whether the message of the Pope was in any way due to a suggestion by Germany that she was anxious to make peace , but it is not doubted here that the Pope believes Germany and Austria desire to have the war come to an end as quickly as possible . It was learned that at tile interview between President Wilson and Cardinal Gibbons nothing Was said to indicate that the Pope was acting except on his own initiative . That Germany-is hold.ng out the promise that Catholic Poland will be made independent is believed here , but nothing came to light today to show that the Vatican had been any way influenced by this . The desire of Germany for peace has been marked within the past week It is known that there is a hopeful feeling - in - German circles that the efforts of . the United States to obtain modifications of the British blockade may serve as the basis for peace talk .. Germany is noes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and obviously in a better position to discuss peace terms than she may be in the future . Confidence exists among the Germans that the successes in Russia can be continued , but continued at a cost so great that Germany would prefer not to undertake them . There are indications that if a peace movement should be entered upon at this time , Germany would be willing to propose to withdraw from Belgium and Northern France , and in addition might include in her program the establishment of an independent government in Poland , and possibly cede to the restored kingdom part of Polish Germany , and cede the Russian province of Bessarabia to Ru-maniaWith other parts of Russia in her possession , and on the basis of her occupation of Belgium and portions of France . Germany might be in a position to trade for the return of her colonies and to obtain other concessions from her enemies . She would also be in condition to help Austria obtain the dominating influence in the Balkan States . A years from now germany might not have so good an opportunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the minds of those having some knowledge of the situation that Germany is ready aim anxious to make peace , but it is not willing to come forward with overtures to the United States or any nation that might be able to serve as mediator . Powers Meat Act First . It can not be too strongly emphasized that the United States Government , while hoping that peace may come soon mid ready to do its part toward bringing about negotiations for an amicable settlement , will not take any step until aestnec. that its advances will not be rejectets , or , more than that , will be recetveu in a friendly and sympathetic spirit President Wilson tendered his good offices to the European belligerents when the war was young , and found that it was impossible to make headway . Thereupon he made a standing offer to serve the warring nations whenever tney felt that he could do so . As the present position of the Go . ernrnent is understood , there is no intention on the part of President Wilson to follow the example set by President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he called upon both belligerents to let him exercise his good offices toward bringing the war to an end . The outcome of the Roosevelt effort was the Japanese-Russian Peace Conference at Portsmouth . H .. where a treaty of peace was signed by the Russian and Japanese plenipotentiaries in September . 3905 . The purpose of the Government is to wait for some of the warring powers to take the initiative it an effort to induce it to bring its geed offices into play . But it will not undertake any formal overtures until absolutely certain that its well-meant intention will not meet with a rebuff . If one of the belligerents should ask the President to propose peace in its behalf . it is likely that the request would be transmitted : but there is no disposition here to believe that any belligerent . however meth it may desire to have the war end soon . will commit itself to a move that might be construed as a confession of weakness . As for efforts on the part of neutral nations to have the United States olen up peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ v:111 not bring a favorable response from this Government , unless the President has reason to believe that his approaches will not be unwelcome to the principal nations engaged in the conflict . This Government is well satisfied with the status of its European relations .. Believing that some of the belligerents are in no mood to discuss peace and that it would be useless as well as unwise to endeavor to persuade them to take a contrary view , the Government , although disappointed over this condition , is taking satisfaction in the apparent certainty that the danger of the United States becoming involved has passed . Throughout the country the feeling exists that the assurances given by Count von Bernstorff , the German Ambassador . that " liners " would not be ' sunk without warning and without safety to the lives of noncombatants , marked a great diplomatic victory for President Wilson . The White House was made well aware of that today , and to say that officials are elated is expressing it mildly indeed . English Blockade Problem . The differences between the United States and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some spirited exchanges , are not of a character to cause any apprehension of hostilities . Opinion here is that this fact has never been appreciated in Germany , where officials seemed to have lost sight of the distinction between the saving of lives and the protection or material interests expressed in dollars and cents . It is not doubted here that the American representations to Great Britain will be vigorous , but there is no tl.ought that the United States would be willing to go to war on the questions involved . " ii ? en the Arabic was sunk two weeks ago , war , or at least the severance of diplomatic relations between the United states and Germany was within the range of probabil.ty . Today war seems a remote possibility , in the opinion of those best qualified to judge of the attitude of the Administration . Germany 's next move toward the settlement with the United States will have reference to the Arabic . It is supposed here that Germany hesitates to communicate with this Government on the subject until the last hope of ever hearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Enough evidence is at hand to show that the submarine will never appear In a German port . Washington expects that Germany will not delay many days in sending her Arabic note . She will make ample amends , according to the view here , in the way of disavowal of intention to have attacked any passenger vessel , and will point to her assurances of yesterday that submarine commanders had been instructed not to sink liners . With the Arabic case out of the way , Germany will come forward with her proposal for the adjustment of the differences arising out of the sinking of the Lusitania , and the attacks an other vessels . It is expected that she n ill disavow any intention of having purposely imperiled American lives in attacking the Lusitania . and will offer to make reparation . The recognition of the principles of International law for which the United States has been contending also will he forthcoming . it Is thought . In addition Germany will note with satisfaction the assurances that the United States stands for the freedom of the seas  --  these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and will indicate that she looks to the ' United States to carry out the virtual ! promise contained in that note .                     