@@679065

txt Encouraged by his successful flight several nights ago , when he broke the American amateur record for long-continued flight , Clifford B. Harmon this evening went into the air here determined to surpass that record . When he came down he was told that he had broken all records ever made in this country , and was very close to seine of the foreign records . Mr. Harmon was in the air tor two hours and three and a half minutes . He would have stayed up longer but for the fact that the heat was so oppressive that he could not stand it any longer . In addition to making a long flight , Mr. Harmon also made a number of dips and cut fancy figures which brought cheers from the crowd of 5,030 persons who watched his daring performance . Mr. Harmon rose to a height of 100 feet , and then began a series of two-mile circuits with a regularity that began to grow monotonous , but which he varied after a while with some dips , which were as thrilling as those of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ height of . 300 feet and making a complete figure eight . This is the first time that a turn of this kind has been made in a short distance . Many bird men have made half turns to the left , but none has ever before attempted the complete turn to the left and then across and to the right . Paull-inn in the same machine which Harmon used to-day made a record flight in Les Angeles last year of one hour and fifty-eight minutes . The Paul-han flight was not varied by evolutions. however . Mr. Harmon is now entitled to take his place among the foremost aviators of the world , as the flight , which he made tonight has never been exceeded in this country . Mr. Harmon made his first flight three months ago . In all , Harmon made sixty-three laps today , the distance which he traveled being figured at one and a half miles to the lap , while many of the turns were two miles and more . Had Mr. Harmon ' not suffered from the heat and humidity he would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as his engine was working perfectly , and there was nothing fo prevent him from making a world 's record . To-morrow Mr. Harmon will go up at 4 o'clock in the afternoon if the conditions are favorable , and stay in the alt until his gasoline  --  runs- out . ' He hopes to break every record Tor time and distance that has ever been made , and will . no doubt succeed if the weather is in his favor . A new flier , whose name could not he learned , came on the field while Mr. Harmon was in the air , and tried to go down the field . The bi-plane which he used was a Curtiss machine owned by a man named Bungo . When he was three feet up and well down the field Harmon passed above him , and the crowd cheered , as they did every time he passed . The driver of the Bungo machine looked aside for a second at the cheering crowd , with the result that the front planes buried themselves in the ground and the machine was wrecked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assistance of mechanics got the machine back to its shed . The police arrangements here to-day were perfect . The crowd was kept oft the field by the new . fences . A small charge is now made to enter the field , which will be devoted to keeping the field in condition , to help aviators , and to purchase prizes . FOREIGN AVIATORS TO COMPETE . Six Cup Challengers to Take Part in Garden City Meet . Definite plans for the international championship aviation meet at Garden City , L. were announced yesterday by the Subscribers ' Committee of the Aero Club , Limited . The meet will open Oct. 15 and close Oct. 23 , and the contest for the International Speed Trophy has been set for Oct. 22 . The speed contests will extend over eight days . In the first three days an elimination race will probably take place for the selection of the three American aviators who are to constitute the cup defending team . The international balloon race will start from St. Louis Oct. 17 , and as several European contestants are expected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contest , it is probable that they will sail from St. Louis to the Atlantic coast in their balloons , reaching New York in time for the heavier-thanair championship contest , Oct. 22 . Prominent among the entrants for both contests is the Hon. C. S. Rolls of England , who recently , made the return trip from Dover to Calais , over the English Channel , and it is expected that one or more of the French aeronauts will enter in the contests for both international trpphies . Racing aeroplanes of special design are now being built in this country and abroad to be used in the speed contests , and it is the . expectation of some of the foremost aviators that the winner of the international trophy this year will have to show a speed of seventy miles an hour or better , Among the aviators who will take part in the Garden City tournament are Glenn H. Curtiss , the Wright brothers , or their aviators , Charles K. Hamilton , T. C. Mars , Thomas S. Baldwin , Clifford B. Harmon , Harry W. Harkness , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The managers of the international tournament are now in communication with several of the foremost aviators in Europe , and it is expected that at least six prominent aeronauts , in addition to those who are coming over as cup challengers , will be here to take part in the principal events . The programme for the meet is now being arranged and an announcement will soon be made of the list of prizes that will attract the best aviators in the world . A representative of the Aero Club of America will soon start for Europe to arrange for special features of the programme which have been decided upon . Work on the International aviation field at Garden City has been started , and it is the intention of the managers to make - it the most complete and attractive flying course in the world . Charles W. Leavitt , Jr. , who has had charge of building many of the large race tracks In this country , has been engaged as engineer for the construction of the building and grand stands and to lay out the course , and contracts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I , Gillespie , Chairman of the Subscribers ' Committee , has already received a number of requests for boxes in the grand stand , and from present indications the meet promises to be the most popular sporting event of the year . Applications for automobile parking spaces are also coming in . Although it is four months in advance of the event , many letters are received daily from persons in various parts of the country who are making . plans to spend the week in New York at that time . In discussing the outlo.ik for the meet yesterday , Chairman Gillespie said : " Each application is filed and will be ' considered in its order of receipt , as soon as we can make the allotments . " Concernlug the general plan for the tournament , Mr. Gillespie said : - There seem to be evidences of a misunderstanding on the pall if some as to the interests behind the aviation meeting The funds which will be required are tieing subscribed by representative citizens at large , not through personal interest hr any existing connection , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a large and successful scale , worthy of the event and the locality . I " The tournament will be given with the sanction of the Aero Club of America and governed by the Contest Committee of that organization , and in accordance With the . rules and regulations of the International Aeronautic Federation . The operating organization will be the Aero Corporation Limited , which will appoint officers of the meet and the Executive and Finance Committees . A gratifying interest is being evidenced by all classes of citizens , which indicates what a wide and substantial hold this new science of human flight has taken upon the world at large . We are striving to make this National and international tournament the greatest event of its kind in the world , and there is no doubt that we shall succeed . "                     