@@684125

txt In an interview with Lord Milner today , he expressed favorable views on the war position , but called attention to some of the problems now confronting the Allies . " I feel that Great Britain may be overdoing her military effort , having regard to all of our other efforts , " said the Minister for War . " The last comb-out hit us and the Allies very hard in some ways , by diminishing our industrial production for the purposes of the war . I need not say anything to you about the coal situation , which as you know is very serious for us and the Allies , Italy particularly being entirely dependent on Great Britain for coal and Prance largely dependent , while of course our own enormous output of war material depends upon coal . There are other cases in which the latest comb-out checked the production for war purposes . For instance , tanks . I am at the present time compelled most reluctantly to bring back some hundreds of men , recently recruited , in order to keep up the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the loss of these men 's services . Ranks Bound to be Diminished . " What is evident is that the demand on British man power for war purposes  --  that is , for the maintenance of the navy and mercantile marine , for coal production , for the output of every kind of engine of war , especially airplanes and tanks and guns required by hp .. United States and other allies , as as ourselves , and for many other requirements in the way of equipment  --  is so great that Great Britain 's contribution to the ranks of the allied land forces is bound to suffer a certain diminution . " The Allies must understand it , and understand tile reason . There is great danger of some , misunderstanding . What I want to emphasize is that Great Britain 's total war effort is not going in any way to be diminished . In fact , it is constantly increasing . I am very much afraid it may be thought that we are inclined to relax our effort because we now rely on the help of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ look at it is that America 's contribution should be an absolute addition to the strength of the Allies , not in any sense a substitution of American effort for that of Great Britain or any one else . But it may be the best use of the total strength of the Allies to devote rather more of Great Britain 's man power to those objects which she is in the best position to fulfill or perhaps can alone fulfill , and rather less of it to actual soldiers . Each ally has got to contribute that which is best for the general purposes of the alliance . " It is idle to ignore the fact that Great Britain , and France , too , for the matter of that , who have lost literally millions of their physically fit young men , are not in so good a position for supplying soldiers as America with her almost untouched millions of young men whose magnificent fighting qualities ? which I for one never doubted  --  have now been shown to the world in most unmistakable fashion . Fears Misinterpretation . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say , ' Oh , yes , that 's very well ; you just want the Americans to be killed rather than Englishmen . ' But I can not refrain from stating what I believe to be vital truths in the interest of the alliance because some one may misinterpret them . I can only repeat to you that nothing is further from my thought than any suggestion that we should use the invaluable and , as I believe , decisive help of America to relieve ourselves . We mean to continue to put into the fighting line every man who is not more useful to the common cause doing some other work . " As Minister for War I am naturally more anxious than any one else could be to keep the numbers of our army at maximum . Those numbers will still be large , and I hope better trained , better equipped , with all the newest engines of war , in the future than they have ever yet been. ? But it still remains true that in numbers of first-class fighting men we must inevitably fall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man power . " I asked Lord Milner what the chance was of the Germans increasing their man power to counterbalance American reinforcement of the allied armies . Germany 's Waning Strength . He " I hope no chance . Germany has nothing left now but 1920 class of young men , ? called to the colors two years sooner than would be normal . This may give her a half million new soldiers . Of course there is always a normal reinforcement of returned sick and wounded . Beyond this she has nothing of her own , and that is not enough . The question is what she can get out of the countries she has subjected ? Finland , the Baltic Provinces , Poland and the Ukraine . This again depends entirely on the eastern position . If Germany had succeeded , as at one time seemed likely , in firmly establishing her power in these regions , with her flank securely protected by a dependent Russia , with the Bolsheviki playing her game , she might have drawn not only unlimited supplies of food , metals , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men from that quarter . But now , thanks to allied intervention , the eastern position is once more in the melting pot . Upon what is now happening in Russia the outcome of the war may depend . For it is certain that if Germany does not draw strength from her eastern conquests she can not long withstand the increasing pressure of the Allies on the west . If the east drains her strength instead of adding to it , her early collapse is inevitable . "                     