@@680002

txt When large numbers Contrasting of people gather in a Count a confused , unorganized crowd , there is With Guesses. great difficulty in determining how many of them there are . In such cases the estimates of different observers are sure to vary widely , the big guesses being always made by those who approve of the object of the gathering and the small ones by those to whom that object is repulsive . In such cases even the honest statistician can only reach an approximation to accuracy by computing the number of people that could stand in the area occupied , and he is apt to be far out of the way because the People in most crowds are in constant motion , and the degree of compression to which they subject themselves is a constantly changing factor in the computation . A procession , unlike a crowd , lends itself to such easy numeration that guesses as ' to how many take part in it are less easily pardonable . Yet it is but rarely that observers do more than guess , and , just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Personal equation that decides whether the guess shall be large or small . Thus , anybody who chose could make an actual count of the suffrage parade of Saturday last , and such a count was made for THE TIMES by a military man , a part of whose business ' It is not to make mistakes in finding out the number of marching bodies . As fixed by him there were 6,094 women on foot and 54 women riding , while the men paraders numbered S:38 , and in the 26 bands there were about 40 men each . The total , therefore , was very close to 8,000 . That is a far from insignificant number ; it is , on the contrary , more people than are often seen in line except on occasions of the very greatest importance or when army manoeuvres are in progress , but it is far from being the 20,000 credited to the women Os The Tribune , the 11,000 which The Herald thought it saw , or the 10,000 imagined by The World . The Sun came nearer , with its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said 610 were men . I Among the women themselves , the usual estimate seems to have been 15,000 , I though not a few of them gave much larger figures . All along the lower Raising reaches of the Mississippi Levees thousands of men are Too Late . working desperately to save what is left of the levees . The conditions at present are , of course , the ' worst possible , for the river is at the very top of the embahltments , or , rather , of the hasty additions already I made . and almost constant rain discourages the workers by increasing their hardships and tending to make their toil ineffective by dissolving the new dikes . In many places the levees have been broken , and so wide are the flooded areas that the impulse to give up the fight is making itself felt among those who have been without rest for days . At a time like this criticism of the inhabitants of the Mississippi Valley would be misplaced , especially as . the only charge against them could be that , in delaying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are illustrating , not a peculiarity of their own , but an almost universal human characteristic . It is perfectly evident , however , that if the Mississippi can be kept in bounds in no other way than by levees high enough and strong enough to withstand the highest floods , the levees should be made when the river is low and the weather good . The cost of doing this , though appalling , would be less than the losses incurred under the existing poliey in any brief series of years  --  perhaps of those suffered this year . It is in tile ' nature of men , however , to guard against ordinary , not extreme , dangers . and It must be that this habit has its advantages , else would it not have become so firmly fixed upon us all . On only one point is No Love there agreement between Lost the two factions now contending for supremacy Anywhere . in Mexico  --  the authorized spokesmen of both declare that there is no such thing among the Mexican people as hatred of Americans , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smooth sayings . and doubtless well intentioned . No doubt , too , they are true , in a way , for as a rule Americans in Mexico are able to maintain fairly pleasant , peaceful . and profitable relations with the native population , and all through the country there is appreciation of the benefits which it derives front American capital and the industries supported by it . Now , . as always , however , underlying the situation is the fact that Mexicans and Americans are of different minds . different habits and customs , and different interests , and , in moments of irritation , these differences loom large in the emotions expressed by each . None of us is so far from the days when every stranger was an enemy as not to retain something of fear of the alien . and the race name of an alien is always the first epithet hurled at him in case of disagreement . It may be spoken with the inflections of hatred , of contempt , or of mere dislike , according to circumstances . International amity is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a product of civilization and of the mutual understanding that comes therefrom , but it has not yet acquired strength enough to stand much strain . Americans in Mexico have not always been marked by delicate , consideration for the feelings of their neighbors , and they are not all loved or even liked . It was not to be expected that they would be , for they have not deserved it . ' Unfortunately , in these matters , the worst , not the best , representatives of one na ts , n establish its type hi the popular opinion of another nation . Hence we have the not infrequent references to " ankee Pigs " in the Mexican press aud to " greaserF. " in the common tali ; of the American Southwest .                     