@@678833

txt Andrew Carne-1 gie was knocked from his chair and received a serious shake-up to-night when in the train shed of the Pennsylvania1 Railroad here the private car Olivet , on which he and his family are traveling to Santa Barbara , was sidewiped by train No. 15 . All the rest of the party , along with a number of guests who had called to spend the hour with Mr. Carnegie , were likewise hurled to the floor from their seats , and more or less shaken upso much so , in fact , that none of them was . able to enjoy the elaborate dinner that had . been prepared . When the train crashed into the Olivet . which is the car in which President Taft traveled from Washington to ! slew York last week , the latter was on a switch waiting to be taken into Union Station.1 The engineer on  --  the approaching train because of the dense smoke and fog failed to see the signals in time . The car con ; taining the Carnegie party was struck almost in the middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vases of flowers , 11 ice pitchers , and dishes of food were hurled to the floor and broken to pieces . Members of the party rushed to the as- : sistance of Mr. Carnegie , lie was picked ' up and placed ' n his chair . He was pale , but soon recovered enough to declare that he did not think he was seriously hurt , although he felt tenderly of the knee injured when he fell a few months ago in Central Park , New York . Physicians were summoned promptly , and remained with him until the car was attached to the train for the West , which will reach Chicago early to-morrow morning . The New York train arrived at 6:50 . Mr. Carnegie 's party included Mrs. Carnegie . Miss Margaret Carnegie , and Mrs. Charles L. Taylor and her husband , head of the Carnegie Hero Fund Commission . They were met by Director Dr. " W. J. ' Holland , head of the Carnegie Museum ; Prof , John I. Brashear , Chancellor S. 13 . McCormick of the University of Pittsburg , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carnegie said that he had slipped away , quietly from , Lo tt-O-iieivsiieaper men seemed to take an unusual Interest in the development of the museum in this city and the Carnegie Technical School . Before the accident he declared that he was feeling well and talked freely on the tater question and the attitude of President Taft toward the trusts . He declared strongly for a revenue tax , but against a protective tariff , on the ground that the latter would not help the poor people , but only the rich . He thinks the people of this country would be better off in every way if they patronized home industries and cut out all luxuries , such as imported tobaccos , cigarettes , wines , and liquors . He included the women in this also , and thinks they should eleninate the use of foreign wearing apparel , perfumes , &c.; Mr. Carnegie spoke strongly in favor of a commerce court in connection with the proposed Federal incorporation law . Ccrporations , he declared , should be under the same uniform law in all of the States . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ competition of benefit to the consumer . . Mr. Carnegie said he was thoroughly in accord with all of the arguments advanced by President Taft In his last New York address regarding : the trusts and the laws to control them . Asked regarding his future plans , Mr. Carnegie said : " I am going to Santa Barbara , Cal. , for an outing . If my knee permits , I will take a few turns over the links there , chasing the little weite ball , and expect to have a good time . I will visit Pasadena for a short period , and also expect to spend some time in the Grand Canon and to be in Pittsburg for a short visit inside of two months . Then I will return to New York . " The Carnegie patty left this city in charge of two district passenger ' agents of the Pennsylvania and the Santa Fe Railroads . It will travel over the latter route to California after leaving Chicago , where no stop of importance will be made . 