@@684722

txt News from all 3teal centers yesterday was increasingly cheerful in tone . Failing to make headway , strike sentiment seems to be receding and men , in comparatively small numbers it is true , are gradually returning to the mills and reporting for work . Zany of these returning workers were those who had been intimidated from reporting for work earlier in the week , but many others were foreigners apparently disappointed with the failure of the strike leaders to get out any perceptible percentage of the American workers . W. Z. Foster , leader of the strikers , claimed early in the day that 300,000 men were out . The extravagance of such a claim is patent , as if nearly two-thirds of the total of the country 's steel makers were idle practically every plant would be forced to close entirely . From South Chicago , where the violence of the strike has been about at its worst came news in the shape of police reports that over SOO men had reported at the Illinois Steel plant and that signs of renewed activity at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10D men who were out On Monday , came back to their jobs . At some Pittsburgh plants , it was claimed , men were returning and the fact that operations increased in certain plants bore out this claim . The strike leaders have so far failed to make any great impression on operations of the Pittsburgh plants , citadel of the industry , and are hurrying more organizers to that city . Pittsburgh  --  Number of iron and steel workers idle in this district still under 25.000 out of a grand total of about 125,000 . There is no indication of a sympathetic strike move . Carnegie Steel mills at Clairton , Braddock , Ruskin and Homestead have more men than on Tuesday , police in these towns report . Allegheny and West Penn Steel companies are increasing operations . Numerous small collateral industrial concerns dosed Monday due to nearby disturbances , are resuming operations . Number of men are returning to work in such shops aggregates many thorss-nds But for a campaign of intimidation strike would have little force here- Labor agitators undoubtedly will try to get the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Industry welcomes the Senate investigation- Any light thrown on the situation here will prove that mob violence ' is radicals ' only club and but for it practically all mills would be operating , it is declared-Copies of the booklet ' " Syndicalism " , by W. Z. Foster , head of the Steel Strace Organization , have been sent to each United States Senator by C. A. Painter , Pittsburgh business man and ex-manufacturer , but not now directly interested in the steel industry . Syndicalism is the pamphlet in - which Foster has urged labor to adopt most extreme methods and in which be derides even Socialists for their moderate tactics . It is believed these pamphlets alone will prove Foster a dangerous radicaL He is said to have been trying to gather in copies in circulation since he became a member of the American Federation of Labor . The pamphlet is so seditious that it was necessary to get permission of the Postal authorities before mailing it . Pittsburgh  --  Commenting on the calling of Judge Gary and John Fitzpatrick of the Steel Workers ' Committee before the Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ granting of a conference now by Judge Gary would end the strike . Advices received yeterday by local steel men indicate some improvement in the strike situation over Tnesday. which in turn was better than Monday . Reports that some companies had been importing strike-breakers and in one case at least laying in stores of arms and ammunition are discredited in responsible quarters here . Further doubt is cast on these reports by the fact that orders to different Steel Corporation plant managers at the beginning of the strike , and still in effect , stated that no action should be taken which might precipitate a conflict with the strikers .                     