@@684029

txt A wave of indignation has spread throughout Great Britain over the sinking of the Canadian hospital ship Llandovery Castle by a German submarine with the loss , . it Is believed , of 234 lives . The . view*:is.gen- , orally expressed that all doubt- is now I removed as to the deltberitt6n6s of the German policy of sinking hospital ships . One development of the situation was the passage of resolutions today by a meeting of 600 seamen and stewards at Liverpool urging Joseph Havelock Wilson , President of the British Seamen 's Union . to add another five years to the seamen 's after-the-war boycott of the Germans for the sinking of the Llandovery Castle . The period of the boycott announced last week by Mr. Wilson Is now sixty-eight months . The resolution - denounces the sinking of the Llandovery Castle as " the most diabolical and most cowardly murder of our brothers on the high seas . " 1. nnk 44 Probity and Honor Plea . " In the presence of such unspeakable infamy deliberately repeated . " says The Daily Chronicle , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the abhorrence which everybody with a spark of civilized sense must feel . But we would invite the German people to ask themselves what is the use of their statesmen appealing , like Foreign Secretary von Kuhlmann , to be credited with ' probity and honor ' while crimes so odious. dishonorable , and unashamed conti , l , be carried out by the orders of their Government . " The excuse for the attack on the Llandovery Castle , says The Daily Mail , was a lie , and the German officer who told it did not believe It himself when he said to the captain : " You are . carrying eight American flight officers . " Ifthere had been a particle of truth in the charge , the newspaper adds , . the submarine captain had only to stop the Llandovery Castle , seize the eight officers , and take them to Germany as proof of allied ? guilt ' In using hospital ships for transports . Part of a " Hideous Story " The Daily News says the . sinking of the hospital ship stands out as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ story of submarine warfare . " In no main , circumstance of the tragedy , says The Times , does the story differ from those of other hospital ships that have been destroyed . In this case . however , it points out , there is an added element of horror in the repeated attempts of the submarine commander to justify himself by ' accusations against the victim and in his wild fury of gunfire and destructive rushing to and fro among the wreckage . " If these were not attempts to sink all the survivors and blot out all trace of the crime , what was their motive ? " asks this newspaper . " It is unforgettable , without the fact that the news of the tragedy to Canadian Red Cross men arid women came to the knowledge of the Canadians on their national festival . The other British peoples will not forget it , nor yet , we may be sure , will the American people . " Expects German Condonation , The Manchester Guardian says that two questions are often asked . These are : " Why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ react upon the neutral world and remain in history as the crowning disgrace of their unclean . recbrd ? " and " Has Germany ever punished the perpetrators of these deeds ? " " To the first question , " says The Manchester Guardian , " the . view of those who follow closely the doings of the German Admiralty and navy , is. that the submarine commanders are not acting on instructionsAn sinking hospital ships , but neither do they run any danger of official censure . A ship Is a ship , and if a hospital ship is sunk it has to be replaced by another good ship and so the shipping capacity of the Allies is reduced . " The defense which the German Government made by attributing the destruction of a hospital ship to a mine will not do in the case of the ' , land . overY Castle . A submarine appeared ; and the attitude of its Captain suggests that this was one of the most cynical and cold-blooded attacks there has been . Ile declared the ship was carrying ' eight American flight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asserted that the explosion in the sinking ship showed she must have been carrying ammunition . " It is right that evidence of this kind should be set before a world jury because the verdict of the world , though the German General Staff despises it , will yet be important to Germany in the days to come . " ? Beast at Large , Says Bonar Law . Andrew Bonar Law , Chancellor of the Exchequer , speaking in the House of Commons today , said that one would have thought that nothing new as regards German , brat ality could have happened , nut the sinking of the Llandovery Castle was an unspeakable outrage .. Nothing could be gained , he added , by talking about this last - example of frightfulness . " The wild beast is at large , ' ' said Mr. Bonar haw . " There Is no use arguing or reasoning about it . The only thing to do is to destroy it . That is the duty and it is up to all the Allies to set their teeth until that end is achieved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vicinity of the spot where the hospital ship was sunk has resulted in no further survivors being found . An official statement issued by the Admiralty says it may be assumed that only 24 of the 25S persons on board were saved . The statement reads : " The area between the spot where the Llapdovery Castle was sunk and the southwest Irish coast has been thoroughly searched by two groups of His Majesty 's ships in addition to the ( destroyer ) Lysander . Only a little wreckage and one empty boat were found . It may be assumed that there are no more survivors from the Llandovery Castle . "                     