@@684451

txt No railway regulator was ever so rabid as to propose reduction of rates and fares below the point necessary to pay interest and wages . Under present conditions , bondholders get nearly a half billion and wage earners roughly five times that . Together they get nearly two-thirds of what the railways collect from rate and fare payers . The division of the railways ' income has not been calculated exactly later than 1917 , before the war increases of rates and wages , but in 1917 the railways had less than 9 cents left in each dollar they collected , after they had paid all expenses except dividends , reserves , and surplus . According to the latest report of the Interstate Commission , " The total amount accrued " in dividends reached its maximum " in 1911. * * ? Since 1913 the " proportion of stocks paying a divi " dend has declined . " According to the official figures , the- income available for dividends and surplus in 1913 was $189,716,240 . That is properly reducible by intercompany payments , ' for dividends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public directly . Without allowance for that consideration , it remains true that the worst that can be said of the extortion of railways is that : they earn about legal interest upon stock , watered in degrees about which there are differences of opinion . However heinous that stock juggling- is , it re- ? mains true that the reduction of rates has cost the country more than it is worth , and that would remain true if the reduction had been carried to the point where the railway shares received no dividend whatever . ? Reduction of rates - benefited only shippers . Their freight ' bills were added to ? their costs and prices charged , and consumers never knew of the rate reductions . But everybody knows ' of the painful results of the reduction of railway credit . It has stopped construction of railways , although the country has not stopped growing . The idea was that we had too many railways because railway speculators made too much money . That has  --  been so well cured that the country is now as much underbuilt in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lack of dividends the railways are now embarrassed in finding the billion dollars which they ought to spend in the supply market . That is the largest volume of orders in ' sight in the biggest basic industry we have , the iron trade . The maximum total of dividends ever paid is trivial compared with the prostration of twenty billions of railway capital and the many more billions in associated industries . They are hungry for orders , but unable to get ? them because of the reduction of rates years ago and the recent increase of wages by which some two million railway workers were raised to the eminence which they share with shipbuilders . So little did the increase of rates benefit the railway shareholders that the Government is now ' debtor of the railways by $381 , - 000,000 . Yet the Government is now proposing that the railways should borrow to repay whit the Government calls its " advances " to the railways . Not by way of faultfinding with the past , which is beyond recall , but for the sake of understanding the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rage to reduce rates because dividends were excessive has produced present conditions . The railways were unable to finance themselves with the issues of shares because there are not a dozen which could issue them at par . Consequently there has been a. flood of issues of shortterm notes , at high rates of interest , for the issue of long-term bonds at such rates would be destructive . There is no trouble about operating revenues . It is a question of covering capital expenditures , for construction , for equipment , for betterments to increase earnings . The Director General is right in his reluctance to meet the difficulty by retrenchment . The case rather calls for expansion . There is as much need for foresight now as . there was lack of it when the rate increases were being refused . ? - It is a pity that- it is ' necessary to play a fiddle which has but a single string , but it is necessary . Even now the Interstate Commission has shown no change of mind about Its policy . Commissioner MtCnoso has charged the railways @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ railways secure attention for the reversal of the policy now shown to be erroneous ? Early In the current decade the Commission refused rate increases upon its prophecy of good times for the railways . ilas that prediction been realized ? In 1917 the Commission said that nothing was needed so heroic as the railways ' request for 15 per cent . increase . Now , letting bygones be bygones , is it not fair to ask whether there would now be any railway question if the Commission had seen the merit of the railways ' argument ? Has it been worth while to , cure the railways of enterprise , and to compel them to finance themselves by interest rather than dividends ? The greatest need for the solution of the railway problem is perception of the need of a statute of limitations for past errors by all concerned , and a declaration for the future that railways should be enabled to finance themselves .                     