@@681201

txt The peace negotiations have assumed a complicated phase that increases the difficulties of the mediators and makes uncertain the outcome of the effort to end the troubles in Mexico . No impasse or deadlock has been reached ; there has been no quarrel between those COhcerned In the exchanges here , and on the surfa. -w , there has been no disagreement , mainly because the situation has not developed to a point where disagreement on debatable questions is needsary . But the critical period of the negotiations has come , and the three mediators , the two American delegates , and the three Mexican delegates must stern determine whether their work shall result in success or failure . The literal truth is that the A B C mediation movement is in grave danger . In the line of progress toward an amicable settlement an important step has been taken by the mediators in -- Persuading the Mexican delegates to agree that the man to be selected as Provistonal President of Mexico shall have strong Constitutionalist propensities . But it is evident that the United States Government is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from any number of men answering that general description . Yesterday 's long conference between the mediators and the American delegates made it patent that the Washington Administration was inclined to bee:Insistent that the Provisional President should be one of the foremost leaden in the revolutionary cause , and the descriptions given by the American representatives of the character . of the man desired by them fitted sd - 11100Y the salient characteristics of Gen. ? Carranza , Gen. Villa , and Jose Vasconcellos , one of the foreign agents of the Constitutionalist cause , as to leave no doubt that one of these three was the choice of President Wilson and Secretary Bryan .. Yesterday 's conference was inssonfe ' respects the most important that has taken place between the mediators and the American delegates since the inception of the Niagara Falls negotiations . That conference was devoted entirely-to a discussion of the selection of a provie. ional President . The manner of thermpointment and installation of the temporary head of the Mexican Government was not touched upon , the conversation being confined to the proposal of names and the discussion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the United States . Question of Huerta 's Successor .. In previous conversations between ' the mediators and the American delegates the latter had suggested that If the method were followed of permitting Huerta to appoint a Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs , who would become President ad interim on the resignation of Gen. Huerta , such an arrangement might be regarded as a recognition of the constitutionality of Huerta 's Presidency . But this phase of the American view never approached the point of an Issue , and was always passed over with , . out insistence by the American . delegates . It had been brought forward in a way to suggest that It might be one of the questions upon which the United States would desire a formal discussion before an agreement was reached on all . matters in dispute . From present indications It is likely to be presented soon-ni a positive manner , and therein lies the possibility of serious disagreement . ' 7 After yesterday 's second conference , the American delegates sent to the State Department an account of what had taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ views expressed by the mediators concerning the probable attitude of the Mexican ' delegates toward the selection of a ' foremost Constitutionalist leader as Provisional President . The mediators took the position that it was not for them to suggest names or to decide who should be chosen as Gen. Huerta 's successor . These are matters which , in their opinion , must be initiated and determined by agreement between the two sets of delegates . But it is gathered that they felt certain that neither the Mexican delegates nor Gen. Huerta would consent toan arrangement whereby Huerta should appoint as his successor . Carranza , Villa , or Vasconcellos. - Apparently the Mexican delegates were of the opinion that a basis for an understanding had been reached that the new Provisional President should . not be one of the notable leaders of the revolutionary movement . They have so far modified their position , however , ae be willing to consent to the selection of a prominent Mexican of Constitutionalist sympathies , although not actively identified with the effort to overthrow Huerta . This is in direct opposition to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American delegates , that an out-and-out revolutionist be chosen In order to satisfy the Constitutionalists and . bring them to consent to any agreement . reached at Niagara Falls . As was told in these dispatches last night , the American delegates did-not suggest any names In connection - with their argument that a Constitutionalist leader should become provisional President . Their view was that nominations should be made by the mediators or the " Mexican delegates in accordance with the description given by Justice Lamarand Mr. Lehmann of the character of man who would measure - up to the requirements of the situation : that had been produced by the repeated Constitutionalist victories and the prospective complete triumph of the Constitutionalist cause , both politically and physi- , cany . Although names of Mexicans who have occupied a rather neutral position In , the existing struggle were brought- forward by the mediators , there - was no , discussion of the fitness of any'of these men , : the . American representatives lerring to confine the argument to what - ? they regarded as the vital-point in the situation  --  the selection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Constitutionalists and be in sympathy with the reforms for which they were contending . ? Want Rebel Delegates Admitted . In addition to pressing the mediators to urge the Mexican delegates to accept one of the foremost Constitutionalist - leaders as provisional President , the American delegates are still emphasizing their belief that Constitutionalist delegates should be permitted to participate in the conference without conditions . But the mediators have abso lately declined to accept this proposal . They are firmer than ever in their insistence that if the Constitutionalists enter the mediation negotiations they must make themselves eligible by de ' daring a suspension of hostilities and agreeing to accept the principle of the pacification plan upon which the Amer-ican and the Mexican delegates are in substantial accord . The viewtaken by the mediators in this connection is that the admission of the Constitutionalists unconditionally and . a declaration on their part that one of the revolutionary leaders shall be appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs as a preliminary to his elevation to the provisional Presidency would mean not mediation , but intervention . Their status , they contend , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mexico . and for them to support the side of the United States to the exclusion of the interests of Huerta 's Government would place them in the attitude of being partisans and not representatives of neutral nations desirous of restoring har ' monious relations between the disputants . The mediators appear to be firmly set in their opposition to the proposals of the American delegates , around which the present dangerous situation revolves . They are willing , as mediators , to make known the views of the Americans to the Mexican delegates with reference to the character of the man who in the opinion of the Washington Government should be selected for President of Mexico under the provisional arrangement , but they have as firmly declined even to consider the proposal that the Constitutionalists be allowed to participate in the conference under any other terms than those that apply to the American and the Mexican delegates . No Conference Yesterday . No conference between the mediators and either of the groups of delegates took place today . There will be a conference of the mediators and the American commissioners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the situation it appears that the crisis may develop in a way to show whether the negotiations are to bear fruit The failure of the mediators to receive from Gen. Carranza the promised answer to the conditional invitation to participate in the conference has had no perceptible effect upon the present situation . Confidence is felt here that the Carranza reply will be a reiteration of his refusal to send delegates to Niagara Falls under any of the conditions mentioned . It is doubtful if the mediators will respond to a note of that character . Whether the mediators will wait for the receipt of the Carranza reply befere maidng public the text of the correspondence between Gen. Carranza and themselves has not been determined . On Monday night the mediators let it be known that they would furnish copies of this correspondence to the press . on the following day but at the request of Mr. Lehman of the American delegation they agreed to postpone publication until today , when , according to Mr. Lehman 's information , Gen. Carranza 's answer was to be expected . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Carranza communication before removing the ban of secrecy from their previous correspondence with him . Crammond Kennedy of Washington . a noted international lawyer and the legal adviser of the Brazilian Embassy . has arrived here . He was asked by the Brazilian Ambassador to come to Niagara Falls for consultation and to be made acquainted with the mediation situation in preparation for eventualities . It was the understanding that Mr. Chermont , the counselor of the Brazilian Embassy , had been summoned here to assist in the wind-up of the negotiations ; but this was an error . Mr. Kennedy having been invited inStead .                     