@@684236

txt After thirty-seven days of continuous travel , I am in the port once famous as the " Czar of the East , " now the allied base in Siberia . Vladivostok seems to be a million miles from New York until one passes our troops in the streets , sees the American flag flying from our warships or headquarters , meets officers - and men who a few . weeks ago were scattered throughout the United States , or until he must run across streets to avoid the speeding of American automobiles . Americans who have seen the east side of New York would feel at home here , where there are thousands of Chinese and Russian refugees and Japanese educated in America . While Siberia to most Americans has been a cold , bleak empire for the Czar 's political . exiles , one needs to be here only ' a few hours until he feels that the city is near New York , for distance after all is not measured so much by days as by events . Recent events have also brought Vladivostok nearer Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sisters are here with the army , the . railroaders , or the Red Cross . American Envoys - Alert . Today Siberia is a locality from which Russia may be . regenerated , and in a small room aboard a warship sits Ambassador Morris , the President 's listening post in the East , upon whose recommendations so much-depends . While . Mr. Morris examines carefully thousands of suggestions and opinions from all classes of RuSsians'i:Mr . Crane in Tokio and Mr. Reinsch in Peking are also reporting to Washington on one of the most difficult of all international problems , how Russia can be helped to a new life . Mr. Morris may soon leave for Harbin , continuing his inspection , examination , and , interviewing upon questions which he cant intimate now . He will be returning shortly to the Consulate here . Within a few days General Graves will leave for an inspection of the Americans encamped on the Ussuri River , 600 miles away . But one day is needed here to hear the testimony of all that the Czechs are the real boys . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Marching through the streets , they give a splendid impression , while in the interior they are fighting , against the greatest odds , the Bolshevist-German prisoner combination . This is what makes our men particularly restive , for , like all soldiers , they prefer a campaign to a camp . Vladivostok viewed from a ship in the Gulf of Amur presents an imposing and impressive picture . The city lies on mountain slopes like the sides of a great amphitheatre . From a distance one sees the allied and Red Cross flags waving from innumerable modern buildings . In the harbor are American , British , Chinese , French , and Japanese warships , while scattered through the Golden Horn Gulf are old Russian ships , some damaged by the Boisheviki but now housing refugees . Our Troops Guard Supplies . Stretching for several miles along the'bay are warehouses packed with supplies bought before the revolution , but which never , reached the Russian front because of the terrible congestion everywhere . In the outskirts of the city one sees millions of dollars ' worth of supplies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cobbled streets are busy with dro , shkies , army cers , passing Japanese army wagons , refugees by the thousands , even Russian officers wearing the Czar 's decorations and Czechs with a red and white ribbon on their caps , modeled after the American overseas caps . The street cars run , but they are as filthy as Mexican cars and - are jammed from stem to stern . It is worth one 's life to ride in one of them . In the wide main street near- the city 's centre are General Graves 's headquarters , in a two-story brick building , while the American base is nearly four miles away up tle Golden Horn Bay , where the Aradleans occupy . enormous warehouses as barracks . General Graves and his immediate staff live at headquarters , where the accommodations are better . Flood of New Money . My first day here resulted in a riot of impressions and opinions , but a striking thing is the city 's animation and hustle , a condition which is outward only , for when one orders meals or attempts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two to four hours to get food and longer to send a telegram , for procrastination is not a fine art but a habit here . Every one 's business is to get I money with the least effort . Prices are sky high and would be prohibitive were it not for the ease with which money is issued . Thousands of different kinds of Russian money circulate here , even bond coupons and stamps , and the shops , when ' they can not ? give , change , write 0 . U. 's for change. : These are circulated again as money . ? Such is a birdseye view of the city , which is a thousand miles from the old Russian front . Nobody knows how far it remains from the centre of the Russian rebirth . Today it is only a base , with irregular telegraph communication and poorer train connection with the interior . 