@@681928

txt President De la Plaza has received a3.telegram from General Carranza which asserts that the Washington conference , should it decide to interfere in Mexican affairs , would commit an unpardonable error . " Argentina , " says the dispatch . " has made herself an accomplice in a crime against our race , which possibly may help to bring on a war between two American nations . ' Joni Luis Murature , the Foreign Minister , replied to Carranza on behalf of the President , saying that Argentina was taking part in the conference with the intention of respecting Mexican sovereignty . He added that the conference had dismissed every factor that tended to interfere with Mexican internal affairs , especially every plan looking to armed intervention . He added that the conference was working with the idea of maintaining Pan-American solidarity , and that instead of being alarmed the Mexican people should look upon the conference as a sign of friendship and proof of its desire for the greatness of Mexico . Carranza Appealed to Other Powers . Special Cable to THE NEW Teas TIMER . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this city are wiring to First Chief Carranza congratulating him on his message to the A B C Presidents and pledging loyal support . Epeciai to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , Aug. ** Mexican situation has assumed a new and dangerous phase . with complications threatened that may require the use of force by the United States . Efforts to incite the population of Vera Cruz against Americans and other foreigners have been made by street orators , and conditions there have become so critical that the United States battleships Louisiana and New Hampshire have been ordered to proceed southward , and will Probably continue to the Mexican port unless the anti-foreign demonstrations there cease . They sailed from Newport , R. L. this evening . The United States gunboat Marietta has also been ordered from Progreso , Mexico , to Vera Cruz . The United States armored cruiser Tennessee , which sailed from Philadelphia early this morning with 800 marines for service di Hayti may be instructed by wireless to proceed to Vera Cruz . Officials of the Government are great-1 ly concerned over the situation . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cruz that the American naval forces there were to be augmented , reprisals might be attempted against Americans and other foreigners . One of the worst features of the Situation is that the efforts to arouse feeling against foreign citizens and subjects appears to have been undertaken , with the connivance of the Carranza Government . The Carranzistas are very angry over the purpose of the United States to bring peace to Mexico through co-operation with six Latin-American ' countries . Carranza is believed to suspeet that his elimination is contemplated by the United States , and it is feared he is now proceeding to develoP a " rule or ruin " policy . More Warships Asked for . The advices concerning the dangerous turn of affairs at Vera Cruz came to the Navy Department this morning in a dispatch from Commander Luke of the cruiser Sarcamento , the senior American naval officer at that place . Commander ' reported that a very ugly feeling existed at Vera Cruz toward all foreigners , and speeches had been made in the public square and on the streets , stirring up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was in consequence of this request that the Louisiana , the New Hampshire . and the Marietta received preparatory orders to proceed to Vera Cruz . As a result of telegraphic exchanges over the Mexican situation between President Wilson and Secretary LansGagatlaued on . the President will return to Washington . The information contained in Commander 's message was telegraphed to the President at Cornish . By his direction a conference was held . between Secretary Lansing and Rcar - Admiral William a . Benson , the Acting Secretary of the Nary , at which Leon Z. Canova , Chief of the Division of Mexican Affairs in the State Department , leas present . A statement of the situation was sent to the President after this conference , and it is understood that it was by his personal direction that the orders were issued to the Louisiana and the ' New Hampshire to prepare to depart for Vera . Cruz . - The decision to augment the United . States naval force at Vera Cruz was ?  - -  ached tentatively at a conference of Secretary Lansing , Bear Admiral William S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ J. Canova , Chief of the Division of Mexican Affairs , in the State Department . Later orders were sent to Newport , to have the two , , battleships prepare for sea without ' Commander 's force consists of the cruiser Sacramento and the gunboats Machias and Wheeling The Navy Department declines to say whether the Louisiana and New Hampshire are under orders to go direct to Vera Cruz . It 3s said that they may stop at Hampton Roads for further instructions . The Louisiana is the flagship of Rear Admiral Walter , and he will take command of the entire naval force at Vera Cruz unless a change in the situation causes the Government to recall the Louisiana and the New Hampshire . ! There is reason to believe that the sf-ndjng of more battleships to Vera Cruz is contemplated . Although the belief prevails here that the anti-foreign demonstrations in Vera Cruz are the direct result of resentment n the part of the Carranzistas over the effort of this Government to end Mexico 's troubles through co-operation with Brazil . Argentina , Chile . Bolivia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all seven nations are to be continued . Plans for Mexican Convention . Secretary Lansing left here tonight for New Fork to attend the meeting to be eld tomorrow afternoon at the Biltmore hotel with the diplomatic envoys of the .. atin-American countries named . Just before he took the train for 7 ? . : Tew : Your Secretary Lansing said advises had reached the State Department tonight confirming the report of Coinmander as to conditions at Nero . Cruz , but giving no additional details . The Secretary would not discuss Vie mission of the battleships . The new reports from Vera Cruz were forwarded to Cornish . In connection with the conference at New York it was learned tonight that the appeal to be addressed to the Mexican people and all military leaders would outline a definite plan for the holding of a general convention to set up a Constitutional Government which would be recognized by the United States and other American republics . It is said that the conference will select a Mexican for the Presidency regarded as best fitted to undertake the task , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace convention is assembled . The possibility that some of the chiefs , particularly General Carranza , may refuse to join in such a convention has been fully considered , and all the nations participating in the conference are declared to be in agreement on a plan to use the armed forces of the United States , if necessary , to enforce an embargo on war supplies against any faction opposing the proposed new government . Ever since the announcement was made by the State Department that representatives of the United States , five South American countries and one Central American country would confer with a view to perfecting a program for ending the troubles in Mexico , the Carranza Government has been busy issuing statements designed to show that the Carranzistas controlled the greater part of Mexico and were conducting an orderly administration Within the last few days many telegrams have been received at the Carranza agency here for communication to American newspapers which indicate that the Carranza officials are angry , Further evidence of their resentment over the attempt to adjust the Mexican situation by a conference of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's unexplained dismissal of the Guatemalan Minister in Mexico City . Tonight 's batch of complaints sent by telegraph to Washington from the Carranza headquarters in Vera Cruz , show that trouble is in store for the United States Coese. at that port , and that the Carranzistas are seeking to cast discredit on the manner in which the American Red Cross conducted its re --  ; lief work in Mexico City . The dispatches , coming closely on the heels of the advices concerning anti-foreign demonstrations in Vera Cruz , are regarded as having an additional slgnificauce . The statement concerning Consul Canada was in the form of this cablegram to the Carranzista Washington Agency : from Jesus Acufis. the Carranza Minister for Foreign Relations at Vera cruz:s Official inquiry will be instituted regarding the statement made in Washington on July 21 that Consul W. W. Canada at Vera Cruz had reported to his Government that eight Mexican naval vessels were preparing to embark troops which were coming Into Vera Cruz from the interior . It is not understood how Consul Canada could maim such a statement by the Government officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's office in : he Consulate overlook the harbor , and at no time have sucn a number of Mexican war vessels ever been seen in the port of Vera Cruz . During the past fortnight only one has sailed out of port . No troops have come to Vera Cruz from the interior of Mexico . and the vessel which did sail only carried its ordinary complement of men . No satisfactory explanation has ever been given as to the statement generally credited to Mr. Canada by the press of the United States scale time age to the 1 effect that Carranza had fled to the castle of Sat . Juan de Muit. fearing assassination . This statement is absolutely without basis of fact . It is not going too far to say that the opinion is gaining ground in Washington that Carranza is becoming reckless of consequences in his effort to prevent this Government from attempting to end the disturbances in Mexico . In some quarters it is believed that the demonstrations against Americans and other foreigners in Vera Cruz are countenanced by the authorities there for the purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands off the Mexican situation .                     