@@679578

txt Bloodhounds early to-day caused the arrest of Dominic Ghetto and Charles Sabastian , suspected of having dynamited the fanhouse.of the United Coal and Coke Company , near Latrobe , early yesterday morning . It is expected that at least six other men , suspected of having been implicated in the Plot , will be arrested to-night . A posse led by several of the mine officials and the Chief of Police is now scouring the hills with bloodhounds . Early yesterday morning , during the absence of the watchman at the mine , a gang of men placed dynamite under several of the buildings connected with the mine . They had laid their plans to demolish even the tipple , it is said . The night watchman , who was at luncheon , was attracted by a terrific explosion . He ran out and saw a cloud of smoke . The big fanhouse was totally wrecked . Seven men were seen running up over the hill , according to farmers riding In that vicinity . The State constabulary troopers were summoned and worked all night , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obtained , and the police scoured the country . The bloodhounds led them to a house . The dogs jumped upon Giletto and Sabastlan , who were eating at a table . The two men were taken to Latrobe , and there implicated others . HEARS OWL SCREECH ; DIES . Nervous Bride Collapses When Bird Hits Her Bedroom Window . The shrieking of a screech owl and the noise the bird made in flying against the window of her bedroom is believed to have caused Mrs. James T. O'Neill , wife ' of an Assistant Corporation Counsel of Brooklyn , to suffer a stroke from which she died late Tuesday night at their Summer house in Argyle Park , Babylon , L. L Mrs. O'Neill met her husband at the railroad station in Babylon Tuesday evening when he returned from his office in Bor ough Hall . After supper they went out for a short walk in the town . They retired early and shortly afterward Mrs. O'Neill complained to her husband that she could not sleep . She had not been in good health since the death of her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , five weeks ago . She grieved over his death so much that she suffered from ' a nervous breakdown . A screech owl kept up a continual howl as it flew from tree to tree near her bedroom , and she complained to her husband about the bird . She was very nervous while she was talking . The owl suddenly flew from its perch on the tree and against the bedroom window , striking the glass with a resounding whack . It then flew off and kept up its , shrieking . Mr. O'Neill got up to see If he could not drive the bird away . When he returned to his wife he found her unconscious . He sent immediately for a doctor , but when one arrived at the house Mrs. O'Neill was dead . Mrs. O'Neill was a bride of a few months . She was 32 years old . Before her marriage she was Miss Jesetta Coo1 nan .                     