@@684153

txt The vital importance of speeding up American and Entente aid to the Czechoslovak forces in Central Siberia before it is too late to be of real service to them and to Russia was emphasized late tonight when it became known that they are making an impressive appeal for help . Friends of the Czechs in Washington have received information that the acting Foreign Minister of the Czechoslovaks at Amoy has issued an appeal to hasten the aid that has been assured them by President Wilson and the Entente Powers . In this appeal he describes those of the Czechoslovaks forces who are in Central Siberia as being hopelessly outnumbered by a combination of Austrian and German prisoners and Russian Red Guards , and as being inadequately supplied and almost in despair . Unless aid reaches them within six weeks it will be too late . There are two main groups of Czechoslovaks in Siberia . There is an eastern group at and around Vladivostok , to which point the American and Japanese Governments have already sent troops . This group is not in any immediate danger . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces already landed there are able to care for and aid this group ) The second , and by far thy ' larger and more important group , stretches along the Trans-Siberian Railway all the way from Irkutsk , on the western shore of Lake Baikal , to Samara in European Russia . This group is in possession of Tomsk , Omsk , Seheijabinsk , in Siberia , and Uza and Samara in European Russia . The distance between Tomsk and Sainara is 1,675 miles and the ability of the Czechoslovaks to seize these long stretches of the Trans-Siberian Railway has been one of the amazing epics of the war . These are the Czechoslovak units which it is vitally important to aid . They are . according to information received here through authentic channels tonight , almost in despair of receiving soon enough  --  the aid that has been assUrad them . Most important of all is represented to be the need to furnish aid to the Czechoslovak forces as ! Irkutsk . It is declared to he highly essential to establish a juncture between the Czechoslovak forces who control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and those who are at Irkutsk and west of that point . This is declared to be extremely vital because the bulk of the armed Austrian and German prisoners of war who have been operating in association with the Red Guards and other forces of the Bolshevist regime are in the region between Lake Baikal and Vladivostok and around Chita , which is near the point from which the Trans-Siberian Railway branches down through Manchuria to Harbin and Vladivostok . It is feared that unless very definite and precise military steps are taken to circumvent it , these Austro-Germans , balked at moving toward Vladivostok . and taking advantage of the fact that the Siberian Winter will be along inside of six weeks , may move westward from Chita toward Irkutsk in an effort to take advantage of the plight in which the various detachments of Czechoslovaks would find themselves , lacking , as they do , guns , ammunition , and clothing . Should this assistance not reach them in less than six weeks , the movements of the Czechoslovaks west of Irkutsk will be in danger of collapse . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Austro-Germans who are leading the Bolshevist forces to wipe out the Czechoslovak forces around Irkutsk , and retire westward along the Trans-Siberian Railway toward European Russia , destroying the railway as they retreat and massacring the Czechoslovak detachments as they go . How this situation will be met is a problem for the military authorities , but it is said that in order to deal with it effectively it will probably be necessary to send more Entente troops into Siberia than were contemplated at the time the United States and Japanese Governments reached their agreement for sending an expedition to Vladivostok . Acting Secretary Polk 's recent formal announcement of this Government 's position and purposes stated that the United States Government had proposed to Japan and that Japan had consented " that each of the two Governments send a force of a few thousand men to Vladivostok , with the ? purpose of cooperating as a single force in the occupation of Vladivostok and in safeguarding , as far as it may be , the country to the rear of the westward moving Czechoslovaks . " The information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those In Central Siberia as being such as to require a speeding up of the program for aiding them , is of such a character as probably to require a reconsideration of the original plan , with a view to taking additional steps to meet the situation . There is now a chance to aid those Central Siberian groups of Czechoslovaks , it is asserted , which may slip beyond the grasp of those now in a position to do it if the opportunity is seized , but which , if lost , will set back the whole fine movement for aiding th'em and at the same time serving the Russian people and delivering them from , their present desperate circumstances .                     