@@683406

txt BOMBING BY SEAPLANES Advocated as Best Way to Combat the Submarine 's Advantage . A submerged submarine can raise and lower its periscope in thirty seconds . Even if so small an object could be seen and hit at any great distance , a gun could not , be trained on it in that time . Under these , circumstances the employment of boats alone to destroy submarines that they can not see is useless . In patrolling and defending merchant ships , . they are doing all and more than eduld be expected of them , handicapped as they are . The addition of two planes , ( the extra plane to be used in making changes in planes , ) to an armed boat , would enable it to make a valuable under-water survey of an area from eight to thirteen times greater than the worthless surface survey that it could make without them . Their use would be a matter of both economy and efficiency . The necessary , indispensable thing in all successful anti - submarine work , whether discovering and destroying submarines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armed boat supplied with two planes is the ideal unit for both purposes . Seaplanes can also destroy submarines by the use of bombs . Such bombs , in addition to the provision causing them to explode upon striking a submarine , should also be prepared for exploding at a suitable distance below the surface . The bombs if ch opped near a submarine are capable of destroying it , as the explosion under water of any large explosive near a submarine will wreck it . They can also destroy submarines when they are submerged close to the surface . ' Keeping the armed boat and the seaplane always near each other , by the seaplane 's utilizing its greater speed in making short trips at right angles to and on both sides of the boat , removes the only objection to the universal use of the seaplane , as it makes the accompanying boat the base , supply , or mother boat , enabling the seaplane to be used anywhere . Merchant ships should be convoyed both ways through all danger zones by armed boats provided with seaplanes . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so that they can keep together while sailing . The union of the seaplane and the armed boat working together means the quick doom of the submarine . By sailing the merchant ships in fleets there will be a supply of both armed boats and planes to protect every merchant ship . Submarines will be discovered before they can get within miles of a ship , and they can not escape as they formerly did , by submerging , as they can now be destroyed when submerged . CORNELIUS MARTIN .                     