@@681168

txt The trustees of The National Birthplace Memorial Association met at the office of John G. Milburn , 54 Wall Street , yesterday and decided to expend 5200,000 in the construction of a building to perpetuate the memory of the late President at his birthplace . Niles , Ohio . It was also decided to offer a suitable prize through a committee of the American Institute of Architects for the best competitive plans and drawings for the memorial . A small park and surrounding plots of ground , comprising about five acres , have been given by the city of Niles as a site for the building . At the Trustees ' meeting it was announced that 5110,000 in cash had been obtained by public subscription , and the remainder of the money necessary to complete the work had either- been pledged or would be forthcoming when needed . An additional 550,000 will be sought to provide a permanent endowment . This , ' it is expected , will be raised by a general popular subscription In small amounts , from 51 or more . While the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the competitive architects , subject to the approval of the committee of the American Institute of Architects , and finally to the wishes of the Trustees , the latter have already determined upon the chief features that are to be comprised within the interior . ill this they have been guided by the desire to make the building as useful as it will be ornamental . combining the practical with the artistic so far as the means will permit . The main feature will include an auditorium , seating 1,000 persons ; a public library , a relic room , in which will be placed personal and historic objects associated with the life of , some of which will be presented by his relatives , and many more by his friends and patriotic associations ; an assembly hall for meetings of the veterans of the Grand Army of the Republic . where the State encampments may be held , and for Spanish-American War Veterans , and a room for the meetings of officials of the city . The building will be of granite , two stories and a basement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Memorial Association , who is Vice President of the Brier Hill Steel Company at ' Youngstown , 0. , said yesterday that the Trustees had opposed all suggestions for contribution of public funds toward the project , preferring that it be erected as a popular testimonial to the martyr-President . He added : " Since the Memorial Association was authorized by Congress at the close of President Roosevelt 's term , and in the first bill signed by President Taft at the beginning of his term , we have calried on the work of collecting funds without a general public appeal . For the purpose of raising the endowment we have decided to appeal to the public generally to contribute . For a contribution of 51 or more the giver will be , ' made a life member . In addition . each contributor will receive a handsomely bound book , giving a brief but comprehensive sketch of the life of MCKinley , with his portrait , which Supreme Court Justice characterized as the best portrait of the dead President extant . " Facing the main entrance of the memorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ busts of men associated with him in the affairs of the nation are to have a place in tn , ! building . These men will be ex-Presi ? dents Roosevelt and Taft ; James War ; the elder , who was a pioneer manufacturer at Niles and established the firs rolling mill there in 1642 , and a bust a ' Senator Mark Hanna . In approvim , this feature of the - memorial yesterdae the trustees adopted a resolution fog bidding the placing of any other riga ! ? or statue in the memorial without Lir : unanimous consent of all the trustee5 . " When completed the building and it approaches will be one of the fines ; national memorials in the country . ' ' said President Butler . " The city of Niles has arranged to group civic buildings of appropriate design on all four sides of the memorial . It will mean the rebuilding of ' the centre of Niles. which 110ky has approximately 12,000 population . " Among the largest contributors to the fund are Henry C. Frick , $50.000 : Joseph C. Butler . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $5,000 ; Elbert H. Gary and Charles M. Schwab . ' The trustees , who may appoint their successors . making it a perpetual body , are , besides Mr. Butler , John G. Milburn : in whose home at Buffalo President died , Vice President : W. A. Thomas , President Brier Hill Steel Company . Youngstown , Ohio . ? Secretary ; J. G. Schmidlapp . Cincinnati . and the American Ambassador at Paris . Myron T. Herrick . At the meeting of the American Iron and Steel Institute at the Waldorf yesterday tentative plans and drawings of the proposed memorial , which the trustees had prepared , were exhibited to the members . Judge E. H. Gary , who is President of the institute , called the attention of the members to the memorial and requested them to aid In its successful completion . CITY SALARIES DISCUSSED . Board of Estimate Takes Up tho Question of Increases . The Board of Estimate yesterday discussed how to increase the salaries of city employes . The question came up when Maurice . Connolly . President of Queens , asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 51.1:03 a year the salary of a plan examiner. it was suggested that he submit the matter to the Budget Committee for ' 1915. but lie said it was impossible to get the desired man for the amount now ? allowed . 2 Marcus M. Marks , President of , Manhattan , said that in private business a desirable man could command a salary commensurate with the position he held . , ? is n't true in public life , " said Controller Prendergast . " When one man gets an increase in salary at an off time like this the news , carries'quiekly , and we will get tons of requests for increased salaries . If we pass  --  this resolution now , by 1 o'clock the news will be discussed in every Borough Hall square in the city . " Engineer Goodrich of the Manhattan ' Borough President 's office said his division had nine vacancies that could not be filled because no man who had experience in engineering work would work for 51,200 a year when he could get 51. : 550 from a private concern : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " said Mayor Mitchel . I think I will get all the advances that are necessary when the proper time Mines by simply asking for them . Of course there will have to be cutting in another direction to make up for the difference in the budget allowance in the department . but I think that we ought to stick to our resolution not to increase a salary in the middle of the year unless there is some exceptional reason for it . " ' It was decided to lay the matter - over for a month , and meantime the members Of the board will discuss some ' plan applicable to all departments where In , ereases in salaries are asked for .                     