@@681645

txt The northern battle line now stretches over a front eighty miles wide , from the Nieman , due east of Tilsit , where there is fighting on the frontier , down to the southeast corner of East Prussia . This positional culmination of a well-masked and swiftly conducted advance across both ends of East Prussia is in itself a bitter disappointment for the Germans . Unquestionably , Field Marshal von Hindenburg projected his last operations in the north in the belief that he could bring off another Tannenberg . The Russians recently got some distance across the old scene of the battles of the early days of the war . The army in the north was in the region of plains partly covered with bare woods . It reached the neighborhood of Insterburg and Tilsit , when a strong German column , formed at Ktlnigsberg , was shot forward at great speed into the gap between the Nieman and the Inster . Concurrently with this advance , von Hindenburg sent another flying column across the northern edge of Poland behind a screen of cavalry which had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Serpec and Mlawa . For a fortnight the southern German line had been pushed into East Prussia south of the region where the Russians had long been facing the German intrenched positions among the lakes . The Russian left wing had time to draw into the more open country , and turned upon the Germans on the plain near Lyck , where they still hold back the Gernlans and where they inflicted severe losses on them . The aggregate result of von Hindenburg 's major tactics is that he must bring still more men into the wide space of comparatively flat country below the Nieman or submit to renewed pressure westward by the Russians , whose'northern army is still practically intact . Its only appreciable loss fell on one of the divisions which had not time tO link up with the main unit . The ardent hope of the Kaiser that he could by this last rush campaign place East Prussia in comparative security and turn a substantial proportion of his men who have been hitherto held there to the western theatre of war for the great battle of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the frontier in East Prussia remains open for battles on a large scale . The first of them is already preparing in formidable dimensions . A thaw has set in among the river courses of Central Poland . but Gen. Mackensen is busily moving columns across the muddy fields under Russian shell fire . The emptiness of his comrade 's achievements in the north may impel him to make yet another onslaught on the Russian lines along the Rawka . The position in the Carpathians continues satisfactory . The Russians have pressed on behind the headwaters of the San and seized some fortified positions which German engineers had prepared for the Austrians . The German troops are still fighting desperately for the heights which control the Muukacz Road and a part of one of their divisions has intrenched itself only forty paces from the head of one of the rock shelters held by the Russians . A thorough scrutiny of the situation has convinced observers that the reports from Bucharest of an Austro-German campaign against Servia having already begun are untrue . Nearly all the troops which might have been thrown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russians in the Carpathians . Probably all the other spare units are needed for Bukowina.                     