@@682147

txt Following her dramatic retirement from the Henry Ford peace party last night , Mrs. Inez Milholland Boissevain dropped a final bomb into the pilgrims ' trenches today in the shape of a formal statement charging mismanagement . The pilgrims were heartened in the face of this attack by a statement which Gaston Plantiff , who is recognized as Mr. Ford 's spokesman , issued to the Stockholm papers . Mr. Plantiff not only denied that his chief deserted the party and declared that his doctor ordered complete seclusion following a nervous breakdown . and an attack of influenza , bi , t announced that Mr. Ford , with his wife , would join the party at The Hague . - The Stockholm papers print a story to the effect that Mr. Ford 's departure Ras caused by an excited delegate , or journalist , according to another version , forcing his way into the leader 's room in Christiania and brandishing a reIt was announced at last night 's meeting that the committee appointed to take ' charge when Mr. Ford left his expedition had elected the Rev. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an emergency Committee , with Louis F. Lochner and two other members , with full power . Also , various sub-committees were chosen , abolishing all previous organization of the Ford party . Vociferous indorsement was given by the meeting , but there was some undercurrent of dissatisfaction over the appointment and power of the committee . Mrs. Boissevain protested against the undemocratic system of organizing from above , dad later wrote to the committee , announcing her resignation from the party . Mrs. Boissevain 's Parting Shot . " The undemocratic method employed by the managers of the expedition is repugnant to my principles , " Mrs. Boissevain wrote . " Instead of all the mem ' bers formulating plans , the work has been confined to a. few specially selected persons . When the party embarked on . the Oscar II . I took it for granted that the rather vague opinion of the body of delegates would be hammered into effective shape by group action and constructive thinking throughout the voyage . " An organization was not formed until three days before the end of the voyage . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mistakes in policy , inefficiency , and inability to get the idea of a mediating peace congress in comprehensive shape before the public . The organization , when finally formed , was abortive . The Scandinavian public , which expected clear thinking and a definite program , was skeptical about the serious-mindedness of the delegates . At the meetings the discussions have been purely private , with the result of ill-feeling , suspicion , and condemnation . For the reasons stated . I am unable to continue with the party . " Mrs. Boissevain will leave here for The Hague within a day or two . Mr. Holt said the members of the committee were Mr. Ford 's choice , but would not state whether Mr. Ford named them personally or through an intermediary . There is an apparent possibility that the committee may attempt to put Mr. Plantiff in the background and resume control of the party despite his position as Mr. Ford 's personal representative . If this attitude is persisted in it may mean another conflict in the peace party . Mr. Plantiff is enthusiastic for Mr. Ford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notably wanting in the beginning of the trip . Mr. Ford 's soul goes marching on . but unless there is harmonious work behind Mr. Plantiff , the party will apparently slide back to the disorganization of a week or two ago . Lieutenant Governor Bethea and Herman Bernstein will leave the city in a day or two . Mr. Bethea says he must be present at the opening of the South Carolina Senate . Mr. Bernstein says he believes that the party 's mission is doomed to failure , and that he is going to Germany as a war correspondent . Mr. Plantiff was in session with the Executive Committee today , and there is reason to believe that the committee now knows how much it amounts to . At a meeting of Socialists held this evening WO Swedish members of the party met a few Ford delegates , and Mr. Lochner explained the plgrim 's plan . His exposition excited no commotion . Minister Morris this afternoon entertained many of the party at the opera . Delegates Go Sightseeing . Many of the pilgrims went to church yesterday , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party would stay here till Wednesday night to recuperate from the fatigue brought on by a system of three night stands . The Swedish sentiment apparently continues to be distinctly unfavorable , even among peace advocates , most of the support coming from some Socialists . Socialists here told the newspaper men that the members of the Ford , party were spies of American munition 1 manufacturers , but the orthodox opinion is that they are only press agents of Mr. Ford , reporting what he and Mine . Sehwimmer wish to have said of them . Less newspaper space is given to the party and its doings here than in Norway , and popular interest is apparently diminishing .                     