@@684030

txt Late reports which have- been received in this country concerning the food conditions in Central Europe have added to the Government 's determination , as set forth in THE NEW Tonic . TIMES today . not to acquiesce quietly in any agreements between the neutral nations of Northern Europe and Germany which would aid the latter nation at this critical stage of the war . These developments are emphasized today in connection with Holland 's intention to send 25,000 tons or snore of potatoes into Germany , as the announcement comes at a time when in-. formation obtained on unquestioned authority is that meat and bread rations in Germany , Austria-Hungary , and other countries fighting by Germany 's side have been reduced to a dangerous minimum , and that the many promises of better conditions which have been made recently by German officials have not been kept . In connection with the Dutch-German agreement which has caused so much comment here , a statement in the Vossische Zeitung , based upon utterances of the . German . Under Secretary of State , Dr. Muller , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered of the greatest significance . Among other things , these , comments were made " We must , then , hold out until the next harvest .. " As the potato harvest was very good , the ration of seven pounds can no doubt be maintained until the end ; and we may count on last year 's hitches not recurring , especially as we can hope for early potatoes from several other quarters by the end of July . " If in previous years the bread ration could be maintained to the end , that was mainly due to new supplies and the early thrashing being available in the last months of the economic year . Now , too , all efforts will be made to get supplies , but we must not set too great hopes on the Ukraine . " Despite this statement , the potato ration has been reduced In Germany from seven to three pounds weekly , and appearently the only hope of increasing it again lies in the opportunity Of getting " early potatoes from several other quarters . " Ca n't Make Up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in various districts not more than 100 grams , or less than six ounces , a day , and , while it is hoped to give additional allotments of sugar , the situationi has caused what one German statement characterized as a " sensation . " In the past it has been possible to make up for the reduced flour ration , pending the arrival of the , new harvest , by increasing the meat ration , but it is impossible to do so this Summer . The meat ration is about 150 grams , or five ounces , a week in most sections ; in . some it has been dropped to 100 grams weekly . In this connection a statement of German origin , the authenticity of which is unquestioned , has been received with the deepest interest here . It says : " During the period June 15 to Aug. 10 prepared foods are in Prussia to be issued to the extent of half as much again as at present ; in Berlin probably 780 geams of sugar and 450 grams of prepared food.will be issued per month @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the bread ration , the public will receive the same amount of food calories . In addition , dried vegetables . and perhaps also dried kohlrabi , will be used to make up for bread . . " ? Any compensation in the shape of Meat is out of the question . The census of March 1 , 1918 , shows a pig stock of 5,700,000. as against 13,000.000 as late as March 1 , 1917 . These 5,700,000 are necessary for the preservation of the stocks , and we can not now think of a ' pig massacre ' . such as had to be resorted to Owing to the fodder shortage . ? ? The pos.tivii is more saLtsfaewi'yits l'egaras cattle . On Mai eh 1 there were l.9,000,000 of these , but , whereas earlier the averagi weight was 2IU k:loar tms. the Imperial Meat Office now reckons it Ott onl , in 191 , cattle were required for the meat supply of the quarter , now 1,600,000 . Here , too , we . must be economical . " Another signif-cant point is found in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German people must now ac ; cent meat one-quarter of the we ! . tht of ! which is represented by bone . Former ' ly this limit was set at one-fifth . Seek Offset in Calories . Another authentic German statement reads : " The Federal States believe that the cattle are at present in their worst condition and hope by feeding them up at their own cost to improve the Meat later on . Sonic districts have been obliged to . reduce the meat ration , as the milk supply was in danger. ? The butter ration in Germany has been reduced to a point where it is almost negligible , averaging from twentyfive to fifty grams a week , and there is apparently no hope of the Germans obtaining more fats , even under the most favorable conditions . The German officials have endeavored to explain to the people in reducing the bread and meat rations tliat every effort will be made to give them other food which will maintain the same calory ration " as heretofore . This argument , which is used to soothe the feelings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may appear as ' an important point in discussions as to whether American exports to neutral nations are used indirectly to aid the enemy . The point is ; made that Ficittland , in supplying Germany With potatoes which it could not spare if it was not assured of wheat from this country , is sending to Germany , in the form of potatoes , carbohydrates which it hopes to replace with wheat . There are strong advocates in official circles here of the view that , Hollhnd would be as certainly supplying Germany with the means to keep up its " calory ration " by sending its potatoes as if it reshipped American wheat into Germany , a thing which the United States , in agreeing to send wheat to Holland , sr , ? 7l'ically forbids , Just what outcome of the present Dutch-nstsi , ... ; agreement will be is still s. ? , ' conjecture , but there was : . ? lice here today that Holland it difficult , if not impossible , ut ( again satisfactory rationing for its future needs from the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ critical time . The situation developed has also presented an opportunity for the United States to make known its position in connection with all neutral nations which are in a position to give aid to the Germans . Additional reports have been received here that Germany has adopted further means , such as the threat to prey upon Dutch commerce , to ' force Holland to serve Berlin 's will . While these are taken into consideration here , it is said , they are not consider  --  ed sufficient reason for Holland to tills- the position that she may aid Germany and rightfully look for help from the allied nations .                     