@@682387

txt Cardinal Mercier , Primate of Belgium , has sent a reply to the letter of General von Biasing . Governor General in the occupied portions of Belgium , protesting against statements in the Lenten pastoral of the Cardinal and warning the prelate that he must cease his alleged political activity . The Cardinal 's letter says : " It behooves us , Excellency , in answering the letter it pleased you to address us. to render homage to the courtesy you have shown to the venerated head of our Church . ' 4 The faithful servant of our Lord Jesus Christ , we obeyed the summons of His representative on earth . But , you know , Excellency , that it was not we who solicited the , neat honor of laying our homage at the feet of his Holiness . Allow us. then , even smitten as we are by admiration before . the warlike pomp surrounding you and the brilliant staff which , like King Saul , you have attached to your person , to retain , nevertheless , our full liberty of judgment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country is passing we can not and will not relinquish . In doing so we remain faithful shepherd of that flock for which our Lord has given His life . " We shall follow the teaching of the noble success of St. Peter , his Holiness Leo XIII In his encyclical he instructed us as to obeying the civil authorities when they give orders manifestly contrary to the natural divine law : ' If any one distinctly finds himself faced with the alternative of breaking the commands of God or those of a Prince . he must follow the precepts of Jesus Christ and answer as did the apostle . It is better to obey God than man . ' " To act thus is not to merit reproach for disobedience . for Princes , when their will is in opposition to the divine will and law . exceed their power and corrupt justice . Hence their authority is not binding , because when it is not just it ceases . Excellency , your authority can not then be exercised except in accordance with justice . Ecce in justitia regnabit /Rex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ) " When a Prince casts aside justice we no longer oWe him either obedience . respect , or loyalty . Placed by the will I of God on the . Archiepiscopal Throne of Malines we are only answerable to our conscience , and , if in the discharge Of our holy office we are obliged to raise our voice , we believe ourselves to he following the teachings of our Divine Master . " We ' render unto Caesar those things which are Caesar 's , ' for we pay you the silent homage due to strength , but we keep closed to your encroachments the sacred domain of our conscience , the last refuge of the rightful oppressed . " It was not , your Excellency may be sure , without deep reflection that we denounced to the world the evils with which our brothers and sisters are overwhelmed  --  frightful evils . indeed atrocious crimes , the tragic horror of which cold reason refuses to admit . " But had we not done so we should not have felt ourselves worthy to be the successor of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ son of those who by their labors made illustrious the See of Maline , s , of which the Library of Louvain formed the purest jewel , the ? inestimable priceless treasure . " In the almost fatal position in which our people are plunged we made our voice heard and hoped that our thoughts would be pondered on by you But a Prince shall have thoughts worthy of a Prince and shall keep his authority over the chiefs of his people . " Belgian , we have heard the cries of sorrow of our people : patriot , we have sought to heal the wounds of our country ; bishop . we have denounced crimes - committed against our innocent priests . " Excellency , we have the honor , &c.?'; 