@@684542

txt I left Paris after securing the best information possible upon the two peace problems I consider most vital to finance : First , what will be the sum of indemnities and reparation demanded by the Allies from Germany ? Second , Will Germany refuse to sign up ? THE INDEMNITIES On the first problem I was told in March that beyond a specific sum to be paid down at the beginning , no round amount for reparation or indemnity would be demanded of Germany . But certain principles would be laid down under which Germany would be expected to make good to thefull of her financial ability to pay and exist as a nation . The total sum was computed at two hundred billion francs or forty billion dollars , but it would not appear as such in the peace document . It would be somewhere about five billion dollars down and the balance under certain principles of reparation a'nd indemnification  --  principles that would be permanent and stand as international law between nations in any future aggressions . While the French and other European-nations might desire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one hundred years , American interests were desirous of having the whole matter cleaned up within twenty years . A NEMEcIS HelfIcrich 's book showing the great value of Germany in 191 : : was reprinted for use at the Paris Peace Conference to show what Germany can pay . The great i.anker. statistician and later Finance Minister . boasted the wealth of Germany in 1913 . The figures of Heliferich rise up as Nemesis , for to them the financial experts point and ** " Bow much shall lye add to Germany 's value for the machinery and other : roods stolen from northern France and Belgium ? " The Germans stripped Belgium bare of everything . Ile material damage is estimated at from , two to five pillion dollars . but tuberculosis is rampant throughout the country brought on by undernourishment and lack of fats . The material damage in Northern France is estimated at from four to ten billion dollars . WILL GERMANY SIGN ? Upon the question of how promptly Germany would sign up on the terms of peace , the views were various . The general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sign anything she had to sign . How long she would keep the terms was a matter of conjecture . Everybody admitted that there had been no change in the spirit of the Hun . Everywhere in Germany it was reckoned that Germany had made a mistake and would have to pay , but nowhere in Germany was there any consideration of the moral wrong or the moral issue . The war in Gel many was regarded as an unprofitable business venture , which , having failed , the best possible terms of settlement must be made . Intelligent observers who have crossed the Rhine and been through Germany were firm in their conviction that Germany would never again fight , at least ( luring this genelation . But everywhere in Germany was the determinaticn to get hack by trade the position that had been lost by the blunder of war . THE IF itEwen Exaatrant There was a minority view that the Germans might adopt the tactics of the French in 1871 , refuse to sign the tiraty and say to the Allies : " Take the country ; run @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Germans to do this is greater now than it was to the French  --  in 1871 for there is the menace of Bolshevikism . For the Allies to now take charge of Germany means primary expense rather Than primary collection and the settlement of not only the German issue , but the issue of German Socialism , Spartacism and Russian Bolshevikism . In 1871 Bismarck first demanded of the French six billion francs and BeHort , but Jules Fevre replied : " Take the country and administer it . Do what you like . I resign . " Bismarck replied : " I am afraid these arc the best terms we can give , but come to me a little later . " When Fevre returned , Bismarck said : " I have conferred with the authorities and Berlin and I induced them to reduce the demand to five billion francs and not take Belfort . " Fevre instantly replied : " We accept . " nrsIsuss Avrun THEWAR The ablest international bunkers declare that until 1922 the world belongs to the producer and the manufacturer , the workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the merchant and the banker that will fezward the goods . After that the effect of taxation will he shown ; the world will be poor and goods and labor will fall . It is now most necessary that we have international co-operation and mutual help in restocking the v.oHd . This is more important than rebuilding . The wisest among the international bankers say there should be no international scramble for trade , but rather co-operation . As one banker expressed it : " Trade must be wisely regulated between the allies with regard to exchanges , money etc. ' ' ( aisnatax lasvcrwaocy It was estimated for me that there were 230 foreign correspondents in Paris watching for news of the Peace Conference . If all of them were turned loose in Germany , they would learn little of value unless they reached the anance fundamentals and aims of the empire , and learned mere than the picturesque side of Hans and Gretchen. their aelcome to the A mericanticops. the dancing in Beilir and the idleness and rioting in the towns that hope coon to be manufacturing . An @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ocean and front lines to secretly nee ; the hankers he had known in years past and learn the ac-teal economic condition of Germany and her aims for the future . It was with some difficulty he found the people he e anti d . They wet e generally well oil t of public view or camouflaged behind some collate : al occupation But the American banker found them and had hi : he'irt to heart talks as of old . He later reported to me as follows : " We talked with the utmost frankness . Theme was not the slightest regret as to what had happened , only that the issue had turned rut with unfavorable results for the Germans . " They were not interested in discussing cetiaes ; admitted Germany had been defeated and that Germany exi.reted to pay through two generations . " They said that Germany was all right and ready to : ' reduce . There was suffering and disorder and the poor 1. pople could not get food , but the rich could get it at high 1 rites . " They were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the whole world , but they appear to me to have no conception of the psycholotry that they are up against when people refuse to do business with them . " They expect to do an enormous business through Holland under Dutch names . " They hate the Belgians first and the English next , are rather sorry for the French and are terribly anxious to the business with the Americans whom they respect because they are : arta and rich . " Gs:I:MAN I.AGl I asked one of the largest , English merchants what proportion of his sales berme the war acre goods of German manufactuie . He replied about ton per cent , and this agrees with the trade statistics of the Empire showing about ten per cent , of English imports as goods from Germany . I asked him what proporion of German goods he expected to sell after the signing of peace . His reply was : " Not a pennyworth . Only the other day I was offered a large consignment of goods from Switzerland concerning which I had my suspicion . I asked the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Swills firm behind the goods . And the response was that they were rated as Swiss cheesemongers . I of course declined the goods . It will be many months before I can afford to put Germanmade goods on my shelves . " The singular thing about this situation is that the Germans have not the slightest conception of the psychology they are up against when it comes to the offering of their goods over the world after the declaration of peace . "                     