@@682155

txt A new and what may prove to be an important element was today brought into the case of the torpedoing of the liner Persia when Secretary Lansing re , ceived a cable message from Arthur Garrels , the American Consul at Alexandria , Egypt , saying that the Persia was " carrying 4.7-inch gun . " Whether more than one such weapon was ' carried was not stated , but a literal construction of the message conveyed the impression that only one gun was carried , probably mounted astern . A paraphrase of the , message follows : From Alexandria . Jan. 1 . Liner Persia , carrying 4. i-inch gun , sunk about 300 miles northwest of Alexandria at 1:01 o'clock on the afternoon of Dee . 30 . Presumably torpedoed . Steamer sank ht five minutes . No submarine was , ceu. but SeeOnd Officer Bromley saw torpedo track . One hundred and fifty-Me out ? of 400 , passengers and crew were landed . at Alexandria Jan. 1 . of two American citizens aboard . Charles H. Grant of Boston , manager of oil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aden . probably lost , as he was last seen struggling In the water . ? ? GARRELS , Consul . ? Up to a late hour tonight no other official information had reached Washington regarding the details of the attack . Consul Garrils 's message and two brief-dispatches received yesterday from Robert , P. Skinner , American Consul General ? at London , constituted the only knowledge of- the affair beyond what was conveyed in unofficial newspaper reports . Secretary Lansing has sent instructions to Consul Garrets to obtain affidavits from officers and surviving passengers of the Persia , especially American survivors , and to obtain from 1Charles H. Grant a definite account of the loss of the Persia . No action by way of protest or other diplomatic rep , resentation will be taken by the United States Government until information of this sort is obtained . Await Survivors ' Statement . President Wilson is remaining at Hot Springs , Va. , and will not return to Washington before Tuesday , or possibly Wednesday . At the White House tonight It was learned that the President had sent no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But he has been in close touch with Secretary Lens , ing by long-distance telephone , and is in possession of all the information that has come to Washington through official channels regarding the attack . Officials tonight declined to comment on the Persia case or its relation to the ' general submarine controversy . It was intimated , however , that , with the meagre information thus far received officially , it would be impossible for this Government to determine its attitude until statements from survivors had been obtained . The brief reports received from Consul General Skinner and Consul Garrets said the liner had been torpedoed , and this is considered to indicate that it was a submarine , mather than a mine , that sank the steamer . No submarine appears to have been seen , although officers on the Persia are credited with statements that they saw the track of a torpedo . It was pointed out semi-officially that that the meagre evidence at hand , even if regarded as indicating the destruction of the Persia by a torpedo , does not show whether it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that t was not fired by ba Turkish submarine . The assumption here is that the Persia was attacked by an Austrian submarine , because U-boats of that nationality have been most active in the campaign against merchant vessels bound to and from the Suez Canal in an effort presumably to force the merchant shipping of the world to abandon the use of that waterway ' for the moral effect the closing of the canal might have on neutral na'dons and British and French colonies . Like the Hesperinn Case . Unless the Government whose flag was flown by the submarine supposed to have made the attack on the Persia comes forward with a frank admission , accompanied by either a disavowal or an attempt to justify the torpedoing , or more definite independent proof is forthcoming in survivors ' affidavits , there is a possibility that the Persia case . may develop the same conflict of sttaerrients , as well as the same lack of definite ' proof , that has made It difficult for the United States Government to register a formal protest against the sinking of the Allan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases of the Hesperian and the Persia . Both were British vessels , the Persia bound from London to Bombay , the Hesperia from Liverpool to Montreal . The Hesperian left Liverpool on Sept. 3 and was sunk at dusk the following day about eighty I miles southwest of Fastnet . The Hesperian carried a six-inch gun mounted on the stern and painted a service gray , according to reports made by Wesley Frost , American Consul at Queenstown . The Persia carrie a 4.7-inch gun . No warning was given to the Hesperian , and no warning appears to have been given to the Persia . The tracks of a torpedo approaching the Hesperian was not observed , however , by any of the ship 's officers , ' who thought that on account of the failing light  --  the attack having been made at 8:30 o'clock P. M. ? it might not have been possible to see it . An officer of the Persia , however , is credited with the statement that he saw the wake of a torpedo . No submarine was sighted before or after the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , no submarine was seen in connection with the attack on the Persia . The German Government never has admitted that any of its submarines attacked the Hesperian , but has insisted that the steamer must have been sunk by coming into contact with a mine . After the explosion fragments of steel were found on the deck of the Hesperian . One of these was sent to Washington . Officers of the United States Navy to whom this fragment was submitted as experts , stated that it " looked " like a part of a torpedo , but their report was not regarded by Secretary Lansing as definite enough to justify action , and . in any event , officials conceded there was no proof that a torpedo had been fired at the Hesperian by a German submarine . On account of lack of proof . no protest was made in the Hesperian case . Loss of life was slight on the Hesperian because the vessel remained afloat nearly two days while being towed back to Quenstown . Gun Attitude Indefinite . The fact that the Persia is reported to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the consideration of the attitude of this Government toward the sinking of that vessel . No public announcement has been made as to the course the Government would take in determining the effect of the carrying of a weapon of such calibre on the status of a. merchant ship attacked by a submarine . No clear-cut case of a I merchant ship having been attacked on the ground that she was armed with such a gun has arisen in the controversy with Germany . It was contended that the Lusitania was armed , but the issue did not revolve around this point alone . and there was no clear proof that the Lusitania was armed . In fact , false affidavits to that effect , presented to the United States Government by the Germany Embassy , to which they had been handed , have resulted in indictments in New York City . Officials tonight declined to state what would be the attitude of this Government if it should turn out that the Persia was attacked on the ground that she carried a 4.7-inch gun . They declined to state whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemy country would be liable to attack without warning and without safety to the non-combatants on board , when found carrying a gun of such calibre , or whether the vessel would be immune from attack while carrying such a weapon so long as the weapon was not used . It is believed , and this statement is ' made advisedly , that , despite the refusal of officials to give the slightest intimation of their attitude , this Government frowns on the use of guns by merchant vessels engaged in peaceful errands , and mak take the position that vessels seeking immunity from submarine attack should not be armed with weapons capable of being used in the distruction of attacking submarines . in the pledges given by the German Government , the Berlin Foreign Office has been silent on its attitude toward liners carrying guns . It has not stated that it would refrain from attacking ? vessels carrying such guns , when flying the flag of an enemy country . ? Conflict of Opinions . Should the Austrian Government state that the Persia was sunk by one of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attack was the fact that the Persia carried a 4.7-inch gun , the question of the right of merchantmen to carry guns would . be squarely presented to the United States Government . Outside of official circles opinions on the subject differ . On one hand it is being contended that merchantmen for centuries have been permitted to carry guns to be used mainly for defensive purposes , and that merchant ships should be so armed to resist attack . On the other hand , it is contended that merchant vessels engaged in peaceful missions and not being used as transports or for other military purposes should not be armed ; that vessels that carry guns for defense against submarine ? attack can not expect to be spared by submarine commanders , and that the only safe rule for a merchant steamer is to go unarmed and refrain from offering resistance . There is reason for the belief that the United States Government may take an advanced view against the use of heavy weapons by merchantmen . Permission for merchant ships to carry guns was granted in regulations issued by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in dealing with vessels sailing from American ports . After these regulations were issued the Government reached an informal agreement with the British and French Embassies by which no merchant vessels flying the British or French flags should attempt to leave American ports carrying guns . This was after the attention of this Government had been invited to the fact that the liner Adriatic , and likewise a vessel that had entered the port of Philadelphia were carrying guns when they entered port . These vessels did not carry guns mounted when they sailed , and the statement was made tonight by a Treasury official that no liner had left any American port carrying mounted guns . Complicated by the Submarine . The decision of the United States Government , under which it was possible for vessels to leave American ports mounting guns up to 6-inch calibre , was reached before the inauguration of the German submarine Warfare . A Washington dispatch , printed in THE NEW YORK TIMES of September 8 last , says : . " In the Government 's deciison of last Fall it was said that merchantmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permitted to mount guns as large as 6-inch calibre on the stern , hut only for defense purposes . This policy was adopted at a time when German cruisers were still sailing the seas and preying on the commerce of the Allies . but that was prior to the opening of German submarine attacks upon merchant shipping of neutral and belligerent nations . " The question is now ( in September , len.i being seriously considered here whether a merchant vessel ought to have complete immunity if it mounts a ti-inch gun in the stern . A weapon of this szie is capable of sinking a submarine , and it is argued in some quarters that the presence of such a gun on a passenger ship might prove not only a temptation to the officers for resisting a submarine , but that even if the gun were not used , its presence on the merchantman complicates the circumstances of the case .                     