@@679264

txt Mexico and the*United States are to-day filing protests , ' each with the other , against violence done to its citizens . Ambassador de la Barra had a long conference at the State Department , this morning to protest against the lynching of Antonio Rodriguez at Rock Springs , Texas , and the State Department this afetrnoon wired to Ambassador Wilson instructing him to protest to the Mexican Foreign Office against the violence done to American citizens in the streets or Mexico City . in case the popular demonstrations are not repeated it is probable that nothing will be done in the particular cases under consideration , though the question of damages may later arise in the ordinary course of events . The seriousness of the situation . lies in the fact that these two instances of mutual hostility come just at a time when both Governments are particularly anxious to smooth everything over . The friendship of President Diaz for the United States is proverbial , but in the past year several instances have arisen that showed that , after all , Mexico has reasons of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influence over the Latin republics to the south . Most no.ticeable of these evidences was the di:vergence of interests arising when the United States severed its relations with President Zelaya of Nicaragua . When that ruler had to flee from his country , after being charged by Secretary Knox with the murder of the two Americans , Cannon and Grace , it was on a Mexican man-of-war he made his escape . After that it was evident that Mexico would have gladly seen Zelaya 's successor , Madriz , recognized , but the United States insisted on nominal neutrality , with moral support for Estrada , until the revolutionary General finally drove Madriz into exile , Since then there has been pub lished a story to the effect that Mexico tried to show favor to Japan at our expense by obtaining precedence for the Japanese envoy to the Mexican centennial exercises over the American Special Ambiussador . The State Department expresses confidence that President Diaz will enforce order , and put down further demonstrations against the United States , but manifeetlYthe incident is much regretted here . Secretary Knox , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the real attitude of the two peoples . In a formal statement to-night he says : The manifestations of resentment toward Americans reported from Mexico are a cause of deep regret to this Government , and equally so . I am sure . to the American people . At no time have the Governments and the people of the two countries sustained toward each other closer and more cordial relations , predicated upon common purposes and sympathies , than now . It Is most unfortunate that the brutal crime in omit country o ' which a Mexican was victim should be made the excuse for a demonstration of hostility toward Americana in " Mexico . It is a satisfaction to be . Have that such demonktrations find little sympathy in the body of Mexican people and none in the Mexican Government . I am sure the Mexican Government will ? be swift to put down all hostile demonstrations against Americans in Mexico and to punish those engaged in them , as this Government will be prompt to press for the punishment of persons guilty of crimes against citizens of Mexico @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practically helpless in regard to the lynching in Texas , that being a matter entirely under . the State jurisdiction . The State Department , however , has wired to the Governor of Texas asking that the ofe fenders be hunted down and punished . Some of the representatives of nations whose citizens have suffered in the past from the application of lynch law in the United States are hopeful that this latest incident may lead the Administration to renew the efforts that have been made in the past to obtain legislation that will confer upon the Federal Government power to punish through the Federal courts rioters who violate the treaty rights of aliens . Mr. Olney. when Secretary of State in the second Cleveland Administration , initiated this movement : but failed to obtain the support of the House Judiciary Committee , owing to the/feeling of intense State pride . He went. : so far as ? to point Out that some day ' the United States might actually , be plunged into war with aye powerful country or combination of countries as the result of failure to carry out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aliens the same degree of protection that is accorded to American citizens in foreign countries . Official dispatches giving details of the anti-American demonstration in Mexico City reached the State Department today from Ambassador Wilson and Arnold Shanklin , the American Consul General . Mr. Wilson confirmed the press reports that he had protested to the Mexican Department of Foreign Relations against the insults offered Americans , and that the riot grew out of the lynching of Rodriguez . Mr. Shanklin 's dispatch said that the riotous students who paraded the streets cried , " Death to . Americans ! " ? and threatened the consulate . He also told bon these students had pulled an American flag from a business house and had trampled it under foot . 