@@682509

txt " Roosevelt or Hughes , and only Hughes after he has made a full and satisfactory statement on the question of preparedness , and if neither Roosevelt not Hughes , then a third party ticket with the avowed purpose of aiding in the reffiection of President Wilson . " This was the ultimatum issued by practically every responsible Bull Moose spokesman on convention row yesterday . The significance of the statement was that the Progressives , both leaders and rank and file , are ready to take Mr. Hughes if lie will announce his views at this time . B. A. Van Valkenburg of Phil:1MPhia and Oscar S. Straus of New York , representing the eastern Progressive wing , and Willis in Allen White of Kansas , speaking for the transmimissippi folks , officially indorsed the ultimatum . Harold L. Hekes , Illinois Progressive chairman , sent the same declaration to old organization Republicans as representing sentiment of the mid-west contingent . DEEP POLITICS SEEN . That there may be bChind this move a deeper significance than appears on the surface was suggested by some Republican leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down decisions of the high court one week from today . Some of these he will read himself . Until then it is held not only improbable , but practically impossible , for Mr. Hughes to make any statement . If this should turn out to be the case then the Roosevelt people , by their ultimatum , old line Republicans explained , are alibiing themselves as to Hughes . By laying down this condition , which it is held improbable of meeting , they pointed out , the Progressives place themselves in a position to eliminate Hughes and insist on Roosevelt as the price of a reunion of the parties . VAN VALICENBURCPS VIEWS . This point was put up to Mr. Van Valkenburg by a Titit3IT7IE reporter . He was asked how he was going to consider Hughes at all unless the Progressive convention took a recess , in the event of Hughes ' nomination by the Republicans , until Hughes could make a formal statement . " There are a dozen ways in which that emergency can be met , " he said . " But you can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I firmly believe the Progressive convention will not , under any other circumstances , accept Mr. Hughes unless he does tell the country just where he stands on preparedness . " William Allen White declared that the whole thing would be over in ten minutes if Hughes would announce Ills ' views and if such views measured up to the Roosevelt platform . " Such a declaration would simplify matters at once . " said Mr. White . " The Republicans could then nominate Hughes by acclamation and we would join in . " RAT= AID WILSON . Both Mr. White and Van Valkenberg declared for a third party ticket for the purpose of aiding Wilson in the event or the Republicans shelving both Hughes and Roosevelt and putting over one of the " favorite sons " or selecting EilhU Root . Mr. Straus , who served In the Roosevelt cabinet , also sent a warning note to the Republican chiefs . Be was reported to have told one old guardsman that he would advise the Progressive convention openly to indorse Wilson If the Republican Convention shows a disposition to ignore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be no mistaking the attitude of the Moose leaders on the Hughes proposition , Mr. . Ickes reduced his statement to writing and had it distributed as an official document . He went - " withal:led on page 4 , column 3 . ) T. R , OR HUGHES , IF JUSTICE TALKS , EDICT OF MOOSE Progresslyeliiiimaturn to 0 , 0 , P. Makes Conditions That Mean None but Colonel , // farther than the others , virtually declaring Hughes out of the race because of his inability publicly to announce his principles . " On the face of the present situation , " Pekes ' statement reads , " Justice Hughes is plainly impossible of consideration for the Progressive nomination and there seems no reasonable expectation of any change in the situation before the Progressive convention makes its choice " Certainly Progressives will trot nominate Justice Hughes without knowing his position on the vital issues of the day . Certainly no agreement can be reached between representatives of the two parties to nominate him prior to a public formal statement of his position . Nor will the Progressives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican platform , without knowledge that the nominee is the embodiment of that platform . The possibility of a joint nomination of Justice Hughes by Republicans and Progressives seems , therefore , a remote contingency . " G. 0 . P. Figures Show Hughes ' lead . While these conditions were being imposed on Justice Hughes by Progressives , the report hit the row that the Republican leaders now on the ground had got together informally and put their figures on paper  --  the probable lineup after the smashup comes with the elimination of the favorite sons . The figures . it was reported , showed Hughes so far in the lead that it looked as if they could n't head him off after about the second ballot . Whether the actual Hughes strength , AS figured out by the inside dopesters , was reported to the Progressive leaders and It was this information that rounded up the entire force of Moose generals In an effort to Impose almost impossible conditions on the Hughes candidacy was not to be ascertained . Go Ahead on Harmony Plans . Meanwhile the same Progressive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hughes continued to demand that the Progressive convention " play the string out with the Republicans , " as Mr. White expressed it . There was manifest on all sides a disposition to go ahead with compromise conferences with Republicans in the effort to get either Roosevelt or Hughes  --  but Roosevelt . Behind this continued feeling of confidence on the part of the Moose generals in the Republican leaders ' desire for a reunited party , it was reported , is a " trump card " the Moose leaders stilt have up their sleeve . One report was that it would be played in New York and that . Ellhu Root would slant it down on the table with a bang . it was that Mr. Root will withdraw front the field and appeal to delegates to nominate Roosevelt . It was impossible to confirm . this gossip . It is known , however , that such a proposition was put to Root some time ago by a reputed emissary of Col. Roosevelt . Mr. Root 's reply on that occasion , it Is said , was that if Col. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support of Root the convention would nominate Root in a jiffy . Progressive leaders said they had reliable information that the old line Republicans will not try to nominate Root when the serious stage of the convention is reached because they do not feel Root could carry states west of the MisaissiPP.1 river .                     