@@680394

txt Increasing Arbitrators from 3 to 6 Would Invalidate It and Leave Men Unprotected , Leaders Say . The firemen 's committee , which consists of forty men , who are empowered to call a strike of firemen on Eastern railroads , received at 100 o'clock last night a proposal from the Conference ComMittee of Railroad Managers which , the railroad managers hoped , might result in an amicable settlement of the differences between tile firemen and the roads . The proposal concedes the demand of the firemen that differences be arbitrated in accordance with the provisions of the Erdman act with the one stipulation that the Board of Arbitration shah consist of six members instead of three as provided by the act , two to be chosen by the firemen , two by the railroads , and the other two to be disinterested - outsiders . The firemen 's committee after considering the proposal of the railroads in- ' formally , announced that a vote would be taken upon it . this morning . It was said . however , that the union would undoubtedly reject the offer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act - proposed ty the managers would rob the firemen of one of Its chief protections ; the power to examine witnesses under oath and hold them for perjury . President Carter said that in the arbitration of the engineers ' demands much perjured testimony was introduced . Judge Knapp of the Commerce Court said last night that'the amendments proposed by the- railroads would- - invalidate the action under the Erdman bill . Judge Knapp and Acting ' Commismissioner , of Labor Hanger , who essayed the role of mediators on Tuesday , bore the offer of the railroad managers to the firemen 's committee ' Which was in session in the Broadway Central Hotel . It was the first result of their work to be revealed , their earlier efforts apparently having failed to bring either the managers or the firemen to the point of yielding anything . So critical was the situation thought to be by the heads of the fifty-four railroads involved in the controversy that a meeting of railroad Presidents was held yesterday afternoon in the office of President W. C. Brown of the New York Central . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last night to the firemen . The firemen 's Excctive Committee of forty men was empowered from the start to take such action as it saw fit , to accept or reject terms , or call a strike . The members of the conference committee of Railroad Managers , on the other hand , did little more than -- report the result of their deliberations to their respective Presidents . They lacked power to take any definite action . President F. D. Underwood of the Erie , W. H. Truesdale of the Lackawanna , Daniel Willard of the Baltimore &; Ohio , W. G. Dealer of the Jersey Central , Daniel Rea of the Pennsylvania , and George F. Behr of the Philadelphia &; Reading , attended the ' fleeting in Mr. Underhill 's office yesterday , and one action taken by them was to vote to the Conference Committee of Managers full power to act in connection with the firemen 's demands . The committee with this new power immediately drew up the proposal which Judge Knapp and Mr. Hanger later conveyed to the firemen . At the same time the committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strike , the Managers ' Committee now offers to arbitrate with a board composed of two representatives . of the firemen . two representatives of the railroad companies , and two disinterested members to be appointed in the same manner as the board provided for in the Erdman act . We have requested that this offer be placed before the Firemen 's Committee . and have asked the mediators to endeavor to bring about an , agreement to arbitrate with snub a board . preserving all the other features of the Erdman act which the firemen may desire . The Managers ' Committee are agreeable to any modification of the above plan which may provide for a board of more than throe arbitrators . The proposal was signed by Elisha Lee , Chairman of the committee . With Mr. Lee , who is Assistant to the General Manager of the Pennsylvania Railroad , are associated on the committee : A. T. Dice , Vice Presideht , Philadelphia &; Beading ; J. G. Walber , Assistant to Third Vice President , Baltimore &; Ohio : P. E. Crowley , General Manager , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President , Pennsylvania Lines West , and A. T. Stone , General Manager of the Erie . To-day , according to representatives of both sides , will be a critical one in the negotiations . The offer made by the railroad managers yesterday brought the situation around to the point at Nhiell it stood on Jan. 9 , , when negotiations were broken off and a strike vote : - ? rdered . The only differences in the situation , Judge Knapp said , were that the firemen have indicated by a strike vote that they are ready to go out , while the managers have indicated a will to yield a little . , The Presidents of the Eastern railroads will stay in the city to-day , and will be withincall of the Managers ' Committee should , their advice be needed .                     