@@680716

txt WASHINGTON , Aug. 22 . ? Seorstary Bryan intervened in the currency legislation issue to-day , effecting a victory for the Administration against the radicals , who wanted to attach to the Money bill a provision prohibiting interlocking directorates among banks in the proposed reserve banking system . Chairman Carter Glass of the House Banking and Currency Committee read a letter from him to the caucus this afternoon as an argument in favor of eliminating this prohibition as a part of the currency measure . The letter was loudly cheered and showed Mr. Bryan to be unmistakably loyal to President Wilson on the currency question . It swung the Bryan men almost solidly into line . This , with the support given by the followers of Mr. Glass and Mr. Underwood , enabled the advocates of the bill to exclude the interlocking dictorate prohibition by 132 to 60 , or a two to one vote , on a motion by Mr. Underwood referring the question to the House Judiciary Committee with instructions to report legislation next Winter . This action gives ample assurance that the Democrats plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in corporations over which the Federal Government has jurisdiction as part of the Administration 's anti-trust programme . Representative " Alfalfa Bill " Murray of Oklahoma tried to amend this resolution so as to provide that the question be excluded from reference to the Judiciary Committee , which should be limited to reporting a bill that would prohibit interlocking Directorates in railroad and other corporations . The purpose of the Murray amendment was to have the caucus place in the Currency bill a prohibition against interlocking bank Directorates. and have the Judiciary Committee follow this up with a bill extending the same prohibition to other kinds of corporations . The Murray amendment was defeated by a vote of 157 to 52 . Chairman Glass also read to the caucus extracts from an interview with Samuel Unterrnyer , which appeared in a Washington dispatch to THE Nuw YORE : TIMES , published May 31 last , in which MrUntermyer expressed himself in favor of currency legislation at this session , adding that " nobody but a vicious marplot would deliberately seek to delay or complicate that result under the existing tense and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Unermyer was counsel for the Pujo Money Trust Committee , which recommended a prohibition against interlocking Directorates in the National banking system . Representative Henry of Texas and Others said after the caucus that if the vote had been taken yesterday , before the Bryan letter was written , the Neely amendment barring interlocking Directorates would have been adopted and the Underwood motion defeated . Speaker Champ Clark voted against the Underwood motion to refer , In defiance of Mr. Bryan 's views . The Bryan Letter . Here is the text of the Bryan communication : Washington , Aug. 22. 1918 . Hon. Carter Glass , House of Representatives . My dear Mr. Glass : Replying to your inquiry , I beg to say that . I have for many years advocated a law preventing a duplication of directorates . While the principle applies to banks as well as to trusts , although I think in a less degree , the plan has been considered mainly as a means of dealing with the trust evil . Competition can be effectively prevented when the same men act as Directors of competing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remedy now as I was when I began to advocate it ; in fact , more so ; because recent disclosures have given further proof of the employment of this means of eliminating competition , but I do not think It wise to make it a part of the pending Currency bill . In attempting to secure remedial legislation , care must be taken not to overload a good measure with amendments , however good those amendments may be in themselves . A boat may be sunk if you attempt to make it carry too much , however valuable the merchandise . A bill is usually the result of a compromise ; the President and Secretary , in conjunction with the Chairman of the Currency Committees of the House and Senate , have formulated a tentative measure . It was prepared after extended investigation and the comparison of views . It embodies certain provisions of great Importance and is , I believe , fundamentally sound . The provision in regard to the Government issue of notes to be issued by the banks is the first triumph of the people In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard to overestimate the value of this feature of the bill . In the second place the bill provides for Government control of the issue of this money  --  that Is , control through a board composed of Government officials selected by the President with the approval of the Senate . This is another distinct triumph for the people , one without which the Government issue of the money would be largely a barren victory . The third provision of the bill , which I regard as of the first importance , is the one permitting State banks to share with national banks the advantages of the currency system proposed . These three provisions are , to my mind , of such transcendent importance that I am relatively very little concerned as to the details of the bill . I do not mean to say that the details are unimportant , but whatever mistakes are made in details can-be corrected easily and soon : a wrong step In the matter of principle would he inore difficult to retrace . There are , doubtless . differences of opinion over matters of detail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was held ; but I take it for granted that no one who is really in favor of the bill will permit a difference of opinion on a matter of detail to lead hint to jeopardize the hill . The papers have , in a few- cases , reported members of Congress as presenting views which were alleged to be mine . I do not know to what extent these reports may exaggerate what has been said and done . but you are authorized to speak for me and say that I appreciate so profoundly the service rendered by the President to the people In the stand that he has taken on the fundamental principle Involved that I am with him on all the details . If my opinion has Influence ' with any one who is called upon to act In this measure . I am willing to assume full responsibility for what I do when I advise him to stand by the President and assist in securing the passage of this measure at the earliest possible moment . I am sure that the President will be ready to join @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to advantage , and being sure of his singleness of purpose , I am willing to leave to future action the correction of any provision which he may now regard as essential to the plan and purpose of the bill . Congratulating you upon the splendid manner in which you have presented the merits of this hill . I am . Very truly yours , W. J. BRYAN . Afterward Mr. Glass read a postscript to the letter which Mr. Bryan later sent as an after thought . saying  --  that on examining the platform of the party adopted at Baltimore , he found that the plan against interlocking Directorates was a part of the anti-trust plank . The President expressed to-night his warm admiration or the work the House caucus was doing under the guidance of the Committee on Banking and Currency . " I am proud , " he said , " as every Democrat must be , of the way in which the committee and the caucus have accomplished a consistent piece of constructive work . With the frankest discussion and under the ablest leadership , the Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coun -- try by ad admirable piece of business - legislation . It must stimulate the coun-% try to see such evidences of harmony along with constructive purpose . in a work of no small complexity and diffia , QUIZ . " ?                     