@@684005

txt Out of scores of appeals of the kind . the following extract is selected not because it is by any means the most important , but because it is so thoroughly typical . The lady who writes is interested in the formation of a club for the protection of dumb animals : " The club aim is to stop one of the worst forms of cruelty  --  that of training trick animals  --  a cruelty unknown or not heeded by the public . We need the newspapers to enlighten them . " Whether the newspapers are to enlighten the trick animals or the public is not quite clear . Those cf us who have seen trick animals in the circus must have remarked on their singularly healthy appearance . But the point is not worth discussion . Here is one of hundreds , even thousands , of those instances of misdirected effort , of lost motion , of wasted energy and wasted funds , at a time when every effort is needed to win the war . A trick dog at the circus , to these people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outraged Belgian girl of refinement and delicate breeding . And the other societies are like unto this . They are harmless in a way . Their is probably not much graft in the management , but the machinery of management is so wasteful and so much larger , after a time , than the object desired that it is becoming an economic question whether the activities of such societies , with their conventions , their luncheons , their expensive banquets. their waste of good ink and print paper , should not be summarily shut down for the period of the war . There are numerous economic societies of one title or another which are keeping up this snit of activity largely to justify their salary list . At this time these are non-essential , however well known the speakers may be who address their meetings . It is not to be aamitted even that their efforts have had any value or effect upon simplifying the war problem . And their membership seems to consist of a limited circle of well-meaning people who subscribe to scores of such organizations . They sound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But they are like the returning army in " Faust " , which is equally impressive in points of apparent numbers . until the shrewd spectator notes that every twenty-seventh soldier has an identical patch on his breeches . The worst thing about these people is their good intentions . Even if they will not co-operate in the practical business of winning the war , it seems time to adopt a policy of sitting upon them , good , and hard . American intervention in Russia ! Only 1,500,000 men to keep open the railroad alone , but what a relief to Germany on the western front !                     