@@679826

txt " Absurd and silly " is the manner in which Gen. Horace Porter , who , when Ambassador to France , discovered the body of John Paul Jones and had it brought to this country for final burial , characterized yesterday the assertion by Charles Henry Hart of Philadelph.a in his new book that the body brought to America with National honors is nut that of Jones at all . Gen. Porter refused to give a formal interview on the subject . He said , when seen at his home , 277 Madison Avenue , that he regarded the statements of Mr. Hart as so utterly baseless that he would not dignify them with a formal reply . But Gen. Porter heard with some interest what Mr. Hart says in hiS book , and later expressed himself in most positive language not only regarding Hart 's contentions , but the practice of some men who , with only superficial knowledge of a subject and 3,000 miles between them and the authentic records bearing on it , set up their opinions , upstart fashion , against the best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after years of painstaking investigation . Hart 's book is entitled " Memoirs of the Life and Works of Jean Antoine Houdon , Sculptor of Voltaire and Washington . " It is published by the De Vinne Press of this city . The references to John Paul Jones are contained in a single chapter . It Is stated categorically that the body discovered by Gen. Porter in the old St. , Louis Cemetery on April 14 , 1005 , and on April 24 , 1906 , temporarily placed in a , sepulchre in Bancroft Hall , at the Naval Academy , is not the body of the gallant American Admiral . He makes these unequivocal assertions : That John Paul Jones had red hair , while the hair of the man brought here was black . That Jones had a nose inclined to be upturned , stubby , and even puggy , while the nose of the man brought here was aquiline . That every lead casket in the old St. Louis Cemetery had a name plate except the one unearthed by Gen. Porter , with the possible intimation that this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contained was Jones 's . That the argument , of which Gen. Porter made much , that the measurernpnts of the body correspond almost exactly with those of every lifesize bust of John Paul Jones made by Houdon , is no argument at all , since measurements by sculptors are notoriously loose and inaccurate . In addition to these statements Hart has told friends , it was said yesterday , that the United States Government was in the secret that a mistake had been made in the identification of the body , and consequently that Congress had failed to make an appropriation for the tomb at Annapolis , preferring to let the matter die a natural death . In a talk with friends Gen. Porter made statements yesterday which answer Hart in every particular . " John Paul Jones , " he said , " did not have red hair . His hair was a dark brown . As for the shape of his nose ; the nose of the man found was - Pet:feet " duplicate of the nose on Houdon 's bust . It is true that all the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four lead coffins were found , and I really did not expect to find any name plate , certainly not an engraved one , on John . Paul Jones 's coffin . He died on July 18 , 1702 , in the midst of the Revolution , and was buried two days later , on one of the hottest days of the year . It would probably have been extremely difficult in that exciting period to have got an engraver on short notice to make a plate , or for those in charge of the body to have had time to compose a suitable inscription . Moreover , it was the expectation from the first that the - United States would soon send for the body . " We knew almost to a few feet where the body was buried , what character of casket inclosed it , and an almost perfect likeness of the man sought to go by . The scientists and even the workmen had before them constantly the best possible likenesses , and when they opened this casket scientists and workmen alike instantly and involuntarily removed their hats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the casket had been filled with alcohol and packed with straw . and instant recognition was without a reasonable doubt . In addition there . lay his linen , marked ' P. . T. ' " As for the measurements , they were a most satisfying contribution to the identification . Houdon was one of the most accurate of sculptors . When the ablest anthropologists in the world found that the measurements of the body differed at most from the corresponding measurements of Houdon 's statue by less than two millimeters in any case , the identification needed nothing to complete it . " The statement that Congress had neglected to provide for the tomb , Gen. Porter said was without foundation . Congress has apnronriated ** for this work , he said , which is now being done . EXONERATE SURGEON BENTON His Wife 's Appeal from the Referee 's Findings Is Dismissed . The Appellate Division of the Supreme Court dismissed Mrs. Aletta T. Benton 's appeal front an order of Justice Blanchard yesterday . Justice Blanchard approved the findings of Daniel F. Cohalan as referee , in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her husband , Surgeon Frederick L. Benton , S. N. , were unfounded . Justice Blanchard entered an order terminating Mrs. Benton 's suit for divorce and discontinuing $. q00 a month temporary alimony to her on the findings of Referee , now Supreme Court Justice , Cohalan . The Bentons were married in Washington , Sept. 5. 19P Mrs. Benton has a young son by a former marriage . Surgeon Benton was an interne in a Brooklyn hospital P.T. the beginning of the Spanish war , and entered the Navy at that time . He served through the campaign in Cuban waters . and participated In the Chinese Relief Expedition . He received two medals for bravery for his conduct on this expedition .                     