@@682949

txt The removal from office of District Attorney Edward Swann is asked by the City Club , which presented . to Governor Whitman yesterday sworn formal charges of miscorduct against the New York County prosecutor . The charges are based on the original accusations of James A. Delelianty , then a Judge of General Sessions , and on the District Attorney 's part in the ensuing controverse:v . Mr. Swarvi dechned last night to comment on this new complaint . but in his behalf friends charged that the entrance o the City Club into the situation was the opening move of a plot on the part of the Fusion City Administration to defeat Tammany in the coining municipal election and to procure the reelection of Mayor Mitchel . There are two general charges . The first recites the Delehanty accusation that Mr. Swann procured the discharge of bail and then attempted to procure the dismissal of indictments against labor union leaders charged with assault in garment strike riots and that the District Attorney 's efforts constituted an attempt to perpetrate a fraud on the Court of General Sessions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The second charge is based on the counteraccusations ? against Lucian S. Breckinride with which Mr. Swann responded to the allegations against. - him , self . It alleges that the District Attor. ' nay . by the publication in , the newspapers of Jan. 4 last of a statement ad. ! dressed ? to Breckinridge ; and by other means , sought to coerce and intimidate Breckinridge , a valuable witness in any inquiry into the charges against the District Attorney . Whitman Gets Charges Here . ? The charges were sworn to by Nelson S. Spencer , President of the club , in behalf of its Board of Trustees . They were handed to Governor Whitman at the Hotel St. Regis yesterday afternoon . Mr. Whitman refused to comment - on them . He had already made known that he would appoint to hear the matter " a commissioner above reproach or intimation of political intrigue " were charges in legal form presented to him . Although Mr. Swann refused to make categorical ansiver to the club 's brief , lie said that if a copy of it Were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substituted for vague allegations , " and would then demur on the ground that the facts alleged did not warrant investigation . He still believed , he said , that there was no occasion for public inquiry on the part of the Governor . He added that he had offered the City Club opportunity ' - to question him and no member of the club had come near him . Mr. Swann reviewed his previously published explanation that no District Attorney could examine personally the witnesses in cases in which he recommended the discharge of bail , and asserted that none of his predecessors had done so . He added the charge that in the administration of Charles A. Perkins . who served out District Attorney Whitman 's unexpired term when Mr. Whitman became Governor , some of the evidence In the labor cases Was in the term of papers stolen from a union headquarters . Mr. Swann said $1,000 was paid to " the thief , " and that subsequently he , as District Attorney , had refused to make use of evidence thus fraudulently procured . Papers Were Stolen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said ; " It was found that some of the evidence was in the form of stolen papers , for which the District Attorney 's office had paid In 1915 the sum of $1,000 pf the city 's money . An attempt was made to cover up the agreement to pay this lump sum by splitting up the $1,000 into weekly payments of $50 for twenty weeks , giving for each installment a receipt reading for ' confidential service . ' " These papers ' were stolen from the office of the labor union at night , and were taken by the thief to the Grand Central station , where they were checked in the parcel room and the check mailed to the District Attorney 's office The man who was promised the . $1,000 was handed the parcel check and after procuring the stolen papers , he brought them to the District Attorney 's office . where they still remain . " The present District Attorney refused to use testimony which had been obtained by violetions of law . The Supreme Court of the United States has recently decided that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their charge that polities was back of the City Club 's activities , Mr. SwannOtriends called the fact that that particular , organization had become the vehicle to .. lace the charges before the Governor doubly significant In the first place . they asserted , the club had tried to have removed from office event Democratic District Attorney of New York elected in the last twenty-five years . They referred to charges brought in the late nineties against the late Colonel John R. Fellows . then District Attorney , which failed , and to charges brought against Asa Bird Gardiner in 1900 , which resulted in his removal by then Governor Roosevelt , and to the present accusations against Mr. Swann . Particular stress was laid on the fact that the accusation yesterday was delivered to Governor Whitman by Wayne D. Heydecker , Assistant Secretary of the . club , whose father , also a member of the club , played a large part in the formulation of the charges against Fellows and Gardiner Cite Funionint in City Club . The District Attorney 's supporters professed to discern more evidence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ informed that , within a week , Robert S. Binkerd , Secretary of the club , would resign to head a great new Fusion movement to be launched in Mayor 3elitchel 's interest . Mr. Binkerd could not be reached last night . A selected list of City Club members was exhibited by defenders of the District Attorney . They urged consideration of the fact that the roll included the names or such men as John D. Rockefeller , Jr. , active in the Bureau of Municipal Research and other civic welfare work close to . the heart of the present administration ; Norman Hapgood , leading spirit in the Committee of One Hundred and Seven , which brought about Mr. Mitchel 's nomination for Mayor ; Henry Bruere. formerly City Chamberlin under Mr. Mitchel ; Frederick 1-3 . Whitin , Secretary of the Committee of Fourteen ; Lawson Purdy , President of the Tax Commission ; Colonel George Harvey , E. Stagg Whitin , a close associate of the Mayor , and Leonard M. Wallstein , the Mayor 's Commissioner of Accounts , who has criticised Mr. Swann heretofore . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admit of but one interpretation of the club 's action . The charges begin by reciting that Mr. Spencer acted in behalf of the City Club , whose Board of Trustees had been moved to action by the filing of Mr. Delehanty 's original memorandum of charges . The document continues : The City Club of . York has given careful consieration to the memorandinn and the statements therein contained , and has made such independent investigation of the facts therein set forth as - seem to its governing body to warrant the belief , and its Board of Trustees do believe , that public interest requires that the issues raised by the memorandum should be judicially determined , and that the said District Attorney should make sufficent answer to the facts alleged in said memorandum and statement , or be removed from his office . Accordingly , upon the information derived from said memorandum and statement , iand from statements made by the said District Attorney in the public press , and from the investigation which has been made on behalf of said club , I hereby prefer these charges , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I hereby charge Edward Swann , District Attorney of the County of New York , with misconduct in office , and with incompetency , neglect and violation of law in the administration of his office during the year 1916 and a portion of the year 1917 . SIV/1/311.8 Acts Called a Scandal . There follows a circumstantial repetition of the Delehanty allegations , terminating with the charge that in recommending the discharge of bail of the labor union defendants , Mr. Swann certified or caused to be certified to the Court of General Sessions that he " had made a most rigid and thorough investigation of the facts determinable by him in the cases involved , whereas in truth and in fact no such investigation had been made by Edward Swann or by his assistants . " With reference to the charge of intimidation the complaint says : The said Edward Swann , unmindful of the duties of his office and in violation of his oath of office , was guilty of mal and corrupt conduct of his office , in that for the purpose of preventing an orderly and proper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performance of his duties in respect of - the nAtters set forth in said memorandum or statement , he did seek to- coerce and intimidate a witness , to wit , Lucian S. Breckinridge , whose evidence would be material and necessary in any inquiry into the conduct of said Edward Swann , and in and by a statement addressed by him to said Lucian S. Breckinridge , which said Edward Swann caused to be published In the public press on the 4th day of January , 1917 , he did threaten the said witness , and by said statement and in other ways did seek to prevent him from appearing upon such inquiry , and did seek to prevent a fair inquiry into the matters charged against him . In so acting said Edward Swann did use the position and authority of the office of District Attorney of the County of New York wrongfully and to the scandal and reproach of the administration of the law . Wherefore , upon the charges herein set forth , and upon such other and further charges supplemental hereto as may be filed on behalf @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pray that you will remove said Edward Swann as District Attorney of the County of New York , giving to said Edward Swann , as such District Attorney , a copy of these charges against him , and an opportunity of being heard in his defense . Mr. Spencer gave out the following statement - when the charges were made public : " The City Club considers that the charges regarding the conduct of the office of the District Attorney of New York County made by . Judge Delehanty in his memorandum filed in the Court of General Sessions on Dec. 30 , 1916 , are a matter of grave public concern . It has not been possible for the club to verify in detail the facts contained in the memorandum , but with the facilities at its command it has investigated them to the extent that it has concluded that they should form the basis of a proceeding in which the Governor may have an opportunity to determine whether they are sufficient to justify the District Attorney 's removal . It has , therefore , filed formal charges with the Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Borough Presidents Ahearn and Haffen . It seemed more than ordinarily important that this should be done as a public service , inasmuch as up to the present time the issues raised by the charges have been obscured by a newspaper discussion of collateral matters which do not touch the real point , which is the conduct of the District Attorney 's office in the administration of criminal justice . " If it were possible under the Moreland act to have an investigation of the charges made by Judge Delehanty , and also of other- criticisms of the District Attorney and his office , the club would have preferred such procedure . But the Moreland act provides for an investigation only of departments , boards , bureaus , and commissions of the State , and does not extend to local offices . Any investigation without legal authority behind it and without the power to enforce the attendance of witnesses and to examine them under oath , would , in the opinion of the Trustees of the club , be highly unsatisfactory and futile . " Over the telephone from his home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a committee , consisting of himself , George W. Alger , and Chase Mellen , had drawn up the charges , after investigation , and had got for them the full approval of the Board of Trustees . The officers of the City Club are : dents  --  Richard W. Browker , George F. dents  --  iehard V. Browner , George F. Canfield . Edward J. De Coppet , Algernon S. Frissell , and George Haven Putnam ; Secretary  --  Robert S. Binkerd ; Terasurer  --  Carl L. Schurz ; Trustees ? Lincoln Cromwell , George W. Alger , Richard S. Childs . Stephen P. Duggan , Abraham L. Gutman , Charles W. Candless , Chase Mellen , James Cowden Myers , William P. Parsons , Joseph M. Price , and Frank B. ' Williams .                     