@@679856

txt After a storm of hail and sleet had obliterated , the tracks , left by the assailant of Mrs. J. T. Weaver in her home on Saxis Island , so that bloodhounds were baffled , ice skaters and men on scooter sleighs took up to-day the man hunt , which has been going on since Thursday night . The men on skates were led by Detective Branch from Norfolk , who brought four bloodhounds to Saxis Island and kep them busy until the sleet made their work hopeless . While the hounds ran trails to dead ends and came racing back to the Weaver home , where Mrs. Weaver was found unconsicous by her husband , Branch was collecting evidence . As the result of what he learned , and of a pursuit on skates across the ice in a biting wind for four hours , he locked up in the county jail here , George Linton , 20 years old , a neighbor of the Weavers , who is accused of the assault . The case had stirred the countryside , and for two hours out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether it was better to lynch Linton or allow the law to take its course . Older residents pleaded that they could surely depend on a speedy trial and the willingness of the courts to do justice without legal quibbles . It required the swearing in of four deputies to protect Linton on the way to jail . Each deputy was armed with a shotgun , and they kept close to their prisoner as they came near groups of island folk , who had not ventured out on the ice . They reached Delmar - in ' safety late this afternoon , and after seeing their prisoner locked up warned the local police that it would be well to keep watch on the jail throughout the night and to-morrow . Mrs. Weaver , who is 27 years old , has been married to Weaver only a short time . Weaver left his home as usual Thursday for the oyster fields and did not return until after nightfall . As he entered the house he found furniture disarranged and signs of fighting . On the kitchen floor was his wife lying unconscious . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ house failed for some time , although there was a clear trail leading from the house toward the ice fields . It was thought that all hope of finding the assailant was gone when the sleet storm set in and obliterated the trail . Mrs. Weaver , however , had retained a clear recollection of the man , and furnished a description which her husband and friends recognized as that of Linton . This morning Detective Branch and neighbors of the Weavers started for the Linton home . Either Linton suspected they would be coming , or saw them on the way . and he fled as they approached . The group caught sight of him far out on the ice , making full speed away from the island . An alarm was sounded that brought every resident to the ice fields . The young men put on skates and the older men watched from the shore . For an hour it seemed as if the distance between the pursuers and their quarry was too great to be overcome . Then Linton tired , as he was fighting the wind instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pursuers was close to him . Others came up , and in a short time the fugititre was surrounded . He surrendered , being too weak to offer resistance . Mrs. Weaver 's condition is still serious . She was brutally beaten , and It was feared for a. time that she would not recover . JUDGE DINEEN 'S ICY PLUNGE . Falls Into Sheepshead Bay on an EelHunting Expedition . Thomas P. Dineen , Justice of the Municipal Court in Manhattan , where his work Is , and lover of the open air at Sheepshead Bay , where his home is , went out on the ice of the bay yesterday afternoon to spear for eels . He and the friends who made up the party were accumulating a good catch when Dineen , whose weight is close to the 250 mark , wandered too near the sloop Flying Dutchman . Fast embedded , the boat weakened all the ice around it , and the Judge went through with a. far-radiating crash . Hark , Nice , a horse owner , and Tucker Evans , proprietor of the Osborn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rescue , which was no easy task , for the Judge floundered desperately and the water was painfully cold . Finally , after much ice had been cracked , and rope and boards had been brought from shore a hundred yards away , the Judge was pulled out and helped to dry land , where every one in the crowd devoted - himself to warming and drying the victim . Once thawed out and feeling cosy again , Judge Dineen vowed that mid-Winter plunges were not nalf bad , and gathering his friends about him , he organized the Osborn Winter Bathing Club with a swim in the open every Sunday , ice or no ice , as the declaration of principles . Sheepshead Bay is skeptical.                     