@@679978

txt Although Mr. Wanner : S. Sroxis of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers had talked in a threatening way In the preliminary conferences with the railway officers , and had assumed a somewhat blustering attitude , he has Sated wisely in the end , and justified his reputation for good judgment and executive ability . To be sure , Mr. STONIO had been at pains to say : " The " railroads will get all the fight they " want , " when there was not the slightest sign that the railways wanted any fight at all . The interests of the railWays Ile altogether in peace and profit by serving the public . The interests of the public lie altogether in being served in the manner to which their habits have been adjusted to such an extent that there is inadequate appreciation of the danger of disturbance . Yet nothing is surer than that the interest of the public is larger than the interest Of the railways and their employes together . It is not intended to minimize their joint interests , but they are those of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is greater than any part . Last evening , however , the Brotherhood accepted the services of Mr. NEILL , United States Commissioner of Labor , and Mr. li:NAPP of the Federal Commerce Court , as mediators . The railway officers Were willing to accept mediation , of course . We may fairly hope now that the strike is averted . Engineers must be had and wages to attract them must be paid . There could be no better time to test the supply of engineers , and the test would have to be a. fair one . Any engineers who abandon their jobs must be taken to be judges of their own Interests and to mean what they say when they declare their readiness to stop working . But they must allow their places to be filled , and not interrupt the operation of public utilities for selfish reasons . Nobody can be allowed to do that , whatever his grievance against either his employer or against society of which he Is part . Nothing is so unsocial as social reform by boycott and bludgeon , and it is proof @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avoid that kind of reform . He has been mindful of the great public discomfort , the business embargo , the sickness and privation a strike would cause , if prolonged . He has given heed to the fact that hundreds of thousands of children would be deprived of milk . that the general supply of food would run short , and that the punishment would be afflicted upon the people . If there is to be a fight the responsibility will lie with the disturbers of existing conditions , regardless of the language with which the responsibility is disavowed , or the motives with which the disturbance is brought about . The railways will not be the disturbers . They are willing to pay going wages , and , however unwilling , must pay whatever wages are necessary to keep their traffic moving . But they are not compelled to pay whatever the unions demand , and they are not compelled to employ only unionists . If the unions can compel the railways to do those things then the unions are the Government , and wages can be established by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the worst possible settlement of the matter . In any case , the public ) must pay . It must pay whatever rates are necessary to pay the wages , - whatever they are , and it must pay the strike losses , whatever they are . There is no possible escape for the ; public , and the public appreciates this as never before .                     