@@680996

txt After hearing protesting arguments from a delegation of California business men , Attorney General declared this evening that he intended to file suit for the dissolution of the merger of the Southern Pacific and Central Pacific Railroads . It was indicated by the Attorney General that the suit would be filed in a few days in the United States Court at Salt Lake , Utah . The Californians represented business interests in San Francisco and Los Angeles . They asserted that real competition existed between the two railroads . To dissolve the merger , they held , would simply serve to increase the Charges to shippers , which meant increased cost to the purchasers . The Attorney General was asked to hear the shippers interested before taking action . A delay of thirty days for this purpose was suggested . But Mr. said he had given warning of his intention to file the suit and the railroad companies had not complied with suggestions made by him to obviate court proceedings . The State Railroad Commissions concerned also had failed to meet his views , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been remedied and there would have been no suit . The Southern Pacific-Central Pacific case is a phase of the dissolution of the Union Pacific-Southern Pacific merger . According to persons interested , the introduction of the Administration antitrust bills has been mainly responsible for the failure of the efforts to effect a settlement out of court . When these bills were made public the Attorney General . it was said , was bombarded with telegrams from commercial bodies in California asking him to defer action in the Central Pacific case until the bills should be enacted . The Idea behind these messages appeared to be that the new trust laws would afford opportunity for an amicable adjustment without resort to proceedings under the Sherman anti-trust act . - ? In addition to California members of Congress the delegation appearing today included Fremont Older , Newton Lynch and Robert Swayne , of San Francisco . and Isadore Dockwilder , of Los Angeles . DIES IN THEATRE LOBBY . Mrs. Maxwell of Brooklyn a Victim of Heart Disease . Mrs. Willietta Maxwell , 47 years old , of 355 Greene Avenue , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with her daughter . Miss Violet Maxwell , 20 years old , shortly before the curtain went up on " " Within the Law " last night . " I feel very ill , " she said In a feeble voice , clinging to her daughter 's arm . She seemed on the verge of collapse . Several attendants ran to assist her , but before they reached her she sank to the floor . Manager Frank 0 . Miller of the Opera House was near by , and he conducted Miss Maxwell to his office , although she was reluctant to go . There he assured her that medical attention had been summoned for her mother . Miss Maxwell became hysterical , and was with difficulty restrained from running back to the corridor . A number of large placards were placed about the prostrate woman in the corridor , and Dr. T. O'Brien , who lives near the theatre . was called in to aid her . All the time theatregoers were passing in , but none had an inkling of what had happened . Dr. O'Brien found Mrs. Maxwell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of heart disease . Dr. Farnum of New York Hospital arrived a few minutes later , . but there was nothing for him to do . . Chen a police ambulance came and took Mrs. Maxwell 's body to the West Thirty-seventh Street Station . For two hours Manager Miller and his assistants cared for Miss Maxwell . Then she recovered her composure , and Mr. Miller ' telephoned for her father , Thomas , and her brother , Milton , who were at home , Mr. Miller told Miss Magwell that her mother had been taken to the hospital . When her father and brother arrived the father was sent to the West Thirtyseventh Street Station . The brother was kept in ignorance of the death of his mother and was induced to take his sister home . A Mrs. J. D. Alderdice , a e.ighbor of the Maxwells. took charge f Mrs. Maxwell 's possessions . HUNGRY CROWS KILL A CAT . Caught Fuzzy-Wu Stalking Sparrows and Speedily Finished Him . Fuzzy-Wu , a small parti-colored Japanese cat , which had been presented recently by a friend returning from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Christian Hook section of Oceanside , L. I. , wandered a short distance from the farmhouse yesterday and was stalking sparrows when a flock of hungry crows descended on it . The leader of the crows swooped like a hawk on the cat , attacking with claws , wings and beak . Fuzzy-Wu tried to run away , but crows swarmed in from ail directions . From his house Marion saw the huge black birds flapping their wings a few feet above the ground and then darting awkardly downward . When he approached them , the flock took flight , cawing angrily and leaving on the ground the remains of a Japanese cat . Hunger , increased by the present cold spell , is believed to have been the motive of the crows , which normally are content with worms , insects and grains .                     