@@680627

txt Capt . Templin M. Potts of the battleship Louisiana saved his ship to-day in the last few hours of his command . He was " plucked " by the naval retiring board in Washington yesterday , and was waiting for the final day of his service to end when an accident occurred that gave him a chance to prove the board had overlooked the energy remaining in him after years of naval work . An overboard discharge valve bonnet blew off when the Louisiana 's engines were being overhauled at 11 o'clock this morning , and in a jiffy the sea began pouring into the vessel through a six-inch hole twenty-six feet under water . It was an inrush that could sink a ship while a slow-witted man was deciding what to do . A report of the mishap was rushed to Capt . Potts by Lieut . Frank W. Sterling , chief engineer . Ensigns J. D. Smith and J. H. Wellbroack sprang to Mr. Sterling 's aid , and in the next instant they were followed by half a dozen warrant officers and several oilers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coats and blouses and plunged into the swirl of water , mounting rapidly in the starboard engine room . There was no steam on , save in a boiler giving power for distilling , ventilating , and lighting . It was a hand-to-hand fight with the sea , and for a time it seemed as if the sea would win . Quick Collision Drill Call . Gongs clanged for collision drill ' when Capt . Potts received news of the accident . Lieut . Commander Robert W. headed the dash of officers and men to their stations . Capt . Potts hurried to the engine room , took in the sharp emergency , and hastened back to whence he could direct the saving of the vessel . Meanwhile the men in the flooded engine room battled furiously against the inrush of water . They were bowled over by the stream that spouted into the vessel , but again and again they scrambled to their feet and renewed the struggle . Stripped to the waist , officers and men stuck to their task . There was no time to make way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do their part of the work under orders with measured speed , but fo : those nearest the great leak it was hit or miss fighting through many minutes . Capt . Potts when he realized the Louisiana 's peril had flashed a wireless message to Rear Admiral Charles J. Badger , commander in chief of the Atlantic fleet , asking aid from the giant tugs Sonoma and Ontario . At his direction the tugs ran alongside the menaced vessel , and Capt . Potts ordered the commanders to tow her to shallower water off Taylor 's Point , a mile away . Meanwhile on the battleship compartment bulkheads had been closed to shut out the water . The collision mat was slipped over the side , but it was found it could not be laid over the opening uncovered by the valve bonnet 's blowoff squarely enough to stop the leak . The pumps were manned and word was sent to the squad in the engine room to redouble their efforts . Big Plug Saves the Ship . Water was six feet high in the room where the engines stood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was a simple device , after all , that saved the ship . Mattresses were wrapped around a large waste can and it was ' naked into place over the opening . Arhen it checked the rush of water divers found it comparatively easy to plug the outboard opening under water and replace the valve bonnet . The Louisiana was moved rapidly by the powerful tugs to the spot picked by Capt . Potts , where she had fifteen feet of water under her keel . She drew twenty-seven feet . As soon as the bonnet was back on the valve and the pumps had sucked the water out of the engine room , the ship was safe . Then Capt . Potts obtained from Admiral Badger permission to return to his mooring . The Louisiana will steam to Bristol to-morrow to take Part in the Independence Day celebration , and on July 0 she will sail for Vera Cruz . " I had no intention of beaching the vessel , " said Capt . Potts to-night . " There was no confusion . Officers and men went ? to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the collision mat over the side . The pumps were started without delay . I saw officers and men in water up to their waists . I have no damage to report . The pumps have cleared the engine room . " Capt . P-otts praised Lieut . Sterling , Ensigns Smith and Wellbroack , Chief Warrant Machinist M. J. Clancy . Warrant Machinist P. A. Lowell , Chief Machinist 's Mate J. G. Wilson , Chief Electrician E. E. Watkins , Chief Machinist 's Mate W. S. Holloway , Chief Machinist 's Mate D. B. Waller , Machinist 's Mate . P. Bloodgood , Oilers E. L. Hurz. and P. Tosch , and Coal Passer R. A. Sutton . " I have turned the ship over to Lieut . Commander ** the Captain added . " and I will take my leave to-morrow afternoon . Before going I wish to say it-is a pleasure to command such a body of officers and men . " Chief Warrant Machinist Clancy also was packing his effects to quit the Louisiana when the accident occurred . He ran to tile engine room @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fought the , sea 's attack . FIRE IN PARK STABLE . Squabs and Kittens Burned to Death ? Firemen in Peril . Four firemen escaped serious injury yesterday afternoon only by quick action in jumping when the roof caved in directly over a fire which they were fighting in the one-story stable structure behind 's Pass Tavern in Central Park . The fire was discovered by Helen Behm , the sixteen-year-old daughter of Max Behm , proprietor of the tavern . The damage is put at $3,000 . When the fire was over Helen Behm cried when she found that 200 squabs and a litter of kittens had been burned to death . Her prize Maltese cat , mother of the kittens , appeared in a somewhat scorched and bedraggled condition when it was all over . Two-thirds of the stable structure was destroyed , and some park machinery and tools that were in It were burned .                     