@@679278

txt The Public Service Commission has not yet received the new . proposal of the Interborough , and the proposal admittedly must be amended to have any hopes of survival . The only perfected scheme is the Triborough , and It is plausibly contended that the proposal removes the last obstacle to awarding and constructing forthwith at least those portions of the Triborough route for which it can no longer be contended that an operator can not be found . The argument is conclusive if the Triborough is to be constructed with paper money , something which the city can print , or otherwise come by without its being earned by somebody and paid over to the city . Admittedly the Triborough can not be built with the city 's earnings , since the city is not an earner of anything . It was once argued that the subways could be built out of . economies from the city 's extravagances and graft , but this argument has ceased to be convincing since the last budget increased eleven millions over its predecessor , - and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any way by those who had been most critical of the finances of former administrations . If , then , it be admitted that the city ought to finance its subways economically , as though they were to be built with real money , it follows that no Portion of the route now offered ought to- be constructed . The prism of the Triborough is larger than the Interborough by 32 per cent . It was made so in order that the bidding might be open to the largest class of bidders , no connecting road being excluded ' by any consideration of size . If the reasoning be admitted regarding bidders , It altogether fails with the failure of the bidding . There can be no reason for building the Triborough to admit Pullman cars if it is to be operated by the Hudson Tunnel operator and equipment . The cost of construction increases al- i most as much as the increase of dimen-sions , and there are incidental disad-vantages when the construction must be within the limits of the street lines . Already on the Fourth Avenue line now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the curves and encroachment on the side lines . The increased height adds four extra steps for everybody up and down everywhere , and on the doubledeck section , for which it is urged that the bid justifies an instant award without even awaiting a final 1 agreement with Mr. , , it makes eight extra steps of stairs forever . This argument does not apply merely , to the digging and building costs . It runs through , all the expenses of equipment , and operation of the completed enterprise . Details ? are tedious because of their superabundance . Suffice it tosay that on the mere question of excessive dimensions , raising no question ' of route or efficiency of operation , the excess of burden through unnecessary cost of construction would handicap the Triborough plane by the fares from 152,000 passengers , or by the profits from 500,000 daily . This might make no difference tp a subway financed on the grand scale of deficit of the Staten Island Ferry , but It would make a'difference to the . Hudson and Manhattan tunnel system , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Hudson and Manhattan system for the year ending - with Iast June - was 42,889,979. - . In other words , ' the fixed ohersom tor the ' travel exceed the pro Its of the toted travel on the , Rudman system .                     