@@680126

txt A complete agreement was reached by the Conference Committee on the Panama Canal bill to-day , retaining in effect practically everything proposed by the House , as Well as some of the Senate changes which broadened the scope of the measure . The agreement eliminates , however , the Sen .. ate amendment extending the free toll provision for American coastwise ships to include American ships in the foreign trade . The principal points in the conference agreement are : First  --  The Williams amendment admitting foreign-built ships to American registry . when exclusively of American ownership , has been completely redrafted so as to state more accurately the conditions upon which they may be admitted to American registry . Second  --  A new provision , admitting free Ot duty American materials of foreign production which may be necessary for the construction or repair of vessels of American registry built in the United States . Third  --  A provision czemptinn foreign-built vessels . when admitted to American registry . from the payment of duty imposed by the Payne tariff law . Fourth  --  The original House provision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " to Use the canal free of tolls Fought to amend this to vessels " exclusively in the coastwise trade " was eliminated . Fifth  --  The Rouse provision prohibiting railroads from owning or controlling after San , 1 . 1914 , any common carrier by water , with which the railroad competes , ls retained . The Senate amended this provision so as to limit the prohibition to railroadowned vessels using the canal . The conference agreement makes it apply to railroadOwned vessels " operated through the Panama Canal or elsewhere . " Sixth  --  With only a verbal change , the amendment prohibiting the use of the canal by trust-owned vessels is retained , if the trust owning the vessel is doing business in violation of the Sherman late . Seventh  --  The Bourne amendment to prohibit railroad ownership , if injurious to the rubl ! c , of competing water lines . other than those using the canal , has been redrafted to meet the constitutional question raised against it . Instead of prohibiting this by direction the conference agreement proposes to abolish it by indirection by allowing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is operated to the advantage of the public , to extend the time in which such water service may ' be continued beyond July 1 , 1914 . The most striking single question Is the proposition to admit foreign-built , American-owned vessels to American registry in the foreign trade . but not to engage in coastwise trade . The conference agree- , ' . tent will accomplish the same purpose by amending the revised statutes to read as follows : Section ** built within the United States and belonging wholly to citizens thereof : and vessels which may be captured in war by citizens of the United States and lawfully condemned as prizes , or which may be adjudced to he forfeited for a breach of the laws of the United States ; and Vel'Fr2IS , , A bother steam or sail , which have been certified by the Steamboat Inspection Service as sate to carry dry and Perishable cargo . not more than five years old at the time they apply for registry . wherever built , which are to engage in trade only with foreign countries or with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being wholly owned by citizens of the United States or corporations organized and chartered under the laws of the 1 ... nited States , or of any State thereof . the President and managing Directors of which shall be citizens of the United States , and no others , may be registered as directed in this title . Foreign-built vessels registered Pursuant to this act shall not engage in the coastwise trade , provided that IL foreign-built yacht , pleasure boat , or vessel , used or Intended to be used for trade , admitted to American registry pursuant to this Section , shall not he exempt from ' the collection of ad valorem duty provided in Section or the act of Avg. 5 , 1900. ( the Payne Tariff not.l That all materiats of foreign production which may be necessary for the con  --  trocti , ni or repair of vessels built in the ' United States . and all such materials necessary for the building or repair of their machinery . and all articles necessary for their outfit and equipment , may be imported into the ' United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Treasury may prescribe : provided further that such vessels so admitted under the provisions of this section may contract with the Postmaster General under the act of March 9. 1591 , ( the Ocean Mail Subsidy act , ) so long as such vessels shall in all respects comply with the provisions and requirements of said act . The Bourne amendment was drafted by Senator Boot , and intended to divorce vessels , other than those using the canal , from railroad ownership , if the effect of that ownership was Injurious to the public , was challenged as to its constitutiononly immediately after the Senate acted and characterized as a " joker . " The Conference Committee strikes out the Bourne-Root amendment and substitutes for it this new language : If the Inter-State Commerce Commission be of the opinion that any such existing specified service by water other than through the Panama Canal is being operated in the interests of the public and is of advantage to the convenience and commerce of the people , or that such service neither excludes. prevents , nor retards competition by other vessels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commerce Commission may by order extend the time in which such service by water may continue to be operated beyond July 1 , 1014 . In every case of such extension the rates , schedules , and practices of such water carrier shall be filed with the Inter-State Commerce Commission and shall be subject to the act to regulate commerce and all amendments therete , in- the Same manner and to the same extent as is the railroad or other common carrier controlling such water carrier . or interested in any manner in its oneration , provided any application for ex ? tension under the terms of this provision , . filed with the Inter-State Commerce Commission prior to July 1 , 1914 , but for any reason not heard and disposed of before said date , may be considered and granted thereafter . The House conferees agreed to the Senate amendment providing Mat the rate of tolls may be larger upon vessels in ballast than upon vessels carrying passengers and cargo . The original House bill provided that the tolls to be charged Should not exceed the equivalent of $1.25 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proportionate cost of the actual maintenance and operation of the canal . " The Senate agreed to a maximum toll rate , but struck out the requirement that the charge should not he less than " the estimated proportionate cost of actual maintenance and operation " of the canal . The conference agreement preserves the maximum of 1.25. but fixes a minimum by providing that the charge shall not be less than Ti cents a ton . The conference agreement restores the provision . eliminated by the Senate . stipulating that the toll for each passenger shall not exceed $1.50 . Two of the six members of the Conference Committee , Senator Branclegee and Representative Frecerlek C. Steens at ' Minnesota , declined to sign the report . Those who did attach their names to the agreement were Senators Bristow and Simons and Representatives Adamson and Sims .. The conference agreement will be reported to the House and Senate to-morrow , and it is believed that it will be subject to some opposition before it is agreed to In dropping out the Senate amendment giving tree passage to Americar. ships engaged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who considered this a direct violation of the treaty with Great Britain .                     