@@679478

txt Mayor Asks Department Heads to Prepare Exhibits for- the , Municipal Society 's Show . VIEWS OF NEW SCHOOLS Model of - Municipal Building Tower , Sketches of Riverside Improvement , and Other Exhibits to be Made . Mayor Gaynor , who is . an honorary Director of the Municipal Art Society , has sent out a letter to the heads of all city departments asking them to co-operate with the society in the coming exhibition which will be held at the National Arta Club , 119 East Nineteenth Street , from April 10 to April 23 , inclusive . They have been asked to send in maps , photographs and such other data as will show-New Yorkers what the city is doing in improving its own looks . /The departments are responding with enthusiasm . The Board of ' Education has sent two large views of the new Normal College which is being erected on nib old site , and views in color of the new Washington Irving High School . for which the foundations are now being placed at Sixteenth Street and Irving Place . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it the finest high school in the world . It Is expected that the entire scheme of decoration will be under the direction of the Municipal Art Society , sand the society expects to place its next annual gift in this school in the form of a mural decoration . The Bridge Department will show a plaster model of the tower on the new Municipal Building . It is one of the chief architectural features of the building and exemplifies a type of construction which has met with approval and has been used to some extent in the lower part of Manhattan as seen in the Singer , Liberty . and Metropolitan towers . The Dock Department is preparing an elaborate exhibit and will show , by means of maps , plans , and water-color drawings , the various problems involved in that department , particularly the reclamation and development of the Riverside water front. - This improvement consists of constructing a bulkhead parallel to the present line of the Drive and extending some 300 feet from the present shore line out into the river . This land will all be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practically double the area of the present Riverside Drive Park . - The railroad tracks will be covered Over and out of sight . The Dock Department *ill also illustrate the plans for the Jamaica Bay improvement . Commissioner Stover will furnish a redesign by Carrk.e &; Hastings for Bryant Park , by which he hopes to have the park made more harmonious with the architecture of the library without disturbing any of the trees . The Department of Water Supply , Gas , and Electricity will have an exhibit dealing particularly with street lighting and the question of new mail boxes . There will be plaster models of the proposed mail boxes to be placed on lamp posts along Fifth Avenue , attractive enough to add to the beauty of the street and in sufficient quantities to prevent the usual search for a plate to drop a. letter . Arthur Williams , Chairman of the Street Fixture Committee of the Municipal Art Society , has taken personal supervision of.this exhibit . The primitive lamp post , just a lamp stuck on a post , a relic of the days when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ antiquarian and intrusted to the society for the purposes of the exhibition . It will guard a portal of Mr. William 's display , flanked on either side by such- fixtures as now light the roads of Central Park . A full size-street sign of the model the committee will recommend for use in New York 's thoroughfares will be shown . The architects of the new Police Headquarters will show plaster models of the new buildings for the Fire Department . The police will show a collection of badges of various type and design which have been worn by policemen since the department began . It is the property of Col. Kip and has never been on exhibition before .                     