@@680129

txt A brand new plan for the collection of popular subscriptions to finance a National political campaign , as well as to let the full light of publicity fall upon the subscribers , has been evolved by the managers of Gov . Wilson 's campaign , and if it is carried out the method of collecting campaign contributions in this country will be revolutionized . The plan is to have every bank and trust company lin the United States receive and transmit subscriptions to each of the three National parties . It is an amplification of the plan put in force by the Democratic National Committee a ? few weeks ago of having contributions collected by newspapers In every city . and town in the country . The new plan has the enthusiastic indorsement of Gov . Wilson , and his managers believe much good will be accomplished if the bank and trust officials as well as the managers of the other Political campaigns agree to it . Unless the managers of the other parties do agree on the proposition it will not go through : for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be in any sense a partisan one . The Wilson managers believe that if the Republicans and Bull Moosers are sincere in their demands for full publicity for campaign contributions , before as well as after election , they will gladly embrace the opportunity to let non-partisan parties do the actual collecting of money . Acting Chairman William G. , who has taken the place of Chairman McCombs because of the latter 's illness , sent yesterday a letter to the officers of every bank and trust company in the United States telling them of the proposition and requesting them to agree to receive contributions for the three National rarties . Accompanying Mr. 's letter is one from Gov . Wilson indorsing the plan and declaring : " To bring about the election of a President through a campaign financed by popular subscriptions would be a distinct and gratifying triumph . " Mr. 's Appeal . This Is Mr. 's letter to the officers of the banks and trust companies : Dear Sir : An unprecedented opportunity is presenter to , the banks and trust companies - or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inestimable value to the people . There has long been a deep-seated conviction In the public mind that Presidential campaigns have been financed , by certain interests having a special stake in the control of Government . It is clear that such campaigns should , for the common good , be free from ' the suspicion of sinister influence . The Democratic Party at least will respond to the overwhelming popular sentiment in favor of the financing of Presidential campaigns by the people themselves . This year 's campaign must be financed by " popular subscriptions . " These can not be secured unless convenient and responsible agencies all over the country are provided for the receipt and transmission of subscriptions . Banks , trust companies , and newspapers are the best agencies . The newspapers are already at work . Will the banks and trust companies perform the same patriotic service ? The banks and trust companies , of course , will not be partisan . They should accept and transmit subscriptions for each of , the National parties if they act at all . Will you agree to receive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican National , and the Progressive , National Committees ? Speaking for the Democratic National Committee , I would not ask you to act for one unless for all . This must be a patriotic service to the public and not to any one Party . Each day a list of the banks agreeing to act will be given to the press . Will you kindly telegraph at our expense if you will serve ? If you agree to do so please notify the newspapers of your community . In order that you may know the attitude of Gov . Wilson In regard to popular subscriptions I inclose copy of a letter from him on this subject just received . Yours truly , W. G. , Acting Chairman and Vice Chairman , Fifth Avenue Building . New York . Gow . Wilson Indorses Plan . This is Gov. - Wilson 's letter , which was sent along with the one from Mr. Mc-Adoo : Dear Mr.  --  To bring about the election of a President through a campaign financed by popular subscriptions would be a distinct and gratifying triumph . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and would mean the permanent emancipation of our Government from those selfish influences which have too long been relied upon to furnish the campaign funds in return for favors to be bestowed . I am in hearty sympathy with every effort that may contribute to such e. result . The idea back of the proposed contributors ' movement is thoroughly commendable , and I hope that you and your associates will push it and make it an effective Instrument for the attainment of so praiseworthy an object . Very sincerely yours , WOODROW WILSON . Josephus Daniels , Chairman of the Publicity Bureau of the Democratic National Committee , was enthusiastic over the plan yesterday . " We expect that the banks and trust companies will gladly do as we suggest , " he said , " and if the managers of the other National campaigns are on the level about wanting full publicity regarding contributions they will join hands with us . The plan is an entirely new one in National politics . It has been customary heretofore for National Committees and candidates to issue appeals for campaign contributions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raised more than 8250.000 for the Democratic National campaign by popular subscriptions . Mr. 's plan is a wider and larger non-partisan method of making Universal the financing of National campaigns by popular subscriptions . The plan we are using of having newspapers throughout the country collect subscriptions from the people is working splendidly . We are - getting very many responses , but the newspapers should not bear the burden of collecting and remitting alone . The banks and trust coin : panics will make ideal agencies of a similar nature . . " As soon as Mr. Wells , the Treasurer of the National Campaign Committee , . returns from Chicago , about the latter Part of the week , we will be ready to publish the list of subscribers who have sent their contributions to the various newspapers , as well as those who have sent their money to us direct . We expect to hear from many of the banks and trust companies to-day . We also ought to hear from the other two parties . " Wilson Ten Sure of Bay State . Col. Roosevelt 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign by making several speeches , . not worrying the Wilson campaign managers ? In fact , they see ' - in ' it ' indication that the Buil Moose*Party will=drai so heavily from the . Republican Party there . that ' W.ilson ? There was a conference at the Democratic headquarters yesterday on the Massachusetts situation , at which were present Mr. Daniels , T. P .. Reitly , Democratic State Chairman of Massachusetts , and Congressman James T. Lloyd , Chairman of the Democratic Congressional Committee , who came over from Washington - to confer , with Mr. Daniels regarding the Democratic handbook , which is rapidly nearing completion . " It is a cinch for Gov . Wilson in Massachusetts , " said Chairman Reilly enthusiastically . " The Governor will have the electoral votes of our State this year without a doubt . From present indications Mr. Roosevelt will get more votes in Massachusetts than President Taft . The Republican vote is so divided that the division can not but help give Wilson a big majority . We have assurances from a number of Republicans that they will vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roosevelt last week were largely made up of curiosityseekers . These crowds can not be compared to the crowds that turned out to hear Col. Bryan four years ago . " Mr. Reilly said that the Democratic campaign in Massachusetts would be formally opened on Aug. 31 at Canobie Lake , when all the Democratic leaders of the State will gather to hear speeches by prominent State Democrats . Mr. Daniels said that Chairman McCombs continued to improve , and he vigorously denied that Mr. McCombs intended to resign the Chairmanship . Vice Chairman will leave for Indianapolis toiday , and with the other members of $he National Committee be present at the notification ceremonies to Gov . Marshall . From there Mr. will go to Chicago to open headquarters . BANKERS AGAINST THE PLAN . Not a Question of Public Spirit , but of Practical Banking , Says One . Bankers who could be reached last night were not at all enthusiastic over Mr. 's proposal . In fact , they said it would be impracticable , to say the least . Frank A. Vanderlip , President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so novel that he would have to take time in which to think it over . " I never heard of such a plan before , " he said , " and I would want to talk the matter over , with other bank officials before expressing myself . It is a novel Proposal . to say the least . I do not see why banks should be asked to take such a part in a National political campaign . I will think the matter over very carefully and consult with , other bankers In the city before I express any decided opinion or reply to Mr. 's letter . " The President . of one of the largest Wall Street banks , who did-not want his name used at this time , explained some of the draivbacks of the proposal . " In the first place , " he said , " it is not the function of banks to mix in politics , and whatever might be said on the side of the public spiritedness of such a scheme , ' . It is politics , after all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubt if the larger banks could undertake to carry out any ' such project . It would mean unending bother and a responsibility which , lying outside of a bank 's proper functions , the officers might- be unwilling to assume . Aside from the immense amount of cler-ical labor which would be involved , should 1 contributions come in in any large quantities , there would be no part , of the bank 's bookkeeping which could properly assume charge of the work . " With multitudes of small checks , money orders and cash contributions pouring in , there would undoubtedly occur numberless disputes , which would entail an enormous amount of correspondence . Besides this , there might be losses in the mail , and who would make these good ? The bank stockholders and Directors might seriously object to their banks hand1 handling campaign contributions on this score alone . Losses in the ordinary course of business could be properly charged tip to profit and loss , but in a scheme of this sort , in which the bank had no business to meddle , anyway , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discrepancies which would inevitably show in the account at the end of the campaign . Besides the enormous difficulties incident to keeping tabs on funds flowing in through the mails , and the probable disputes with senders , there would still remain the problem of distribution . Experience has shown that a political campaign brings to the surface all sorts of . cranks , and there would be . no doubt , letters coming in from adherents of all the ' isms ' in politics . " As far as my bank is concerned , I can say positively that we would not undertake to have any part in Gov . Wilson 's scheme . I can not imagine that any other large institution would take a different view of the matter . It is not a question of public spiritedness , but a question of practical banking . " 