@@679602

txt Down the steep hill of Trotting Course Lane . at the foot of which is the crossing of the Rockaway Division of the Long Island Railroad in Glendale , Queens , L. I. , a party of men and women rode at 4:30 o'clock yesterday afternoon in a heavy spring wagon . On the seat , handling the mins , was a woman , the housekeeper of a small hotel near by , where the party had hired the wagon to carry a keg of beer three-quarters of a mile to Goldberg 's Farms on Trotting Course Lane , where a picnic was in progress . Two other women , two men , and a boy of 10 eat in the back of the wagon . At the foot of the hill Louis Ammenworth , the flagman , stepped slowly into the road just as the wagon began to descend . An electric express from Rockaway Beach was speeding toward ' the crossing and the rails were already singing its approach . . Ammenworth waved his flag at the wagon , but apparently the horse became suddenly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tracks . The train came on with speed scarcely slackened . There was a crash and an Instant later five of those in the wagon lay dead . Two other persons were Injured . The Dead . COHEN , miss IDA , SS Avenue B , Manhattan . COHEN , JACOB , her brother . GOLDBERG , Miss LEAH , 222 Pulaski Street , Brooklyn . SIMON , JACOB , 161 Norfolk Street , Manhattan . WEINBERG , ELMER , 10 years old , B ) Henry Street , Manhattan . The Injured . CREED , RICHARD , conductor of the train ; left arm broken . LEFFERTH , HARRY L. , motorman ; badly cut by broken glass . SESSLER , Miss MARY , housekeeper of lot-niter 's Dote ! , Glendale : fractureii skull : . win probably die . Ammenworth , the flagman , declared that the accident resulted solely from the fact that the horse became unmanageable . He gave a signal to those in the wagon in plenty of time to have permitted them to stop had they been able to control the horse . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unabated speed he jumped to the tracks , and waved a red flag at the approaching train . Motorman Lefferth saw it , and , shutting off the power , applied his emergency brakes . rite eFFiercTrthe , - train was too great to be overcome immediately . however , and it coasted on for more than 11.10 feet after Lire collision . Gales Ordered for Crossing . The crossing is one of those mentioned In the order adopted on Saturday by the Public Service Commission requiring the Long Island Railroad to substitute gates for flagmen at present stationed at several dangerous grade crossings . It was said by some who witnessed the accident , however , that the horse was practically Mining away when it reached the tracks , and that only an exceptionally strong gate could have prevented the animal and wagon from crashing through onto the tracks . The crash ef train and vehicle , the screams of the wagon 's occupants , and the screeching of the brakes as the train jerked to a stop made a noise which brought every one for blocks around rushing to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Goldberg farm , and presently scores of men and women who had been picnicking there raced to the crossing . The bodies of the dead , instantly recognized by these newcomers as friends or ix:latices , were stretched out along the Idle of the road where the train crew had laid them . They were terribly disfigured for several of the victims had been carried yards down the track . Of the wagon there remained only splinters of wood and some twisted iron . The horse had been tossed fifty feet , to fall dead beside the road . The train , its crew having done all that n-as possible , continued on its way to the Pennsylvania Station in Manhattan . Motorman Lefferth. though badly cut and bruised , was able to run his train . The conductor remained behind , however , waiting for ambulances to arrive front St. aht. -J , " s Hospital in Jamaica , and front the Jamaica Hospital . He had been standing on the front platform beside the motorman when the collision occurred . Parts of the wrecked wagon , sent flying into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ platform . He fell clear of the train to roll unconscious in the ditch . The whole of the front platform was wrecked . Relatives Fight For Bodies . Coroner Schaeffer was telephoned for and he reached the scene quickly . Ambulances were on their way and everything that could be done . had been performed already when the throng from Goldberg 's farm reached the crossing . Instantly there was an oproar . Women fainted literally by the dozen and the men in the crowd seemed to lose their heads . They wanted to carry away the bodies of their friends and only the arrival of the reserves from the Ozone Park station prevented them . The ambulance surgeons found little to do for Miss Sessler or for Conductor Creed except to hurry them to hospitals . They had their hands full , however , reviving hysterical women . At last , however , the picnickers were persuaded that their friends ' bodies would be cared for , and the dead were carried to the morgue in Ozone Park , while the ambulances hurried to the hospitals . There Creed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was said that there was almost no chance of the woman 's recovery . Charles Joeker , proprietor of the hotel where Milo Sessler was employed , was heartbroken over the accident . It was he who rented the horse and wagon to the picnickers and who allowed Miss Sessler to drive it , with the intention of bringing the rig back when its occupants had been delivered at the farm . . locker said that the victims had been members of a large picnicking party at the Goldberg farm , where picnics are i held every . Sunday . There is no liquor for sale at the farm , however , and when the picnickers became thirsty those who later were killed volunteered to get a kep of beer . Jocker said he did n't know where they had bought the beer . They reached his place shortly after 4 o'clock , rolling the keg of beer along the road , he said . They asked if he had a rig to hire , and he got out his old spring wagon . Into this the keg was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wagon . Miss Sessler took the reins . How the woman lost ' control of the horse is not known . The animal , was one which she had driven , and apparently there was nothing ? to frighten it . The road down to the crossing is steep , however , and it is thought that instead of becoming frightened the animal was forced ahead by the weight of the wagon behind it . TWO TROLLEY COLLISIONS . Motorman Killed in Crash Near City Line  --  Smash on Broadway . Two trolley cars of the Westchester Electric Company collided at Town Dock Read near Kingsbridge Road , near the city line early yesterday morning , and Patrick Kearney , thirty-five years old , of 39 South Third Avenue , Mt . Vernon , was Injured so badly that he died in the Fordham Hospital a few hours afterward . When Kearney 's car started on the last trip from Mt . Vernon at half past one o'clock in the morning , a wire was down at Fifth Avenue and First Street , and the car was held up . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ break to continue Kearney 's run . There were four passengers In Kearney 's caraind after they had been held up for some time they demanded of Kearney that the car be taken to the end of the run . Kearney had been told to wait until he got ? orders from the Inspector to go ahead , but on the demands of the passengers he started . The line on Town Dock Road is a single track with sidings for cars to pass . Kearney thought he had a clear track and did not see the other car until he reached the centre of a steep incline and then it was too late to stop . The cars came together with a crash George Keller of Mt . Vernon , motorman of . the other car , jumped when he saw the collision was sure and escaped . One Of the passengers , Miss Pauline Cohen , says she was injured by flying glass , Several persons were slightly injured yesterday afternoon when a southbound Broadway car crashed into so- crosstown car , westbound , at the corner of Grand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Broadway car ; Mary Cohen , 71 Market Street ; Mrs. Mary , O'Sullivan , 224 East Sixty-seventh Street , and her son Edward , three and one-half years old , were slightly injured and went to their homes after being attended by Dr. Koenig , of St. Vincent 's hospital . Both cars were crowded . The Broadway car approached the crossing at a fair rate of speed ' just as the Grand Street car started across . The Grand Street car was half way across the Broadway tracks when the Broadway car struck it in the centre . Almost all of the passengers in both cars were thrown to the floor , and those who were injured were cut by ' flying glass . Both cars were badly damaged and there was a alight delay in traffic on . Wiz Una. 