@@679528

txt Sixteen-month-old Bernard Winegold , ran into the street from the steps of his home at 176 Madison Street early yesterday evening and was struck and run over by a horse car driven by Frederick Hines . instantly men and women came running from nearby houses , gathering around the car , beside which knelt Mrs. Winegold , sobbing and crying for vengeance . Fines , who had pulled his horses up before the rear wheels of the car had passed over the child , sprang from the platfcrm to lift the small body from the tracks when a man struck him . Instantly there came cries from the rear of the cruvid : " Kill him . He killed the child . Kill him . " Women 's shrill voices sounded high above those of the men , urging them to take vengeance . The driver ran back to his platform and seized his whip . As many were behind the car as menaced Hines in front , and there was no escape for the driver or for Max Munccinsky , the conductor . Several men sprang @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the leader screamed and sprang back , his cheeks bleeding . Other men leaped to take his place . In a moment a dozen were struggling for a foothold on the Iplatform , where Hines , white with fear . swung his whip as fast as he could raise and lower his arm . From the crowd still came the wailing cries of women , who had worked themselves Into a frenzy of excitement , calling to the men to drag the driver from his car . " Get him ! He killed a child ! " sounded from all sides . Despite the lashing whip half a dozen men had their hands on Hines and were Pulling him from the platform , when Policeman Carbonell ? on the front platform of an approaching car , saw the riot I and fought his way to Hines 's side . The driver was exhausted . He surrendered the whip to Carbonell , who fought back the crowd . Then he sprang to the side of the child , and ? grabbing a raincoat from the arm of a man , he flung @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pick it up when the crowd rushed at the car . Men put their shoulders beneath it and upheaved it , flinging it over on its side . Within were half a dozen men and a few women . They had been cowering , frightened , in the middle of the car , but now they rushed for the doors . All got otf except a woman , who fell with the overturned car . She was flung to the pavement and stunned for a moment , but before Carbonell could reach her she staggered to her feet and disappeared . The policeman had grabbed up the body of the child , and calling to Hines and Munccinsky to follow him , dashed through the crowd to a drug store at Pike and I Madison Streets . He got the door locked jotnisti he asdtrbieiga'sntgorz. men and women rushed The door withstood the first rush , and before It could be repeated the reserves lI of the Madison Street station ran up . They fought a way through the crowd and gathered about the door of the store to which presently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one look at the child . and said the boy must have died instant ! ly . The body had to be taken to the police station , therefore , and to do It the police formed a riot square . In the centre of this walked the driver and conductor and Carbonell carrying the body . The crowd completely surrounded the little square of policemen and from the outskirts of It bricks and other missiles ; were thrown . Again and again the poi licemen were struck. - but they kept their ranks and reached the station . The crowd I collected about the station house door , I and it was some time before Hines and Munccinsky dared venture out . Meantime the railroad company had sent another crew for Its car . It was completely wrecked . Every window was broken and most of the woodwork was destroyed . 