@@679608

txt This Is the season when the newspapers are supposed to fill their columns with invented frivolities for lack of occurrences of serious interest . But this year the slaves of the press are saved this trouble , since nothing within imagination can be so funny as the actualities of the day . Dozens of things are chronicled in the current issues upon which the ? only Possible comment Is " The very ideal " Consider , for example , Senator CUMMINS demonstrating the inconsistency of the President , regarding reciprocity , with usurpation of the Senate 's prerogatives " on the side . " It Is matter of taste in humor whether Senator Cuaisfnes is funnier than Senator 1/1 . FoLtorrris , or whether it is possible for any one of the entire humorous aggregation of Insurgents to be funnier than all of them together . The very Idea of their working overtime , " throwing fits " over the condition of the country and the decadence of its politics , and somersaulting backward over their own political records , when humane men are tying ice on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degree . Or , if anybody thinks that the spectacle is pitiful , and prefers to weep over the labors such patriots put upon their own weary backs , he is invited to weep more and saltier brine at the very idea of these things occurring while the insurgents ' unfeeling colleagues are tutting down the supplies of mineral water lemonade , and the President is laying out a course where the Atlantic 's breezes are coolest and the tossing of the . Mayflower wilt disturb slumber least . The very idea of anything possibly being funnier than the rapid transit toward reciprocity 's enactment may Itself be an absurdity , but things are occurring in Washington Itself which heighten the seasonable hilarity . Yesterday was reported a fresh crop of eat-trust legislation . The Supreme Court having just made the original statute reasonable and workable , the legislators who regard themselves as responsible for the country 's prosperity are to the fore with fresh proposals for the encouragement of trade . They are proposing that the investments of some billions of fixed capital shall be made dependent upon the holding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At any time capitalization schemes may be revised at the will and discretion of those with no special experience in the business , and with no capital risk in the enterprise , and with no standards fixed by which to test the exer cise of the discretion . It is said that these standards would be ' evolved by experience , as has proved the case with the administration of the Inter-State commerce law . This is a serious proposal , not a Joke at all . The Joke comes in on the very idea that business can have any standards of its own which Legislatures ought to respect , that prosperity could possibly help following the overthrow of such standards , and that the Interval until the new bureau of trusts evolved the new standards of tittakvmstAtz:26Wilza 4ant more halcyon and vociferous with joy and profit than when the trusts were in process of formation , and profits and wages were climbing faster than the thermometer . Here again may be thought the climax of Summer season frivolity , but the suggestion of new anti-trust legislation as a stimulant to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of labor alone may be pegged or go on rising forever while profits and security prices are falling . This Joke may be laughed at with either side of the mouth . There are funny things happening in this silly season outside Washington . At Springfield the Fourth of July celebration included a " float " with leading citizens sitting in convict garb within a cell " getting free board . " They were the President of the Springfield Board of Trade and the President of the Massachusetts Retail Lumber Dealers ' Association , now defendants in the action of the Federal Attorney General by the application of the rule ar . reason to the stimulation of trade by the prosecution of those in good repute with their associates . The answer to this puzzle picture reveals whether or not the anti-trust statute is as popular with men of business as it is with politicians and friends of the people . While these gentlemen are making merry about going to jail , and are donning their stripes ahead of time and inviting their friends and neighbors to observe the fit , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as much larger than the billion-dollar pioneer as the world is larger than the United States , and that is not saying very much when the discussion is about the iron trade . If anything could be funnier than this , it is the idea that Mr. GOMPERB does not know what workingmen want better than the capitalists who spend scores of millions in welfare I work , and make hundreds of small cap- 1 Masts . Why subscribe to Punch ? Why marvel that there is no American Punch ? How could there be room for one when the realities of our politics are so much ' funnier than any professional funny man would dare to put into print for fear of exaggeration                     