@@679407

txt Changes are made in one or another of the subsidy bills oftener than daily now , and the votes have been so close that there is danger of something being enacted . The House Committee has ordered the Ocean Mail bill to he reported in a form resembling that in which the Senate refused to pass it . Anything might come out of the conferences between the houses which this would necessitate , and perhaps was designed to necessitate , inasmuch as the straightforward way was for the House to pass the bill which the Senate had approved . Under such conditions it would he superfluous to say anything more about a bill which professes to appropriate the profits of ocean postage , but which leaves uncovered the costs of land carriage of the same matter . Obviously there are no such profits , and in our opinion the object to which it is proposed to devote them is not meritorious . The ' United Fruit Company bill has undergone an even more surprising change . In its original form the company patriotically offered to assume the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its foreign-built ships being admitted to our registry . However it happened , the bill came to include exemption from Panama Canal tolls . This exemption was dropped , and the bill was amended to apply to all foreign-built ships in foreign trade . It would seem that whatever strength the bill gained by:1 the amendments was at the cost of1 some doubt whether the bill would be availed of if enacted as amended . Finally there is the Hobson bill which , as reported , puts the subsidy into the form of discriminating tariff arrangements . A rebate of 5 per cent . of the customs is to be allowed to companies whose shareholders are all Americans , and 2 per cent . is to be collected upon the free list when ' the goods are carried in foreign ships . This evades payment in cash , but only at the expense of exemptions from the protection afforded by the best and bravest tariff . Whatever this bill would do for a favored few revision of the tariff would do for all and sundry . The times are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be doubted that those seeking.Government help in the shipping industry would be willing to take it by earning it , even under privileged conditions . Meanwhile events outside Congress continue to strengthen the case against any subsidy proposal . Why grant subsidies when commerce will provide vessels for itself if only commerce is allowed . For example , the Inclusion of gypsum in Canadian reciprocity will bring to the Staten Island Company an order to build a fleet of 7,500-ton vessels for the trade . They would be good colliers in case of necessity , which means war . The reciprocity negotiations between Canada and the West Indies have encouraged the Canadian Pacific Railway to start a service touching at Boston and running to Jamaica and Bermuda . It is described as the most important undertaking- of . ? ? the company since it entered the Atlantic trade with a fleet which has made its mark . If our railways seek to extend their services in this manner the District Attorneys prosecute them as conspirators in restraint of trade . Congressmen propose laws . to exclude such ships from American ports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commerce Commission . The leading agents of the South American trade have just published their annual statements of trade opportunities in Argentina in 1910 . The total was 133 , as compared with 111 in 1909 . The encouragement of trade with Porto Rico has led to the construe- ' , tion of three fine ships , of which the first , the Corozal , has just been delivered for her maiden trip from this port to-day . The second , the i'Jontoso , is due in about a fortnight.1 They all are 4,700 tons , and are as good naval auxiliaries as any likely to be provided under the subsidy bills . The Progressive Union of New Orleans is now asking business men of the Mississippi Valley to finance a $3.000 , - 000 steamship company for the South American trade , without any fresh Federal legislation , and with no assistance except the hope of profits and Louisiana 's tax exemption . These are all fresh incidents , occurring since the introduction of the sundry subsidy bills . They are proof enough that where there is adequate profit the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then leave commerce to its own self-help ? What profits it if a subsidy should purchase a merchant marine under such conditions that commerce is discouraged by law ?                     