@@680820

txt Thousands of Southern folk in cheering throngs welcomed President Wilson to Dixie Land to-day as he sped through Virginia , North and South Carolina , and Georgia on his way to the Southern Commercial Congress at Mobile . The shrill notes of the rebel yell at Salisbury , N. C. , awakened the President earlier than he had intended to rise , and as the Autumn sunlight streaked over the Blue Ridge a pilgrimage of admiring hosts began . At villages and hamlets , where the President 's train ran slowly . and at cities where stops were made , there were huge crowds , enthusiastic and happy at their first glimpse of Woodrow Wilson , the first native of the South elevated to the Presidency since the civil war . " We walked fifteen miles to see you , " shouted a group of North Carolinians as the President appeared on the car platform at Charlotte . They told Mr. Wilson they were from Davidson College , where he had prepared for Princeton . The President greeted them warmly . It 's like coming home again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands were stretched toward him . Mr. Wilson shook hands with many Persons . but refrained from making any speeches . Coll for Political Sermon . " Speech , speech , " cried the crowd at Spartanburg . S. C. " les Sunday , " smiled the President . " Well , we 've just come front church , " some one insisted . " you could preach , you know . " " I ca n't preach , " replied the President modestly . " A political sermon , " suggested a voice , and the President joined in the ' laugh that followed . I Big boxes of flowers were presented to the President over the rail of his ? observation car at many points en route ? The biggest demonstrations occurred at Salisbury and Charlotte , N. C. ; Spartanburg and Greenville , S. C. , mid Gainesville and Atlanta . Ga . Many of the cities brought to mind familiar memories for Mr. Wilson , who spent his early life in this region . He practiced law in Atlanta . Miss Mar-. garet and Miss Jessie Wilson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the house to Dr. Grayson , his aid , as the train rolled by . ? ? ? - ? Secretary Daniels . who also is to speak at Mobile , got a warm welcome en route , particularly in his home State , North Carolina . On the President 's train were about 200 persons , all bound for the Southern Commercial Congress . Senator Fletcher of Florida , President of the organization , took some of the delegation back into the President 's car during the afternoon to shake hands , and Mr. Wilson later came forward into the Pullmans to greet some of the women in the party.li John Barrett , Director General of the Pan-American Union , and the Latin ' American diplomats aboard . paid their respects to the President . Among them ? were Minister Cairo of Costa Idea , Minister Calderon of Bolivia . Minister Pezet of Peru , Minister Morales of Panama , ? Consul General Cunha of Brazil and ? Consul General Pardo of Argentina . Benefits of the Canal . ? The President told the diplomats that his main reason for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with their countries . Ile remarked that they probably were aware of his close sympathy for Central and South Amer ! ica . He spoke informally of the great benefits that would accrue from the Panama Canal , declaring that although ? the waterways physically severed the two continents , it would make for a closer union in every other respect . Secretary Daniels had a brief talk with- ? I the President about the naval programme . Mr. Daniels said that neither he nor the President had reached any final decision on the battleship question , and that he would make no ree1 ommendations until he could obtain furtimer information rrorn Secretary on expected revenues . President Wilson is in sympathy with Secretary Daniels 's idea of spending more money afloat and less on shore equipment , and also favors Government ! ownership of an armor plate factory . It is the hope of Secretary Daniels that by economy on land it may be possible ' to get three battleships without materially increasing the annual appropriation . Thus far . however , he has not ? committed himself as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He ' intimated to-day that he would defer the matter for another week at least , as other important questions are now de , manding the attention of the President . Mr. Daniels to-day expressed his own approval of the suggestion of Winston Churchill , First Lord of the Admiralty of Great Britain , that the powers shouldagree to cease naval construction for a short period . " I feel sure , " said Mr. Daniels , " that if all the other naval building countries agreed to such an arrangement ? the United States also would gladly do so . I think this suggestion follows as a direct sequence to Secretary Bryan 's peace policy . " The Secretary said he did not believe , however . that the Churchill suggestion would affect the immediate programme of this Government . Mr. Daniels did not discuss the Churchill suggestion with President Wilson .                     