@@681477

txt The Missouri referendum upon the full crew law Is the second best thing which could have happened . The first best thing would have been for the voters to have elected the sort of Leg islature which neither could nor would pass a law necessitating its veto at the polls . The one thing about the referendum above criticism is that it can not be misunderstood or ? misrepresented . The issue presented was so naked and so clear that the vote of three to one in the negative speaks for itself . The result in this State was equally decisive , but the issue was so entangled with other issues that the lesson is obscure . Yet it can not be without significance that Mr. WHITMAN had no record upon legislation of that sort , and that both his opponents had a record which entitled them to defeat on that issue . Mr. SuLzga boasted that he signed the New York full crew law , and Mr. GLYNN made the claim that SULZER could not have signed it unless it had been first signed by hint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law was an asset with the sort of voters to whom they appealed . But the result in New York as well as in Missouri discloses that even the total labor vote is a debit when it is obtained at the cost of repelling voters tenfold as numerous whose interests are antagonized by such class legislation . The Missouri full crew law was rejected because it was perceived that the employment of every unnecessary man by compulsion of law was the same thing as taking away an equal number of jobs from necessary men . Yesterday the Secretary of the Central Federated Union declared that the labor vote was loyal to Mr. GLyNx . Said he : As to the support of Gov . GLYNN by the labor unions . I believe that when the vote comes to be analyzed it will show that organized labor , at least , was true to its pledge to support the Governor and that the vote of the labor unions was overwhelmingly for him . Today Mr. GLYNN and the unions alike perceive that the labor vote is worse than worthless if it Is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such legislation as both Mr. Sur , znt and Mr. GLYNN approved . It is not to be forgotten that New York has a full crew law record as well as Missouri .. New York started- where Missouri ended . Govt4. gualms and Di* vetoed the - law. before it . eame to Mr. SuLzga and Mr. GLYNN for their signatures . The vices of the proposal were as clear then as now . It was only by persistency on the one hand and demagogy on the other that the law was finally passed , and now recoils upon those who were accomplices in the degradation of legislation ? to class interests . It is waste of time to flog a dead horse , but this issue Is far from dead . It embodies the spirit of both the anti-capitalistic legislation and the false humanism of the so-called " social justice " movement . It can not be said to have run its course because one State has rejected it . To understand it is necessary to have some knowledge of the manner in which such laws are passed . Labor is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yet labor is so opposed to such laws that union discipline is necessary to prevent their defeat by labor 's disgust . For example , the full crew laws have been passed mainly by the activity of the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen . The opposition of its membership was so pronounced that it was necessary to pass a resolution forbidding members to sign petitions against labor legislation , and also forbidding them to " interfere with the " work of their legislative representa " tives without violating the law of " the brotherhood , which would mean " expulsion for the offending party . " That is the way to secure legislation unfit to be passed . It is not the way to get the confidence of the voters , or to give labor legislation a high place in the esteem of non-unionists , who are nine-tenths of the people . It is only in such ways that it was possible to enact this law in Massachusetts , for example . It was pressed through ten years of effort , and finally was passed over the adverse report of the Railway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been eight full crew laws before Congress , but as yet none has run the gauntlet . The repeal of the full crew laws in the score of States which have passed them would be almost as good as an advance of rates confined to those States . The repeal of all the anti-railway laws in all the States would be better than the advance of rates upon which so much is thought to depend . Yet not one word has come from the Interstate Commerce Commission on the subject . The Commission has an eye solely for the reduction of rates , and thinks not at all of reducing costs . Yet the reduction of costs and the reduction of rates must proceed together . The Supreme Court , for all its dignity , reversed itself in time . Can it be possible that the Commission is less accessible to popular opinion than the Supreme Court ? -                     