@@680743

txt Coming Back Home After Successful Official Career to Describe In Lectures Present-Day Conditions . Dean C. Worcester , Secretary of the Interior for the Philippine Islands , who recently startled Washington with the statement that human slavery existed in the Philippines and practically was sanctioned by the Philippine Assembly , and furthermore offered to prove what he said , has resigned the office which he has held for many years , and is coming back to the United States to spend some time telling people in this country about the Islands , what has been done for the Filipinos since American occupation , and present-day conditions In the archipelago . The news of Dean Worcester 's resignation will not surprise Secretary Worcester 's friends , or any American who has visited the Philippines in the last twelve months . With the uncertainty that has characterized the Philippine situation since the last National election , and the failure thus far of the present Administration in Washington to announce a policy which could be carried out by American officials in the Islands , Secretary Worcester has found the administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the future to work among the wild tribes whose civilization he has been doing so much to accomplish . As early as last March he told friends Who saw him in Manila , that it was his intention to make his home permanently in the northern part of the island of Mindanao , where there are several small , non-Christian tribes . One of these is the Bukidnos , who have been special proteges of the Secretary of the Interior , whom he has brought down from the tops of trees , where they made their homes , to build houses and roads . to become farmers and producers , and has taught to be selfzrespecting human beings . Secretary Worcester during his long administration has discovered that one of the greatest needs in the Philippines Is for more draught animals and for a more abundant supply of meat . The rinderpest a few years ago carried off most of the carabao , or native cattle , and stopped to a large extent the tilling of fields . Upper Mindanao . Mr. Worcester believes , is an excellent country for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time to making the Bukidnos region the source of supply in the Philippines for meats and for cattle . Worcester Knows the Islands . No well-known American has had so long an acquaintance with the Philippines as Secretary Worcester . Before the war with Spain , he had made two trips to the islands for scientific exploration , and bad written a book on his investigations . He was a member of the Schurman Commission , which was sent to the islands by President after the close of the war , his selection having been due to his knowledge of Philippine affairs , and the Filipino people . He also served on the Taft Commission in 1900 , and since that time has been a member of the Philippine Commission and Secretary of the Interior . A native of Vermont , and a graduate of the University of Michigan , he spent six years at his alma mater as instructor in botany and assistant professor of zoology . During his work in the Philippines as a Government official , his department has had to cover many fields of activity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the million or so of naked savages , who are scattered through the Islands , he has had the control of the Bureaus of Science , Lands , Forestry and Health . While in these other fields his work has been notable , his endeavors among the wild people  --  first in winning their confidence and friendship , and then in turning thorn . from war with one another and headhunting , to pursuits of peace , have attracted the attention of the whole world . Has Helped Wild Tribes . When the Americans went to the Philippines they found that nothing had been done during the Spanish regime for any of the tribes aside from those grouped as Filipinos , except occasional attempts to conquer the Mores of Mindanao , and an occasional dispatch of a missionary into the mountains of Northern Luzon . One of Mr. Worcester 's first acts as Secretary of the Interior was the formation of the Bureau of nonChristian Tribes , which under the direction of Prof. David P. Barrows , made . a successful start , but ten years ago was abolished . Since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conduct of affairs among the wild men , who , however , cotild hardly be called savages in these days . He has made tribes which were traditional enemies become friendly . with each other ; and by introducing schools with manual training , modern methods of agriculture , and by the building of a wonderful series of mountain trails , ' has tremendously improved the conditions of those people . One achievement that almost cost him his life was the removal of the . renegade . Mores who were raiding and robbing the wild men of the mountains of Palawan from one coast of that island to the , other . He was with a small body of soldiers which was ambushed . Many times his courage and apparent disregard of danger have been shown , gaining him the respect of his proteges . Of the highest value is the work done by Secretary Worcester in combating epidemics by the establishment of sanitary conditions in the country , often in the face of opposition upon the part of the natives , which have resulted In safeguarding health and generally i @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deliver his lectures in this country under the auslpices of the Philippine Lyceum Bureau , BO Church Street . The lectures will begin early in November .. He plans to cover the entire country ... ) r . Worcester possesses the most complete series of photographs of the Philippines in existence , and he has made many moving pictures of the wild tribes . and the bird life in the island Jungle . He will deliver nine different lectures ' on . the islands , three of which will deal with the wild tribes and head-hunters of the Philippines and what the United States has done for them . Two other lectures will be devoted to the forest resources and commercial possibilities . of the Philippines . A sixth , will describe the health and sanitary campaign in the islands , and in another lecture Mr. Worcester will describe the methods of educating the Filipinos and tell what has been accomplished in this direction . One address will deal with the Modern Manila , built by the Americans : In the last lecture of his . series , , which . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Worcester discuss , the . question : .4 Philippine independence :                     