@@680724

txt Federico Combos , Minister of Foreign Rolai. ions , announced to-day that John Lind , President Wilson 's personal lemissary to this capital , who left here this morning on his way to Vera Cruz . had delivered a second note before his departure , and that the Mexican Government 's answer to that new communication from the Americau President 's representaive was on its way to Vera Cruz to catch Mr. Lind in that seaport before he should embark for the United States . Minister Gamboa refused positively to give any indication of the contents 1 of the note which he said he had received from ex-Gov . Lind . He also declined to say what he considered possible as a result of the Presidential emissary 's departure from Mexico City . The Minister of Foreign Relations . in reply to a question , said it was not known here whether Mr. Lind would return to the Mexican capital after Ireceipt of the Huerta Government 's response to his second note . If President Wilson 's representative should come back to this city , the Foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was on the occasion of his first arrival . It was stated further by Sefior Gamboa that notes which had passed between Mr. Lind and himself would not be made public until President Wilson had read his Mexican message to the American Congress . 11 nerta 's Defiance Renewed . It was stated officially to-night that all reports that Provisional President Huerta. would yield to the peace plan proposed by President Wilson through ex-Gov . Lind would be dispelled by publication of the notes . Men acquainted with the contents of the notes that had passed between Mr. Lind and Minister Gamboa announced the belief that the communi , cations would cause a good impression in Mexico and the United States , as showing the justice of the stand taken by President Huerta . Meanwhile , the situation here is waiting on the action to be taken by President Wilson and the outcome of his report to Congress . Prominent Americans in this capital believe that the American Senate and House will not indorse President Wilson 's stand in regard to the removal of Americans from Mexico by the Washington Administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government intends eventually to declare war . The departure of Mr. Lind did much to do away with the tension existing here . It is believed the departure of Dr. William Bayard Hale , another of President Wilson 's personal informants in regard to conditions in Mexico . would make the relations between the United States Embassy and the Mexican Foreign Office almost cordial . Asserts Mexicans Back Huerta , A member of the Foreign Relations Committee of the Mexican Senate who is closely in touch with developments said to-night : " Washington is coming to the understanding that President Huerta is upheld by Mexicans in refusing to permit the United States to take a hand in the internal affairs of this country . Mexicans are fully confiI dent that they will be able to settle their own troubles without the assistance of the United States . " The only questions which the ' United States Government is called ort to decide are whether or not it will ; recognize the Administration of Pres , . ident Huerta , and whether he is doing the to possible to protect the lives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I believe that most of the Americans here feel that the Mexican Government is doing all in Its power to protect their interests by punishing offenders . " No Cause for Alarm , Says Gamboa.1 The Mexican Foreign Office issued this formal statement to-night : " In order to calm the natural anxiety of the public occasioned by the negotiations which have been carried on with Mr. Lind , the confidential agent of President Wilson , Senor Gamboa declares that up to the present there is no reason for alarm . " Since the beginning Mexico has tried to maintain a concilatory attitude , although at the same time a dignified one , and if the President of the United States considers it opportune to submit to Congress the status of the negotiations , then Mexico is re-lieved from the tacit agreement and from the customs observed in negotiations of this class not to give premature publicity , and will hasten then , and only then , to make public in their entirety all the documents which have been received or which may be received at that date . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be called serious , and for this reason it is desirable that the public should be discreet and reserved , since this is the best manner in which they can aid the Government . " There is nothing to indicate that the international situation is considered critical here , although it is admitted to be serious . Minister Gamboa recommends that public opinion in the Mexican capital remain calm . Most Americans Stand Fast . Few Americans are leaving this city as a result of Mr. Lind 's departure , though there is evident a desire on the part of the Washingtoh officials to get citizens of the United States out of the Mexican Republic . Those who are going mostly are persons connected with business houses in minor capacities , or who are more or less free . Most of the Americans representative of the larger interests in the capital are determined to remain here until the danger that attacks will be aimed directly at them becomes critical . Many of them say that if the United States Government orders them to quit Mexico they will want guarantees with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that would be entailed on them as a result of abandoning the properties under their charge . The majority of Americans in Mexico City Is inclined so to regard such an order if it should be forthcoming from Washington . All citizens of the United States impelled to leave this country owing to fear of the rebels ' depredations or of any attacks other than those apprehended as possibly resulting from intervention departed from Mexico months ago . 3lexicans Promise Protection . High officials of the Mexican Government announce that they see no reason why Americans should leave the country . and that they would . be sorry to see them go . It is stated authoritatively that every care will be taken to give citizens of the United States all possible protection . The recommendations of President Wilson in regard to arms on the border are regarded with satisfaction here . Government officials say that the idea is the next best thing to recognition of the administration of Provisional President Huerta . It is pointed out by the officials under President Huerta that nine-tenths of the forces of the Mexican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fight with American ammunition exclusively . The insurgents . it is asserted , already are obtaining arms and munitions from the United States by way of Canada . Arms , it is said . are shipped from America to the Dominion , and then are transshipped to Mexico . It is argued that if necessary the Mexican Government can follow the same course as the rebels in that respect . Denies European Pressure . " The story that I received instructions from Paris to support the American peace proposals in talks with President Huerta was unfounded , " said Paul Le Faivre , French Minister to Mexico , to-night . " I have not received a communication from my Government in several days , " added the diplomatic representative of France , " and then the message was identical with those received by the legations of other countries in this capital . " A prominent politician charged that the United States Government was trying to obtain European pressure toward President Huerta . He added that he believed the attempt would be unsuccessful , and that it would probably frustrate its own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             