@@684127

txt I have been unable today to visit any point of our fighting front , and must rely for information upon the reports that reach me . Except for the gradual strengthening of the enemy 's resistance both upon our front and that of the , French , there has been little change in the situation since yesterday . Increased resistance was , of course , to be expected , as the enemy has brought . up his reserves . only question is , how many divisions that command , opposite this sector of the line , still holds , now that well over thirty have been identified , including those opposed to the French south of Roye Road , which may be estimated at nine . In any case , a surprise attack , such as ours , usually slackens after the first few days , owing to the difficulty of arranging the supply of big guns , fresh troops , stores , and rations over the length of territory gained . Consequently , today we have no very conspicuous event to narrate . Last night a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon Fouquescourt , a Village lying about a mile south of Chilly , which the Australians now hold , and a mile north of Parvillers , which , unhappily , is still occupied by German machine guns hidden in a small , surrounding wood . But the attack was driven off without much difficulty , and the rest of our front line , including the sector north of the Somme , is reported fairly quiet . British Captures Exceed 20,000 . I understand that the British captures since the beginning of our advance last Thursday exceed 20 , - 000 prisoners , including five regimental commanding officers , twenty jattalion commanding officers , and three army brigade commanders , making about 600 officers in all . Further , there were captured one corps and thret , divisional headquarters , more than 400 guns , several thousand machine guns , a number of trench mortars not yet counted , three complete railway trains , and a vast stock of stores and engineering materials . Such is the spoil of five days ' battle up to t " : s morning . Of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I have heard estimates that at present are too vague to mention . Undoubtedly his losses have been very severe , and his present defeat adds fresh significance to the order recently issued by General von Ludendorff and captured during the fighting . It was dated June 25 , and especially lays stress on the duty of avoiding unnecessary losses of men . I extract the following sentences : " It is absolutely essential that we should avoid our old fault of attack-. - ' ng in too dense formations , and reduce our casualties by every possible means . This necessity holds equally good for the defensive fronts  --  even for those which sooner or later may become offensive fronts again . " Divisions in the line must do their utmost to reduce their casualties to an absolute minimum by distribution in depth , and by the creation of an extended outpost zone . " After dwelling on the advantage of an elastic defense , the order proceeds : " Owing to Our reduced Strength on the line it will frequently be impossible to make the front line a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be found possible to create centers of resistance concealed as far as possible from observation . No Man 's Land must be secured by mobile patrols in order to render enemy enterprises difficult in it . Should the enemy gain a footing in our lines , commanders of all ranks must carefully consider whether a counterattack is really necessary . Very often troops are in the end quite happy without possession of a particular piece of ground or trench , to recapture which a commander without due consideration has thought that he must risk a large number of lives . " It is therefore essential for the future conduct of the war to maintain everywhere our fighting strength and spirit of offensive . These two elements only will insure our eventual success . " Natural prudence dictates such an order ; but behind it one feels a lurking fear of diminishing numbers and possible weakness that must look twice at every life , as most nations , except the lavish English , look at a sixpence . I hoped to obtain further details bout the cavalry attempt up the Roye road @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The information at , prehent available , however , deals only with the cavalry movements of last Thursday , the day of the attack . They tell how . certain cavalry brigades went forward with the infantry that day and then pushed on in advance , part of the force acting to the north of the railway from Villers-Bretonneux to Chaulnes , and the larger part to the south. , Cavalry Squadron Captured 400 . The cavalry , on the 8th , reached Rosikes and took some prisoners but found the ground impracticable no doubt , owing to the : lumber of old and new trenches with which it is intersected . Those north of the railway succeeded by a clever manoeuvre in surrounding or outflanking the important position of Harbonnikes and capturing Vauvillers , about a mile beyond . Starting rapidly from that village , a single squadron captured a whole trainful of soldiers , between 300 and 400 in all , returning from leave . Guards had to be sent back with the prisoners , and there had been some losses besides , but though reduced to 30 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small wood captured three hostile batteries of 77 's . Unhappily an Austrian General , so it is said , perceived the small numbers of the squadron , collected a few stragglers in the wood and turned machine-guns upon our men , who could not penetrate the wood , owing to wire . They were forced to withdraw , leaving the batteries behind . This brigade captured 1,100 prisoners and 70 horses , chiefly Russian ponies , and its own casualties in men and horses were not heavy . Having accomplished their part , the cavalry joined for a moment in helping to stiffen up the infantry in line . According to my informant , it should be noted that on reaching old Amiens , the defense line ground became extremely difficult for any cavalry operations . King George Is at the Front . During the last week King George has been visiting the armies on this front . He arrived at a base port on the August bank holiday " Monday . On Tuesday morning he inspected the officers of the Royal Air Force Brigade , and brigades of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The King afterwards visited the Second Army Headquarters and presented two officers and a Sergeant with Victoria Crosses and bestowed the order of Knight Grand Cross of the Bath upon General Sir Herbert Plumer . It may be worth mentioning that , shortly after the royal procession of cars had passed through a certain village , two or three shells burst in the street . On Wednesday the King visited a school of forestry and looked on at some clever examples of tree-felling and removal . He also made an informal inspection of some American troops , but the event of the day was the visit of President Poincare and the meeting of these representatives of two allied powers . Already the anticipation of the great offensive was in the air , and at 4 o'clock next morning it began . It consequently was impossible for any war correspondent to follow the King 's progress from that day onward . Of course , he met all the Generals , commanding armies , including General Pershing : But for himself , yesterday was probably the most interesting day of all , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been engaged in a successful advance . In the course of the day he went over part of last week 's battlefields , and while pausing at such utterly ruined towns and villages as Villers-Bretonneux , for example , he was able to judge for himself what the devastation of modern warfare means . This morning he received the war correspondents of the allied nations and some neutral nations in a fine seventeenth century ch ? teau , which lie has made his headquarters . 