@@678863

txt Postmaster Morgan is having his troubles these days . Most of them have arisen over the fact that the city is rapidly doing away with its old gas lamps and installing electric lights along the Principal thoroughfares . And the city will not let Postmaster Morgan hang his letter boxes on the new electric light pgles . In fact he ca n't even put them on any sort of pcle along the greater part of Fifth Avenue and for long stretches on Broadway . The old style letter boxes are not artistic enough in design to suit the taste of the Municipal Art Commission . The result has been the shunting of letter boxes into the side streets along Broadway and Fifth Avenue . Here and there the boxes which used to stand on the corners along Broadway and . Vrt-th Avenue and other pai=te of the city which are being beautified under the guiding hand of the Municipal Art Commission and others int  --  rested in the " City Beautiful " are new to be seen i I fixed to the sides of buildings some die- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a remedy the adoption of a new style tatter box , made on artistic lines , which would be approved by the Municipal Art Commission . But there is no appropriation for the building of artistic letter boxes for New York . In anticipation of a chance to appease the objections of the city to the old-style boxes , however , the Post Office Department has had designs submitted for more ornate receptacles for letters . The Fifth ' Avenue Association has also taken up the matter and is trying to hit upon some scheme whereby letter boxes can be brought back to Fifth Avenue . The association has assured Postmaster Morgan that it stands ready to help . Several years ago a bill was passed by the Aldermen allowing the Post Office to put up its own posts along the streets from which the old-style lampposts were being removed . But when the bill came to the Mayor for his signature it was vetoed on the ground that the style of posts the Post Office Department would erect would not be at all artistic . It was just about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Broadway and Fifth Avenue into the side streets , until now roadway above ' Fifty-ninth Street has practically no letter boxes , and even south . of Fifty-ninth Street they are comparatively few In the lower part of the city there are some 300 sawed-off lampposts on which the letter letter Permission are to still saw allowed off the to tops remof the discarded gas lampposts was given the Post Office about twelve years ago . It is considered likely , however , that in time these , too , will be ordered off lower Broadway and other streets near the south end of Manhattan . I The reason given the Post Office Department for not allowing letter boxes on the electric light poles was that the danger would be too great . Sometimes electric light poles become charged , and it was thought that some citizen , intent on mailing a letter , might be hurt by contact . The Post Office officials say that some means.of preventing the danger should certainly be available . UNION PACIFIC AT CAPACITY . ' Compelled , Mr. McCormick Says , to Refuse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 0 . McCormick the Union Pacific and the Southern Pacific system was a witness yesterday in the Government a suit to dissolve the Union Pacific merger . Mr. McCormick said that the passenger service between San Pram:is:re ) and Portland or Seattle was run with entire disregard of the steamship line between those points . 1 was glad there was a steamship line , - he said , for it attracted some tourists . Anything that attracted passenger traffic was welcome to us . We knew that passengers that went one way by boat would be very likely to return by train . " The Union Pacific was handling all the passenger traffic it possibly could , he said . in view of the demands of its freight traffic . Under the circumstances the road was compelled to refuse cars . both standard and tourist . offered at Omaha by the Chicego , Rock Island &; Pacific . the Illinois Central and the Chicago Great Western RoadA . E. I. Lomax of San Francisco , General Pasrieuger Agent of the Union Pacific , said the passenger service on the road today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except time . The lengthening of passenger train schedules was due . he said , to constant work of rehaeilitation. including the double tracking of the system . The Overland Limited , the crack speeder from Omaha on the San Francisco route . was making the run now in only forty-three minutes ' slower time than in 1901 . This schedule had been put in effect on Jan. le last , and he doubted if it could be maintained on account of the construction difficulties and the density of traffic . NEW LOSS FOR THE SULLIVANS Cornelius J. Defeated in a Fight Over an Advertising Signboard . ? All yesterday a curious crowd stood around the southeast corner of Fiftyninth Street and Columbus Circle and watched the demolition of the advertising t boarding which has for so long been a landmark of that neighborhood . The attack began late Thursday afternoon after a dispossess order had been issued b2.4 Municipal Court Judge Davis against the C. J. Sullivan Advertising Company in favor of the Van Beuren.and New York Bill Posting Company . Behind the suit lurks a tale of business rivalry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to George Ehret , the brewer . Up to two years ago the Van Beuren concern had it . The Sullivan company , of which Cornelius J. Sullivan , a member of the Sullivan clan , is President . got it away from it . The Van Beuren people bideed their time , and as the Sullivan lease drew to a close began negotiations for it , obtaining a lease for two years at $10.000 a year from March 1 . The Sullivan firm showed no signs of moving , so suit was begun .                     