@@684015

txt In recording its annual judgment upon the conduct of the city 's representatives in the . Legislature at Albany , the Citizens Union brings against one Senator and one Assemblyman the reproach that they are " reactionaries . " There is a note of sorrow in the indictment  --  the Senator and the Assemblyman are able , intelligent , of high character , but , alas , they show " reactionary tendencies , " which is a cause of deep regret . The Citizens Union is in error . It has mistaken a shining political virtue for a fault . Instead of reproaches , these " reactionary " legislators merit Praise , mass meetings of approval , resolutions of indorsement . In these times and in this particular year of grace any man in public station who has the sound judgment , the clear perception , the courage and the honesty of mind to speak out against , stand up against and vote against the delusive and dangerous proposals of change and destruction , proffered on all sides by so many radical hands , Is a true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As the word is used nowadays , Of reaction " is but a synonym for Sobriety and . steadiness . The reactionary of today is not one who would turn back the hands of the clock , not one who would restore old conditions , often evil ; men who are described as " reactionaries " may be the most intelligent of progressives . They come under radical reproach because they are clear-sighted enough to see that the welfare of the people will not be promoted by discarding and destroying all that we once found good and useful and salutary . They would not , with Senator OWEN of Oklahoma , forbid the courts to entertain suits brought to test the constitutionality of the Federal laws ; they have still some confidence in the wisdom of the fathers , they are not ready to intrust the rights of men and property and the prosperity and the happiness of the people altogether to the uncovenanted mercies of Congress , unchecked and unrestrained by the profounder knowledge and more sober judgment of any other department of the Government . They are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ventures of which no man can foresee the end or the cost , but against which experience elsewhere gives abundant warning . They have not been convinced that Governments are best administered by the least intelligent and the most unsteady class of the population , they have no mind to follow the example of the Russian Bolsheviks who , as Mr. HAROLD WILLIAMS so graphically describes them , scramble into the boat , cut the painter and drift away yelling into the unknown . For such prudent hesitations , for such altogether commendable timidities , men like this Senator and this Assemblyman get themselves described as " reactionaries . " Their number will increase . More and more men of this temper will have the confidence and the support of the people . In the days to come , when the leaders in radical agitations in What they are accustomed to call liberal thought , quite blind to what has been going on in the world about them , continue with increasing vehemence to urge their plans of overthrow and destruction , the men called reactionaries will be the anchors of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and preservers . It was not as a preparation for a plunge into radical socialism that more than 20,000,000 Americans have become owners of Liberty Bonds . And not with unreflecting minds have the people of this and other nations observed the proletariat ifloveransent in Russia , the sickening tioseestartLsItdes Sromdisorsanization. to absolute anarchy , the effacemen of civilization 's the release a the primal passions , the dominanc of the criminal and the beast . The was for example , it was for warning It will suffice .                     