@@679088

txt Theodore Roosevelt announced to-day that he would take an active part in the fight his nephew , Theodore Robinson , is , to make this Fall for election as CapngressMan in the Twenty-seventh New York District , comprising Herkimer and Oneida Counties , providing Mr. Robinson obtains the nomination . The Colonel , however , wishes it distinctly understood that he will take no part in the nomination fight , not only because his ' nephew has especially desired that this be settled by his iteighbors without any outside interference of any kind , but because the Colonel has made up his mind not to take part in any nomination fights of any kind anywhere . This is the first announcement Col. Roosevelt has made that he will help any candidate ill New . York State . This is his statement . made to the reporters at Sagamore Hill this afternoon : " My brother-in-law . Douglas Robinson , and his son , my nephew , Theodore Robinson , were down to see me . My brotherin-law has a big farm in Herkimer County , which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his family for generations ; is a member of the Herkimer County Grange , and is also a member of the committee of the Grange which is arranging for the Grance picnic , to be held in Utica at the end of August . and lie came to extend me the committee 's invitation to speak at the picnic . I accepted . ? My nephew , Theodore Robinson . is a candidate for the Congressional nomination in the Twenty-seventh District , comprising 11er/timer and Oneida Counties . He told me that he did not desire me to take any part whatever in the nomination , because be especially desired this matter to be settled by his neighbors. in Herkimer and Oneida absolutely without outside interference . of : lay kind , but he desired to know whether . in the event of his nomination , I would come up and speak for him . I told him that of course I would , for I had long hoped that he would go into active politics , because have high regard for his judgment and ability and he and I are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As to Other Candidates . The Colonel was asked if he intended to indorse any other candidates or take any active part in their election . lie replied that he had not yet determined just how far he would go in helping others besides his nephew and that would have to be determined by future events . He said , however , that in any event lie would pursue the same coourse at all time regarding nominations . " I wish it distinctly understood that I wo n't take part fit fights for nominations anywhere . " said the Colonel emphatically , banging the table with his fist . Theodore Robinson is making his fight for the Congress nomination along progressive lines . He has announced that he stands entirely for the principles and issues of Gov . Hughes . The present Congressman is Charles S. Millington , a banker . lie is a " regular " and has the support of the Sherman-Wheeler Republicans of Oneida County and of the Strobel Republicans in Herkimer . The machone , it is said , not only plans to renominate him but at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Heukimer as State Committeeman for the district , Assemblyman Eveleth of Herkimer County followed Strobel 's advice not to vote on Gov . Hughes 's Direct Nominations bill , although he had pledged himself to vote for that measure . Eveleth has promised to retire from politics because of that transaction , and many Hughes Republicans hope to retire Strobel as a State Committeeman . Young Robinson , with the Roosevelt 0 . K. , already expects to obtain the support of these men . Mr. Roosevelt 's announcement that he will jump into the fight to help his nephew is expected to be followed by similar requests from candidates all over the State . In many cases it is considered probable that he will accept . As stated in THE Trims on Sunday . Mr. Roosevelt is going to hold off in tile State situation until after convention time so I that he will not be accused of wanting to dictate nominations or interfere in any way with the will of the people . Right after the Republican Convention on Sept. 27 he will make a political address at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the first time will publicly set forth his views regarding local political conditions . More Political Pilgrims Coming . So that he will be familiar with every angle of the State situation by convention time , Col. Roosevelt is going to continue to consult both candidates and I leaders . A constantly increasing inrush of political visitors to Sagamore Hill is expected next month , for after Aug. 25 , the day on which he starts on his Western trip , the Colonel 's attention will he given pretty much to the National situation . State politicians who are expected here in the immediate 2uture are Timothy Woodruff , Sneaker Wadsworth , William Barnes , Jr. , Herbert Parsons , Lloyd C. Griscom , and State Senator Wainwright . Col. Roosevelt was asked if he had read the comments made by ex-Gov .. Benjamin B. Odell before sailing for Europe on Saturday , in which he referred to Col. Roosevelt as the " Great Presence " and that all wisdom is now coining from Sagamore Hill . The ex-President was seized with a fit of laughing at the mere mention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it was all too funny for comment . Switching to National affairs , Col. ! Roosevelt was asked if he had read the newspaper accounts of Speaker Cannon 's invasion Of Kansas . He replied that he had not followed Mr. Cannon 's arguments very closely , but he guessed he was not losing track of anything . The Colonel appeared to be much inter- II ested in the story published in Tim TIMES on Sunday regarding the Republican situation in Indiana . The - fact that his scheduled speech in the interest of Senator Beverldge , there war already stirring up a great deal of diversity of opinion amolig Republicans in the State seemed to impress him very much . He inquired minutely concerning lhe stand John ? Kern . the Democratic candidate for the United States Senate , is taking , and gave , hearers the impression that he would make no move in Indiana until he felt ' , perfectly sure of his ground . He declined to make any comment for publication on the situation at this lime . The Colonel was also intensely amused at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , nearly all the counties of which decisively voted down the local option issue he had raised . When the Colonel was informed that Mr. Bryan was quoted as saying that this action might drive him into the Republican Party he laughed so heartily that . he bad to hold his sides . Col. Roosevelt will go to New York tomorrow and spend the day at the offices of The Outlook . He expects to receive many visitors there , but he would not say , who they would be .                     