@@684675

txt AN INFANTRY SCHOOL . The Plan Fits In with the ideas of the Training Camps Association . To the hditor of The New York Times : I read Colonel Malone 's article in THE Tints last Sunday on " The Need of an Infantry School " and I am heartily in accord with his ideas . The Military Training Camps Association of America has already gone on record as advocat , ing compulsory military training . The mass of the young men drawn for such /service will of necessity be trained for the infantry , which , as every educated person knows , is considered the backbone of the army . The creation , of an infantry school along the lines outlined in Colonel Malone 's article fits exactly into the program of the Military Training Camps Association . While this association does not advocate a great standing army , it does advocate military preparedness , and its members know from experience that military preparedness demands training of the leaders of subordinate infantry units as a paramount consideration . The training camps created for the purpose of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed met the ex-acting requirements imposed upon them in an efficient manner , considering all circumstances , but no thinking man 1339-Neves that in three months we can produce an efficient Captain to command 250 men in action . It was not true before the war , neither has it been true during the war . The problems confront-1 ing the leader of infantry troops have increased tremendously in complexity , and , as shown In Colonel Malone 's article , the Infantryman must be trained . now as an expert in seven instead of in one arm . It is an astonishing fact that , notwithstanding the tremendous needs for Infantry training , no infantry school now exists in America to furnish the needed instruction , but this is literally true . I believe that I voice the sentiment of the entire membership of the Military Training Camps Association when I say that the acquisition of the school at Ben- ' ning and the complete installation thereat of the most modern equipment for training of infantry in the least possible apace of time is ardently desired by all the members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the project . .5 1101 . ar rc , : prI Acting Chairman , Executive Committee Military Training vamps Association . New 1 ork , Aug. 28 , 1919 . Where Daylight Is Appreciated . To the L.:aitur of lure . veto ran : pined : After reading today in xn TialEs the latest plea from an " anti " of the daylight saving law , as to driving golf balls in the dew , their landing dead , miserable scores . &c.,; I take courage to advance one plea " pro " said law which has not as yet been touched upon and which hitherto I have leered might appear egotistical . Having eyes winch do not permit of much usage with artificial light , the extra hour of daylight has been a decided boon , allowing not only more reading or other empioyini.nt by shortening my evenings of enforced idleness . Being creatures of artificial habits , it is not yet in order to retire with the chickens or to rise and soar with the lark , though who can say it will not be so decreed when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? MARGARET D. RUDD . ? ? Norwich Town , Conn. , Sept. 8 , Ole Hanson 's Immigration Scheme . To the Editor of The New York Times : This morning , as I read Ole Hansoifts letter in Tots Tams , this thought came to mo : If , some years ago , " an immigration hoard sitting in the United States , " in acting upon an application made by Ole Han-son 's Scandinavian ancestors , had sent them to Seattle and load decreed . that no more Scandinavians should go to Seattle until every State , city , and hamlet in the country had received its quota of Scandinavian immigrants . I just wonder if there ever would have been a sufficient number of Scandinavians in Seattle to make Ole Hanson Mayor of the town . Is he himself not a product of a condition created by that freedom he now wishes to deny others ? JOEL FRIDFELT . East Orange , Sept. 1 ,                     