@@680714

txt Every department of banking is represented in the conference - at Chicago of the heads of institutions in forty-seven States . There have been more numerous councils of bankers in the history of the country , but none more authoritative , nor at a more interesting time . Legislation of general and fundamental character is under consideration , at a stage so advanced that a caucus is considering its adoption as a party measure . Yet bankers have not been consulted at any stage . On the contrary , bankers ' advice has been openly rejected , their patriotism challenged , their motives impugned , when proposals are pending threatening the future of the national system without offering any sure substitute , nor with anything like certainty regarding tit ? working of whatever substitute may be resolved upon . It is not to be imagined that the bankers alone , or chiefly , are concerned to see a way through this murky outlook . On the contrary , none are more interested than taxpayers and savings bank depositors. who hardly imagine it , or perceive how they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bankers at Chicago . There are ten million savings bank depositors and many more millions pay taxes on municipal bonds whose credit is attacked by the pending legislation . That is not the intention of the legislators . It happens apparently through inadvertence in quite casually fixing a limit of indebtedness for cities which would disqualify the bonds of New York City at one extremity , and of many cities of populatiosijust below 25,000 at the other extremity . To spoil the credit of the deserving cities in this large class , and to depress the price of the bonds of cities of the first class , and which so largely are owned by countless banks and individual investors , is a blunder of no mean proportions . It is not mentioned because it is the chief danger threatened in the pending legislation . Certainly Congress needs bankers ' advice , and popular admonition , when it is capable of even allowing such legislation to come before it or before a caucus . The counsel of bankers is valuable because it is experienced and disinterested . Many of them are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They are trustees of other people 's billions , and they see themselves cori'fronted by projects of laws conflicting with their duties . They believe that their depositors ' interests would not be safe if they were subject to orders regarding the investments they must make . They believe that commerce would not be safe if they were ordered to place their reserves under political control . They do not feel justified in silence at a time when it is proposed that those who do not own the banks shall control them , and not simply regulate their operations according to established standards . It is instructive to contrast the debates in Congress with the remarks of Mr. HEPBURN before the bankers . Rancor toward the rich , and considerations of partisanship and territorial sectionalism , are uppermost at Washington . The lawmakers are thinking chiefly of other things than those which interest the bankers . Banking laws are being framed on methods resembling those rejected in framing the tariff . Wall Street is assailed for its privileges , which are to bo taken away and conferred upon those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nor the moderation which would make it safe to intrust them with 4t . In the background is the spectre of politics , the appeal to the electorate . to the prejudices of the ill-informed. who are lured by promises of what the laws will do for them , with no responsibility for the results if the laws are passed . The qualities which make the bankers ' advice worth while handicap them in the competition with Congress for the approval of those who are more directly in the care of the bankers than of the Congressmen . The bankers know that the politicians and the lawmakers can not produce the results they promise , and that the methods they propose are calculated to produce disillusionment and disaster . The bankers are responsible every minute of every business day , but when the politicians are held to their responsibility they draw another herring across the trail . The . bankers are thinking last , or not at all , of the political results of their advice , and the politicians are thinking first of the next election . Mr. HEPBURN speaks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is more praise than blame in his remarks , upon the whole , but he makes it plain that upon the points of objection which the bankers find it necessary to make their position is that of the Old Guard . They may be overcome , but they will never surrender . It is for the country to say whether it will support the bankers or the politicians . The country can bring the politicians to the bankers ' way of thinking , because it is easy for politicians to change their position . It is their business to keep their ears to the ground , just as it is a necessity for the bankers that they should do nothing of the sort . It is neither pride nor prejudice which makes the bankers such hard fighters . It is confidence based on knowledge and experience . The country can see to it that the bankers have their way , or the country can take charge of prosperity . Nothing could be simpler , and nothing can be surer than the result of banking without bankers in charge of voters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               