@@683208

txt The Irish people , on the eve of the constitutional convention , by Means of which , if they manage it wisely , they may secure that measure of national independence for which they have been parleying and fighting many years , must be clearly aware of the disposition of the rest of humanity to view the experiment doubtfully . " The Irish , " an unsympathetic world is inclined to say , " will never agree among themselves . " History justifies the comment . The Irish have a splendid opportunity to give the lie to history , to turn over a new leaf , and come to an agreement which will settle the Irish question . The Prime Minister of the British Empire , to whose kindly feeling for Ireland and political sagacity they owe this opportunity , has made a strong and eloquent appeal . While misunderstanding continues between Ireland and the Imperial Government , while dissension persists in Ireland , Great Britain is handicapped in her struggle with Germany . In spite of the heroic services of the Irish soldiers , the heart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though victory is as necessary for her as for England . The Irish question has been , therefore , " an uncured , festering sore in the organism of the Empire , " and Mr. LLOYD GEORGE has done his best to affect a cure . The struggle yet before the Allies , even with America 's full assistance , which will come later , is one which will tax to the utmost all their resources . The heartfelt cooperation of Ireland " is essential , and any reasonable agreement the convention reaches will be accepted . " I can not imagine , " said the Premier , " Great Britain rejecting an agree " ment through niggardliness , and I " will promise on behalf of the Gov " ernrnent that they will not forget " that restitution and reparation " should- begin at home . " Mr. AsQUITH , spoken of as a possible Chair- ' man of the convention , said : " If the convention fails us , then heaven " help us . " Lord LANSDOWNE directly referred in his speech in the upper house to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Having regard to the views of the " United States on the subject , " he sAid , " it is our duty to facilitate the " task of those who are our friends in " America . " Sir HonAcu PLUNKETT has faith in the convention plan and his judgment is based on years of intimate knowledge of the Irish question , in all its ramifications , and is quite free from a suspicion of partisanship . The Ulsterites seem rather aloof , but Ulsterites are Irishmen , they are not all of one stripe , and the opportunity is theirs as much as it is the Nationalists ' or the Sinn Feiners ' . There is no disposition on oily side to be boastful . The Irish Times says frankly that it would be folly to suppose that the recent course of Irish politics has fitted any Irishman for the " supremely difficult task of leadership . " The convention must develop its own statesmanship . It will be composed of raw material , but the occasion is such that the best qualities of manhood and judgment may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be appointed by the Crown , General JAN CaRIEITIAN SMUTS seems the most likely . He has never been involved in any discussions of the subject . He has taken part in a similar convention which contended with the same kind of difficulties as will confront this , and solved a trying problem of self-government with great success . He is renowned as a leader of men . The suggestion of an Irish-American seems absurd . The President of the Canadian Pacific Railway is a strong man undoubtedly , and it may be that some distinguished colonial other than General SMUTS will be chosen .                     