@@680576

txt - Unless the authorities decide otherwise , " Jack " ? Ferguson , master diver of Clif on , S. I. , will again to-day essay a descent into the swirling depths of the Central Park reservoir where shortly before noon yesterday he twice risked his life . Ferguson 's perilous undertaking is to repair a water gate at the southern gatehouse of the northern reservoir in the Park . situated near Fifth Avenue at a point near East Eighty-sixth Street . Through the water gates at this spot are supplied the huge mains which conduct the water into the city 's system below Fifty-ninth Street . The water rushes constantly through heavy screens into six cement pits ; each of which is 40 feet in depth . At the bottom of each pit hangs a heavy gate , which Can be raised or lowered by the turning of a heavy rod within the gatehouse , which is fitted with a worm screw . The . screw is arranged to fit the cogs the gate and thus raise or lower it by a simple process of leverage . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the most easterly pit has been out of order and has failed to respond to the turning of the screw . Consequently the rush of water through the huge main to which this gate gives access is continuous , and the velocity of the flow into the pit is as great as the pressure of one billion gallons of water can make it . It has been estimated that the water races into the pit and through the gate at the bottom at a speed of almost a mile a minute . Because of the danger which would threaten any one who attempted to descend to the bottom of the pit to rectify the mechanism of the water gate , the Department of Water Supply has ' hitherto , hesitated to move toward repairing the Crippled apparatus . Recently , however , the authorities reit the necessity of shutting off the flow of water in order that the . channel Oo . the pit might be cleaned . " Daredevil Jack " Ferguson , as he is known to his fellows iu the dangerous craft , submitted a hid for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Yesterday he . appeared at the gatehouse - with his diving suit , helmet , and air hose , and prepared to descend to the bottom of the pit and tackle the mechanism in the midst of the rushing whirlpool . An iron ladder , weighted at its lower end with 200 pounds Of lead , was lowered over the pit while the diver was donning his armor . As a rule , Ferguson tips the beam at 2:50 pounds in full diving armor , but yesterday he instructed John Dempsey , his helper , to strap an additional 2t01-pound belt about his waist . Then , with the pumps sucking , he essayed his first descent . As the round , shining helmet slowly dropped lower and lower beneath the surface.until lost to view in the dark waters the little knot of spectators held their breaths . Suddenly there came a heavy tug at the life line , and Dempsey , assisted by four of the gatehouse employes , quickly dragged the diver to the surface . When his helmet had been unscrewed , Ferguson was gasping in fright . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " That water dragged on me like a thousand tons . I got down only- about twelve feet , and I thought I was done for . There must be a frightful suction at the bottom . Give me some more weight and I 'll try it once More . " An additional hundred pounds was piled on in the form of lead weights , and Ferguson was assisted over the side of the pit to the ladder . Once again the watchers strained their eyes to follow the glint of the disappearing goggle-eyed helmet , and counted the air bubbles . bursting upon the treacherous , glassy surface , as . foot by foot , the hose and life line were paid out . Suddenly there came a pause ; the ladder began to sway from side to side . and was almost wrenched from the grasp of the two able-bodied men who were trying to hold it steady . Then came the frantic " pull up " signal on the life rope , . and five men bent to the task of dragging Ferguson from the unseen power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him below . For a few feet the pull was strenuous ; then the rope paid In quickly until ready hands seized the diver by his upstretched arms and hauled him forth upon the bank . I wo n't risk it until I get a heavier suit and more lead , " said Ferguson . " be back to-morrow and do that job , though. , You can gamble on that . " J. S. Sager , keeper of the Central Park reservoirs , said last night to a Tines reporter that he was not certain whether tho department authorities would permit Ferguson to risk his life in another effort to-day . The task which confronts the Staten Island diver is similar to the one which cost the life of " Bill ' Hoar , a famous diver , in the Boonton reservoir in 1004 ,                     