@@682751

txt ELM r ROOT is the foremost statesman of this Republic . In any Company of the chief statesmen of the world he would find none to surpass him in intellectual capacity , in breadth of view , in solidity of judgment . To any council table where great transactions that would forever hold their place in history were to be concluded he would bring distinction and the contributions of a lofty intellect Mr. RooT 's ability and experience raise him above all divisions of party , for he belongs to the nation , yet unquestionably the voice of widest reach which the Republican Party can now command is his voice , he is the most distinguished and persuasive advocate of the triumph of its present cause . to him more than to any other orator in the campaign or in the land the people lend an attentive ear . Mr. Roar spoke for his party and its cause and candidate at Carnegie Hall on Thursday evening . It is ominous , it is a revelation of Republican pauperism in principles , of feebleness of promise , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beginning to the end of that discourse there is not a line or a word foreshadowing any Republican action or policy which the hesitating voter might set over against the achievements of the Democratic Administration and thereby find hope and guidance toward better things . It was a speech of criticism and attack absolutely , wholly , altogether a denunciation of what has been done , ' without any look toward the future . without a gleam of light to show the electorate the path of duty for coming time . If Mr. Root 's Carnegie Hall speech is the best that the party 's most gifted spokesman can say for its cause . what must be the state of the voter 's mind , what the purpose and promise of the campaign for the election of Mr. HUGHES ? Mr. ROOT arraigns the AdMinistration unsparingly for the course it has pursued " in three fields of " major importance affecting interne " tional affairs . " They are " the murder of our citizens on the I , usitania , " the preparation of military and naval " force for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " It is Mr. Boor 's contention that the Administration has surrendered our just rights , that it has been weak and nerveless , that through its lack of force and firmness the nation has sunk in the respect due to it abroad , while the American people at home have been humiliated , that the spirit of American nationality was not in the mind of the President or in that of his Secretary of State , and that we have been brought to a pitifully low condition through the folly and feebleness of the Democatic Party and the incapacity of the President elected four years ago . To all this , in perfect candor , in reason and in truth , the answer may be mule that not one count of the indictment will stand for a single moment " Peace , " says Mr. ROOT , " is main " tqined by the assertion of just rights , rsamly , dispassionately , reasonably , " accompanied by a knowledge of " power behind the assertion and a " conviction in the minds of others " that there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " power if need be in the defense of " right " No more faithful picture of President Wrisme 's procedure in respect to the Lusitania and the entire question of Germany 's submarine warfare could be drawn than Mr. RooT has presented in these words Calmly , and dispassionately , with all the force of reason and right and of law and with constant indication of force of another nature ready to support his contentions , Mr. WILSON carried the negotiation with Germany to a triumphant Conclusion . He won his case as deciSivey as Mr. RooT ever won a suit at jaw . By that succession of notes which ' the Republicans in default of more ap , propriate matter have chosen for their merriment , he extorted from Germany the promise to abstain from unwarned attack upon ships of peace . He lachieved this triumph , not by bluster , not by the threat of war , be achieved it without war , he achieved It by meth -- ods ofl peace . Some 15,000,000 American voters know that it was a great triumph , they know that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means compelled respect for our " just right. ; " ' at sea . The voters know that , and the Republicansmust take heed to themselves accordingly . Mr. Floors second cause of action against the Democratic Party and its President is failure in " preparation of " military and naval force for national " defense . " Is it not an all-sufficient answer to point to the appropriation bills devoting $650,000,000 to the increase of our army and our navy which the Democratic Congress passed and the Democratic President signed one month ago ? The Republican Party , which , save for three terms of the Presidency , has . been in power for fifty-five years , can point to no record of provision for national defense even remotely approaching this authorized outlay . And as courts look to the final acts of Legislatures , disregarding what may have been said in debate , so the American people , with those unprecedented defense preparations visibly going on before them , know in their minds and feel in their hearts that Mr. RooT 's accusation of Democratic indifference to preparedness ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Is always Mexico , " the ghastly failure in Mexico , " that is the one string the Republicans have chosen for their ceaseless harping . And what alternative to the Wilson policies does Mr. Root propose , what course of action does he point out that would have led us , not to " ghastly failure . " but to noble success ? Why , the recognition of HUERTA , a brandy-soaked , cruel , cowardly murderer and usurper who never gave the slightest evidence either of the will or the ability to govern in a lawful and constitutional manner . Mr. ROOT does not openly say that if he had been President he would have recognized HrEBTA , but that is the only inference derivable from the multitude of words in which he condemns Mr. WILSON 'S Mexican policy , it is the only alternative we can suppose to be present in any Republican mind . But where is the voter so poor in power of thought as not to understand that it is no alternative at all . that the recognition of HI-ERTA would have been not the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sure road to a bottomless morass of international difficulty out of which armed intervention would have been the only way of escape ? No reasonable man can doubt that the Government of HuERTA would have been a Government of turbulence , breeding insurrections and revolutions throughout the republic . Yet the N oters of the United States are asked to contemplate that picture and to admire it as a noble composition . Again ' the voters see that Mr. WILSON followed the path of reason , guided by an intelligent foresight , wisely heeding abundant warnings against the course that would have led surely to danger and to trouble . ELIHr RooT . able , experienced in the , strifes of the court and the political forum , a great jurist , knows how to present a case if any man on earth knows how . It has been said of him as of many others that he could make black seem white by the ingenuity of his reasoning and the skill of his argument . What must we conclude when we contemplate , consider , weigh , and measure the argument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It falls deplorably short of that high mark of success which has been his wont and custom in debate . Is there any reason for it save the badness of his cause ? He failed , and railed lamentably , in advancing any reasons why the country should reject Mr. Wrr.sos and accept Mr. HUGHES . Is not the truth quite too plain to be blinked that he failed because he could find no justifying reasons for such a decision , because the policies and the deeds of Mr. WILSON have been the fruit of wisdom , of justice , of profound understanding of national duty ? When such an orator as Mr. Root makes so bad a plea we are warranted in the conclusion that the fault lies in the cause , not in the advocate , for certainly the Republicans can find no abler leader for their attack . It is not a cause , it is the Republican desire for the offices , that Mr. Root represents , that they all represent That is the plain truth of the matter . When he accuses the Democrats of indifference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , inevitably he recalls those long decades when the Republican Party was devoted above all and at all times to the principle of protection , to the enactment of tariffs adroitly drawn to confer privilege and profit upon interests not merely local but individual . And when , after arguing eloquently , if somewhat pointlessly , for policies of fearlessness that abhors hesitation and courage that scorns timidity , he presents " with cheerful hope " the name of the Republican candidate for the Presidential office , CHARLES EVANS Thames , who , in ' all his utterances during the campaign , has won recognition chiefly for scuttling away . from the hyphen issue , for his timid and shrinking avoidance of any phrase or word that could offend the sensibilities of those whom Mr. WILSON unsparingly denounced as disloyal Americans . men of divided allegiance , many of them openly disloyal , even appealing in calculated , craven words for the support of a class of voters who put the interests of another country above the interests of their own , What must we conclude as to the sincerity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's groundless attack upon the President for vacillation and want of boldness ? But , after all , how can any man with heart and conscience appeal to an intelligent people to support a party that , having an Elam ) . Root , took as its candidate CHARLES E. HUGHES ? .                     