@@681215

txt The American delegates tonight issued a statement in reply to that given out by the Mexicans yesterday and defended the President of the United States against the imputation that he sought to insure the election of a permanent Constitutionalist President of Mexico by insisting upon a Constitutionalist as Provisional President . asserting that the Mexicans had " entirely misunderstood the motives and objects of the President . " The Mexican delegates will not make any public response to the American statement . They said tonight that the difficulty of the American position was that the American representatives did not understand conditions in Mexico . If they did , it was asserted , they would not make the statement they now made . The difficulty was that conditions affecting the ballot were different in Mexico and in the United States , and If a Constitutionalist provisional Government were installed the elections would be controlled by Constitutionalists , even if the American proposal for bipartisan control of them was allowed . A brief formal response to the American note had already been made by the Mexican delegates . Developments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued or end abruptly in failure . On all sides , among those concerned in the undertaking of the mediators , it is recognized that Friday is likely to put the peace effort to the crucial test . But through the gloom that prevails among the mediators and the American and Mexican delegate &; shines a faint ray of hope that the Washington Government will find a way to tide the negotiations over the crisis and give another opportunity for bringing about an amicable settlement of Mexico 's troubles . There has been a persistent rumor that the Washington Government may make a radical change in its attitude in order to carry out its desire to end the struggle in Mexico . One report is that President Wilson may serve notice on the Constitutionalists that they must agree to the installation of a provisional Government composed of neutral Mexicans . No confirmation of this is obtainable , but it is evident that people connected with the mediation movement look to some important development in Washington . Americans ' Rejoinder to Mexicans . ? The one definite development of today was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their promised response to the public announcement by the Mexican delegates last night of their reasons for declining to assent to the American proposal that a Constitutionalist be chosen provisional President of Mexico . Although the American delegates had decided last night , after consulting Secretary Bryan by telephone , that they would answer the Mexican announcement today , their action In issuing their statement tonight came as a surprise . Copies of the statement were ready for the press at 9 o'clock this morning , but the Washington authorities changed their mind and decided to withhold . the statement for the present . It was after 10 o'clock this evening that the statement was furnished to the press . It is printed in full in another column . The earlier decision to withhold the statement had considerable significance According to the understanding here , it was felt in Washington that , while the mediation effort was endangered and the uncertainties of the Constitutionalist position were made more complicated by the trouble between Cearranza and Villa , the wise course was to do nothing that might tend to develop bad feeling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Washington Government this evening , and word was sent to Jus- tics Lamar and Mr. Lehmann that they might furnish their statement to the press . It is supposed that the change was due to the feeling that the Mexican statement gave an erroneous idea of the position of the United States in advocating the selection of a Constitutionalist as provisional President , and that it was necessary to correct that impression be/ore it was accepted by the American People . The answer of the American CornMissioners to the statement of the Mexican delegates is in the form of dearly the complete text of the note of Justice Lamar and Mr. Lehmann in response to the memorandum of the Mexicans detailing the reasons for their refusal to assent to the selection of a Constitutionalist as provisional President . The essence of the American position is contained in this declaration : " The effort , therefore , should be not to find a neutral , but one whose attitude on the conteolling issues would make him acceptable to the Constitutionalists , while his character , standing , and conduct would make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Supervision . In some respects the most important feature of the American note is a declaration that the United States Government desires that the Mexican general elections to be held under the provisional authority shall be supervised by representatives of both the Federals and the Constitutionalists . This is in answer to the objection of the Mexican delegates that if the Constitutionalists were placed in control of the provisional Government they would dominate the general elections . The American delegates pledge their Government to use all its influence to secure elections that will be fair and honest . It is pointed out in the American Commissioners ' note that their Government believes that putting a Constitutionalist Provisional President in office is the only means of obtaining the desired pacification of Mexico . Unless a Constitutionalist is installed , they say the war will continue , with all the suffering , ' bloodshed , and death which every war involves . That the Constitutionalists will ultimately triumph is asserted , as they are numerically in a majority and the dominant force in the country . The Mexican proposal that a neutral be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should this be done , " we would still be confronted by the insurmountable fact that the Constitutionalists , now almost completely triumphant , would reject the plan , re- I pudlate the man . and press forward with renewed zeal to Mexico City , with all the loss of blood and life that may involve . " Mediators May Offer Names . Dr. R. S. Naom the second ranking Member of the Board of Mediation , will return to Niagara Falls tomorrow from his visits to Yale and Harvard . It is expected that a conference between the mediators and the American and Mexican delegates will take place during the day . If neither set of delegates recedes from its position as to the selection of a provisional President the mediators will suggest candidates of their own choosing and ask the American and Mexican representatives to agree on one of therm The men to be nominated by the mediators will be neutral , leaning toward the reforms advocated by the Constitutionalists . Names may also be suggested by the mediators of men allied with the revolutionary cause and men who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Both delegations , and certainly the American delegates , may wish to consult with their respective Governments by telegraph concerning the men suggested by the mediators , and this will cause a postponement or a final breakup for several days . It is probable , therefore , that the mediation conference will go over until next week , when the mediators will be able to determine whether there is any occasion for withholding notice to the American and Mexican delegates that the negotiations have been futile and it is useless to continue them . On this day of waiting the various Laarties to the peace negotiations showed tense interest in the reports from the exican border concerning the quarrel between Carranza and Villa . The Menlean delegates had official information that twenty-five of the Carranzista office holders at Juarez , arrested by Villa 's order , had been executed , and that some young women appointed by Carranza to posts in the Juarez Post Office had been imprisoned . A stir was caused by the message received by Congressman Kent of California . to the effect that Carranza was in flight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the displacing of Carranza. by - Villa as Supreme Chief of the Constitutionalist movement might bring a new condition into the negotiations . At any rate , it was said , the elimination of Carranza probably would serve to prevent a break-up of the Niagara Falls conference until the United States Government had the opportunity of ascertaining whether Gen. Villa would order a suspension of hostilities and send delegates here .                     