@@682858

txt A household embargo on eggs , the authors of the movement expect , wilt he inaugurated in New York City tomorrow . The movement has the indorsement of the National tiouscwiNes ' ' League and other consumers ' organizations , also of Commissioner of Foods I and Markets Dillon , representing the State , and Commissioner of Weights and Measures Hartigan , representing the city . Wholesale and retail egg dealers , too , have given the proposal their approval as . the only pra.etica. , method of oefeating the speculators . This is said to be the first food boycott which has had the support of dealers . The suggestion for tile einbai go . as planned by Commissioner Hartigan , came in this case from a representsLve of one of the largest grocery iirtnS In this city , and the Presidents of at , the retail grocery associations in this city will meet at the 11,1. , nicipal /3ui.dfrig on Wednesday afternoon to work ' out a plan for co-oper , , t.on between the Public and retail ocaleis to Strike ? t speculators in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The National Housewives ' League . which forced down the price of butter and meat two years ago by a boocult , will be joined-4n. the present movement by the Consumers ' League , the National Woman 's Movement to Iteguce the Cost of Living , and other organizations el consumers . Other Blacklists to Follow . The plan , which is a development of that worked out by the Housewives ' League and State Commissioner Dillon , calls for placing eggs on the housewives ' blacklist for two weeks , followed by two weeks ' blacklisting of butter , and similar treatment for two weeks each of potatoes , poultry , and other lood products . News from other cities of similar blacklisting movements  --  promises that this Winter ' will ' test the power of the housewife in all parts of the country to c , .. mbat the food speculator by co-operative actidn . After the suggestion had come from one . of the largest retain grocery firms in this city that the public and the wholesale and retail grocery trade should - ombine for a batt.e with speculators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cn , led to his office the heads of the twelve largest firms in the retail grocery business in this City and held a general discussion of the causes of the rise in the price of e4gs and other products . The grocers contended that they were as hard hit as the general public by the rising ( prices , and that , in spite of increase I gross monthly incomes , their profits had fallen off rapidly . One of the biggest grocers In the city said his Income had shrunk 25 per cent . In the /st-t few months . Some grocers were quick to indorse the idea of successive embargoes on . eggs , butter , and other products . They said they were weary . of complaints from customers , who held the retail grocer personally responsible for every ' limp in prices , and that they would be glad to have their trade In eggs cut all to pieces for two weeks or more In order to reach ? the egg speculators and force prices down . Hartigan Discusses the Plan . " If the cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speculation , " said Commissioner Hartigan , " an embargo on eggs will help the honest retailer and wholesaler more than it will hurt them . The wholesalers who are permanently in that business tell me the high prices of eggs and the manipulation of them has injured them financially , as well as bringing them under suspicion and causing proposed legislation which inignt hurt them permanently .. . ? " I have talked during- the last week with most of the largest dealers in eggs in this city , and they assure me that the present situation is not due to the withholding of eggs by , the regular middlemen , but to Speculators Who usually follow other lines . They . told me that the ' men who had broken into egg speculation this season were largely the same men who had ' been plunging in war stocks , and that the money used in storing eggs for speculative purposes was largely money ' made on munitions . It wilt taken great mar of investigation to discover how far speculation and how far natural causes are responsible for high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a series of . household embargoes should be kept up for six or eight mouths . There ' is no doubt but that price ; ; , would go down sharply , JI the housewives all over the country would co-operate to that end . They have shown their power by breaking speculative butter and meat markets two years ago . , " Starting Tuesday , let all housewives lin this city buy no eggs ' or - fewer , eggs , except where they are needed for ; the aged , the infirm , the sick or children . Similar movements in different parts of the country will be co-ordinated , within a few weeks , and nationwide embargoes on one product after anotPer will make a great difference in ' the cost of living . If the price of eggs is not hit hard enough in two weeks , we can continue it beyond two weeks or go back to it later . " Meetings Called for Tuesday . Meetings will be held on Tuesday at the Municipal Building by representatives of the National Woman 's Movement , the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and other consumers ' organizations to devise methods to increase the effectiveness of the egg fast . ' the National Housewives ' League will conduct its egg boycott independently . Further schemes to hit the high cost of living were reported yesterday . One was to build a milk pasteurization plant in or near this city and another a law , suggested by Commissioner Hartigan , to reduce the length of time during which foods may be kept in cold storage . Commissioner Hartigan ma.le yesterday a list of eleven schemes for anti-high price legislation which had been brought to his attention . They are as follows : I. The discussed project for an embargo on foodstuffs . " 2 . The establishment of a national maximum price-fixing commission , 1 3 . The creation of a national commission to fix maximum prices on articles for export . This would be somewhat milder than an embargo , but would , it is argued , prevent export of foods except those which were selling at a reasonable price at home . " 4 . Congressman G. Murray Hulbert 's plan to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by forcing railroads to label food trains as such and ? by compelling railroad employes to handle food trains as they are now cornpelted to handle mail trains . Clauses of this law are irteroled to make It impossible for railroads to carry food by other than regular ' food-carrying trains . Bill Aimed at Board of Trade . " 5 . A bill to prevent paper specula , tion in food products . This law , which has been drafted by an Illinois Congressman , makes It a criminal offense to buy or sell foodstuffs except where the seller actually possesses the food , stuffs and actually delivers them to the buyer . This is armed directly , Cornmisslener Hartigan said , at the Chicago Board of Trade . " 6 . The terminal market plan of tho City of New York . " 7 . The bill to create a Department of Markets . The plan to establish a city pas ' tent ization plant for New York City 's milk . P. A bill to nice the New York State , Public Service CommissIons power over the movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this being to force railroads to develop the food-producing resources of remote country d strlets . Commissioner Hartigan said some students of the food problem Delieved the failure of raiiroade in New York State to run local freight tra ns to I pick up livestock and produce at small towns had discouraged livestock raising in the State and had cut off an important source of the food supply of New York City . " 10 . The establishment of a municipal abattoir for New York City . " 11 . The reduction of the period in which food can be kept in cold storage . Eggs can now be held ten months and butter twelve months . Commissioner Hartigan proposes a law forbidding the storing of eggs more than three months and butter more than four months . "                     