@@682906

txt The German reply to the American note , Mated from New York by Reuter , was delayed en route and was received too late for publication in the first editions of most papers . Editorial comment , therefore , is absent . In the meantime the papers continue the discussion of the motive and meaning of Wilson 's note . The Times and Daily Mall give prominence to TDB Newd Yostic TIMES editorial , " The Formal Answer and the Real One . " Dealing with Mr. Wilson 's main motives as outlined by its Washington correspondent , The Times says : " First among these motives ranks the desire to promote the general cause of peace after the war by declaring his readiness to join some future league to enforce peace . Great stress is tale upon the unselfish character of this data . It invohes abancic.nment , the argument runs , of a historic policy and of cherished traditions ; it means reunciadon of the Monroe Doctrine , recognition of the right of European powers to interfere in Latin America and Participation in entangling enlaces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and permeated with so high an idealism , the message suggests , that it ougnt to induce the Allies to be very kind to the . faults of logic and of tact which its author may have committed . Unhappily , it seems open to the very imputation of vagueness which he snakes against the statements of the belligerents . How is it proposed to overcome the obstacles to adoption of such a scheme ! We are willing , as Viscount Grey made clear not long ago , to do much after the war for the creation of international machinery to enforce peace , but before we become parties to setting it up we should want to be quite sure that the other signatories would indeed play the game and play A if necessary by armed force . That is the keystone of any practicable plan of the kind . Wilson gives no hint as to how he is going to procure the fulfilment of this indispensable condition , for the attainment of which , we are told , is his first object in launching this unprecedented note now . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That is the function of Congress . No President can make treaties ' without the assent of twothirds of the Senators preseut when they are discussed . Legislation , of Course , requires the assent of the lower House as well as of the Senate . Wilton can not bind future Presidents , lie can not bind the Senate or the House of Assembly . How , then , 1d he going to insure that ail or any of them will repudiate the accepted and traditional policy of their country in order to establish this armed " federation of mankind for the sake of which we and our Allies are asked to meet his wishes " ? The Times concludes : " Special weight is laid upon the contention that the United States might have to fight a possible recrudescense of submarine atrocities . That America should shrink from such a necessity is natural , but the argument is dangerous on the lips of a statesman who has asserted that his fellow citizens are ' trustees Of the moral judgments of the world . ' What it comes . to is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her conscience and her honor to fight the perpetrators of atrocities . ' the Allies should assent to a course which would play into the criminals ' hands . That would be to give a triumph not merely to that militarist which Wilson admirably described last June , but to a most wicked and most dastardly development of that evil spirit . " The right policy of the Allies is plain . It is to reiterate once again the statements of their aims , which they have so often given , to refrain from communicating even to the friendliest and most trusted of neutrals information which might help the enemy , were It by any mischance to leak out , and to adopt the attitude toward all proposals of foreign intervention , which both Houses of Congress adopted in March , 1S13 . " The paper 's Washington correspondent , in a long dispatch setting forth the aim and scope of Mr. Wilson 's proposal as viewed from the American standpoint , lays stress on the fact that if American opinion is ill-informed as to the ends for which the Allies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ' neglect on the part of the Allies to impart information by methods more itn ! inediately applicable to public instruction than those of diplomacy . He says : " The whole machinery of our intercourse with the United States cries aloud for repairs . alterations , and additions . - The blockade , the tilseklist , the censorship , Sc. ? In all these controversies we have the right on our side . The trouble is that we have relied too much upon pure diplomacy and its trappings to make our ease . We have argued too much and explained too little . ' ? Our notes , excellent as they have been , have tended to be legal bricks rather than explanations calculated to appeal to a democracy to whom International law is a closed book and which is traditionally suspicious of diplomacy in general and of British diplomacy in particular and whose suspicions must he cured before the Senate will consent to a realization of the President 's project of American participaLion in a f gue to Enforce Peace . have allowed an unimaginative officialdom to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result that the idea that we are ' unreasona- ' his ' is far stronger here than it ought to lie . SO strong . in fact , as to give such persons as Bertrand Russell and t'harles Trevelyan altogether ton favorable and too influential an audience for their now chronic complaints that the British public and British political opinion would be revealed as strongly pacifist. were it not for the press and Parliamentary censorship . " For the sake of a clear understanding of the situation , which . " if misunderstood , is fraught with considerable dangers to Anglo-American relations . " the correspondent emphasizes the point that the President 's intention is in no ? aY to play the German game and ! that now as always he is absolutely neutral . ? The Times . commenting editorially on this point , accepts it as the truth . " But . unfortunately , " it adds . " the issue of the note immediately after the German , ' peace offers ' does play the German , ga me , as it is recognized all over Europe . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience of affairs and his exceptional means of information , can ever have deluded himself info the supposition that such an act at such a time would not play that game . " The Daily Telegraph , in an editorial . says : " The way in which Wilson 's essay in ' neutrality of thought has been received by this country and its allies has given rise . it appears , to astonishment and pain in some quarters in the United states . We have all , we are told , completely misunderstood the . American note . The line of representation . which seemed wounding to us , was really not so . it was only correct diplomacy . " If that description can be applied to a document which produces a wrong and painful impression upon the minds of all those to whom it is addressed , the difference between diplomacy and the ordinary method of conveying one 's ideas Must be even greater than had been supposed . Seriously , when one statesman makes a long communication in writing , and when that communication is misunderstood by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . the fault can not be said to lie with the addressees . " ' You work on paper , ' observed Catherine of Russia once to a French author . ' I work on the skins of men , and they are ticklish. ' " 