@@683580

txt . LENINE and his Bolshevist accomplices continue to furnish evidence that they intend nothing less than the absolute ruin of Russia in subjection to Germany . They protest that they do not desire a separate peace with Germany , that they have planned a general armistice , entered into upon the initiative of the Russian " Government " in the hope that at the end of three months the peoples of the various belligerent countries , if not their Governments , will insist upon peace . ' What is the value of their assurance that no separate peace for Russia is sought ? At the same time that they notified the Ambassadors of the allied nations at Petrograd of their intention , or even before that notice was sent , they ordered General DEKHONIN , the Russian Commander in Chief , " to negotiate for an armistice " with Germans . The General refused and was promptly ' deposed for his disobedience . The order to General Duicatomx is conclusive proof of the dishonesty and bad ' faith of the persons who call themselves the Government of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allied nations of the impossibility of having anything to do with them . If they had intended a general armistice they would have waited for replies from other Governments , in order ' that action might be taken in concert . That  --  did not- suit their purpose . They instructed their own commander to negotiate for an armistice , which is the same thing as beginning negotiations for a separate peace between Russia and Germany . This is but another confirmation of the firm belief entertained in Petrograd that LENINE and TnoTzKY are agents of the German Government . Members of the Provisional Government are convinced that this is true , the actual proof has thus far escaped them . as it would naturally he difficult to secure it . A Paris dispatch published yesterday declares that the French Government has in. its hand " absolute " proof that ** LENINE , the " Bolsheviki Dictator at Petrograd , " was sent to Russia by the German " spy system and is a creature of the " Prussian propaganda service . " If the French Government has that proof , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and without delay . The mere assertion that proof is in hand will not convince the Russian dupes of LENINE , and it is in that quarter that the conviction must be pressed home . Loyal Russians of intelligence , of course , foresee where the Bolsheviki are leading the country . Separate peace , for which LENINE and TnuTZKY instructed the Russian Commander in Chief to open negotiations with Germans , would open the way to the establishment of German control over the destiny of Russia . It would put an end to the hopes born of the revolution that Russia might be built up as a great , independent commercial power , for Germany would speedily attach the vast Muscovite dominions to her projected economic group extending from the Baltic through the Balkans to the Persian Gulf , so that not merely the resources of Russia but her commercial development would be controlled in the German interest . The breaking up of what was once the Empire would be the natural result . Ukraine , where the German and Austrian propaganda has been active , long ago made known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the whole of Poland , it is already planned , is to become a Teutonic dependency . Russia as a great power will be split up and disappear if the German plan is carried out by her Bolshevist agents . They are hurrying her on the road to , ruin , and their traitorous work can be arrelated only by the establishment of a , induced strong central Government . For t a man is necessary , a man of Bret firmness and stability of purpose ti any the revolution has yet brought the fore .                     