@@681693

txt The German auxiliary cruiser Prinz Eitel Friedrich , after a commerce-destroying cruise over Pacific and Atlantic Oceans , which culminated in the sinking of an American sailing ship in the South Atlantic on Jan. 28 last , came into this port today and anchored for supplies and repairs . She brought with- her r.scued crews and passengers of American , British , French , and Russian ships , and lies at anchor tonight , proud of her trophies of war , but in a state of mechanical exhaustion from the strain of a voyage of more than 30,000 miles . The condition of the vessel is such that repairs will occupy several weeks . and in all probability she will be interned for the remainder of the ' var . The cruiser had on board more than 500 persons , 342 of the crews and pas , sengers of destroyed vessels in addition to her own crew of about 200 . The Prinz Eitel Friedrich arrived off Cape Henry last night after dark . but did not enter until this morning , when she came to anchor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediately went alongside to preserve the neutrality of tile United States . The German vessel was scarred and rusty from her long voyage . She was painted white on one side and black on the other , but she came into the roads without any attempt at deception as to her nationality . The Prinz Eitel Friedrich began her saluting for the ships of enemies of the Fatherland at Tsing-tao , China , last November . under Commander Thierichens , who today admitted sinking eleven merchant ships ? five British , four French , one Russian , and one American . The ? sinkieg of the American ship , the William P. Frye , a sailing vessel , bound from Seattle to Queenstown with 5,200 tons of wheat , most concerned American port officials here . She was owned by the Arthur Sewall Company of Bath , Me . H. H. Hiehne of Baltimore , master of the American ship , after leaving the Eitel Friedrich , with Customs Collector Hamilton . today , told a dramatic story of his experience . With him were his wife and two children . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American master of an American ship , the German cruiser sank his vessel on ' the morning of Jan. 2S , by blowing a hole in her with a charge of dynamite . Her cargo of wheat , he said , was shoveled overboard before the ship was destroyed . rammengers Brought Ashore . As soon as the Eitel Friedrich had anchored Collector Hamilton and his aids visited the ship , and the first-class passengers from the French passenger steamer Floride , together with the captains of the eight destroyed vessels were brought to Newport News . With them were several officers of the German vessel . among them the chief paymaster , August Lousseau . The final order the paymaster took to the ship tonight from Collector Hamilton was that the ship could only remain in port for repairs to such an extent as to make her seaworthy , unless she interned . The German paymaster also carried word that American officers would make full inquiry of Commander Thierichens tomorrow of the sinking of the American sailing vessel . Asked why the Eitel Friedrich left the Pacific , Paymaster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We were after merchantmen , and for days we cruised about and saw nothing . When we reached tht South Atlantic we had better luck . We were surprised not to find British ships in the At'antic . It is true we heard British wireless talking . and we were glad of that because until fourteen days ago we had no news . Then we got considerable from British wireless . but the trouble was it was all from the English side . " The German officer expressed surprise that any of the cruiser Emdon 's crew had reached shore , anti disclaimed all knowledge of the battles off Chile and the Falkland Islands . " We were alone , " he said . " and we worked Or ourselves . We 4 ; ( 1 no fightReproduced with permission of the copyright owner . Further reproduction prohibited without permission . ing but we sank evert merchantman we could find . Of course we should have attacked any other-converted- vessel of our class , but we had no armor plate and so we avoided wrships . ' " We ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's response to the suggestion that he might nit leave immediately . " They are coming . from Berlin by way of the Washington Embassy . " The sinking of the Frye was regarded by the officer as all in a day 's work . " She took the chance , " he said .. " Ste was carrying contraband to the enemy . " The Captain of the Floride has telegraphed to the Compagnie G  --  nrale , Transatlantique for passage to New York . for his passengers . From ilt , W York they exnect to be transferred to their respective South American destinations . Not a single piece of baggage was lost when the Floride was sunk . Collector Hamilton said tonight it was obvious that the Prinz Eitel Friedrich would intern here . Commander Thierichens told the Collector he had no idea of leaving port within twenty-four hours . that the boilers of his vessel were in bad condition . and that repairs under six weeks would be impossible . He said under these conditions the vessel would be interned unless permission could be had to remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ horses for the armies of the Allies at first hesitated about leaving port to-night . but when it became evident the German would not depart at once they steamed cut of Hampton Roads and put to sea Collector Hamilton will examine carefully into the details of the sinking of the William F. Frye . The inquiry began tonight when a statement was taken from the master of the Frye . All of the members of the crew of the Frye remained on the Eitel Friedrich tonight , and will be brought ashore and examined .. by the Collector tomorrow . The . Collector will also call upon the commander of the Prinz Eitel Friedrich to give a detailed statement of the . sinking of the Frye and his reasons therefor . The collector has requested the commander not to use his wireless apparatus while in port Tomorrow the port authorities will receive , to be forwarded to New York . about 150 sacks of mall , taken from the steamer Floride , bound from Havre to South American ports . Collector Hamilton has been instructed : to permit all passengers on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immigration authorities . Word was received here late tonight that Capt . Boy-Ed , naval attach ? of the German Embassy at Washington , would arrive from New York tomorrow to confer with the commander of the Eitel Friedrich . The Collector of the Port said at midnight that he would board the Eitel Friedrich again at 11 o'clock tomorrow by appointment with Commander Thierichens . Dr. IL W. McCafferty , Quarantine Officer at Old Point . who visited the Prinz Eitel Friedrich . told of his trip to the German vessel . " When I boarded the cruiser this morning , " said he . " I found all on board well and happy . The band was playing German national airs . The food supply was good and there was a feeling of good-fellowship among the people on the ship , many of whom were taken from destroyed merchant vessels . " Among these were the Captain of the American ship William P. Frye of Baltimore . who , with his wife and son , were picked up by the Eitel after the Frye had been sunk . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were passengers on the French liner Floride. sunk by the Germans oft the coast of Brazil . The Eitel has a crew of thirteen officers and 356 men , including six Chinese stewards . " All these taken from the destroyed vessels will be given liberty in Newport News except four . Those four declined to sign papers that they would not take arms against Germany , and will be kept prisoners on that account . " Three others will be detained . One has a wooden leg , another is suffering from tuberculosis , and the other is deaf . That will naturally force them to be classed as undesirable immigrants . " The commander of the Eitel Friedrich told me that he had stopped at Valparaiso . Chile . where he took on provisions and also a few more prisoners . and discharged there some English and French prisoners . " Dr. Kinzer Knoneck is the svrgeon in charge of the cruiser , and every one on board was satisfied that they had received the kindest treatment from the officers of the vessel . " A queer thing is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Newport News for horses . also came into Hampton Roads this morning . Capt . Taggert said he was a prisoner on the Prinz Eitel Fniedrdhli five months ago . after having been captured off the Chilean coast I was Impressed with the good appearance of the men and women on the cruiser. " 