@@683298

txt The American newspapers were misled , the American people deceived , by the statement describing the attack upork our transport ships by German submarines , issued by Secretary of the Navy JOSEPHUS DANIELS On the evening of July 3 . The statement was prepared by Mr. GEORGE CREEL , Chairman of the Committee on Public Information , who is understood to have explained that in writing the statement he " elaborated " the brief description of the combat forwarded by our , naval officers . The American public was led to believe that our transports were attacked by the ene , my in force , that the engagement was an important one , and this impression was heightened by Mr. CREEL 'S avowal 1 that the news " was made public at " once as an appropriate announce --  " went on the eve of the Fourth of " July . " In fact , there was no flotilla of German submarines engaged , either in the first or in ' the second attack . Two U-boats may have been operating against our ships on thanight of June @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was Made the next morning . While the ' danger to our ships and troops was real and serious and while their escape unscathed- was an occasion for national rejoicing , the attempt to represent the beating off of the submarines as a teal naval battle of high importance was unpardonable . The statement prepared . by Mr. CREEL-and issued by . the Secretary of the Navy , as published in the morning papers of July 4 , declared that the first attack was of " disturbing significance , " as our ships were set upon " at a point well this side of the rendezvous " where they were to meet ships of war dispatcha to meet them from a transatlantic station . " The attack , " says . the . statement , " was " made in force , although the night " made impossible any exact counting " of the U-boats dithered for what " t ; fey deemed a slaughter . " The high-seas convoy answered with heavy gunfire , says the statement , and " its " accuracy stands proved by the fact " that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rate . It is not known how many " torpedoes were launched , but five " were counted as they sped by bow " and stern . ' : This is a picture of a very serious engagement with the enemy " in force . " The , torpedo discharge became " increasingly scattered and in-. accurate , " which implies , of course , that a great many were discharged , although it Is said that only five " were counted . " The story of this affair as it comes to THE TIMES from an eyewitness , whose account we publish this morning , tells of only one U-boat being seen , although as " they fired three , if not four , torpedoes , " it is possible that at least one more was in the neighborhood . It is very different from the expanded account prepared by Mr. GEORGE CREEL . The second attack , which according to Mr. CREEL 'S statement was directed " against another contingent , " took place beyond the point of rendezvous , and nothing its said of the number of U-boats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assertion that " not alone did the destroyers hold the " U-boats at a safe distance , but their " speed also resulted in the sinking of " one submarine at least . " It is evident that the eyewitness whose story THE TIMES publishes was not aboard a ship of the other " contingent " which was the subject of the second attack mentioned in Mr. CREEL 's story . That attack , he says , " was launched a few days later , " that is , a few days after June 22 . The second attack witnessed by the informant of THE TIMES took place the next morning after the first attack . On this occasion one Uboat was seen and the wake of one torpedo . The U-boat was destroyed , according to this account . Unless there was some confusion in Mr. CREEL 'S rendering of the official dispatches , it would appear that there were three encounters with submarines instead of two . Probability leans to the theory that there were but two . It is possible that there is some exaggeration in the story @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excitement of the moment it is at least most improbable that he would have minimized the facts . Yet he describes what appears to have been a chance ? meeting with one or two submarines upon the first occasion , and probably not more than one upon the occasion of the second attack , while the story prepared by Mr. CREEL represents the U-boats " gathered for what they deemed a slaughter , " an attack made " in force , " with many torpedoes discharged against our ships .. These exaggerations Mr. CREEL deems appropriate to gladden the heart of the nation on Independence Day . The American people may pardon for a time Vie suppression of news . It is conceivable that the safety of our land and sea forces may demand certain reticences . But Americans will never pardon expanded , adorned , exaggerated , and untruthful accounts of conflicts in while our forces may be . engaged . They do not want to be put in the humiliating and ridiculous position of rejoicing over great victories never achieved , of exulting over the defeat of the enemy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pne of the ordinary incidents of the transatlantic navigation . As for Mr. GEORGE CREEL , it Is evident that in his present position he is out of place , that his abilities , whatever they may be , are misapplied , misdirected . His long training in another field of publicity , where emotion and imagination count for much and accuracy is of minor importance , has evidently disqualified him for the service he has been called ueon to perform . The Administration was.ill-advised in appointing him to this responsible place . It was a blunder . The only possible and adequate corrective should be at once applied .                     