@@680611

txt Lieut . TOWERS 'S surAeroplanes vival of a fall estimated and the at 1,600 feet probably breaks the record , not Parachute . only for aeroplane accidents of this kind , but that of all the falls that human beings have ever suffered . Longer- descents have , indeed , been swiftly made by helpless balloonists , but only a few mishaps to a balloon wholly and immediately destroy its sustaining power , and escapes in such cases are due to the more or less efficient action as a parachute of the wrecked gas container . As a matter of fact , of course , Lieut . TOWERS would have met the fate of his less fortunate companion had he not been able to retain his hold on the aeroplane , and had not the disaster been the result of a capsizing instead of a collapse of its broad planes . Thus the speed of the terrible journey was mitigated just enough to prevent the impact on the water that killed Ensign EmLINGSLET from being fatal to the other aviator . The lesson of the accident would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a long-recognized need can be met , for there are no obviously insuperable difficulties in the way of so constructing aeroplanes that descent at more than a given speed would automatically open out to the air enough of resisting surface to give their passengers an even better chance for life than Lieut . TowERS had . Probably nothing could be devised that would make mechanical flight entirely safe , but any measurable diminution of its present dangers would be cheaply obtained , even though the acquisition involved some loss of speed and prevented the gaining of extreme altitudes . The day of this accident was one marked by unusual atmospheric disturbances of exactly the 4p-id that can not be foreseen as to detail by an aviator . There were many strong currents , both ascending and descending , due to conflicts between high and low temperatures . These constitute the so-called " holes in the air , " of which we used to hear more than now , and there is nothing so perilous to the navigators of machines heavier than air . The sailor of the sea can note the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the water . but the sailor of the air has no such warning of inequalities in his supporting medium . and he should be somehow safeguarded against them , if possible . As one of our corAn Attack respondents contends , . Easy the value of higher Repulse. epul R education is not deto termined by comparison of the earning powers demonstrated by those who have " gone through college , " as the saying is , and those who have not made that journey . Still , statistics of that sort are by no means as nearly meaningless as . he declared them to be , nor is it safe to assume , as he did , that the superiority of collegians as a class to non-collegians as a class , as money-makers , is the result of a process of selection independent of the teaching they receive . That assumption is not as often justified nowadays as formerly , more of both boys and girls of ordinary abillI ties going to college at present than in the past for other reasons than a love of learning , and at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social grades can be found . A good many of them are sent there , and a good many of them go there , merely because it has come to be rather generally recognized as a judicious as well as " the proper " thing to do . That they all do not come out scholars , or even well educated , Is only too easily discoverable from their conversation and the uses they make of their leisure , and the recent report from San Francisco that the Dishwashers ' Union in that city contains a hundred college graduates , while probably an exaggeration , does hint the frequency with which so-called students are graduated with as little ability for acquiring wealth as for gaining other kinds of distinction . If the collegians do more than average well in after life , and all the figures prove it , their success must be credited to their teaching in some degree . Of course they have obtained nothing that can not be obtained elsewhere by the particularly vigorous , able , and ambitious seeker , but they do get conveniently and cheaply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever hurt anybody is most doubtful . That it falls to be of help to not a few is true , but in all probability every one of these graduate failures would have been a worse failure if he had not gone to college  --  more inefficient and more discontented with humble toils . It . is tiresome to be always recalling the etymological meaning of " education , " especially as etymological meanings so rarely have more than the remotest of relations to real meanings , yet it is a fact never to be ignored that the service of colleges is to draw something out , not to put something in ? to train ability , not to create it . Gov . SVLZER has actAt Least ed with commendable He Did promptitude on the revelations as to conSomething. ditions in Sing Sing , made by the Grand Jury of Westchester County , but several times before commissions have been appointed to select a site for the much-needed new prison , and the record of their achievements is gloomy and discouraging . And , however good the advice these commissioners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be at the end of mfr prison troubles until in some way it has been made impossible for such atrocious treatment of criminals as has for years been going on in Sing Sing even to begin without attracting public as well as official notice . According to some thoughtful observers , prison scandals of this kind will continue until the supervision of these institutions is intrusted to local boards , serving gratuitously . Theoretically , such boards would not be expected to be less moved by political considerations than one responsible Superintendent at the head of a department covering the State , but experience seemingly proves that the one plan works well and the other ill  --  which seems to settle the question , for the moment , anyhow . Much is heard of " the " new penology. " and we really do ? have some of it in this State ? at the Bedford Reformatory , for instance . Why Sing Sing remained mediaeval is a mystery that should cause much questioning in and out of legislative circles . Our Judges might even ask themselves whether in conscience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will suffer penalties not contemplated or permitted by law . If they refused to do it some very wholesome excitement would ensue , and reform would be vigorously hastened .                     