@@679047

txt ALBANY , June ** an opinion rendered to Commissioner James S. Whipple of the State Forest , Fish and Game Department , Attorney General O'Malley holds that the lands of the forest preserve must be left in their natural state , and that not even a stone may be removed . The question was raised by the Roads Superintendent of Franklin County , who asked permission to use a stone from a ledge of rock on the neighboring State lands for road purposes , promising not to cut away any timber or otherwise damage the land . In his opinion Attorney General O'Malley says : " It was clearly ihe intent of the framers of the Constitution to preserve the lands constituting the forest preserve in their natural state , and that you have no authority to permit county officials to use the stone in the ledge referred to . " YONKERS MAY RIDE TO-DAY . Trolley Car Strikers Willing to Return Pending Court 's Decision . Another surprise came yesterday in the Yonkers strike situation when the proceedings brought by the city and backed by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forfeit the franchise came up before Justice iIorschauser at Poughkeepsie . He sent the application back to Justice Keogh. and it is expected that it will be heard this morning in White Plains . The strikers have great confidence in Justice Keogh , and say that they will ' return to work at 1 o'clock to-day pending I his decision as to the Justice of their demand for higher wages . When the application came before Justice Keogh on Tuesday , the strikers paid him a compliment by saying that they were ready to return to work pending his decision , but he declined to dispose of the motion on the ground that it would not be courteous to Justice Morschauser , since Receiver Sutherland on Saturday had forwarded a report to him asking him to deal with the strike situation . It is believed that Justice Keogk will name an arbitration committee to go over the books of the company and decide whether it is in a position to pay higher wages . Family Litigation at an End . Supreme Court Justice Bischoff reserved decision yesterday after hearing testimony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rose Sprio and Gustavus Fulton . The woes of the have been much in print . was arrested on a warrant charging bigamy and for threatening his wife 's father and members of his household for alienating her affections . Mary Elizabeth of Philadelphia Is mentioned by Mrs. as the legal wife of the defendant . Urge Bridge Plaza Extension . A large number of Brooklyn citizens and representatives of taxpayers ' and property owne ' . ' s ' associations appeared before a committee of the Board of Estimate yesterday to urge the approval of the proposed extension of the Brooklyn Bridge plaza to the junction of Washington and Fulton Streets . This would do away with a large part of the present elevated terminal . Nu decision was given by the.committee. ?                     