@@681957

txt More explicit information respecting Germany 's offer to modify the submarine campaign In deference to America 's representations is awaited here with Intense interest . The cabled information so far has been meagre , and the chief impressions conveyed by it are , first , the - practically unstinted- satisfaction of the . tAmerican press and public - with President ? Wilson 's diplomatic victory. , and. - , fieeptIcit the ariberetit ** 4,14 , ; kixtetit of Count von tierdsfoiff s speoifientions in his letter to Secretary Lansing , and the verbal statements made by the Ambassador . That President Wilson won a diplomatic victory in bringing Germany to her present position Is fully acknowledged here , particularly by those set quainted with domestic conditions in Germany . The President 's triumph can be measured , it is said , by the victory which Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg won over Grand Admiral von Tirpitz . Germany has been forced by President Wilson 's policy to some recognition of the principles of humanity . American satisfaction is furthermore understood because it evidently is based on the belief that by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her intention of going as far as may be necessary to avoid a rupture with the American nation . It is no exaggeration to say that it Is hoped here that Mr. Wilson will press for more in the way of " concessions " than Germany has yet shown she is prepared to mawe . This hope is founded on the argument that in his first Lusitania note President Wilson contended for " nothing less high and sacred than the right of humanity , " and that Germany 's promised modification of her submarine methods only meets his contention in one particular . Secretary Lansing 's guarded phraseology in commenting on Count von Bernstorff 's letter , namely , that it appeared to be a recognition of " the fundamental principle for which we contended . " is taken to indicate that the President will insist on having all possible doubts of Germany 's complete recognition of the principles laid down in his notes before accepting the present concessions as entirely satisfactory . Summing up the impressions created here on the data available , it may be said that while there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the German-American situation , this satisfaction is only moderate in degree and is tinged with the suspicion that Germany 's objective is to abandon a really untenable position with such an air as will enable her to save her face with her own people and obtain grace ' for her in the eyes of the American nation . Some little apprehension exists as to the advantages Germany may be able to obtain in this latter respect by I an artful and elaborate propaganda In America , but on the whole , in the bestinformed quarters , it is believed that American public opinion will be quick to detect any German effort to draw a red herring across the trail , and will hold a correct balance between Germany 's so-called concessions , forced upon her by necessity and Great Britain 's consistent efforts to safeguard the interests of neutrals in the prosecution of an indispensable naval policy . The Daily reews in an editorial says that the Lusitanla note of July 2 dwelt specifically on the use of submarines against merchantmen on the high seas , and that the German answer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liners alone , " is to burke the issue according to the best traditions of modern German diplomacy . " It can not be supposed that America will be satisfied with anything less than a full concession of her minimum demands . America has already exacted a definite and substantial concession from Germany , and it Is impossible to Imagine her as withdrawing from the unequivocal position she assumed in the Lusitanla note . " The Daily News says that in shipping circles Germany 's climbdown In the submarine policy is not regarded as an event of supreme importance , adding : " That it is a diplomatic triumph is con. : ceded , but it is looked at from a purely practical point of view  --  the safety of shipping . There is in Liverpool a disposition to be skeptical of Germany 's real intentions . One of the best known figures in the shipping world said the outburst of joy over von Bernstorff 's note appeared to him altogether premature and immoderate . " ' I see nothing in it , ' he said . ' to be enthusiastic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ main point of the note , which purports to guarantee the observance , of international law . What is meant by the statement that liners will not be sunk without warning or ( not and , you will notice ) without ensuring the safety of the lives of noncombatants ? What is to be regarded as adequate time for the passengers of a big Atlantic liner to be got away from the ship safely ? Then nothing is said of any intention to carry out the duty of search before a ship is sunk . From the shipowners ' point of view there is little to indicate much change in the situation . ' " Calls It No Reply at AIL In an editorial headed " Blackmail Diplomacy . " The Morning Post says : " Strictly speaking , the reply of Germany to the United States is no reply at all . What Bernstorff engages to do is to refrain from sinking liners under conditions . The distinction between liners and other vessels is purely arbitrary and has no meaning in international law . Nor does Bernstorff condescend to define @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ runs backward and forward on a certain route or line , whereas a tramp goes upon a round voyage . By what means is a German submarine officer to discover whether any given vessel is a liner or a tramp until he had visited her and examined her papers ? " Bernstorff does not even suggest she should be visited . He merely says that a liner shall receive a warning before it is torpedoed . He also states that the safety of the lives of noncombatants would be ensured . By what means is the safety of lives to be ensured ? " The German Ambassador adds a condition which is also illegal ? ' provided liners do not try to escape . ' The law of nations does not sanction the destruction of merchant vessels which endeavor to escape a belligerent man of war . All destruction of merchant vessels is contrary to the law of nations except under very rare conditions . " The main point at Issue thus becomes clear . The United States protested against the sinking of merchant ships by submarines . giving excellent and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same note it Was plainly stated ' that no warning of an unlawful and inhumane act that will be committed can possibly be accepted as an excuse or palliation of that act or as an abatement of responsibility for its commission . ' But that is precisely the excuse proffered by Bernstorff , and in these circumstances It is difficult to perceive in what respect American diplomacy has succeeded . Bernstorff is , in Pact . attempting to evade the demands of the United States as it was attempted to evade them in the German note of July 8 , in which it was suggested that certain vessels should be held immune from submarine attack . " To that impudent proposal the United States most properly replied that ' the very agreement would by implication subject other vessels to illegal attack and be a curtailment and therefore an abandonment of the principles for which this Government contends . ' By a parity of reasoning , should the United States agree to the German proposal that submarines should be permitted to sink liners after warning them ? By that America would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but would condone what is in fact an outrage upon the law of nations . " Sees Nothing to Praise . The Times 's naval correspondent says : " Examination and analysis of Count von Bernstorff 's memorandum to Secretary Lansing afford little or no grounds for the fulsome adulation and gush which have been bestcwed upon that document in certain quarters . Time enough it will be to talk about the reestablishment of legal and humane practices in the German conduct of war by sea when there are facts to show that a step has actually been taken in this direction . A distinction in favor of passenger-carrying ships is certainly out of accord with international observance and law . The time-honored practice of warning , detention , . ana search has always been applied to every merchant ) vessel , and the dictates of humanity further prescribe that not only the lives of passengers in the liners , but of all noncombatants , whether neutrals or hostile natioeals , should be spared . The lives of fishermen in our trawlers are no less sacred than those of people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Atlantic . " Past experience with the ' blockade affords little guidance . as to what interpretation will be placed upon the announcement of a warning . In the case of the Lusitania notice was given before the vessel sailed , but none when the submarine discharged her torpedo . On the other hand , the warning to abandon ship given to the Falaba was followed so quickly by action ' that over a hundred lives were lost . " As to the means of insuring the safety of noncombatants , there is less room for doubt . Turning poor seamen and others adrift in open boats insufficiently clad and with the loss of their possessions is sorry business , though it certainly gives them a chance for their lives . There have been cases , however , of men being four days without food and water before being picked up , and some died from exposure . " The Daily Telegraph says , " The suggestion that Germany is making a complete surrender to the United States on all points raised by that government in its successive notes on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cause for congratulation in the statement which our New York correspondent makes this morning to the effect that ' American satisfaction ' over the latest development was yesterday ' greatly tempered by misgivings owing to the ambiguity of the undertaking . ' 