@@681748

txt In a speech tonight at a dinner given by him at the Willard Hotel to nine of the sixteen members of " The Reserve Army of the United States , ? Representative Augustus P. Gardner of Massachusetts said that President Wilson was so angry with the joint ArmY and Navy Board for recommending that preparations be made for meeting a hostile emergency in the Pacific last year , that he forbade the Board to meet again . " If this story of mine is denied , " said Mr. Gardner , ? " I challenge the President to permit a public investigation . " The incident described , he sale , had " never been told until this minute . " Mr. Gardner charged that the loss of the Submarine F-4 was due to the neglect of Secretary Daniels , and that the resignation of Rear Admiral Bradley A. Fiske from the office of Aid for Operations in the Navy Department was due to his frankness about the condition of the navy in his testimony before the House Committee on Naval Affairs . He predicted that other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Thinks Garrison May Go . Mr. Gardner praised Secretary Garrison , Assistant Secretary of the Navy Roosevelt , Admiral Fiske and Commander Yates Stirling for their courage in telling about lack of preparedness for I war . Commander Stirling was likely to follow Admiral Fiske " down the plank , " he said , and the inference from his remarks was that Mr. Garrison and Mr. Roosevelt would also be sacrificed . ' The dinner was given by Mr. Gardner to emphasize the failure a the reserve army law ' and to further his campaign for stirring up sentiment for better military preparedness . The nine reservists , all from New York and Brooklyn , arrived here this afternoon and were taken on a motor trip around the city and its environs . The dinner was enlivened by a sketch , " The Forty Vexations Committee , " a parody on a meeting of the Fortifications sub-committee of the Appropriations Committee of the House of Representatives , in which fun was poked at the failure of the House to make provision for military preparedness . The nine reservists at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Morris Klaif , Anthony Schettino , Hugo L. Anderson , Morrison Borkin , Issea Sohn , and John Caramali ? In the course of his speech M. Gardiner said : " Admiral Bradley Fiske has paid the penalty for his courageous Outspokenness , and now , mark the others as they follow him down the plank . Yates Stirling is likely to be the next . He is the man who called the attention of the department to the rotten condition of the submarine flotilla of the Atlantic Fleet . He is the man who testified that out of twelve submarines under his command , outside of the Canal Zone , only one could take part in the manoeuvres when the order came to mobilize last November . I state it as a fact that on Dec. 0 , 1914 , Josephus Daniels , Secretary of the Navy , administered a stinging rebuke to Commander Stirling because he called the attention of the Navy Department to the neglected policy adopted toward the submarine flotilla , and I challenge the said Josephus Daniels to publish the letter . Blames Daniels for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gruesome commentary on Secretary Daniels 's policy of peaceful persuasion and pretense of preparedness . The loss of life on Gre . F-4 is due to Secretary Daniels 's neglect of our submarines , although I dare say that an inquiry will reveal to his satisfaction the fact that it was attributable to the neglect of some drunken officer . " Atfer alt , why should we blame Secretary Daniels for following the example which is set him by the Commander in Chief . I have awaited this occasion to reveal an occcurrence which took place a year ago , but owing to the reticence of all concerned , it has never been told until this minute . " About a year ago , in the minds of many people , there was serious danger of international trouble in the Pacific Gcean . At that time a joint board composed - of the highest army officers and the highest navy officers was in existence . It met together to consider what ought to be done in an emergency . The members of the board went before the President with a recommendation that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with anger at the effrontry of these distinguished officers and peremptorily forbade the board to meet again . If this statement of mine is denied , I challenge the President to permit a public investigation . " 