@@680638

txt WASHINGTON , July 6 . ? Republican members of the Senate have been quietly preparing for some weeks for the attack that is to be made on the Underwood Tariff bill when it gets back into the Senate late this week . While a programme of tariff policy has not been laid out by the Republicans , leading representatives . of the party in the Senate have prepared amendments , substitutes schedules , and protection arguments , directed at many of the important sections of the Democratic bill . Senator Simmons , Chairman of the Finance Committe , who will bring the bill in from the committee with the seal of the Democratic caucus 's approval upon it , estimates that five weeks will be enough to wind up general debate on the measure and effect a vote on its final passage . Prominent Republican Senators doubt whether the tariff can be disposed of in the Senate in that time . The bill has been in the Democratic caucus for more than two weeks . While the party members were practically agreed upon the general scope of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much longer than had been expected to smooth over debated questions and to bring about an agreement on i tariff rates , income tax and other Important features . The Democrats are not yet in complete harmony over the measure , because of the insistence of some Western and Southern Senators that the free sugar and free wool plans of the Administration be modified . An attempt Is to be made late to-morrow to put a binding rule through the caucus pledging every Democrat to vote down amendments in the Senate , and to support the bill in its entirety . Pronounced opposition to this plans exists within the party ranks . Even though the Democrats may adopt the unit rule and attempt to stamp out all opposition to the bill that might come from sugar and wool . districts , the Republican leaders will use every effort on the floor to break the strength of the Democratic ranks . Advocates of protective duties on these articles , and on many others that have been greatly reduced by the Democratic bill , will seek to muster strength from the sugar and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republican attitude are shown in the work that has been done by Senator Smoot of Utah and Senator La Follette of Wisconsin in preparation for the approaching fight in the Senate . Senator Smoot has prepared amendments to scores of Democratic items , and will offer a complete substitute for the Democratic v , - dol tariff plan . His proposal will be for a substantial reduction in raw wool and on manufactured goods , but on such a basis that a reasonable protection will be retained . Senator La Follette has been at work for weeks , with the aid of experts , preparing substitute schedules for many sections of the Underwood-Simmons bill . He also has attacked the woolen and cotton schedules , and is prepared to make a long and stubborn fight in the effort to rally Republicans , Progressives , and some Democrats to the support of a woolen tariff that will be much below the present rates , but will preserve some protection . It is expected , however , that the La Follette proposals will suggest much lower rates than those to be made by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ various features of the bill , and will insist upon discussing at length , and from every angle , reductions which they think threaten the life of American industries . It is believed that the tariff debate , even should it start the first of next week , as the Democratic leaders now expect , will not be concluded . n the Senate before the last weeks of August .                     