@@678843

txt Everything which can be thought of is being investigated  --  save one . The Federal Government has several inquiries under way , and many States and cities are after the lawbreakers with searchlights and search warrants . No man dares to do business without a lawyer at his elbow , and if he dares to hire a lawyer he is denounced as desirous of evading the law instead of complying with it . We are told that never was there a higher degree of moral consciousness and conscientiousness than at the very time when the lawmakers are prosecuting practically the entire commercial community . This suggests another investigation ? of the lawmakers by the lawbreakers . The lawmakers are investigating themselves . to be sure , but that hardly fills the want . There are three investigations of the tariff , for example . They are sure to disagree , and indeed are meant to disagree . Such investigations are no more satisfying than the one which wearies as the scent grows warm , as in New York , for instance . The case seems to call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people , and for the people . " It may be objected that our system does not provide for an Investigation of the superior powers by the inferior . The reply is easy . Our system does provide for exactly that . A beginning has been made in Ohio , and it will only be a short time before the popular inquest is under full headway throughout the country . Congress is on trial before the people ; Mr. TAFT and his Administration are on trial in fact , though not in form ; Tammany recently was on trial , and subsequent proceedings promise to be fully as interesting as that prologue . The broad question is , What use have the lawmakers made of the confidence the people reposed in them , and how have they executed their mandate ? It is only necessary to mention in passing the disgust of the Nation regarding the tariff fiasco , not to say fraud . Not even Mr. TAFT thinks the tariff is what it might and should have been , and he is suffering for making ? the best defense of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proceedings of the Senate suggest another subject for inquiry . How comes it that Mr. - Tarr does not put his own house in order before attacking jobs so much more difficult , and perhaps better left undone or even unattempted ? It was declared in the Senate that the degree of waste in the Federal Administration approached that which Mayor GArzron resented as a campaign slander , and proved after election by remedying it . But there is nothing like that at Washington . The opportunity was seen and shirked . Mr. TAFT urged economy and better business methods by Federal officials , and then forgot all about it , although he had described it as " perhaps the most important question presented to this Administration . " He proposed a great programme of legislation , witch he has whittled down to a remnant , and now has the humiliation to hear it said in. the Senate that his officials are wasting $300,000,000 a year . It is not hard to believe . Indeed , it would be easy to make additions to the specifications , and also to name projects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his labor , and without result . Mr. Tarr has proved an unwelcome surprise , just as Mayor GAYNOR has bettered expectation , setting an example which yet may have large results . Other topics for this popular investigation are not lacking . It would be edifying to know how it happened that laws are so badly made that they are not understood after twenty years , and are obeyed less than they are understoodj and that the lawmaking and law-enforcing departments , of Government have not remedied this by cooperating in making laws which could be both obeyed and enforced . While the people are about it they might as well investigate themselves . How comes it that the people demand laws which they unanimously disobey , and while breaking them rage against the lawbreakers ? How can the people justify themselves to themselves for demanding laws to prevent others from doing what they wish to do themselves , and which in fact they do do themselves while insisting that others shall go to jail for so doing ? How much of our bad lawmaking and administration is due to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? In short , if each reformed himself instead of seeking to reform his neighbor while persisting in his own evil ways , what would there be left to complain about , or to legislate about , or even to investigate                     