@@679921

txt Consumers of coal in England and the United States must read with , curious interest the daily doings of those who supply them with that commodity . The army of miners confronts the army of sellers without a thought of the army of buyers lying apparently passive and helpless between those who divide between them the price . This is the more remarkable because the buyers are more numerous and powerful than the other parties together . In England and this country alike the law protects the buyers nominally , just as it protects all other citizens , including both miners and owners . Yet the law is the last thing thought of by those who are passing their own laws about wages and prices . In yesterday 's newspapers it was possible to read an authentic list of the employers who are conspiring against the conspiring unionists , neither of them having heard of such a law as the Sherman law against conspiracies in restraint of trade . Nothing could be plainer than that each combatant is more afraid of what the other may do to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do to the ultimate consumer . His pocket must be bottomless if there is no restraint upon those who have no self-restraint in their exactions . It is no longer held that the price of either goods or labor should be settled by economic factors having free play under the law 's protection and a free market . The first thing heard -S , IiieUt , a strike is that something like a state of siege or qualified martial law has been declared , this being one of the signs of suspension of everyday law . Another equally sure sign is the open practice of such conspiracies as have been remarked . Either conspiracy necessitates the other . If the trades unions are allowed to combine the operators must combine or abandon their property , for no one of them can stand against the combination of opponents . The idea of preventing or punishing both conspiracies is equally impracticable , or has been so , although it is increasingly doubtful that it will continue to be so . In England the victims of the conspiracies are turning against their oppressors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Parliament enacted in favor of the unions , under the spur of the Labor members , and they are thinking of enacting a minimum wage . Both of these proposals are almost equally applicable to conditions in this country . A minimum wage is one of the demands of the American coal unions , who are combining to enforce it in a manner unlikely to create public sentiment in favor of the demand by the unions that they shall be exempted from the anti-trust law . The demand for a minimum wage is made in the most offensive manner , that is to say , without any guarantee of a minimum output , and without consideration of the different conditions un-der which the wage must be earned in the various districts . Even the British unions themselves conceded that the minimum wage might vary in the various districts , but the American union demands a flat per diem wage . Before the , strike negotiations began there was a proposal placed before Congress for a Federal uniform work , day for the elimination of strikes through , the prevention of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more peremptory than the corresponding refusal in England . The reason doubtless is that the British demands , although so extravagant as to drive Parliament into legislation for the nation 's relief , are more moderate than the American demands . The British strikers say that their cards are on the table , and that modifications are not to be thought of . The - American unions can not say any such thing . Their demands are preposterous , and their rejection was expected . The flatness of the rejection also is too peremptory to be final . The conspiracies may be omnipotent against - the public and the laws , but they are also too powerful to be allowed to operate against each other . Both sides must concede something to such power as each possesses . If they can not . agree then the power which is greater tbAn either or both must intervene and force-peace . There is still an interval ; , which j ha coal apnlep gay , goxii7- , pose their differences in any manner except at the public cost by enlargement of the demands upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mood to be plucked again as he was before when the Government intervened in his interest in the time of ROOSLVIiarr . It was easier to turn such a trick then . The miners and the operators divided the meat of that oyster , and the utmost that the public will stand will be the Eontinuance of that settlement The party which proposes to disturb it starts ill , and will only " get in " worse as the struggle proceeds .                     