@@681452

txt There could not be a safer or a better arrangement between England and . the United States than that the outstanding balance between them shall be settled as far as possible in cotton and commodities . There is no relation of debtor and creditor between the two Governments . The debts are between individuals of the two countries . Yet on the part of England It is necessary that the Government shall intervene , for it is the action of the British Government which has made the settlement of the obligations of Americans impracticable in the ordinary way . If there were no war there would be no necessity for the presence in Washington of representatives of the British Treasury , nor any excuse for negotiations with them on the part of representatives of our Government There is no question of any deficiency of assets on our part , and no reluctance op our part regarding the meeting of gur ohligations . The difficulty is that England has established a moratorium on debts , and has asked us to pay in gold . Sir GeeagE P.taskr went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " ordinary " way . But these are not ordinary times , nor are payments in gold the ordinary method with countries which have stopped payment alto , ather- We have gone further in that direption than any other country ever did , a as far 88 we ought to . We have exported three times more gold within 4 , twelvemonth than any balance of gold Which has ever passed into or oat of the United Staten in any Melt ) YeAr , lYor is out : stock exhausted . But it is not reasonable to ask that business shall proceed further upon that basis . It is not our request that England shall take its dues part ** cotton and part in paper . It is England 's proposal , and quite as much in regard to British interests as , to ours . We ought posal rather than grateful , remembering that trade is mutual , and that England 's burdens are great . The former crises in which England has found it good business to come to our relief were child 's play compared to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troubles were mere disturbances of local credit . The present troubles are due to a cessation of trade under conditions which put renewal of international exchanges almost out of the power of individuals . It is only by intervention of Government that business relations are possible when Government makes debts uncollectible . We . will not sell if we can not collect . England wants gold only because she wants to trade hero , and English paper is unacceptable during a moratorium . She proposes to take cotter because she would have to buy cotton if we paid gold . She proposes to take Part paper because she does not want ? 50,000,000 worth of cotton or of anything else Just now . Eventually she will spend every pound of that money here if the goods and the prices are right . Hereafter the trade relations betWeen the two countries will be more nearly those of barter than ever before . We shall export more goods and import less capital . We shall be mutually buyers and sellers , and in less degree debtors and creditors . We are entering into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spanish war put us into world politics . This arrangement is merely closing up the old business . We are putting the existing balance against us into time obligations , at the proposal and for the convenience of our creditor , whose credit he stopped by his own act , and renews it in his way . There is nothing like default on our part . It is a mutual arrangement , equally creditable to both parties , and reached under conditions neither foresaw , and which were no part of the original transaction . Sir GEORGE is a very good friend of the United States , a convinced optimist about our affairs , and the man of men for the emergency upon which England sent him here .                     