@@679082

txt Unseen by any of the thousands of homegoers on the Williamsburg Bridge , at 6:30 o'clock last evening a well-dressed man of about 35 climbed from the southern roadway of the bridge to the ' Brooklyn tower , 335 feet above the river , and Jumped off . He failed to clear the bridge and landed on a sandbox on the parapet just off the roadway , crashing through the wooden top and smashing almost every bone in his body . The distance of his leap is 205 feet . The first discovery of the fact was made when Policeman Rosenstock of the Bridge Squad found a new Panama hat lying in the roadway several yards from the box Wand saw drops of blood a short distance away . He traced these to the sandbox , and there came upon the man , still alive though buried in the sand that half filled the box . In a very *few moments Policemen O'Donnell and King and a crowd of the walkers on the bridge had gathered . In the crowd was Samuel Peu of 132 North First @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before . Peu said he had been resting on one of the benches in the roadway half an hour earlier when the man approached him , walking toward Manhattan . The stranger sat down on the bench beside him , and began- nervouly fingering a late edition of an evening paper , and glancing , with evident vexation , over the racing returns . Presently he drew a box of cigarettes ' from his pocket , offered one to Peu , and lit one for himself . A little later lie tossed Peu the newspaper . He did not speak , and presently Peu ' saw him rise and walk away . Fifty feet 1 away he saw the man climb over the steel girder work of the bridge , but thinking that he was trying to climb into the wagon way and jump on a wagon for a free ride Peu paid no further attention to him . Mr. Peu then noticed that the name of the horse Bad News , which won the fifth race at the Empire track yesterday , was underscored . Apparently the man , instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directly up the intersecting bridgework skeleton to the tower and thence ascended the narrow winding stairway of steel that led to the top . At the top of the tower , 205 feet from where the body had landed , one of the policemen found the man 's coat hanging upon a bolt . A small pink carnation was pinned in the buttonhole . In an inside pocket the policeman found a sheet of paper on which were penciled in a neat hand the following lines : When you know you 're not forgotten By the girl you ca n't forget , When you find the queen you left behind Is laughing at you yet , It Is a joke . Then followed . these comments : This is the final of the long trial . Or is it ' the start ? Wen sabe . Viol vidi fuglt . I could n't stay for the showdown . Have been four-flushing all my life . So what 's the use ? Adios . J. C. One of the policemen telephoned to the Bridge Police Station for Capt . Barry and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The reserves arrived simultaneously with an ambulance from the Eastern District Hospital . Dr. Rosenberg and Dr. Cohen found that the man had suffered a fracture of the skull , concussion of the brain , fractures of both arms arni both legs , and of several ribs . He was removed to the hospit al , where he died at 9 o'clock . His neck had been broken . There was little clue to the man 's identity . In- his pockets were round only 20 cents , a box of cigarettes , and a bolt of matches . He has brown hair and eyes , and was smooth shaven . He wore a gray striped coat and trousers , a new Panama hat , a. white shirt , blue tie . white underwear , black socks , and low cut shoes . 