@@681380

txt For the time being the activities of President Wilson in the effort to get the warring powers in Europe in a mood to listen , . o peace proposals have come to a standskill . Whether the President will resume his inquiries on the subject in the near future probably - will depend on del'clopments . According to a cable message received late tonight by Sir Arthur Cecil SpringRice. the British Ambassador , Great Britain has received no proposal for peace , either direct or indirect , from Germany or Austria , and therefore has nothing to say on the subject . The message was from Sir Edward Grey . the British Foreign Secretary . The Ambassador inquired early today whether any proposal of peace was before his Government in view of the Dersisteut rumors from Berlin that peace proposals were being exchanges . There was much discussion in Administration circles today of the whole involved situation . While the President does not regard the response of the German Imperial Chancellor to the socalled " feeler " of this Government as shutting the door to further exchanges . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the attitude of all the parties to the war was such that no forward step in the direction of settlement of their difficulties through the medium'of the United States would be wise at this particular time . The Government , however , probably will seek to keep alive the movement for peace by transmitting without comment to the British , French , and Russian Governments the report . made by James W. Gerard , the American Am , bassador at Berlin , of his conversation with the Imperial Chancellor , which was the result of the inquiry of this I Government as to whether Emperor William had indicated that he was in favor of peace . No comment by the United States is expected to accompany this action . The transmission of the Gerard report to the allied Governments merely will be in the nature of a reminder that the United States will be ready to act as the friend of all concerned whenever they reach the point of being willing to discuss terms for an amicabit settlement . Belligerents Might Take Offense . It is realized in official circles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace is in the air and that the nations involved in war ought to accept the frinedly offices of the only great non-European power that is preserving a strict neutrality , might become offensive to some of the belligerents . That is one reason for a display of excessive I caution at this uncertain period . The Government knows that the British Government , at least , is unwilling to discuss peace with Germany except on the basis of conditions precedent that it is quite clear that Germany would not accept . The position of Great Britain was made clear in a conversation between Sir Edward Grey , the British Minister for Foreign Affairs , and Walter H. Page , the American Ambassador in London , in which the British Minister said that Great Britain would consent only to a peace that would be per- , merit , and that one of the basic . principles of any peace agreement must be solemn assurances from Germany that reparation would be furnished to Belgium for the violation of her neutrality and the damage done by the German troops . Great Britain Annoyed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substance of the report of this . conversation , made to the State Department by Mr. Page . had become public has made officials here cautious in discussing the attitude of Great Britain or any of the belligerents , and no authoritative statement of the details of what has taken place in the way of peace overtures is obtainable , but ' it is known that the highest officials - of the- Administration are not encouraged ' over the . outlook , and they are inclined to the belief that the war must be continued for a considerable period before President Wilson will be able without giving . offense to make further . advances . While the effort has been made to see in the " German Chancellor 's - expressions to - Ambassador ' Gerard the suggestion that Germany would be glad to have the - United States ascertain from the Gov- : . erninints of the Allies a ' Statement of the terms . upon Which- they ' would be v'illing ' to enter into- peace negotiations , high officials- of this Goverrinient ; who are acquainted with the exact- ittituF ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that hopeful construction on them . President Wilson has sald'that he re- : garded the Chancellor 's comments as non-committal ; and apparently nothing has ' occurred in the past -. twenty-four hours to lead - the Government to take a more-optimistic-view . . ? . ? For. - the present the . peace . movement will yealain statu and - whatever hope . maybe : eentertained ' ' Wthe ' ? On : - Page " . hopeful must come from the slight prospect that the transmission of the . Ger man Chancellor 's expressions to the Governments of Great Britain , France and Russia may bring forth something more than a mere polite acknowledgment . Sir Cecil Spring-Rice and Ambassador Jusserand of France were at the State Department today in conference with Counselor Robert Lansing . Acting Secretary in the absence of Mr Bryan . Ambassador Spring-Rice did not mention peace . The French Ambassador made only casual inquiry as to the correctness of two newspaper reports , one giving a list of prerequisites and conditions under which Germany was supposed to have informed the United States of a willingness to make peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between Ambassador Gerard at Berlin and the Imperial Chancellor . He learned that the latter report was correct , but made no comment . The Belgian Minister had also inquired about the reports . Women Send Peace Appeal . The President today received an appeal from women of all nations that he lead a movement to end the war . It was carried to the White House by Mrs. Rosika Schwimmer of Hungary , secretary of the International Woman 's Suffrage Alliance , who was presented by Senator Thomas . Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt s.ocompanted Mrs. Schwimmer . The appeal was made in behalf of 1,000,000 women of thirteen countries . " The President told me he was thinking day and night about the possibility of peace in Europe , " said Mme. Schwimmer after her interview with the President . " He seemed to be deeply interested in the movement and said that he would lose no opportunity of taking practical steps to end the war . " President Wilson was requested today by a delegation ' representing the General Conference of Friends to initiate Plana for the calling of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world parliament for settlement of the war . " A World Parliament . with a World Court , and a World Police to enforce its decisions can maintain peace , " said the petition . 