@@682660

txt the shipment of Munitions from manufacturing points in the interior , , it was pointed out yesterday by a New York representative of one of the belligerent nations . /War contracts for hundreds of millions are being filled in this country , and so rapid is the output that it 19 impossible to get ships to move it as rapidly as it reaches the seaboard . Plants in or near seaports would be able to ship some of this output , but a railway tie-up would be a serious matter for plants away from tidewater . The Bethlehem Steel Corporation , the largest producer of war material in the United States , is in Pennsylvania , and depends entirely on the railroads . It is earning out some of the largest guns used by the Allies on the western battle fronts . On the Pacific Coast the shipments effected would be , in the main , those intended for Russia , which for months have been very large . N , Russia is also being supplied from Atlantic ports , the ships going by the Panama Canal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American shipments to Russia are greater now than at any time since the outbreak of the war , The automouile industry is another whose European shipments would be seriously affected . All of the allied nations have ' made large contracts for motor vehicles in this country , and a majority of the plants are far from tidewater. e.epments of grain and other subsistence stores to the Allies would also be seriously hampered . Buyers , who are just now beginning to flock to New York from all parts of the United States and Canada to make their Purchases for the Winter season , would be greatly inconvenienced in the event of a railroad strike . Because of the absence of suggestions from abroad , the designers here have been tardy In arranging their displays , and for that reason the representatives of the out-oftown houses have delayed their arrival ley a fortnight . But each day now will bring hundreds in , and the suspension of railroad service would do untold injury to all the important business houses . The hotels , too , would suffer greatly from a strike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their patronage upon more or less distant cities . August is the largest month in the business history of some of the hotels when vacationists and general travelers , as well as buyers , arrive daily by the thousand . In the matter of supplying food for hotels and restaurants here the railroads are imperative . Some of the hotels are supplied with milk , eggs , and farm products by motor truck , and in these commodities a shortage would not be felt , but the demand for other foods is large and the supply which could be stored would not last for a week in case of a tie-un in the carriers . E. L. Howe . Executive Secretary of the National Reta// Dry ? DMA itstnelation , 03 West Forty-second Street . sent this telegram yesterday to l'oseph P. Tumulty , Secretary to the President : Elisha . Lee , Chairman of the Railways Conference Committee , and the heads of the railroad brotherhoods , all of whom are now In Washington , conferring with the President : " This association . " the telegram read , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country , who have several millions of employes , and hundrede of millions in capital invested , who would be seriously hampered by the threatened railway strike , urges you to use every human endeavor to prevent such a calamity . " The responsibility for the harm to life and property that would surely follow is too great for any human being to assume . Regardless of the justice of the contentions of either side the country must not , from either the health or business standpoint , be subjected to the terrible harm , not to mention the inconvenience that would result from such a strike . " The business of the country will strongly , uphold the hands of the President in any move he may take to avert this threatened calamity . Please convey to the President the foregoing information . If there is any action : that : this association or its itiernbera , gan= , take:41oVaesiet ' , the.:President deleted 3 lines                     