@@681259

txt By a vote of 7 to 4 the Senate Banking and Currency committee reported adversely on the nomination of Thomas D. Jones , of Chicago , for member of the Federal Reserve Board . Four Democrats , Pomerene , Shofroth , Hollis and Lee of Maryland , voted in favor of Mr. Jones ' confirmation . The five Republican members of the committee and two Democrats , Hitchcock and Reed , voted against Jones . Senator Owen , the remaining member of the committee , is in Europe . By unanimous vote , consideration of the name of Paul M. ' Warburg was indefinitely postponed . Paul M. Warburg consented to permit his name to go before the Senate for the Federal Reserve Board if the President desires him to de so , but has not changed his determination not to appear before the Committee on Banking and Currency . Word to this effect has come to the White House , where it was announced that President Wilson will - stand pat " on the nomination and fight for the confirmation of Warburg . Some doubt is expressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the committee report unfavorably upon the nomination . Senators Shofroth and Thomas of Colorado told the President that the Senate undoubtedly would confirm Warburg 's nomination and that an unfavorable report from the committee would have little effect . The President also believes the confirmation of Thomas D. Joao will be obtained without great trouble . It is believed that Mr. Warburg 's reconsideration of his decision to withdraw his name was purely out of consideration for President Wilson . who has been fighting fur his nomination . It is asserted that Mr. Wartiurg ? is perfectly indifferent as to whether he is or is not confirmed , that failure to confirm his nomination will cause him no concern and tnat his reconsideration of his request to withdraw was because of his friendship for the President and his desire te relieve him from embarrassment . " Thereis not the least possibility that Mr. Warburg will be confirmed by the Senate unless he agrees to appear before the Banking and Currency Committee . " This wan the opinion expressed by a majority of members of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to remain upon the list of the Federal Reserve Board , but would not appear before the committee . Senator Hitchcock of Nebraska , acting chairman of the committee , was surprised to bear of Warburg 's decision . " 1 thought our announcement concerning the Warburg case Wednesday closed the matter. - said Senator Hitchcock " A careful examen ' ation of that statement will show that the committee is united in its determinate-in not to consider the Warburg nomination unless the nominee complies with our wishes . I am of the opinion that such a confirmation could not possibly be obtained . " The committee will take no furtjaer action in the Warburg case ' mita it has been officially notified by the President of this latest development , fiat if we do not bear within a short time , we will probably notify the President in writing that we have beard nothing further from Mr. Warburg in connection with oar request for him to appear here . That will keep the record clear and the next move will come from the White House . " The Warburg matter was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Currency Committee , which gave all its attention to consideration of the nomination of Thos . D. Jones of Chicago . to be governor of the board . Scores of telegrams and letters have come to President Wilson congratulating him on his statement relating to Warburg . Many of them predict that it will be the beginning of a better understanding between him and the business interests of the country . At noon the Senate Banking and CurrencyCommittee took a recess after nearly two hours wrestling with the case of Paul M. Warburg of New York , nominated to be member of the Federal Reserve Board . ' There will be snowballs in Hades before the Wafeurg nomination comes out of pigeon-hole of the committee , unless he comes down . " said a Republican member of the committee , heretofore friendly to Warburg . " He is not bigger than the appointing power and the half can not control the whole . The President is half of the appointing power , the Senate is the other half . The President would not appoint a man to office , especially so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are entitled to them . We expect to have them and all the howling of Wall Street bankers and all the administration for toms will not swerve the Senate Committee-from the plain performance of its constitutional duty . " The committee took a recess to assist the Senate in getting a quorum . News that Warburg had agreed to withdraw his declination to aid the President to make the fight for his confirmation did not help the case any with the committee . They accepted it as a challenge from Warburg , and declared they were ready to accept it . At the offices of Kuhn , Loeb it Co. it was said no statement would be issued in reference to Mr. Warburg 's assent to President Wilson 's wishes in permitting his name to go before the Senate for appointment to the Federal Reserve Board . Mr. Warburg would make no comments . Atlanta , Ga -- At a meeting of the members of the Federal reserve bank of Atlanta Wednesday afternoon , at which 110 of the 375 member banks were represented . strong resolutions were unanimously passed expressing confidence in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NI . Warburg ; and ordering the chairman to telegraph the President urging him to use his influence to have the nomination confirmed by the Senate and also to telegraph Mr. Warburg . requesting him to allow his nomination to stand for consideration by the Senate . 