@@679745

txt Father Brothers Is Sure That Devout Appeals Kept His Mother Alive . MONTCLAIR , N. J. , Oct. ** Rev. William A. Brothers , rector of the Church Of the Immaculate Conception , made public acknowledgment to-day of the efficacy of prayer . He thanked his parishioners for their devout appeals that the life of his mother , Mrs. Katherine H. Brothers of Orange , might be spared until his return from Europe . Father Brothers said that he believed that his mother would not have lived until he reached her bedside if it had not been for the prayers of his flock . He started for home on the steamship George Washington , which arrived at Hoboken on Oct. 9 . The attending physiclans held out no hope that Mrs. Brothers would live until the liner arrived . One thousand women who were attending a mission at the church prayed night and day that she might live . Father Brothers reached ' his mother 's bedside several I hours before she pased away . BATTLE MEMORIAL IN CHURCH Trafalgar 's 106th Anniversary . Cele ' brated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mark the one hundredth and sixth anniversary of the battle of Trafalgar were held at 4 o'clock yesterday afternoon at St , James 's Protestant Episcopal Church , Seventy-first Street and Madison Avenue , snider the auspices of the Order of the Sons of St. George . An American flag was draped around the pulpit , while the lectern was swathed in the Union Jack . Immediately after the sermon the first verse of ' God Save the King , " followed by the first verse of " America " was sung . About 200 members of the Sons of St. George occupied the section reserved for them in the centre of the auditorium , while the rest of the seats were comfortably filled . Dr. Parker Morgan , rector emeritus of the Church of the Heavenly Rest , preached . PASTOR SEEKS COLLEGE MEN New Rector of . St. Mark 's to Open Church House for Them . The new rector of historic St. Mark 's Episcopal Church in the Bowery stated yesterday that it is his purpose to make the church unlike any other place of religious work and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parish of college men , both alumni and students , and a house expressly for them is to be opened in Stuyvesant Street at once . The number of the house is 44 . It has long been occupied by John Brooks Leavitt , a lawyer and Warden of the parish . He is to move out and the church will use the main floor for club purposes and the upper rooms for dormitories . Pews have been set apart in the chuch for alumni . There are thousands of students in the city and other thousands of alumni not attached to any churches , the new rector says , anti , he wants to reach them . LUMBERJACK " SKY PILOT . " The Rev. Francis E. Higgins Tells of His Work in the Camp . The Rev. Francis E. Higgins , known as the " Lumberjack Sky Pilot . " told yesterday at the Labor Tempt , Second Avenue and Fourteenth Street , of his work among lumbermen in Minnesota . He has just returned from abroad , on a short rest , and is on his way back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vast region stretching 200 miles west from Duluth and north to the Canadian line . Here are 30,000 men at work each Winter . From one logging camp to another , from hospital to hut , the whole Winter through , drawn by two St. Bernard dogs , he goes Preaching to and praying with the men , holding Services in bunk houses , ministering to the sick , and wherever possible endeavoring to help lumbermen . . Since Mr. Higgins first went into the woods the work has grown immensely . There are now eight circuits of twelve to twenty camps , each under a missionary , who travels , pack on .. back , through the snows . Over eight tons of magazine litrrature Were distributed to lumbermen last Winter. ,                     