@@680652

txt An unfortunate error Was perpetrated in the morning edition of The Wall Street Journal yesterday in quoting one of the Senate amendments to the income tax bill . For purposes of comenience in sending " , opy " to the printer . use as made of the typewritten statement handed to the newspapers by Senator Simmons , chairman of the Senate Finance Committee . This memorandum described the proposed amendments as submitted to the Democratic caucus by the Finance Committee . In the caucus certain N%orcls , were added . which are printed below in italics , and wl-ich change materially the purport of the amendment . They are contained in the printed bill as introduced in the Senate and should have been incorporated in Article XV. , printed yesterday . The amendment correctly reads : " leor the purpose of this additional tax , taxable income shall embrace the share of any taxable indivtdual of the gains and profits of all companies , whether incorporated or partnership , who would be legally entitled to enforce the distribution or division of the same , if divided or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any such company , when requested by the Commisioner of Internal Revenue or any District Collector of Internal Revenue , shall forward to him a correct statement of such profits and the names of the individuals who would be entitled to the same if distributed . ' The words printed in italics have been added to the bill since The Wall Street Journal called attenticn , on July 9 , to the decision of Justice Shipman , in the U. S. District Court , that stockholders had no legal claim on profits until the directors or trustees had declared a dividend from such profits , or " the stockholders , exercising their corporate functions , " and not as individuals , had taken the control of the funds from the directors . This change is obviously intended to apply to the possible incorporation of individuals or estates , like the Astor estate , to put the onus of a dividend declaration on the limited number of stockholders who would be concerned in such an incorporation , and to hold them for the surtax whether or not the profits or income were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enforce the distribution . " Whether , if , in one year , the stockholder was taxed on an undistributed income , he would be liable as an individual for a tax on a dividend declared out of the same fund the next year , the bill is silent . It is also silent as to where tho line shall be drawn in determining what stockholders " would be legally entitled to enforce the distribution . " Between possibly three stoclholders in the suppositious corporation of Vincent Astor . Inc. and the United States Steel Corporation , with 120,000 stockholders , there is a broad field for legal hairsplitting as to who is legally entitled to declare a dividend and therefore be responsible for an income tax . - 