@@680097

txt Much encouragement may be derived from the authoritative interviews with leading men of business reported in yesterday 's TIMES . It is their ' common idea that the Fall trade will approach the banner records of 1907 . Of course , there are some who are dissatisfied if every year is not a record year . Even that may yet prove the case with this Presidential year . Confining statements of facts to-existing conditions , it seems sure that this Presidential year , like all other Presidential years since 1896 , is to witness a gradual ? and sure upward price movement of securities . There is not the same basis of prediction regarding commodity prices , they being less subject to every wind that blows , and therefore less useful in indicating which way it blows . The campaigns of 1900 , 1904 , and 1908 were all alike as being the starting point of a prolonged and decided betterment in the stock market . The indications are better now for a repetition of those repeated incidents than they were at the time when those experiences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about this deduction is that in all those cases there was a better indication of a continuance of the established administration policy than may now seem clear to all . A change of administration policy is always an unsettling influence , apart from the merits of the change . Even a change for the better is disturbing to those accustomed to what they are familiar with , and prejudiced in its favor . We therefore have the paradox that the election of a Republican Administration would be more stimulating to security prices than a popular mandate for a change , even though the change were for the better . Upon this the obvious remark is that even so the change for the better would be worth the pricel if it were for the better , and that if there is to be no change , it is because conditions are not so bad as to make a change necessary . It would be hard to make anything depressing out of either alternative . But although it is difficult to deduce what financial interests are thinking about politics , judging from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself to reach a sure conclusion about something of more importance . There is no sort of doubt what the farmers are thinking about the growing season . Every day that-passes is adding to the strength of the foundation which justifies the c.ientry 's apparent indifference to politics . There is a promise now that this year 's wheat crop will be much greater than last year 's . We may have a record corn crop , and a wheat crop ranking near the best , and will have hay enough to make meat for most if not all meat eaters . If nature continues its kindly promise , the politicians will do their worst in vain . An improving agricultural season like this is a sustaining force such as it is difficult to measure , and impossible to resist . The present prospect is that instead of having a declining trade we shall have a trade which will tax all our resources to carry on as it should be carried on , owing to the unremedied defects of our currency system , and the inability of railways to make such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advance of rates or a reduction of costs . The longer the security market remains within its present range the greater the prospect , that the end of the deadlock will be more agreeable than the beginning . The modification of this anticipation of an unknown event is dependent more on intrinsic conditions than on politics ; plainly it is losing influence daily , and politics are likelier to change for the better than intrinsic conditions to change for the worse .                     