@@683788

txt When the history of this audacious war is fully written , there should be no more interesting chapter than that which deals with the interned German ships and their reappearance in a few months as auxiliary transports of the United States Navy . And this notwithstanding the damage inflicted upon them by Prussian orders was such as was calculated to keep them out of service for two years or what the Germans had figured as the period within which the war would terminate . inirty-seven tiertnan ships of 700,000 aggregate tons had their 74 engine cylinders so broken in that repairs within any reasonable time seemed out of the question . The biggest ships appeared to call for new castings entirely beyond the capacity of any foundry works in the United States . When the Shipping Board trot down to close estimates , it figured the repair bill at $2 ; 600,000 and time required 18 to 24 months . But , American enterprise , combined with American invention , conocntrated capital and industrial organization in large units accomplishea the job in six to eight months at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ships has been for many weeks most effectively in Uncle Sam 's service except possibly the Armenia lost off the Irish coast . SAVING $240.000.000 The Navy Department has figured that the saving time at the going rate of tonnage had a value of not less than $240,000,000 . One of the first ships tackled had four cylinders broken and it was estimated that eighteen months would be required for repairS . In two months the engines were turning over and in less than three months the ship was finished and ready for sea . Indeed , the striking feature of the whole situaVon is the fact that the repairs on all the ships were made within the time required to overhaul the ships , clean their bottoms and otherwise make them ready for sea . The Germans had all their labor for their pains . What is also well-nigh incredible , the ships are stronger than before and the largest of them are more economically operated and are actually working better in the American than in the German hands . ELEPAJR1 NG THE WORLD 'S BIGGEST SHIP Take the Vaterland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing afloat . Stood up on Broadway , she would tower 200 feet above the Woolworth Building . She has 18 decks , 18 elevators. 5 kitcnens. 530 clocks , all timed from the main bridge , hot and cold water in every room , and many miles of piping , wiring and electric controls . Captain Ruser , one of the most manly and gentlemanly of commanders . was so in love with his ship that be would not permit it to be damaged otherwise than as directed by the Government to insure her being out of commission for at least two years . There were no foundries on this side of the ocean that could give the ' aterland new cylinder castings of 70 tons each , and no dry-dock that could receive her on this side of the ocean except at the Panama Canal . The General Electric Co .. the New York Central and the Eric Railroads all co-operated with electric workers and electric welding devices and what it was estimated would require live months on this ship was done in ten days . Thirteen breaks or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the electric welding system and made stronger than before , yet without a single rivet having to be put through the 83 ? inches of metal . AMERICAN CO-OPERATION It was found that the United States Steel Corporation had developed just the right wire soldering with the proper mixture of manganese and that the railroad repair shops around New York had developed the electric welding process of the General Electric Co. to a higher efficiency than anywhere else in the world . The railroad shops and the General Electric Co. were able to furnish the apparatus and the crews to repair the machinery at the Vaterland within the time required for general overhauling , and cleaning of the ship 's bottom by a half-dozen submarine divers , who , among other things , took 280 bushels of oysters off the Vaterland 's bottom . The Vaterland was equipped with both Curtiss and Parsons turbine engines , but the Germans have never been able to work them to full efficiency . Indeed , on the last trip to this country under German engineers , the Vaterland was able to use only part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improved the machinery and the draught to her 46 boilers , improved the piping and valves and sent the giant forth in a few months at above a 21-knot speed and using 200 tons of coal a day less than before . IMPROVED OPERATION The Germans had figured that the Vaterland could never be repaired in the United States and if repaired was such a complicated piece of mechanism that it could never be operated by Americans or any new official staff . The officers of the big German ships have to be in training at least a year with their ships during construction . Now on the Vaterland in place of five German captains of the unlimited license class , there is but one American captain and instead of a chief engineer and five assistant engineers , there is just one American chief engineer , and he is only 32 years of age . The secret of the naval successes here was not only in American enterprise and invention , but in concentrated capital and industrial organizations in large units . which must be maintained if we are to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more progress in electric welding than any other country . : Indeed it is now declared that a woman can handle an electric welding torch and take the place of four riveters and do better work . WOMEN CAN DO IT With our Shipping Board alive to its duty and the lesson of the Vaterland and the interned German ships . we should soon be welding ship plates instead of riveting them and if the men wo n't do the work properly , the women can .                     