@@678757

txt GOOD ADVICE NOT WANTED . In his address to the Economic Assoelation President LOWELL said : One useful ' test of investigations in any . branch of learning is the extent to which persons engaged in the practice of the subject turn to them for advice . But how much do statesmen turn to professors of political science ? Surely students of polities do not lead public thought so much as they ought to do . The truth of the observation may be admitted , but a different application may be- made of it . Whose fault is it if American politicians do not consult students economics as much as they profitably might ? President LowEi .. 1 , himself said that New York reformers devoted themselves to reform of the primaries along lines tried and abandoned in Massachusetts . Surely it was not the fault of those who knew that their advice was not asked . Yesterday was published the message of the Governor of Ohio , recommending a method of taxation condemned by all students of taxation and by ample experience . Is it the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not ask their advice ? Not long ago Congress appointed a commission to reform our confused monetary system , and the banking profession has no place upon the council . Is it the fault of the bankers and the professors of finance that they have not an influential voice in the discussion , and are allowed merely to write essays upon the subject instead of drawing up bills ? Perhaps the most conspicuous example of all is that afforded by our misfit railway legislation . Here advice was asked , and given , and rejected , not once , but twice , with results within the knowledge of alL What happened in Mr. ROOSEVELT 'S time when Mr. MORGAN made an unsuccessful visit to the White House is not a pleasant reminiscence . Yesterday a second visit was paid on a similar errand , and the result lies in the future . It must be said in Mr. TAFT 'S favor that , however resolute in action , he is certainly suaver in method than his predecessor , Those whom he consulted were not openly flouted , in indifference to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the savagest of reformers to say that he does not care what happens to the railways . It has been proved that it is a mistake to overlook their employes , or even - their shareholders , and there is a sense in which every American suffers with the railways . Mr. TAFT has - not shown indifference 4 to these considerations , and yet he is represented as having modified his intentions only in minor matters . In the main it is his intention to proceed with his plans of reform . It is agreeable toadmit that he means well , but there is no presumption that he will do well if It be true that he has rejected substantially the advice of those most qualified to advise . It is premature to discuss his recommendations before we have them , but the heads of his intention are public property . He hopes to recommend the new prohibitions by softening some of the applications of the existing statutes . But the things now forbidden to be permitted hereafter were necessitated by the enactments which are to be modified . Railways were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be allowed hereafter . But they ate to be forbidden the device by which they alleviated the prohibition of rate arrangement , and were thus bidden to cut each other 's rates ? and throats . In order to avert uneconomic competition they established community of interests , and in Many cases of ownership , but this is now to be forbidden . The old reforms admittedly worked ill , but the new laws will work well  --  in the ' opinions of the proposers . If it were possible to give force of law to sedative adjectives and  --  good intentions , no apprehension would be felt . It is because we have had an experience to the contrary that we are reluctant about another venture . Some good things resulted from the old legislation , but they were not what was expected , and nobody was ' more surprised than the railways which profited by the legislation directed against them . On the other hand , some bad things in the laws were averted by extralegal devices , and these are now to be modified . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new laws will work . It is equally difficult to indulge agreeable anticipations , and unnenessary to entertain disquieting apprehensions . When . a. wise . mazi was once asked about a course of action in a doubtful case he replied with another question : . " Ca n't your-let it alone ? "                     