@@682525

txt Everywhere among Republican politicians appears to be a disposition to believe that Colonel Roosevelt will give his support to the Hughes-Fairbanks ticket nominated today . It is realized by the leaders that there has been some feeling on Colonel Roosevelt 's part against Justice Hughes on the ground that Mr. Hughes did not show proper appreciation of the Colonel 's efforts to have him renominated for Governor of New York in 1908 and to help in his fight to reorganize the State Insurance Department . but they contend that the Colonel will not let these past animosities influence him at this time . The Colonel 's message to the Progressive Convention is regarded as indicating that he will decline the Progressive nomination and find a means of coming out strongly in support of the Republican candidate . The main consideration with Colonel Roosevelt , according to the rather general view of Republicans . is the defeat of President Wilson , and they contend that it would be inconsistent for- him , after all he has said in condemnation of the Wilsion policies , to take measures that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harding of Ohio , who was both temporary and permanent Chairman of the Republican Convention , is one of those who believe that Colonel Roosevelt will not be a candidate for President on tile third party ticket . Harding Predicts Victory . In speaking of the nomination of Justice Hughes , the Senator said : " No stronger nomination could have been made Because of his position on the bench the public had taken little notice of the vigorous Americanism and strong character of Justice Hughes . He will now put aside the judicial robes and emerge a. militant and inspiring party leader . I have every confidence that there will be but two parties enlisting the attention of the American people this year . and I feel absolutely certain that November will witness the election of Hughes and Fairbanks . " - Congressman W. S. Vare of Philadelphia , who favored the nomination of Colonel Roosevelt by the Republican convention , and was one of the Pennsylvania delegates who voted for the Colonel last night , is another Republican who believes that the Colonel will support Hughes and Fairbanks . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for President and Mr. Fairbanks for Vice President should prove effective in reuniting the Republican Party . I do believe that Colonel Roosevelt will give his enthusiastic support to the Republican ticket . " Justice Hughes is a strong Amerlcan . His public record is ample assurance . He will have the confidence of tie : Republican voters . I feel sure that Colonel Roosevelt . with his loyalty to Americanism , and his characteristic singleness of purpose , will be the ablest supporter that Hughes and Fairbanks will have . " The spirit of progress and unity which has dominated the present convention . and the evident desire of the delegates themselves to do what is best for the Republican Party and nation make certain that there will be complete unity of purpose in the party , and that the Republicans will be restored to'power in the executive and legislative branches of the Federal Government . " People 's Choice , Says Tanner . Frederick C. Tanner , Chairman of the New York State Republican Committee . said : " Governor Hughes was chosen because he was the people 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him , Roosevelt will support him because Roosevelt is patriotic . The Republican Party is reunited . " Senator Penrose said : " The ticket nominated today will be elected by a decisive vote and it will  --  carry Pennsylvania by an old-time Republican majority . With it will be elected a majority in both branches of Congress . Under the peculiar circumstances surrounding the party , brought about by the unfortunate division of 1912 , the nomination of Justice Hughes was preminently the logical outcome . Everybody wants harmony-and a healing of dissensions of the past . " " Six months ago , " said Charles D. Hines . Chairman of the Republican National Committee . " I said the nominee would be born In the convention . And he was . " " I'am very much pleased , of course , " said Prank H. Hitchcock " . the Hughes manaleer ? ? It means a reunited RepublicanParty and victory in le-ovender. ? ?                     