@@681691

txt The text of I General Carranza 's reply to the strong protests of Secretary Bryan in regard to conditions in Mexico City was given out 11 here tonight , having been forwarded to Washington this afternoon . The reply is addressed to President Wilson instead of to the Secretary of State . General Carranza tells the President he would consider himself justified in not answering the demands , because of the terms in which they are expressed . He consents to reply , he says , for the ' ; sake of his cause , and promises to reply more fully through regular diplomatic channels on later protests . While denying the charge that General ' Obregon has incited the people of the capital to take violent measures to get ; food and maintaining that the evils cornplained of are due to the state of war . in the country , General Carranza admits the responsibility for the safety of foreigners in the territory he controls and promises to grant protection and means to leave Mexico City as far as he can . As the best solution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other foreigners should leave Mex. - ico City . The following is the text of - General Carranza 's reply : " Although the terms in which this note is worded would afford me cause - for not answering , it is my wish , notwithstanding , that my silence be not construed as a justification of charges contained in the same . I have tried to put aside for the moment references which are made to my personal responsibility and , looking only for the good of my country and for the benefit of the cause which the Mexican people have intrusted to me , I thought it my duty to answer at once . " On the other hand , in view of the importance of the subject discussed in the aforesaid note , I have thought myself authorized not to follow this time customary channels , but td address you ( President Wilson ) personally concerning a matter which may involve the success of the Mexican revolution . In the note I am answering it is taken for granted that the imputations made against General Obregon by an international committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substance of which also has been communicated to me by Mr. Silliman in his note of the first instant , are true , and this assump. tion has been indulged in when the answer to those imputations was being prepared . " Reserving the privilege of answering more fully and in detail through the customary diplomatic channels the note referred to lately , I take this opportunity to state in an earnest and emphatic way that General Obregon never has intended to incite the hungry populace of the City of Mexico to commit outrages of any character . ? He has not prevented in any way the entrance of food supplies into Mexico City , but on the contrary has facilitated such importations . He has not created willfully the distressing conditions which prevail at present in Mexico City , but has done everything in his power to alleviate them . " Such a situation is the consequence of a painful but unavoidable state of war in which we are and which for the first time really has reached Mexico City , but it has been aggravated by the conduct of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of action closed . their commercial establishments in moments of greatest public distress as a protest against the humanitarian relief tax which General Obregon imposed . " In face of the charges expressed by the international committee in their complaint to the State Department , I point you to the fact that General Obregon has been in the possession of the City of Mexico since Jan. 20 until today , without mobs , assassinations , lootings , or any other of the outrages which are apt to occur , and which frequently do occur , in times of war . " During all this time large amounts of food supplies have been taken into Mexico City and large quantities of supplies have been distributed among the distressed people . " Other important measures also have been taken , looking to further relief , which I will mention in detail at the proper time " While it is proper to state to your Excellency that the right to occupy or I to evacuate Mexico City or any other place in the republic must at all times be reserved and is to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in furtherance of the I cause of the revolution , the obligation on the Constitutionalist Army to safeguard the lives of foreigners is nevertheless fully understood and realized . You will therefore permit me to assure you that at the time of the evacuation of Mexico City every facility within my power will be afforded to all foreign residents in that city to depart the country -- or to go to other and safer places in the republic " I always have tried to give and have given the largest protection that has been possible to the lives and interests of Americans and other foreigners even . during the most difficult period of our struggle . I have the purpose of continuing the same line of conduct and have decided to take all measures possible to avoid all damage to foreign residents . With this purpose solely in view , I addressed a note to the Diplomatic Corps in Mexico City , which I have repeated twice , inviting them in case of evacuation to come either to this port or to any of the cities , for instance Puebla . Jalapa. or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces , where they can be assured perfect protection . " It was only three days ago that the State Department at Washington di , rected the attention of American residents in Mexico City to your former advice that they should retire from the country until conditions should be settled . It is my earnest wish that the other foreign residents should follow a line of conduct similar to the one suggested by you to the . American residents . for the adoption of such a course would be the wisest measure that can be taken to avoid consequences so much to be feared . I wish I could adequately convey to your Excellency the political and economic conditions in the City of Mexico and their causes as they are understood and known here to be , concerning which representations by an international committee has been made to the State Department . Perhaps a last effort is now being made by reactionaries to bring about complications which may cause the failure of the Mexican revolution . After having encountered and disposed of other and much more difficult and embarrassing situations in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign residents scattered all over the territory of Mexico , It will prove to be most unfortunate if now , when Mexico City alone is involved , a situation shall arise which will destroy the hopes and purposes of the Mexican people . " Because of this consideration , permit me to repeat the hope elsewhere expressed that foreign residents may be induced to save your Government and the republic of Mexico from embarrassments , by temporarily leaving the City of Mexico . Allow me to avail myself of this opportunity to reiterate to you the assurances of my highest consideration and personal regards . "                     