@@679459

txt That the impending reversal of Diaz policies in Mexico has some substantial basis would appear from the advices received to-day by Senor de la Barra , the Mexican Ambassador to the United States , who left at 6:45 this evening for the City of Mexico to assume the duties of Minister of Foreign Affairs . The Diaz Government has decided that there should be a nationalization of the public domain , and a plan for a general land system has been tentatively arranged somewhat after the proportions of the homestead law of the United States . This comes at a late day , after the greater part of the public lands of Mexico , and by far the best of them , have been granted to individuals , who are either I within the Limantour group or Immediately in touch with and dependent upon it . Many of the grants embrace millions of acres , which , under irrigation , . are capable of the highest possible production of farm staples . President Diaz will outline the scheme in his message to the Mexican Congress at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was about to leave Washington Senor de la Barra discussed the news which reached him to-day , saying : " I am informed that President Diaz will urge Congress to authorize these reforms , particularly as pertaining to the improvement and homesteading of the public domain and the purchase of portions of large haciendas , which are not now wholly under cultivation , to be divided up among the poor at actual cost and on easy payments . This plan , which has been under consideration by my Government for some time , first had publicity in a statement made by Senor Limantour in Paris . It has met with the most popular approval in Mexico . and doubtless would have been undertaken several months ago had not the seditionary disturbances in certain sections made it necessary for the Government to draw upon the funds that had been accumulated in the National surplus with this purpose in view . " $40,000,000 for Irrigation . Of the surplus in the National Treasury President Diaz will recommend in his message that approximately . $40,000,000 be devoted to the development of irrigation projects . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5,000,000 acres of , land will be opened up- feu ' division Into small ' farms . It a sufficient number of large landowners do not volunteer to sell to fhe Government a certain percentage of the larger estates will be condemned and purchased by the Government at the appraised value . " But little difficulty is anticipated In this matter . " said the Ambassador . " Very many of the largest owners are foreigners , and large tracts of their lands have not been improved for cultivation . Such lands as these , rather than the improved lands , which , of course , are more valuable . will be sointhe and the farmer who buys will do his own improving4 The bigger improvements , such as irrigation , &c..; will be done by the Government . This will enable the poor man to obtain a small tract of land at the lowest possible price . " Ambassador de la Barra stated that the report of Senor Limantour , who is retained in the Cabinet as Minister of Finance . showed- that the Government 's surplus and credit abroad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further step to help the peons  --  to exact no payment for one year , the farms to be paid for in ten annual payments . If the crops are disappointing , only a small percentage of the proceeds will be exacted each year . and if the crops are destroyed no payment will be required for that rear . It was staled that the average size of the farms would be about sixteen acres , to be smaller or larger , according to the number of men in the family capable of working them . In order to prevent " land grabbers " taking advantage of this plan , no one will be allowed to buy more than one farm until he has paid for it , and no one will he allowed to sell or dispose of his farm in any way until he has made ail payments . Even if cash is paid down , a certain number of years must elapse before the purchaser can transfer it out of his own immediate family . " I regret very much leaving Washington . where all my associations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Barra , " but I very greatly appreciate the honor which President Diaz has conferred on me by appointing me Minister of Foreign Relations , and the appointment naturally is very pleasing to me , as it will give me a great opportunity to serve my country in 8. post of much responsibility . It will be my aim to act for the best Interests of all our people . " The others of the Cabinet are representative men of our country , who I think are acceptable to all parties . I have no information from my country about the new Cabinet , and all my knowledge comes from the newspapers , but the names of the gentlemen mentioned are those of highest standing in Mexico and they have all worked hard for the best interests of the country . The people , without regard to party , I am sure . will be fully satisfied with the new Cabinet of President Diaz. and I feel sure he will remain at the head of affairs . " Strong Hopes for Peace . With the departure of Senor de la Barra @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of peace in Mexico has been inaugurated . President Taft and Secretary of State Knox , as well as the members of the Diplomatic Corps , who hav ? evinced keen interest on behalf of their countries in the development of the . ' Mexican situation , it is known , share this belief . Senor de la Barra 's mission is regarded as the most significant occurrence in the Mexican situation since Senor Limantour conferred in New York with Francisco Madero , Sr. and Gustavo A. Madero. father and brother of the revolutionist leader . Senor de la Barra refrained from participating in the peace conferences . but he was fully acquainted with what passed , and he has had an opportunity since to learn of the contentions of the revolutionist party . Coincident with his departure came the information froma. trustworthy source that Francisco Madero , Sr. , and Gustavo A. Madero , who passed through here laat night en route to San Antonio , Texas , really were on their way to join the Provisional President in his stronghold in Chihuahua . It is believed that they will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ la Barra to-day declined to discuss for publication the plans he had in mind , but admitted that he had formulated certain ideas which he would lay before President DIEM and the new Cabinet in the interests of internal peace . He declared that he would dedicate all his energy to effect peace in Mexico . From a person in the confidence ' of the Mexican Government , as well as the leaders of the Revolutionist Party , it was learned to-night that the prospect of peace is so bright that the paramount question now is to decide upon the modus operandi of the negotiations . It Is admitted that this is no small obstacle . The revolutionist leaders have requested that the negotiations be formal and that they be carried on In Washington . ? The Mexican Government feels unable to accede to this request because its dignity and prestige abroad might be weakened in the future by the precedent . Such formal negotiations , it is argued , might be interpreted as a recognition of the belligerency of the insurgents . Fears expressed by members of the revolutionary party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be set at rest , it is believed , by guarantees from members of the new Cabinet . The method of peace negotiation will probably be formal presentation by the revolutionist party of the programme they desire . This will be followed by correspondence and conferences designed to satisfy allifactions . As a proof to the revolutionists of its good intent , /the Mexican Government , it further was learned , may in the near future put into effect in the State of Puebla a corrective electoral policy , and the results of this move are calculated to convey assurances of the adoption of the reform programme throughout the republic .                     