@@679323

txt It looks as ? ifthe motto of our State department under the immediate guidance of-Secretary Knox and the authority - of President TAFT was H. happy amendment of ' the old law by which heaver:military appropriations are justified . " In time of peace prevent war " defines the spirit of the work of the department , especially with reference to the judicial settlement of international ' disputes . At the . conference of the American society for the promotion of this ' object , at Washington , Mr. CHoArr , former Representative of the United States at The . Conference , made a very important announcement as to the progress of the work . The crux of the problem of an international tribunal is the constitution of the tribunal , the selection of judges , and the difficulty of adjusting this point lies in the naturally strong sense of nationality and independence in the smaller nations .. It was agreed at the latest Hague . Conference that a court of fifteen judges would be the most convenient and efficient . As to the question of equality of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that each nation submit one name , and that from all the names fifteen he drawn be ; lot . As a complete , pledge of confidence in the good faith of all the nations represented , and as a practical and emphatic indorsement of the working of the plan . the United States offered to forego the nomination for a member of the court . and to accept the judges chosen without our participation ; and surely no more complete loyalty to the principle could be conceived . The conference was , however , unable to reach a conclusion and adjourned , with more hope than expectation that further study and discussion would result in better understanding . Mr. CHOATE new announces that Secretary  --  Kerox has almost completed a plan for the selection of judges which he believed would be accepted by all nations . If this belief : shall prove 0 , be well founded , a step in advance toward the general prevention of war of - unprecedented importance will have been taken . Meanwhile , the following dispatch to The Sun from Vienna is significant : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Great ' Britain have - initiated important pou rpariers with the object of demonstrating that there . exist no opposing interests such as would prevent an understanding between the two . countries . It is not a matter 1 of - arriving at an agreement . On-. all - outstanding questions between . the two Posers. but of establishing policios by - Which Great Britain arid Germany . will hereafter ' never follow divergent paths . The pourparlers , the paper says , have already ' been opened , and will be pressed forward after the elections in Great Britain . In London the Foreign Office declined either to confirm or deny these statements . which gives to them a certain degree of authenticity . The present Government of Great Britain , - which has just ' won a new lease of power , if not ' a long one at the elections , is far more inclined to an understanding with Germany than a Conservative Govern ' Ment would be . The Liberals - have a policy of , internal changes which demands all the money they can possibly raise , and they would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rations . The Conservatives , on the contrary , would be glad to escape from the tangle of internal questions . through agitation relating to dangers from the outside. , If , therefore , negotiations , which , in an informal ' and tentative fashion , have ? been going on for the past year , are now to . be pressed somewhat more- definitely , the political Conditions are clearly favorable in . England . In one respect they are so , in Germany also . The financial burden imposed by the steadily increasing preparations for war is very heavy , and is felt mure and more in nearly every class of society throughout the Empire . It is felt most sorely among the laboring classes , especially in the extensive industries dependent on export trade . where it is aggravated by the protective duties and restrictions of all sorts upon imported food products . It Is the underlying motive of , the constant growth in the Opposition strength in the Reichstag and In the Legislatures of the States other than Prussia . The conviction is strengthening among the progressive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question of peace in the world lies to a great extent within the discretion of their Government , that Germany is now practically impregnable against any probable aggressor or combination of aggressors , and that her vital interests will be served by a general agreement for the avoidance of war , a general check to the tremendous cost of preparing . for war . These facts tend to encourage the hope that Mr. leeox 's plan for a. real Court of Arbitral Justice may succeed . . .                     