@@680664

txt One of the party of members of the Boston Chamber of Commerce and New England educators who have been visiting the principal countries of South America , for the purpose of discovering the means to strengthen trade relations between those rich and growing republics and the United States , spoke the simple truth when he said to a reporter of THE TIMES : South America is a natural outlet for the products of the United States , yet our merchants have permitted millions of dollars ' worth of this trade to go to foreign countries every year , and all because they have not given proper attention to it The neglect of South American trade by American merchants and manufacturers until lately has been largely due to the conditions created by an absurdly high protective tariff . Satisfied by the large profits they have made under the influence of that unwholesome stimulant , they have let opportunities slip from them which they must now work very hard to recover . But the experience of the Boston party indicates what all American business men who have systematically investigated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibilities in South America are boundless , but that American trade is desired there . The Panama Canal will facilitate the shipping of goods to and from South America , and both our import and export trade with all the countries , especially Chile and Peru , will be increased with the opening of the great waterway . Our business men are now alive to the need of studying South American trade conditions , and the acquirement of information relative to the rapidly developing republics south of the canal . The publication will begin in THE SUNDAY TIMES , July 27 , of a series of noteworthy articles descriptive of the countries of South America by Gen. RAFAEL REYES , ex-President of Colombia , who is now making a tour of those countries . His record of his observations and impressions is set down with the purpose of informing the people of this country as to the development of South America and the needs and ideals of its people . Gen. REYES is a firm believer in the PanAmerican idea ; he insists that while the republics of South America should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harmony with the United States for the good of civilization . Gen. REYES is still a vigorous advocate of what he considers his own country 's just demands in regard to the Panama Canal , but he recognizes and admires the achievements of this country in defense of civilization and democracy and pays tribute to the Americans for " implant " ing healthy conditions in the mala " rial regions of this continent . " His first article treats largely of the recent development of Brazil . South America , he points out , no longer signifies political unrest and financial disaster . The national credit of some of its States is higher than that of several European countries . While I Brazil is larger than the United States and much of its territory is still uncultivated and its immense resources have been only partly developed , it has many important industries , and a very large foreign trade . It has populous and beautiful cities and an admirable educational system . It is the only country on this continent with a permanent diplomatic service . Gen. REYES describes Bahia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other Brazilian cities , and sets down many facts regarding the industries of the various States of this great republic . The value of these articles , written without prejudice by a man of his attainments and experience and with hts purpose in view , can scarcely be overestimated . I '                     