@@679905

txt Men in Control of Trusts Should Be Dealt With Directly , He Says . ONLY , HOPE OF PROSPERITY Government 's Aim Should Be to Free Business from Those Who Put It on a False and Selfish Footing , ' TOPEKA , Kan. , Feb. ** arrival et Gov . Woodrow Wilson in Kansas and NS speech to-night at the dinner of the Kansas Democratic Club here brought out one of the largest gatherings of Democrats since the visit of William Jennings Bryan in 1905 . Long before the day was over every available seat at the dinner table bad been taken . The dinner was held at Masonic Hall , one of the largest halls in the city , and the room proved too small to accommodate all who wanted to hear the chief speaker . Gov . Wilson 's subject was " The Relation of Business to the Government . " He said in part : " We look back to-day to a great example  --  the example set us by a great practical genius , whose gift it was to look forward and plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinction of Washington and of his associates that they conceived their own fortunes and the fortunes of Virginia in the terms of the development of the Nation . When we , in our generation , look upon the circumstances of America . we must try to see the facts as they are , and to see them broadly . America is a business Nation , a Nation of material enterprise and commerce on a large scale . " The cry of die hour seems to be that business has grown as formidable in its independent organization as to have set itself up in rivalry to the Government itself , and that it therefore ' must be regarded ; that the whole force of Government must be bent to the restraint of business . I venture to suggest that what we are really after is not the restraint of business , but the restraint of individuals who are putting business upon a false and selfish footing . We do not wish to hamper the great processes of our economic life , but to free them where they have been made wrong use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sought to promote their own private and selfish Purposes by means that were neither public spirited nor honorable . " In respect of the restraint of wrong . we should deal with individuals rather than with corporations . It should be laid bare of whom business combinations consist , and those of whom they consist should be directly and individually dealt with whenever a wrong is done . either to an individual or to the freedom of business itself . " Business can be free only when the Nation is free . America 's programme of popular gov.ernment is America 's hope for prosperity . Political freedom and commercial freedom go hand in hand . Where there is monopoly in the one there will be tyranny and special privilege . in the other . " Gov . Wilson will start for Lawrence . Kan. , early to-morrow morning , where he will address the students of Kansas University .                     