@@680775

txt President BISCHThreatening orr of the AmerUs with ican Meat Pack-ers ' Association Vegetarianism. prophesies that within ten years porterhouse steak will cost us $1 a pound , and then . peering still more deeply into the dismal future , he sees the Americans of the twentyfirst century living as the low-caste Chinaman does now , on rice and vegetables , and , like him , slothful creatures , anaemic. and without initiative . The only way to ward off this terrifying fate , Mr. BISCHOFF says , is to educate the American farmer to the necessity of raising more cattle . If that last be so , the prospect is pretty dark , for the American farmer is as little likely as the rest of us to determine the nature of his production by anything except its profit to himself , and no national " necessity " will ever make him raise cattle if it does n't pay . For some time past , in spite of advancing meat prices , he has seen steadily less and less for himself in stock  --  a fact indicating , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the Packers ' Association , the process of education should be applied . The farmer will not be put out of business even though we all do become vegetarians , and the meat packers , as such , certainly will be . As for the effect of a purely vegetable diet on the race . Mr. BISCHOFF 'S prediction would be more impressive had he been more careful in the selection of adjectives with which to characterize the Chinese . Without initiative , in some senses , they may have been , but until very lately , as history goes , they were by far the most advanced and probably the most intelligent people in their half of the world , while they are not and never have been either anaemic or slothful . It was an excusable , if not justifiable , belief in their own superiority that prevented them from adopting Occidental ways and inventions as promptly as the Japanese di- and , as between the : tWp , few observers ; k greater things from awakened China than from its more promptly moving rival . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is right on general principles in foreseeing disastrous consequences to follow deprivation of meat . Master races , and the ruling class of other races , have always been flesh eaters , no considerable number of people ever having been strict vegetarians except from a necessity clearly recognized as cruel and escaped from as soon OS economic competency permitted . As if to settle What Pegoud 's t h e uncertainty Flights whether it was S 's or O 's that Are Proving . PEGOIJD ? ' cut " in his first exhibitions of upside-down flying , on Sunday he went up into the air and proceeded to write both of those letters on the presumably astonished sky . Probably any bird that chose could duplicate these feats easily enough , but it is not recorded that any bird ever attempted either of them . Many take headlong-dives from great heights . but as these descents are always of a strictly business character , the upward turn is made in the simplest possible way . That , of course , is forward , not backward , and no flight half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follows his more complicated path , as he himself explains it , to prove that an aviator is not necessarily lost even if his machine does capsize . The demonstration is hardly convincing except as to carefully planned overturnings. quite different from those which come unexpectedly and in other than the conditions and positions that the Frenchman selects . If capsized within a few hundred feet of the ground , for instance . or if his planes collapsed , he would be as helpless as was many another aviator who has fallen to death . Unquestionably , however , PEGOUD has revealed that the aeroplane has possibilities hitherto unthought of by practical fliers , though nothing he does ' presents any difficulties of explanation to the closest theorist . He evidently has a machine of exceptionally good construction , else would it not have endured the enormous strains to which his evolutions subject it , and in this probably lies the most valuable lesson of his per- formances . ? The chief wonder of these performances is that a man can keep all his wits about him and do exactly the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fast as , or faster than , gravity can take him . It has been a common assumption that merciful unconsciousness comes on before the termination of much shorter falls than that , and the phrase " he never knew what hurt him " has rarely been missing from descriptions of such accidents . However It may be with other men , Fzcorn , if the fate he is tempting overtakes him , will not be spared full realization of his end . Great as is the present Turkeys popularity of the turkey Live as food . its favor would Too Long . be both greater and better deserved if more people realized that a young turkey Is as much better eating than a fully matured one as a chicken is better than a hen . Too long have most of us taken it for granted that the best turkey is the biggest turkey , and amiable patriots  --  with a keen eye for incidental advertising-1 have carefully reared birds of monstrousl size for presentation to Presidents , Governors , and other high-and-mighties . These eminent ones have gratefully acknowledged such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been much better served had the wellbrowned victim been further from the record by a dozen pounds or even twenty . Economists may frown at the suggestion that all turkeys intended for the table should be killed young , for that plan would involve a seeming diminution in the total supply of turkey meat . Probably the loss is only seeming , however , for several little turkeys can be raised for what one big one costs , and many a lamentable accident would be avoided by a more timely use of the hatchet                     