@@681940

txt While there is no question but that it will require a stupendous British credit or gold shipment to this country to place the foreign exchange market on a more normal basis , and attention is on that account chiefly directed to these factors , nevertheless the minor influences working in the direction of strengthening the market should not be overlooked , and among them is the steaay stream or . securities coming from England to this country . Some of the investment houses with foreign connections report sales of American securities by their British friends who anticipate another British government loan next January . It was figured at first that the recent loan was sufficient to carry the government until April of next year . But the rate of public expenditures has risen so rapidly that it is now estimated the government will be compelled to float another loan shortly after the turn of the new year . That securities , the proceeds from the sale of which are destined for the next war loan , should be sold so far in advance is due to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible avalanche of sales should unduly depress their price when the loan makes it . appearance . Some have been prompted to sell by the increasing likelihood of a British government bond issue being put out i-. this country in order to bring the foreign exchange market to a more normn ' basis . Should the issue amount to four or five hundred million dollars . sterling exchange might recover ten or more rents , and in that event those vt.ho postponed their sales until after the flotation of the loan would stand to lose over 2 ' , as a result of the higher cost of stet line It expected that there will be a steady drift of American secant es from the other side and that the demand for remittance which this anal cause will be a contributing factor in steadying the foreign exchange situation . An interesting feature connected with these transactions is the fact that in numerous instances remittance is forwa-tied in the shape of bankers ' sixty day sight bills instead of the ordinary demand bill or cable transfer . The Icxqr bills represent a temporary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made at the London open market discount rate in behalf of the Britih caller . The supply of long bills is naturally low at the present time on account a the uncerta , rity of the future course of foreign exchange rates . The bills are being sold only by those New York banks which expect to secure London credits , by the time The long bills reach maturity , in some other way than by purthase of exchange . They thus avoid a short position in the market . .1 . P. Morgan &; Co. , who as purchasing agents for the Allies are unquestionably receiving payments in foreign funds , are among the principal sellers of long bills . The arrival of further gold imports at San Francisco in Addition to the $2,000,000 received from Australia Wednesday is imminent as indicated in a dispatch from the mint there to the Sub-Treasury Department at Washing . ton . The dispatch said " increase our bullion fund . Advised of shipments that will exhaust present balance within the next two days . " The bullion fund credit of the San Francisco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Whenever foreign gold is deposited with United States mints or assay offices it is paid for by a check drawn on the United States Treasury . Gold sent to the Treasury or Sub-Treasuries may of course be paid for in actual cash , but the assay offices and mints merely carry a credit balance with the Treasury Department to meet any checks which may be drawn . There is a Sub-Treasury at San Francisco .                     