@@683954

txt Since April 26 , when J. L. Replogle , Director of Steel Supplies of the War Industries Board , revealed to steel manufacturers that the military requirements of the United States and its Allies would absorb the output of the mills for the next eight months , at the rate of production during the first quarter , more than 2,000,000 tons have been added to the huge war needs of the United States , Creat Britain , France and Italy . The largest increase in tonnage is due to the expansion of the shipbuilding program of the Emergency Fleet Corporation , but nearly 600,000 tons are needed to meet the increwed call of the Allies for projectiles , shipbuilding , railroad equipment , mainly rails , and barbed wire and miscellaneous tonnages for war munitions . Great Britain and France each need 50,600 tons more of barbed wire ; Italy has made an additional call for 50,000 tons . of steel plates and shapes ; and the American Expeditionary Forces in France have obtained 500,000 tons more of steel from the Allies , which must be made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1,250,000 tons for General Pershing 's forces alone . Two great arsenals to be built by the U. S. Government wilrprobably require 100,000 tons of structural steel , but scarcely any of this will be called for until late this ear . Some tonnage , however , sill be needed in the course of a few months . - Since May 1 , steel companies have been producing ingots at the rate Of from 4:1,000,000 to 44,000,000 tons annually , which means an output of finished rolled products at the rate of approximately 33,000,000 tons a year , equivalent to 2,750,000 to a month or 22,000,000 tom , for eight months . At last . Monday 's meeting with the steel manufacturers , Mr. Replogle is understood to have impressed the manufacturers with the great increase of Government requirements , insisting that practically the entire output of steel plants must be applied to military orders at once , so that from now on very little steel , if any , will be rolled to meet commercial requii  --  ements . Among the industries that tvi I I suffer most for lack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utensils , stoves , hardware and architectural and building work other than for military structures . Makers of cooperage are likely to find themselves short of hoops and bands and many products consumed in the agricultural districts , such as wire fencing , will be in very light supply . Ordinarily. , 600,000 tons of wire fencing is sold during a year ; now , none is being manufactured . All machine shops not manufacturing war munitions will find it impossible to ? obtain shafting and wire rope . Such instances might be ' multiplied , if the less essential industries were included . Steel manufacturers , while startled by the increased magnitude of military requirements , will do all they peasilly can to till Government contracts , but they hold that there is a general tendency among consumers , whether engaged in var work or not , to call for a much larger tonnage than can be utilized n a given time . - Experience has proved time and again that a smaller tonnage shipped regularly in monthly instalments generally meets actual needs . The impression among producers , therefor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be needed to carry out the war program , here and abroad , deliveries can be extended over more than eight months and yet meet actual requirements . While shipyards may ' launch boats at the rate proposed , ships can not all be completed for lack of equipment , because the capacity of the plants making steam and electrical drives is not sufficient to meet the enormous demand within a period of eight months . Consequently , many of the boats launched will have to lie idle , awaiting for machinery of various kind . In the meantime , however , ship plates and shapes gill he shipped to the maximum tonnage and in the shortest time called for by the authorities .                     