@@683967

txt On Friday afternoon General von Boehm 's troops opened a new pocket beyond Oulchy of a depth of about five miles and on either side of - the Ourcq Valley yesterday , in the course of stubborn fighting this salient was slightly extended and at the same time a narrow bend was added to their gains between the Oise about Pont Eveque and the Aisne west of Soissons . The main line of pressure was thus changed from south to southwest , and while the rest of the new front is relatively quiet , there have developed two bulges , which represent the acutest stress of the battle . The first of these is between ? the Oise and the Aisne , directed toward the angle of the two rivers at Compiegne ; the second , midway between the Aisne and the Marne , points westward along the Ourcq , toward the ancient town of Laferte-Milon . In both these fields there has been a series of violent struggles this morning , with a notable increase of the power of resistance of the Allies . North of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A slight advance by the Germans on the Ourcq has been won at the cost of very heavy losses , and the French are standing with splendid resolution along its small tributary , the Savieres , which marks the border of the forest region of Villers Cotterets . As the enemy has reached the heights northwest of Chateau Thierry , where we watch them from the south side of the river , an attempt to push westward along the north bank of the Marne is to be expected . Like an Old-Time Campaign . WITH THE FRENCH ARMY , June 2 , ( Associated Press . ) ? All the elements of open warfare , resembling ancient campaigns , are present these days in many parts of the great battlefield stretching along the Marne . Here a small column of French and British infantrymen may be seen slowly falling back or spreading out as a line of skirmishers , with protecting parties of scouts watching to prevent a surprise . There may be seen a cavalry patrol with lances or carbines ready for use , departing for or returning from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all cross roads stand armed guards . Aldng the roads may be seen columns of troops and every kind of vehicle loaded with all kinds of household goods , chicken coops , pigs , lambs , mixed with small children and old folks scarcely able to understand what is occurring . Peasants , farmers , storekeepers , and local officials march between in the broiling sun , many of them leading cattle or driving sheep or . goats , while the military police or old reservists help them along and show them the routes toward various destinations where hospitable town or village folk are ready to receive their unfortunate compatriots . Americans Going to the Front . Few complaints are heard as the long columns pass to the rear . Most of the people are confident that the exile from their homes will be only of short duration . Interspersed with them , but generally proceeding in the opposite direction , are all sorts of troops , cavalry and infantry  --  French , British , and American . The sight of this gathering army cheers the people leaving their homes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greeting from the refugees . There was no panic when the people were ordered to flee . Allied cavalry patrols with more than ordinary daring make their way about the country where the enemy is known to have penetrated , and encounters are frequent . The allied horsemen are working now as they have never worked since the earliest days of the war . Small squads dash here and there , reinforcing the weak points and often rendering immense services . One of the regiments which the correspondent came across had had no sleep for four successive days and nights . In that time these men had many hand-to-hand encounters with enemy patrols . Another squadron came upon a strong enemy party under an officer . The French cavalrymen immediately charged in the old-fashioned manner , facing a heavy rifle fire . They killed a number of the enemy and captured the commander and fourteen men . It would be almost superflous to say that the infantry has done wonders ; the infantry always has since the war began . Other branches , usually noncombatant , also have accomplished many brave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ train and band was surprised last night by a strong enemy column , which managed , unobserved , to filter through the lines . The village where the French were snatching a few hours ' rest was surrounded before the warning was given . The bandmaster gathered all his comrades together , took the regimental flag which was in his charge , and succeeded in breaking through and Joining the rest of the regiment . While it is true that the enemy continues to advance , his progress has become slower and he can only record gains of ground as a result of fierce lighting , in which overpowering numbers of Germans eventually force the allied troops to retire . The Germans are concentrating In greatest strength on the sector south of Soissons to Ch ? teau Thierry , but they are meeting with firm resistance . In this sector attack follows attack from one side and the other throughout day and night . Submerging maFsel , of Germans throw themselves on the French , who reply with fierce courage . Villages are taken and retaken frequently , so that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the day who holds them . Some hundreds of German prisoners were brought in yesterday . The Germans are increasing their pressure on Ch ? teau Thierry , but up to the present unsuccessfully , although many of their troops are near by . Fires can be seen on the horizon , some occasioned by the deliberate burning of their stores by the Allies and others as a , result of German incendiary shells . The correspondent observed for a long time the German efforts opposite Dormans . Here the invaders possess some big guns , but they are unable to make progress . The rattle of machine guns is continuous and numerous prisoners come in at intervals , showing frequent combats . At one point the enemy made alivn effort to cross the river , which w ery costly for him , 