@@683781

txt Newton D. Baker . the American Secretary of War , with a staff of seven persons , arrived here today on an American armored cruiser . The party was met at the dock by a French General , representing the French Army . Major Gen. Squier , representing the American Army ; Admiral Moreau. representing the French Navy ; Rear Admiral Wilson , representing the American Navy , and the Mayor and Councillors of the municipality also met the party . Although the arrival had not been announced previously , the news spread rapidly and a great crowd soon gathered at the dock and packed the streets through which the party rode to the railway station , preceded by French and American military escorts . Secretary Baker 's party remained here but a few hours , and left for Paris , where they will arrive early tomorrow , in a , special car attached to the regular night train . General Pershing , Ambassador Sharp , and representatives of the French Government will meet the Secretary on his arrival in Paris , Secretary Baker plans to spend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meet President Polneare and Premier Clemences.o , after which he will visit the American troops in the field . Purpose of flee Trip . Special to The New York raises . WASHINGTON , March 10 . ? Secretar7 of War Baker is in France on an important tour of military inspection and conference . The fact that Mr. Baker planned to go to France was known here for several weeks before his departure . Mr. Baker was aware that newspaper men were acquainted with his intention , and on the day he left Washington he said good-bye to those who were in the habit of calling on him at the War Department . There was a general understanding among press representatives here that no ' announcement of his departure would he made , and that nothing concerning his voyage should be published until the War Department announced his arrival . That announcement was authorized at 11 o'clock tonight by the Committee on Public Information , Accompanied by General Black . Secretary Baker is accompanied by Major Gen. William N. Black , Chief of Engineers of the Army ; Lieut . Col. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secretary of the Secretary of War . There had been some speculation as to ' whether Secretary Baker would remain in France for an indefinite period and serve in an official capacity as the political representative of the United States on the Inter-Ally Supreme War Council at Versailles . The United States is now represented on the Supreme Council only by Major Gen. Tasker H. Bliss , the Chief of Staff of the army , whose functions are purely military , but the statement issued tonight in connection with the announcement that Secretary Baker had arrived makes the flat statement that the Secretary 's visit is " military and not diplomatic . " " For some time , " said the official announcement . " Secretary Baker has desired to visit the headquarters of the American Expeditionary Forces . le sailed from an American port about Feb. 27 . " Secretary Baker has not determined the length of time he will remain in France , but his stay will be long enough to enable him to make a thorough Inspection of the American forces abroad and to hold important conferences with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only will Secretary Baker visit the American headquarters , but his inspection tour will cover construction projects , including docks , railroads , and ordnance bases , now under way back of ' the American lines . " The Secretary 's visit is military . and not diplomatic . It is essentially for the purposes of inspection and personal conference with military officials . " In the absence of Secretary Baker the affairs of the War Department are betas handled by Benedict Crowell , the Assistant Secretary of War . who is new acting as Secretary of War . Major Gen. Peyton C. March , who recently returned from France , is acting as Chief of Staff . 1 , ena-th of Stay n Secret . The length of Secretary taker 's visit in Europe is a military secret . Everything known here of the circumstances of his trip abroad indi  --  htca that Le will resume the duties of Secretary of War upon his return . Major Gen. Leonard Wood , who was sent to France in line with the practioe of the War Department4 to have the commanders of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ FranCo .. It was known before Secretary Baker left ' Washington that he desired to consult with General Wood , and It was evident that . General Wood was to remain in France until Mr. Baker had the opportunity of meeting him there . There now seems to be reason to believe that General Wood will not return to the ? United States in the near future , and it is believed that he is slated for a high command under General Pershing , probably With the rank of Lieutenant General . That rank would carry with it command of an army corp Consisting of six or more divisions . - Considerable feeling has been manifested over the belief that General Wood was not to have an opportunity to demonstrate his ability as a commander in the war . He is senior to General Pershing on the liot of Major Generals in the regular army . General Pershing 's present highest rank is held by virtue of his post as commander of all the American expeditionary forces in the field . It was supposed that General Wood would return to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Division at Fort Riley , Kan. , to which he is still nominally attached . But it is now the understanding that he will remain in France , with the probability of assignment to command a much-larger force . Mr. Baker said before he left Washington that his visit to France was not to be ceremonial . If he should confer with statesmen of Great Britain and France while he is in Europe it would not surprise . but the understanding is that his tour is of a business character purely , and such honors as are shown to hem by British and French officials will be merely incidental .                     