@@681600

txt Miss Theo Nash , the trained nurse , of Paterson , N. J. , who is seeking to recover $75,000 from the estate of the ! late Congressman Robert Gunn Bremner of Passaic , under an oral agreement which she says the Congressman made with her before the death on Feb. 5 , 1914 , in a hospital in Baltimore , was denounced yesterday by Leith Bremner , brother of the Congressman , in an affidavit as " a common adventuress . " Warren Disson , counsel for the nurse in her application to Vice Chancellor Griffin in Jersey City for a preliminary injunction to conserve Bremner 's estate against the settlement of her suit against his widow and brother , de-clared : " When the proper time comes we will produce 300 letters that passed between Mr. Bremner and Miss Nash , which will ' show a pure and friendly relationship , and will clearly prove Miss ash is no adventuress . " None of the principals were in court but many affidavits were submitted . In hers Mrs. Bremner says that far from helping her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsible for Mr. Bremner 's condition when Mrs. Bremner visited him in the Baltimore hospital . She ordered the nurse from the room and before she went Mrs. Bremner says Miss ash , addressing Bremner , threatened " to go to one of the conty committeemen and shoy you up . " Percy A. Speer , business manager of the Passaic Herald , which Bremner owned , submitted an affidavit telling of a visit to Bremner in the hospital when Miss Nash asked him to get her a hypodermic outfit and some drug which he thought was strychnine . The affidavit ran : " I was in the room when Robert Bremner Informed Miss Nash it was best that she leave and he would be leaving the hospital soon . She objected violently . She said it did not matter as her mother would not have anything to do with her . She said to Mr. Bremner : ' You know , Bob Bremner. what I can do to you and I will do it . ' V As a result of this remark , thea ffidavit said , all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order of the physicians in charge . Miss Nash contends that she nursed Bremner almost constantly from Sept. 11 , 1911 , when she met him in a sanitarium , to the time of his death ; that at his request she broke her engagement to marry so that she might be constantly with him , and that in return he promised to pay her $150 a month as long as she lived . In his will Bremner did not mention Miss Nash . but divided his Herald stock between his widow and brother . Miss Nash explains that Bremner objected to naming her , but renewed his oral pledge in the presence of his brother . Vice Chancellor Griffin said he could see no reason for restraining Leith Bremner from disposing of his stock , but would take the papers and reserve decision .                     