@@683162

txt After blunders , numbered one and two , in Washington war Anance -- entering the war with a limitation on credit and pressing the reserves in our banking system into early service to support the low interest rate limitations ? we have a proposal to strike down capital and values by confiscatory taxation . When England went into the war her primary finance W116 relatively on a par with her small volunteer army . She had then no conception of five billion dollar loans and five million enlisted men . But when she saw the need of billions in the war she proceeded to create them and to husband them at home . She cut off luxuries and foreign investments , drew gold from over Europe , Asia and Africa . poured it into America for raw materials , built up her own industries and taxed the income and the war profits without 4estruction or confiscation of the industries . It had never before been dreamed that England had a discount market in London exceeding two and a half billion dollars . but by carefully nursing and husbanding all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was able to borrow in that market more than twice that sum . or $5,500.000.000 . She assisted to create the capital before she attempted to borrow it . Then she took the entire sum in a popular loan exceeding 85.000.000.000 , and to this the banks were invited not to subscribe . She thus built up capital and then borrowed it without curtailing current funds . She expanded industry and made it divide with the Government its increased profits . Instead of learning lessons from this war finance . the proposal at Washington is that we shall first borrow banking reserves at low rates and next borrow money from the pockets of the people at less than savings bank rates : and we ma , . point out to the people how much safer this is for their savings because the Government may strike down the investments which are under the savings banks and the insurance companies by heavy taxation depreciating the capital account . and all investments in industry and enterprise . The farmers : n some western states had more common sense ; when wheat was piled up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without promise of confiscation by taxation or Inn rate rezulatiort . There is only one way to fight this war for our first year in it . and there may be no second year . and that ts to conserve and build up capital and industry . W5 shall need them both far every year of the war and for three years thereafter . And that nation is a winner for the three years after the war that has best conserved its industries , its enterprise and its working capital . Tax the income from the individua : after he gets it . You can take his all if need he . But if you strike down the cap:tal in the industry that sustains him you have not only crucified him as an ind.vidual. bat you have depleted or destroyed the capital upon which the whole country ? its labor , its sustenance and its future  --  depends . Taxation of personal income is rght . Taxation and division of the expansion of all profits especially of all profits arising from increased activities necessitated by ( roxfirued on Eighth Pagel NATIONAL @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pace ) the war , is right and economically- sound . But burden- 1 some taxation on , or any confiscation of , capital value under these profits is national suicide . Tax the honey from the beehives of industry , but do n't tax the bees or the beehives , or prevent the increase of bees . Tax the honey ! There is no necessity for hasty action on taxation programs . All the billions we can expend during the first 1 year of the war can be easily paid with normal taxation from the next ten years of American enterprise , economies and , savings . It was not expected that the warning pointed out in article number two would be so quickly justified . Within a few hours after it was printed the banks marked up 1 their rates , six months money going from 4% to 5% . The Treasury should ' not have borrowed the bank reserves , thus raising the rate of interest in advance of a national loan . But there may have been necessity for quick action known only to Treasury officials . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in anticipation of increased taxation . Congress might now appoint a small body or committee from its own number to take a few weeks or months for public hearing and discussion to determine how best to expand industry and tax the fruits thereof during the war . We can afford to delay , but we can not afford to blunder in this respect . The ... proposal to tax capital rather than the fruits of capital is blunder number three . The proposal in itself is a blunder and detrimental to all business and to Gov -- eminent finance , present and future .                     