@@678795

txt Progress toward the combination of big copper producers , undertaken by the leading interests last Summer as the solution of the problem of overproduction in copper , was indicated yesterday in the announcement that the Anaconda , Copper Mining Company intends to increase its capital from $30,000,000 to $150,000,000 for the purpose of consolidating all of the Amalgamated subsidiaries and the ColeRyan properties on Butte ? Hill , in Montana . The statement issued by the company after yesterday 's meeting of Directors dwells on complications due to the mining laws of Montana , which make the amalgamation of contiguous properties the only reasonable way of avoiding litigation over ownership of ore bodies . The economies of operation which would be gained by the physical merger of these properties , already owned by allied interests , is also cited . Properties to be taken over by the Anaconda , itself the chief subsidiary of the Amalgamated Copper Company , are not , specifically named , but as the entire increase in capital is not to be used at once , the inference was drawn in Wall Street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Cole-Ryan-Amalgamated properties in the Montana district . Such action would be in line with what has been done by the Guggenheim interests in the Utah and Nevada fields , where the recently formulated plan for the merger of the Utah Copper Company , the Boston Consolidated Copper Company . and the Nevada Consolidated Copper Company , completed Tuesday as far as the first two oompanles are concerned , has been generally regarded as one of the preliminary steps In an eventual merger of all of the Amalgamated , ColeRyan , and Guggenheim properties , with Perhaps some of the other large producers ? included . Nevada Stockholders Not AU Agreed . The Nes.da . Consolidated stockholders are divided as to the desirability of joining the Guggenheim merger , but the President of this company , James Phillips , Jr. , has expressed himself as unqualifiedly in favor of-it . It is being engineered by J. P. Morgan &; Co . The interests represented by - John D. Ryan and Thomas P. Cole , the former President of the Anaconda Copper . Mining Company . Include a number of large properties in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Southwest and Mexico , the chief of which are the Calumet and Arizona , the Superior and Pittsburg. the Giroux , and the Greene-Cananea . These properties , it is expected , will be eventually merged , according to their sew rill locations , in the same way that the Butte properties and the groups joined in a big holding company . The statement . of the Anaconda Company says in part : Law of the Apex Perplexing . As is generally understood , what Is Known as the law of the apex , or the right to follow a vein on its dip extra-laterally beyond the surface lines of a mining claim , prevaila in montane , and has given rise to many perplexing problems in conectlon with operations conducted in the Butte district : and it was this law which was chiefly responsible for the bitter , protracted , and costly Heinze-Amalgamated litigation , which was finally terminated some years ago only by the purchase of the Heinze properties and the subsequent formation of the Butte Coalition Cbmvany , The mining claims of the Anaconda Copper Mining Company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all located upon the Butte hill within a comparativek. circumscribed area , and are continuous and so closely and inextricably interlaced as to make almost impossible the segregation of the ownership of the underground ire bodies . Many of the veins in ' the Butte district , within close proximity near the surface , descend into the earth upon varying dips from the horizontal , resulting not infrequently in a union of these veins on their dips . Under the mining law , such a united vein below the junction belongs to the claim first located , a fact that in many instances It is exceedingly difficult to determine , and in seine instances absolutely impossible . some of the operating features which have been considered in favoring the proposed tranformation are the economies which will result from working all the mines in accordance with a general system of ventilation , drainage , and development , thus relieving Me owners from the necessity of maintaining numerous expensive surface ands plants , which under the pre dent condition of separate ownership are essential for the purpose of working the scattered properties of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ita she , and the fact that its property is so located that some of it is contiguous to property owned by all the other companies , Is regarded by all familiar with the situation as the logical company to become the purchaser of the properties of the other companies , and the step taken at yesterday 's board meeting was the first toward submitting the matter to the stockholders of the different companies for their consideration . It is not likely that all of the increase of stock , if authorized , will be used at present in carrying dut this plan . Amalgamated Controls Anaconda . The Amalgamated Copper Company , which . Is primarily a holding company , was credited with owning 55 per cent . of the stock of the Anaconda Company at the time of its last report , but these holdings are believed to have been largely increased . It also owns the entire capital stock of the Washoe Copper Company and the Colorado Smelting and Mining Company and majority stock in ' the Boston and Montana , the Butte and Boston , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are to be taken over-physically by the Anaconda and with them the Butte Coalition Mining Company , a $15,000,000 corporation organized by the Cole-Ryan  --  interests to end the Heinze-Amalgamated litigation in 1900 by combining the several Heinze properties and taking them out Of hostile hands . Another Cole-Ryan property on Butte Hill is the North Butte , a $9,000,000 corporation . One of the chief difficulties in the way of the several mergers , and one which has so far prevented the completion of the Guggenheim merger as proposed , has been ' the difficulty of placing values on the various - stocks which . in amount , of capitalization bear little relation to the values of the properties 