@@679947

txt Mrs. Mortimer L. Schiff appeared yesterday at her own request before the special Grand Jury investigating charges of conspiracy in connection with the case of Foulke E. Brandt , who was sentenced to thirty years in prison for robbing Mr. Schiff 's house . Mrs. Schiff was accompanied by her lawyer , Paul D. Cravath . She remained in the jury room about fifteen minutes , and , following her testimony , the Grand Jury voted to call Mr. Schiff . He will appear this afternoon and his testimony , it is expected , will end the investigation with the exoneration of all whose names have been connected with the alleged conspiracy to send Brandt to prison . District Attorney Whitman and the Grand Jurors alone knew that Mrs. Schiff was on her way to testify . She was ushered through the judicial chambers on her arrival , so that reporters did not find out until later that she was in the building . Her appearance as a witness was at her own request , she having personally written a letter to the Grand Jury . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jury , with Mr. Whitman 's consent , agreed to permit Mrs. Schiff to testify . Mrs. Schiff was sworn , and District Attorney Whitman interrogated her first . She answered all questions , most of which were asked by the Grand Jurors themselves , with calmness . Her story , it is understood , was in every way a corroboration of her husband 's story as already told in THE TIMES . The letter which caused Brandt 's discharge from the Schiff employ was handed to her , and it is understood that she identified it . She went on to say that when this letter reached her on a tea tray she was very much frightened ; that she locked herself in her room with her children , and that she handed the letter to Mr. Schiff on his return that night . Mr. Schiff , she said , ordered Brandt 's immediate discharge . Brandt Never Had a Key . Mrs. Schiff , it Is understood , was asked about Brandt 's statement to Gov. , Dix that a key to the house had been given to him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brandt never could have had a key to the house ; that she certainly did not give him such a key , and that none of the servants could have given him a key , because none of the servants had possession of such a key . Ewen etc- , . Schiff himself , Mrs. Schiff explained , except on rare occasions , when the second butler was allowed to retire early , never carried a key to the house . When a butler was on duty , she explained , the frolit door latch was turned from within and a key from the outside would not open the door . In reply to further questions Mrs. Schiff said she had never done anything that could have prompted a servant to write such a letter to her as that written by Brandt . When Mrs. Schiff came out of Mr. Whitman 's office she was besieged by photographers . She raised her large black muff to her face several times to avoid having her picture taken , and her lawyer protested , but without much avail . She was hurried away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than twenty minutes . Preceding Mrs. Schiff on the witness stand was Frank C. Cole , who was Warden of Clinton Prison when Brandt was received there and who remained there until last Summer . It was Cole who first set Brandt to ** in his office . The ex-Warden , it is:alnderstood , told the same story as lie did in an interview printed a few days ago in THE TIMES . He said he had heard scandalous stories from Brandt 's lips as long as two years ago ; that Brandt had regularly contradicted himself in regard to the means by which he entered the Schiff home on the night of the assault on Mr. Schiff , and that he had lent a deaf ear to what he was sure was nothing more nor less than the scurrilous attempt of a convict to get out of prison . " Brandt is an absolute liar , " said Mr. Cole on coming out of the Grand Jury room . " At Dannemora. you can depend on it , he was treated like every one else while I was in control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his transfer from Sing Sing . I ca n't conceive how the public can be so taken in by the story of a convict . " Brandt 's ' Tale to a Fellow-Prisoner . Another witness was Nathan Goldfarb , a dealer In painters ' supplies . Goldfarb , in March , 1907 , was arrested for giving a man a worthless check . While in a cell at Police Headquarters awaiting bail on this charge Brandt was ushered in . Brandt was communicative , and , according to Goldfarb , told all about his escapade in the Schiff house . irandt told Goldfarb that he had entered the Schiff house through the ash hoist , and that there were many valuables in the house which might be obtained with proper tools . He also told Goldfarb , according to the latter 's statement , that lie had written a letter to Mrs. Schiff and had been instantly discharged for this act by Mr. Schiff . It was Goldfarb , moreover , who first told of the two professional crooks who later in the evening were put in the same cell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Goldfarb , Brandt repeated his story , and they questioned him as to the details of entering the Schiff house through the coal hole , and particularly as to the valuables which were in the house . This story , it is understood , was repeated before the Grand Jury by Goldfarb . Another witness was John W. Howe , assistant city editor of The New York American . It is presumed that Mr. Howe was asked about the accounting for the meals which Virginia Tyler Hudson admitted sending to Brandt In the Tombs at the expense of The American , on which newspaper she was employed in 1907 . Mr. Howe was probably asked also about the reassignment of reporters to the Brandt case in January last . When Mr. Schiff appears before the Grand Jury to-day it is understood that he will testify to his statement as printed in THE TIMES of Feb. 27 last . This statement embodied every important event in the Brandt case in which Mr. Schiff had any part , and contained also the affidavit of Leonard Bourne , the third male servant in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the night of the burglary . This affidavit was offered to show that Brandt could not haae entered Mr. SchIff 's house by way of the coal hole , as Brandt swore he did , without committing burglary in the first degree as defined by law . It has not yet been decided whether Howard S. Gans , who was Mr. Schiff 's lawyer , also will be called by the Grand Jury . Permission to testify was refused Mr. Gans , as it was to Mr. Schiff , on the ground that immunity might thus be granted against future prosecution . Now , however , that the Grand Jury has yielded as to Mr. , Schiff , it is quite likely that Mr. Gans ' may be called also . The investigation will probably end today or , to-morrow . It has been established beyond doubt that the bottom has completely fallen out of the " conspiracy - charges , - and ? the-Grand-Jury mayriot even 71g , ni . ' Own , preoptmeitt. 