@@680914

txt The regarding sahwa. : tier : , is similar at Broadway and For- ? ty-second : itrect. in Manhattan and at Fulton Street and De Kalb Avenue in Brooklyn . In both places there is a junction of subway , surface . and elevated roads . in all directions . such as is not duplicated elsewhere in either borough . In both places there has been a difference of opinion between the public ' and the Public Service Commission as to whether the stops on the subway should be local or express . In both places the Public Service Commission placed local stops . and in both places the public rebelled .. But there the likeness ends . In Brooklyn the public has had its way over the Public Service Commission , which has surrendered at discretion and has substituted , or rather has added . an express stop at the crossroads . 11 will cost $130,000 to alter the plans , but that is a mere nothing compared with getting the maximum of service from transit facilities which will cost several hundred Millions . To build @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and to build subways at a cost of hundreds of millions , and not provide facilities for interchange of traffic where they meet and not allow riders to reach focal centres without all unnecessary and irritating change of cars is merely to Provide an example of how little public officials appreciate public sentiment . Never would such a blunder of planning have been made in Brooklyn if the officials had been spending their own money and . had felt under the necessity of attract-. log traffic to sustain the cost of operation . and provide the profit , if any there is to be . ' The Brooklyn precedent shows what ought to be done In Manhattan in .9 tic h similar eircum -- stances . The added cost of $120,000 in Brooklyn will he multiplied ten or twenty times in Manhattan if the change is delayed . The added loss of income if Vie.change is not made will be increased in like ratio . Brooklyn has been fortunate in another case of the same sort . The Columbia Heights district has seen its tax valuations droop and rentals suffer because rapid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public and private loss has been so serious that the plans which did . not provide for a station nearer than the existing Borough Hall station have been modified to place one on Montague Street . But Brooklyn is fortunate in knowing what it wants and in asking for it plainly . Brooklyn wants a station nearer to the river , where there are no transit facilities of any sort , and has provided engineering talent to show the public engineers both that it can be done and how it can be done . It would seem that further pressure on the vulnerable point might and should carry a further victory . To run through such a residential region as the t2olumhia Heights district without stopping . if it can he done , may be engineering , but certainly is not accommodating the public . in all these cases it is remarkable how slight are the reasons for not doing what : the public wants . For example . at Broadway and Forty-second Street . Manhattan . it is objected ? that an express stop can not be made because the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which turns a corner there . To block several trunk lines for the sake of a shuttle line is not reasonable . it is particularly unreasonable because the new trufitic lines are being built for the express purpose of making the shuttle lila , less necessary or useful . To show how preposterous is this argument it . Is only necessary to imagine that the trunk lines were running with the express stops where they ought to he . in that ease the proposal to convert the express stops into locals for the sake of building dm shuttle line or accommodating the shuttle traffic would he laughed at . It Is just as ridiculous to persist in building stations wrong as it would be to alter theta wrongly after they were built rightly                     