@@682254

txt Unless the plans of the Republican leaders are upset at the eleventh hour , the Republican State Convention , which is to meet at Carnegie Hall this evening , will not do any of the things Governor Whitman in recent statements has de-clared that he ' will expect it to do . It will not take any action to further Governor Whitman 's ambition to head the New York State delegation to the Republican National Convention . Nor will it adopt any resolution indorsing Governor Whitman 's administration . Governor Whitman , to be sure , will be one of the delegates-at-large to the Republican National Convention . The head of the delegation will not be selected until the delegates reach Chicago on the eve of the convention . When this is done , it was said yesterday by Republican leaders who are in a position to know , United States Senator James W. Wadsworth , Jr. , will be selected . Until noon yesterday it was a toss-up Whether Governor Whitman would be selected as one of the Big Four or not . A majority of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work in connection with the convention . it was said on the best of authority , were in favor of leaving the Governor off . It was only after they had implored former United States Senator Elihu Root , first , to go to the convention as one of the delegates at large . and later to permit the convention to adopt a resolution giving him the power to name the Big Four , and Senator Root had declined to do either , that Mr. Whitman 's name was put on the slate to stay . Leaders Against Whitman . With Republican leaders assembling from al ; sections of the State for the Convention , the one thing that stood out was the tremendous decline in Governor Whitman 's popularity with the big men in his own party . It was the dominant note of the pre-Convention discussion at clubs and in hotel lobbies where the Republican clans gatherect . If the Convention which is to meet this evening had any concern with the coming State election and with the nominations of State officials that will be its prelude , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a renomination . The general opinion among the leaders with whom a Times reporter talked was that the Governor 's loss of prestige among Republicans everywhere was so great as to place his renomination in serious doubt . There was a gathering of distinguished Republicans at the Republican Club on Sunday night . They met to discuss the declaration of principles on national Issues which is to be pruposed to the convention . Among those who attended were Eliliu Root , William Barnes , Republican State Chairman Frederick C. Tanner , Henry L. Stimeon , Herbert Parsons ; Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler , and Charles D. Hines , Chairman of the Republican National Committee . The discussion turned to the question of delegates at large and Governor Whitman 's name was brought up . According to one of those who attended , all those at the conference , with one exception , were in favor of leaving the Governor off the slate . The one dissenter said he differed with his confreres merely because ' he did not consider it expedient to take drastic steps with regard to the Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One of the leaders  --  a Republican of State-wide influence  --  urged that the present convention should have the courage of Its convictions and decline to name Mr. Whitman as a candidate for delegate at large . " if we are going to fight him let us , fight him in the open , not invite him to become our bed fellow and stab him when he is asleep , " said this leader , The discussion of Mr. Whitman was purely informal and the conference was not in a position to take any action , nor had it any inclination to do so . The ' story was merely told last night by one of those who attended to show the sentirnent among prominent Republicans toward the Governor . In some quarters it was admitted thatl by including Governor Whitman among the Big Four the convention hoped that it would tie his hands and prevent him from making a fight on the outside . The Republican leaders are not at all certain that the Governor , if left off , might not have placed himself before ' the voters at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pledged ) to the nomination of Associate Justice Charles B. Hughes of the United States Supreme Court , and thus make no end of trouble . In all his recent statements on the Presidential situation Governor , Whitman has declared himself emphat-1 featly in favor of the nomination of alletiee Hughes , whose name , it is adwitted in Republican circles , is one to conjure with on account of the great personal popularity of the . former Governor among Republicans of the independent type . As the situation stood last night there VHS every prospect of a lively fight In the convention in conection with the selection of delegates at large . There are at least five candidates to be seriously reckoned with for the four places . Of these only two are assured of election . One is United States Senator Wadsworth , the other Governor Whitman . Friends of the other three . Dr. David Jayne Hill of of Rochester . Republican State Chairman Frederick C. Tanner , and William Berri of Brooklyn , were busy last night pulling wires for their candidates . Friends of State Chairman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would win in the ? three-cornered fight , although no one was prepared to say whether Mr. Berri and Dr. Hill would be run over in the scramble to land the place for him . Dr. David Jayne Hill has the powerful backing of George W. Aldridge , the Republican boss of Monroe County , who just now is a power in the inside councils of the Republican machine . Mr. Aldridge happens to be detained at home by illness anti will not be at the convention , but he will have many able spokesman for that body . On the other hand the selection of Dr. Hill is opposed by William Barnes and a number of other powerful Republicens. some of whom are more active in the manipulation of the machine than is Mr. Barnes Just now . Their opposition is due to the close relations that once existed between Dr. Hill and Colonel Theodore Roosevelt . Colonel Roosevelt while President made Dr. Hill United States Ambassador to Berlin . /t was said last night that Dr. Hill had given a written pledge that had reassured those opposing his selection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to act under all circumstances with the rest of the delegation , no matter what pressure should be brought to bear by friends of Colonel Roosevelt . William Berri is the choice of the Brooklyn Republicans . He has the backing of Governor Whitman . who is said to be opposed to giving-State Chairman Tanner a place among the Republican Big Four . Mr. Berri will have the support of the Republican organizations in Queens , Bronx . Richmond . Suffolk , and Nassau . It was said last night that he would have thirteen votes in the committee on nominations . He will need twenty-six votes to win . Mr. Tanner 's friends claim for him the solid support of the organizations in New York County . in Erie , Monroe , Onondaga , and Westchester. which would give him a nucleus of seventeen votes on the Nominating Committee against Mr. Berri , but not against Dr. Hill . According to his friends , Mr. Tanner yesterday was invited to make common cause with the opponents of Dr. Hill and In return was assured of his own election as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chairman . Last night it was more than intimated that a compromise candidate might be proposed as a result of the three-cornered fight . Senate Leader Elon R. Brown . it was generally agreed , is the dark horse . In having Governor Whitman take second place on the Big Four . the Republican leaders are pointing to the precedent furnished by Colonel Roosevelt when he was Governor , and by Governor Odell . Both went to the Republican National convention as delegates-at-large. but neither went as head of the delegation . Elihu Root will be the central figure in the coming convention , which is regarded as one of the most important gatherings held by the Republicans in this State in a generation . Every indication points to the fact that Republicans all over the country are taking an interest , and requests for tickets and boxes have come from far-off sections of the country . It was predicted yesterday that Mr. Root 's speech would be of a ' character that would compel country-wide attention and would be regarded as the first rallying cry in the Republican campaign setting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preparedness and the tariff , but also toward any pro-Roosevelt tendencies within the Republican Party of which the recent movement in Massachusetts i &; regarded by some of the Republican leaders here as a forerunner . Charles D. Hines , Chairman of the Republican National Committee , has attended the conferences at which the various platform proposals which are to be submitted to the convention have been framed . Prior to the convention , it was learned tonight , there will be a meeting of eighteen prominent Republican leaders ? the " elder statesmen Republica within the Republican organization  --  to iron out any differences which may exist on the eve of the convention . The opening session of the convention Will begin at 8 o'clock this evening . Most of the night session will be occuPied by the delivery of Mr. Root 's keynote speech . Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler , President of Columbia University , who has been a factor in Republican Platform making for a decade or more , w:11 be Chairman of the Committee on Resolutions . Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler gave a dinner at the Century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been consulted in the drafting of the tentative declaration of principles to be presented to the convention . At the dinner among others were ex-Senator Root , Senator Wadsworth , William Barnes , Dr. David Jayne Hill , State Senator Ogden L. Mills . Henry Stinson , William D. Guthrie , Herbert Parsons , and William L. Ward of Westchester . State Chairman Tanner had been invited , but did not attend . It was learned last night that a poll of the delegation from New York County , Governor Whitman 's home county , had revealed 78 out of 116 delegates opposed to Mr. Whitman . The Bronx delegation caucused last night and decided to vote as a unit in the convention . This delegation , it was said , would be solidly anti-Whitman . Fifty-eight delegates from Erie County also are expected to take their stand with the . opposition . 