@@679629

txt Obviously the success of reciprocity is a personal and political triumph for President TAFT . It is also , and more , a great and precious advance in the path of prosperity for the Nation . Its origin is interesting . It may be said that the mind of the President was prepared for It ? plowed , indeed , very deeply and harrowed ? by the elections of last Fall . He felt that his party had been overwhelmingly rebuked and defeated for a policy that he had accepted and defended , and it behooved him as a party leader to find some way of retrieving that signal reverse . This was not ntcessarily either selfish or designing in him , since it was but attending to the iplain and emphatic expression of the popular sentiment . To yield directly and enter on a revision of the tariff he had so recently approved would have been confusing and futile . So , by what may be looked on as an inspiration , he determined to enter on the task of revision through reciprocity , to direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it definitely to our Northern neighbor along a border as wide as the continent . As high politics this was masterly . As statesmanship it is unexampled in our history , and is comparable to the work of PEEL in England.with this important difference , that PEEL sacrificed himself for his country and Mr. TAFT bids fair to wia great reward for his great service . It must have been a tremendously interesting half year that Mr. . TAFT has passed , since , on the 27th of January , he submitted to Congress the reciprocity agreement , and asked it to enact the needed legislation . ' When the House . under the able lead of Representative McCaw .. of Massachusetts , acceded to this request by a vote , one-fourth of which was cast by Republicans , the first line of the enemy 's works was captured . The Senate , of course , the stronghold of the extreme protectionists , stood out , and it became plain that all the resources of the favored interests would be concentrated in that body . The President did not hesitate . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the House  --  to meet in extraordinary session and again submitted the agreement . The House again , with a largely increased majority , accepted and sent it to the Senate . There , quite-unexpectedly , a new alignment presented itself . A small number of Southern Democrats and nearly all the so-called " progressive " Senators joined with the narrower sect of standpatters to kill the House bill . The most melancholy ' and shameful element in this combination was supplied by the progressives . Their conduct was as si ) ly as it was sordid . In part , they were scared by a semblance of anti-reciprocity sentiment among the farmers , but for the most part they seem to have been inspired by a fear of turning over to Mr. TAFT the leadership and the nomination they had coveted and expected for one of their own number . Whatever their motives , they were able for a long time to put up a show of fight that would have intimidated a man less determined and resourceful than Mr. TAFT , during the past year , has become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From the moment he threw down the gauntlet and called the extraordinar ? session he set himself to the task of arousing  --  and directing the sentiment of the Nation in support of his policy . With amazing energy , spirit , skill . and ability he waged a campaign of education in every part of the land . His addresses in various parts of the Union during the last four months would make a considerable volume of themselves , with the least possible modicum of repetition . Ile had mastered his case as he would have mastered a case in law , and it is one of the most noteworthy facts in this stirring chapter of our political history that the President , in his energetic and urgent appeal to the Nation , treated the matter with the impartiality , serenity , and candor of a Judge on the bench . There is nothing like it in the literature of our politics . The result is a vindication of the inherent good sense of the people as well as of the high standard of public duty of the President . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people , and , by the force - a. the conviction he has implanted in the public mind , he has won . As we have said , there is triumph for him and immense advantage for the ' Nation . Naturally the credit is not solely his . Much belongs to , those Republicans who ; have had the foresight to understand the wisdom and necessity of his policy , and have broken with the interests in order to stand by him . Very much belongs to the Democratic leaders in the House and in the Senate who have resisted the temptation to embarrass the leader of their opponentb , and have frankly accepted advantage for their principles from whatever source it could be got . They have shown a capacity for " team work " in National legislation that augurs well for the future of their party . But the significance of this remarkable movement , after all , transcends leadership on the one side or the other . It lies in the fact that the great body of the Americarr people . brought face to face with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the old , bad system of public legislation for private interests , and still more weary of the hampering , destructive , and demoralizing restrictions of extreme protectionism . They have shown that they have utterly outgrown the narrow and provincial policy that has prevailed for the past forty years , and that they know they have outgrown it . Great as is the actual progress of which Canadian reciprocity is the embodiment , it is but the beginning of an emancipation that will not cease until it is complete .                     