@@681130

txt Gross insults and physical violence to American Consul General Philip C. Hanna at Monterey by Federal officers and soldiers at that place , as reported in a telegram from Mr. Hanna , have given a new turn to Mexican developments that may hasten aggressive action by the United States . Mr. Hanna reported , under date of April 26 , that on April 21 Capt . del Castillo. at the head of a Federal detachment , evidently under orders from above , had torn down the flag from the Consulate General , and that the next day he had been taken before a military tribunal and thrown into jail . Mr. Hanna said that he remained in prison in the State capitol building until r the Federals evacuated the city on the ' approach of a Constitutionalist army commanded by Gens . Gonzales Villareal and Castro on the morning of April 24 . These officers sympathized deeply with Mr. Hanna in the hardships he had undergone , and did everything in their power to make amends . Otr . Hanna , - who evidently felt lively gratitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there that the Constitutionalist Army was determined to establish a " high type of free Government , personal liberty , and the protection of property . " The publication of the full text of a Consular telegram is an innovation in the Department of State , but it is understood that the department is distinctly relieved at the friendliness shown by the conquering rebel army at Monterey . Mr. Hanna 's remarks about the intentions of the Constitutionalist leaders , it is thought , will go far to offset disquieting rumors tnas nave originated at Juarez . This is Consul Hanna 's dispatch : Monterey , Mex. , April 26 . Secretary of State , Washington , D. C. April 24th , 1 P. M. ? On the 21st of April a Federal military officer by the name of Capt Alvarez del Castillo , evidently instructed by the Federal military commander to tear down all American flags , arrived at this Consulate General with a street mob , which he had gathered , about 4 o'clock in the afternoon , and pounded in the door and demanded that the American flag @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would shoot it down , and the other Federals proceeded to tear down all American flags , standing on them , making speeches throughout the City of Monterey . burning some of them and tearing them up and leaving them piled in the middle of the streets . It was the most insulting act that I or . any of the people of Monterey have ever - witnessed . They then placed a police guard in , front *of this Consulate General , and all the inmates of this building wereconsidered-prisoners . The next morning , the 22d of April , about 10 o'clock , a Police Lieutenant arrived with a force of men and advised me that he had been instructed to search the building . Consul Taken Prisoner . The insulting search was completed about noon , when your Consul ' General was taken prisoner through , the streets with the mob arid carried 1 first to the penitentiary and afterward to the State Government Palace . which building has been : for some time military headquarters and fortified , and was the object of special attack by the then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the grand reception room of the State Palace , I fully realized that or was constantly being considerably insulted and greatly humiliated , not on account of my personality , but on account of my official f ) sition as representative of the United States Government in Northern Mexico . At about S o'clock in the evening of April twenty-second , I was taken before the military court and notified that I was charged of being in sympathy with the Constitutional chiefs and as being friendly to certain Constitutionalist Generals , and especially Gen. Pablo Gonzales and Gen. Antonio Villareal . I a ? as kept a prisoner incommunicado until the evacuation of the city by the Federal troops . and until the arrival of the Constitutionalist forces early this morning . Believed He Would Be Killed . There were times during the period when it was believed by very many that I would be shot or carried to the mountains as their prisoner in ease the Federals evacuated . However , the evacuation of the city by their forces , Federal , State , and police , took place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the State Capitol building as its sole guardian for about six hours , without being informed by any individual or officer of their departure . The Constitutionalist forces under the command of Gen. Pablo Gonzales and Gen. Antonio Villareal and Gen. Castro carried on a very successful attack for about five days , which resulted in the defeat of the Federal Army with heavy losses on the part of the Federals , and complete rout of all those who were not killed , wounded , or taken prisoners . The officers of the Constitutional Army inform me that they heard that I was taken prisoner and that the American flag ordered down from over this Consulate General . A Constitutionalist officer by . the name of Major Fierros with a company of men hurried to the State Palace , where they had heard I was being held prisoner and broke into the locked door early this morning , furnishing me with a saddled horse and accompanied me to the suburbs of the city , where I met Gen. Antonio Villareal , who is to be the Governor of the St.A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Villareal and some of the foreign consular representatives in Monterey we proceeded to the State Palace , where speeches were made to the people who assembled in great masses in front of the State House , giving assurances of full protection to all foreigners and non-combatants and the fullest degree of freedom and protection to all welldisposed , law-abiding people . Shortly after our arrival at the State House , Gen. Pablo Gonzales arrived , accompanied by his staff and a large force of the Constitutionalist troops . He was enthusiastically received as was also Gen. Antonio ' Villareal and the other officers by the people of Monterey , and he also gave the strongest assurances of proper protection for all the law-abiding residents of Monterey . Praises Constitutionalists . The city is quiet and serene , and the feeling of safety and confidence has returned to the people . The humane manner in which the battle of Monterey was conducted by the Constitutionalists is high credit to ideas of humanity and to the things that are right and just . There has been no persecution nor looting of property reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinion generally prevails that it is the purpose of the Constitutionalist army to bring about a high type of free government , personal liberty , protection of property , and thoroughly maintain order and peace . So far the actions of the Constitutionalist army at Monterey are creditable to the civilized age in which we live . There seems to have been some misunderstanding . probably caused in Monterey by intended misrepresentation , relative to the action on the part of our Government following the insult to the American flag and people at Tampico , but I believe that the Constitutionalists now understand that the American nation has nothing Put the kindest feelings toward Mex ' l , : o and its people , and that the action of the United States .. was not intend , ed to interfere with the rights of Mexico or the Mexican people in settling their disputes , but that it was simply an act to bring a proper apology from those parties who were to blame for the insult and offense coinmitted against the American nation , its peciPle , and flag . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the battle and relative to the condition of affairs around Monterey . While many Americans have been imprisoned for the past few days by the Federals , until this morning no Americans have been killed or injured excepting Guy Sawyer , head of the American Printing Company , who was , seriously wounded at ills country home during the first days of the bat- . tle . Mr. Sawyer is reported ' hater ' this morning . PHILIP . C. HANNA , Consul General . Mr. Hanna 's message to Secretary Bryan was dispatched to-day from Monterey . The Secretary , took it to the White House at once , and it was the subject of a long conference between him and President Wilson . 