@@681378

txt The best view of the retreating German armies was obtained by a French military airman who , ascending from a point near Vitry , flew northward across the Marne and then eastward by way of Rheims down to the region of Verdun and back again in a zigzag ccnrse to a spot near Soissons . He saw the German hosts not merely in retreat , but in flight , and in some places in disorderly flight . It was a wonderful sight to look down upon , those hundreds of thousands of moving troops , the long gray columns of the Kaiser 's picked troops , some marching in a northerly , others in a northeasterly direction , and all - moving with a tremendous rapidity eloquent of their desire to place themselves beyond the reach of the allied armies , which were harassing them at every step . The retreat was not confined to the highways . Many German soldiers were seen running across the fields , Jumping over fences , crawling through hedges , and wending their way through woods . without.any semblance of order or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been badly cut up in the fierce fighting which preceded the general retreat . Deprived of a majority ' of their officers , they were a , mere rabble of fugitives , many without rifles , having abandoned their weapons in their mad haste to escape the vengeance of the French and British pursuers . These scenes of almost panic-stricken flight were witnessed at the end of a week 's hard fighting . It must not be supposed that this incontestable victory . as justly it must be called , over the Germans was achieved with- - out hard fighting of a destructive character at the outset . During the first few days of the battle of the Marne the Germans fought stubbornly and bravely and with all the efficiency characteristic of their military methods . Every inch of the advance of the allied armies was contested , and it was not until the superiority of the British and French troops was clearly demonstrated by the results of the four days ' battle that the Kaiser 's hosts began their precipitate retreat . Up to that point their retreat had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Campaign . It is quite clear that the Germans did their best and that they were beaten in a battle which they themselves recognized as the critical turning point of the campaign in France . One feature stands out clearly , and that is that French troops are capable of meeting German troops on equal ' terms and beating them . If the battle of the Marne produced no other result than a realization of this fact on both sides its effect on the rest of the war still would be of incalculable value . But the defeat of the Germans will be supremely important in many other directions . The vast quantities of military stores and ammunition which have fallen into the hands of the allied armies show clearly how disorderly the flight became in the last day or two . The loss of upward of 200 guns alone must be a severe blow to Prussian self-esteem . The advancing allied armies found large areas of ground littered with rifles , ammunition , belts , knapsacks , drinking flasks , ammunition ' wagons , boxes of flour , &c.; Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as other portions of their equipment ' in their desire to lighten themselves and thus facilitate their escape . After the superiority of the British and French troops had compelled the Germans to retreat , their retirement developed into flight , partly owing to the collapse of their supplies of ammunition and food . During the pre- . vious withdrawal of the French Army from the north of France to the lines between Paris and Verdun they took with them , nearly all the available cattle , wheat and other foodstuffs , so that the Germans advanced through regions almost deprived of any means of sustenance . Thrown back oni their own supplies , brough ( up over greatly prolonged- lines ' of communication , their commissariat was unequal-to the ' task and broke down ; the vaunted German organization was not able to cope with this difficult situation . Scores Dying from Exhaustion . Many of the Germans captured said they had been without food for periods varying from twenty-four to forty-eight hours . Some were so weak they could hardly stand . Scores of German soldiers were found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The utterly demoralized condition of hundreds of German prisoners testifies to the incredible privations which they had undergone . Most of their horses were mere skeletons . Fifty Uhlans under command of a non-commissioned officer gave themselves up to the French in Montereau , saying , " Do what you like with us . " They were dying from hunger and fatigue and had to be sent to the rear in ambulances . Apart from the heavy losses which the Germans sustained during the fighting they have been severely punished by their pursuers . During their hurried retreat British and French artillery decimated the columns of the retiring enemy , and they also have been pursued relentlessly by the cavalry of the allied armies . Judging from the unofficial accounts of the great battle which are now beginning to come in. there is every reason to believe that the French official communications have understated the extent of the victory .                     