@@681015

txt One year ago , in the night of Feb. 22-23 , 1913 , Paaaecisco MADERO , the deposed President of Mexico , and PING SUAREZ , who had been deposed as Vice President at the same time , were assassinated while being transferred to other quarters from the National Palace , where they had been held as prisuners . No actual evidence that the Provisional President , Gen. IluEarA , or any member of his Government , was implicated in the murder has ever been obtained , but the attempted transfer of the political prisoners was made at night and the guard was insufficient . It was well known that MADERO was hated by many army officers , who held him responsible for the murder of Col. Rutz , commander of the Rurales in the Federal District and a very popular officer , while MADERO himself had shot and killed the officer who , under orders , had carried to him the formal announcement that the Congress demanded his resignation . The deposed President 's brother , GUSTAVO , had been assassinated a few days previously , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Suspicion was strong , therefore , that when MADERO was sent in an open motor car from the National Palace he was not expected to reach the penitentiary alive , and that suspicion has not been materially weakened in the intervening year . No official inquiry worthy of the name was ever made into the circumstances of the crime , and the official accounts of it were strangely vague and contradictory . In the year Gen. HUERTA has retained his Provisional Presidency , and , while he now admits that he has no control over the most north rly States and his rule has been bar ly dictatorial , he has managed td keep the seaports open and to retain possession of all the larger cities . There has been more or less disaffection in many of them , but rebellion has not prevailed south of Torreon , which is now in Federal hands . H1IERTA has not kept his promise to have a free election and to withdraw peacefully from the office which he assumed temporarily after the fall of MAnaso , and he , has practically destroyed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Senators and Deputies who refused to do his bidding and filling their places with men upon whose obedience he could rely , after a form of election which deceived nobody . On the other hand , he has treated foreign residents , including Americans , well ; he has submitted to peculiar and unprecedented relations with the United States with remarkable selfcontrol , has treated the American President 's personal representative , Mr. LaNn , with courtesy , while he has listened with good grace to suggestions made by Mr. O'SFautliaatEssr , our Charge at the capital , and frequently acted upon them . There is no doubt that he has gained a. large measure of respect from many persons in this country who profess - to believe that he le the only man In sight in Mexico who can be looked to to restore order . It Is equally true that he has done little or nothing to restore order during his term of office , that his finances are in a low state , and that if he can not defeat the rebels in the forthcoming battle at Torreon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is rather too frequently said that if President Wiisoisi had recognized the Provisional Government of HUERTA a year ago the condition of Mexico would now be less deplorable . That is a statement which can be neither proved nor disproved , and the President 's action , in view of the suspicion of complicity in the murder of MADERO which HUERTA has never cleared away , the fact that he had secured power through the overturning of a Constitutional Government , and the additional fact that such Provisional Governments , organized for a few months , are not commonly recognized by foreign Powers , seems amply justified in the view of most of his fellow-countrymen . In fact , the only alternative to President WILSON 'S Mexican policy would be actual interference , to which the American people are strongly opposed . Serious complications , however , might arise from such occurrences as the killing of Mr. BENTON , a British subject , at Juarez , by order of VILLA , the strongest leader of the rebels . In spite of the testimony against BENTON contained in the minutes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which would be sufficient if true , it is not unlikely that further inquiry into this case will be ordered . Even as It stands , with no evidence obtainable to refute the statements of VILLA 'S witnesses , the Benton case is one that will tend to destroy any confidence that might have been placed in the so-eolled Constitutionalist Party and its leaders . We should be sorry to believe with Gen. FELIX Diaz , however , that there is no hope for peace in Mexico for a long time to come . There are still some millions of respectable and law-abiding Mexicans to be reckoned with , and , if they chose to exert themselves , they might control the situation . To be sure , they are a stubborn race .                     