@@682234

txt Popular approval of collective bargaining is , or should be , conditioned . . Upon the benevolent application of the principle . It is right that there should bi ? equality of bargaining power between the isolated , worker who must earn his daily breed by his daily , wage and the owner of the only means of earning anything under the modern . industrial system . It is right that the laborer diseetisfied with his conditions of employment should have the ability fo stop working , individually or collectively , subject only to his obligation not to turn his disagreement with the private employer to public prejudice . So far the public and the law are with the workingman and the Melons . But that is not the sort of collective bargaining now before the public for its observation . The anthracite and bituminous miners are bargaining together this year for the first time . and in a spirit not new , but which has not reeoivee deserved attention . Their reliance for the enforcement of their demands is that " with " out uninterrupted supplies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come to a halt . " There are 350,000 miners outside their organization , and the demand for " recognition " of the union means that they must join it or lose their livelihood . It is clear that the concession of their demands would disadvantage many times their membership , including great numbers who have no relation to the trade dispute except in their capacity as citizens and as consumers of the product . At the same time a similar dispute in the railway industry is ripening along similar lines . Four brotherhoods are asking all railways to readjust their wages , and are appealing to public opinion for the support which they have uniformly received . That is a logical deelopment , but has never happened before . Originally each railway settled its own labor disputes . That naturally broadened into bargaining by railway systems , then by geographical areas . Now , for the first time , the dispute is continental in extent , the railways being as united as their employes . There are 1,500.000 owners of railway securities , and a larger number of railway emploYesThere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as railway equipment concerns . Counting in the families of the workers , there are many millions interested in this dispute , and 100,000,000 are:enterested in the efficiency of the railways . The temper of those bargaining collectively is not admirable . They announce that there will be no arbitration ; this time , although all previous arbitrations have been in their favor , if not to the full extent of their demands . The collective bargain , therefore , has other than benevolent aspects . It has a capacity , which is being used ruthlessly , of being turned into a means of exploiting the consumer of the products which are the result of the cooperation of labor and capital , to an extent greater than is possible for either alone . Combinations of capital for the extortion of excessive profits have been controlled by law , but there has been no action against combinations of both labor and capital . The Coal Trust has been compelled to conform to the anti-trust law , and its rates are regulated by the Interstate Commerce Commission . It is hard to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to it . The miners ' union Claims exemption from legal control for all its union activities , and appeals to the public for sympathy for the workingman . There is no suggestion of any public control of the combination of both of them to raise the price Of a necegsary of life as a means of settling their dispute . - The position of the railway union Is even stronger . The railways with which they are bargaining collectively can not raise &; their rates as a means Of raising wages without loss of in , come . An appreciation of these facts leads to the conclueiont that the collective bargain is approaching- its test before the public . The same social conscience which demands equality of bargaining power as a means of justice between labor and capital may rightly ' demand limitations upon the principle of collective bargaining when used as : a means of limiting the right to labor ' , ! or of extorting tribute from those who have no defense because not directly represented in the- bargain . Abundance of production and . reduction , of costs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of profit , which is proportioned ' to , effictency in service . Extortion by , monopolies of capital have been checked . if they ever existed in the imagined extent . Unions , discourage the exceptionally efficient from the use of their natural powers , and impose penalties for it . Unions make membership difficult , and by inhumane methods seek to prohibit non-unionists from earning anything . These principles are embedded in many labor constitutions , specifically in , the coal miners ' , and in defiance of the Anthra1 cite Commission 's recommendation ' that it should be amended to prohibit practices which the commission con , demned . These facts are part of the record of the-practice of collective bar .. ' gaining which it is necessary to bear in mind when the principle is on trial before the count of public opinion .                     