@@684648

txt The " National Service act , " introduced in the Senate and House on July 31 by Mr. CHAMBERLAIN of Oregon and Mr. KAHN of California , respectively , both of whom have been identified with the most progressive army legislation and neither of whom can be suspected of a love of militarism , has excited the disapproval , in fact the resentment , of the National Guard Association of the United States , which is naturally proud of the record of the Guard Divisions in France . The bill prepared by the General Staff at the direction of Secretary BAKER and introduced by Senator WADSWORTH On Monday proposes limited universal training , if the expression may be - used :  --  the Chamberlain-Kahn bill does nototake merely a long step toward universal training , . . but goes the whole distance , which causes the National Guard Association to say in its resolutions that the design is to set up " the machinery for " the establishment in America of " that detestable Prussian system " which is abhorrent to the Amer** ican people . " ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chamberlain-Kahn prospectus ? is a rough draft and will doubtless need amendment , but it is hardly fair to brand it as an attempt to saddle odious militarism upon the country . Secretary BAKER 'S bill did not provoke the National Guard Association to pass resolutions of condemnation , yet it provides for a regular army of 510,000 men . The Chamberlain-Kahn measure would fix the strength of the regular army at 225,000 men two years after the ratification of the Peace Treaty , which is perhaps as large a force as could be raised by enlistment . So one must look to the general features of the ChamberlainKahn bill to discover why it does not find favor with the National Guard Association . Military training for all male citizens of the United States " upon attaining the age of 18 years , or within two years thereafter , " is proposed , and they are to be " in " ducted into the army or navy of the " United States " for this purpose . Section 11 creates an army reserve , Section 17 a naval reserve , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty for five years , but not after reaching the age of 30 , except in the case of a " national emergency , " tot be declared by the President , when all male citizens ( including the reserves ) between the ages of 18 and 45 may be summoned for " immediate military or naval service . " It Is obvious that a State Guard could be kept up with difficulty to the strength the association desires If such a measure were to take its place upon the statute hook . No one familiar with the achievements of the National Guard In France and knowing its capacity for usefulness at home would like to see it reduced to futile numbers ; but would that be the result if the Chamberlain-Kahn measure became law ? Is not the association taking too gloomy a view of the effect of such legislation upon the Guard ? One thing is certain : if the country is to have universal training on any extensivescale , the militia organizations will not be able to count their complement in hundreds of thousands . The so-called National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the intricate details for the organization of an army of the entire man power of the country . It proposes complete and not half-way " universal training . " With such a system in existence and quickly operative no Power on earth would dream of invading the United States or attacking its overseas possessions . The Chamberlain-Kahn bill is a very businesslike document , but why say that it " places a stigma upon the citizen " soldiery which bore the brunt of " fighting in ' France as shock " troops , and creates a centralized " military , oligarchy with dangerous " potentialities " ' . " rhe plan may be criticised as too ' costly in the execution , perhaps too cumbrous , and as unnecessarily thorough in view of the promise held out by the League of Nations , but there is no plot " to re " sort to conscription and to seize " from their homes the youth of " America for service in the regular " army in the Philippines , in Hawaii , " in Porto Rico , in the Canal Zone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military work in peace times would be dcne by the regular army , as formerly . The cause of the National Guard will not be helped by denunciatory resolutions in which there is a . Suspicion of stage lightning . There will probably be half a dozen universal training bills to engage the attention of Congress , and it should accept their . best features and mold them into a law that will satisfy public sentiment . Legislation is usually a ? compromise , and it is likely to be so in this case .                     