@@681278

txt A genuine sensation in connection with the Ulster crisis was caused today by the announcement that King George had postponed his departure for Portsmouth , where he was to review the greatest fleet of warships England has ever gathered together . The sudden change in the royal plans for such an important function was at once laid to important developments in the crisis over home rule . The first announcement of the postponement of the royal journey left it in doubt whether his Majesty would leave ' London at all today , but later the statement was issued that he would start at 3 P. M. His original intention was to start at 9 A. M. The delay of his departure was arranged between the King and Mr. Asquith , the Premier , at an interview at Buckingham Palace last night . " Pressure of business arising out of the Ulster situation and the approaching close of the Parliamentary session " was the official statement of the reason for the King 's remaining in the city . From an authoritative source THE NEW YORK TIMES correspondent learns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crisis . which is now averted , thanks to the King 's and Mr. Asquith 's influence . There have been grave differences of opinion in the Cabinet over the latest aspects of the Ulster question , for some of- - its principal members , Sir Edward Grey , the Marquis of Crewe , Mr. Churchill , and Mr. Harcourt are anxious for " a clean cut " which will separate Ulster from Nationalist Ireland . Knowledge of this difference of opinion enabled the King to bring pressure to bear . It was knowledge of this condition that enabled Sir Edward Carson to make his stiff speeches . T. P. O'Connor went as an emissary from Redmond to th. ? Cabinet yesterday to tell them point blank that the Irish members ouLl rather sacrifice the Home Rule bill than allow the Ulster counties with a Nationalist majority to be presented to Carson . That stiffened the Cabinet , a majority of whom were already with Redmond . Last night Sir Edward Carson and Boner Law learned definitely that Redmond would not budge an inch . That , of course , restored the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cabinet revealed itself . The Irish members have great regard for Sir Edward Grey , and his retirement from the Ministry would have shaken the Liberal Party to its base . Grey is very loyal and has always been a staunch home ruler . He is also an intimate friend of ' Asquith , indeed the Premier 's closest friend in the Cabinet . He would do nothing disloyal to him ; he was only anxious for " a clean cut " because he feared that anything less would lead to an eruption in Ireland . There is no doubt that Redmond put his foot down , and that has startled the Carsonites . They realize now that ? they have not got the Government at their mercy . The result is that a new basis of compromise will be sought . Lloyd George seems certain that a compromise will be reached that will be honorable to the Irish members and not humiliating to Ulster .. The social influences which have been brought to bear in London during the last month have been almost overwhelming . But for the determined stand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Carson , who was presenting a pistol at their head with the warning , " A clean cut or come and fight us . " Many Liberals feel much suspicion at ' the activity at Court over the Ulster matter , but the King has been honestly trying to play the part of umpire . The King 's postponement of his departure . for Portsmouth is only another proof of his keen personal interest in the crisis , of which David Lloyd George said last night at the bankers ' dinner at Guildhall : " Should there be civil strife in Ireland when industrial trouble here is maturing , the situation would be the gravest with Which any Government of this country has had to deal for centuries . " Says Ali Is Arranged . - In . connection With the King 's activity an interesting statement is published by Sir Edward Russell , editor of The Liverpool Daily Post , who says that it comes from a person the anouncement of whose name would cause a sensation . The statement is as follows : " There is really an arranged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be adjusted , but the broad facts can be regarded as fixed . What all political leaders have found necessary is for each to blow his trumpet fortissimo in stentorian defiance of Sir Edward Carson . It will enable Redmond to capitulate as to the exclusion of Ulster so long as Parliament chooses , and he will be able to state truly that he could not do otherwise . " He will accept the shorn measure of Home Rule on the principle of half a sheep being better than none , with the expectation of getting a whole sheep in the future , while there will be a substantial financial solatium for the omission of Ulster , which will set the Irish Parliament on its feet . " Sir Edward Carson will have fulfilled his trust to Ulster , and will leave the Unionists of the rest of Ireland to shift for themselves . " Mr. Asquith will have trimmed his sails so as to prevent civil war , hay . ing alienated no section of his follow , ing , and steered his ship through the stormy sea . Lord @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though there may be bluster from irresponsible individuals , the position arises that Home Rule , apart from Ulster . will be on the statute book , but that the Irish Parliament can not meet until months after the general election , which takes place next June . " The whole settlement is the logical outcome of the efforts of the King toward pacification , and the man who quietly tackled all the leaders and atranged what is to be done , apart from public protestations , is Lord Stamfordham . the Icing 's private secretary . "                     