@@683467

txt CAPRONI AIR LINERS . Their Plan for a Rome-New York Service After the War . Before the year 1915 the , name of Caproni was scarcely known by anybody . It has now become a common noun in the Italian language and it bids fair to become as well known throughout the world as the name of Marconi . The latter gave wings to words , the former is giving steady wings to men . It is not what Gianni Caproni has done and will continue to do during this war that will immortalize his name . For the present he is devoting his untiring energy and his genius to the prosecution of the war and is doing all he can to facilitate victory for the Allies , but what is nearest to his heart is aviation after the war . His program for the post-.helium ? period is grandiose , spectacular . I had a vision of it one evening last March . I went to see the Caproni brothers , Gianni and his faithful collaborator , Federico , at a hotel in Rome , just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them for an interview , about their work , for the American press . They refused to grant it , saying , in their modesty , that they had nothing to tell me that could interest the American public . We started to talk , however , and our conversation soon turned on the subject that is predominant in their thoughts . Their words were like the words of a dreamer ; but there was nothing in the tone of their voices or in their expression that bespoke the visionary . They were calm , they showed no enthusiasm ; in fact , they were entirely unconscious of the sense of bewilderment that they were causing in my spirit as they proceeded in the revelation of their plans . I am not authorized to say much about those new monsters of the air ; most of what I heard was confidential , but it will not be long perhaps before the whole world will hear of them . What I can say for the present , without betraying the confidence of any one  --  especially since I have seen statements somewhat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that shortly after the cessation of the war I am perfectly convinced there will be established " air lines " between Italy and England and between Italy and America . The distance between Rome and New York will be covered in a little over thirty hours ' continuous travel . There will be two stops , one some place in Portugal and the other on one of the Azores Islands . Tho schedule time for the trip will probably be fortyeight hours . In addition to the passengers , these " air liners " will carry , it seems , mail and newspapers , as well as small luggage for the passengers . A direct line between London and Halifax is also contemplated , without an intermediary stop . This distance will be covered in about twenty hours . I need not make any comments on these plans . Astounding as they may seem , I think that the readers , in view of what has already been accomplished , will have no difficulty in believing In the possibility of their execution . ? The name of Caproni , I am @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and daring as did the names of Columbus . Amerigo Vespucci , and the Cabot brothers at the beginning of modern history . Silence on War Measures . I was very pleased to notice a letter in your issue of Oct. 3 entitled " Enemies Are Listening . " I can not only confirm what the , writer says about the warning signs posted in all public places in France , but would also like to call your attention to the same state of affairs in Italy . In that country notices read somewhat as follows : " To Military Men : It is the duty of every officer and enlisted man to refrain from speaking of or mentioning matters which might be of use to the enemy . " To Civilians : It is the duty of every good civilian to refrain from asking questions or seeking information of military or naval men . " These are not the exact words of the rotice , but the sense is the same . Mr. Smith 's experience of overhearing information which might be of groat interest to the enemy is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are apt to underestimate the value of care in such matters . War Duty of Peace Lovers . It is said authoritatively that the German soldiers wear a medal with the head of the Deity upon it and the inscription , " Smite to kill  --  no questions asked on the judgment clay . " For pure , animal-like ferocity this can not be beaten , and - the one enemy to world peace is this spirit , which must be eliminated . One drop of Prussian yeast would leaven an entire universe : so , as Chairman of an American ( not pro-German ) peace organization , I beg that every peace league will do 811 we have done . When war was declared e'is suspended ' automatically , and will not resume peace activities until such a time as our efforts are needed to help reconstruct a war-worn world . There must be no distortion of facts , no fanaticism . The public conscience thoroughly aroused is seldom in the wrong . It has spoken . We must march witn it and help to mitigate the sufferings of war . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with righteousness . We want no other kind . We Americans , nourished on the blessings peace has given us , must give back to the motherland that has sheltered us all that we have and are , spirit , and body , too , if needs must be . ANNIE J. GILBERT . President Universal Peace League . Brooklyn , Oct. 4. 1917 . Germany Afraid to Speak . Germany is working out a publicity plan of establishing the delusion that she Is the prime peace mover and seeker and wisher of the world . It is for home consumption , to keep the German people content with their Government and policies , or it is to furnish a topic of conversation and newspaper articles to take the attention of this country off the more important object of preparing to win the war . What is the . special point at this time in noting any peace talk from Germany until she comes down to a statement of terms which are somewhere within reasonable bounds of what the Allies would consider ? Germany can not do so now . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would cause such a change in the rearrangement of issues at home that the Government could not possibly survive it . Mrs. Catt to the Anti-Suffragists . Mrs. Catt 's letter to the ladies of the Women 's National Anti-Suffrage Association ? reminds me of a similar letter which she sent two years ago to the Executive Committee of the Man Suffrage Association Opposed to Political Suffrage for Women . The suit threatened then was never brought . ' We still live , full of compassion for the hysteria which always invades the suffragist leaders toward /he close of a political campaign , and more convinced than ever that it is for the public welfare . that women should keep out of politics . Far better the red cross which I have Just witnessed on the nurses ' breasts than the yellow suffrage banner .                     