@@681129

txt Almost coincident with the proclamation of martial law in Vera Cruz to-day by Rear Admiral Fletcher , who thereby assumed supreme control of the city 's affairs , came a lively little skirmish in a cemetery outside of the city , ' in which four Mexicans were killed ' by the bluejackets who found them hiding there . In his formal proclamation Rear Admiral Fletcher stated that martial law existed " in the City of Vera Cruz and the territory contiguous thereto now occupied by the forces under thy command , and that such law shall be hereafter extended to such additional territory as may hereafter be occupied by my forces . " This action was taken by the commanding officer because he found it impossible to obtain the full co-operation of the former civil authorities . One result of the proclamation will be to make it possible to bring all offenders , especially those who disobey the orders about keeping firearms , before a court-martial for trial and summary punishment when they are found guilty . Kill Mesicans Hiding in Cemetery . The encounter in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? some of the Mexicans would go in their hostility to the American forces . For two clays there had been much sharpshooting at the United States forces from the direction of the ceme , tery . To-day an Investigation was made by a detachment of the battalion of bluejackets from the battleship Michigan which was on outpost duty . The attention of the officer in command was drawn to-what purported to I be a funeral party escorting a body for burial in the cemetery . Close investigation revealed that the ( coffin , instead of containing a corpse , was filled with rifles and ammunition . 1 This discovery confirmed the Americans ' suspicions . The bluejackets then continued their search in the cemetery , and came upon a newly dug grave , in and around which was a body of armed Mexicans . A brisk encounter followed , and the bluejackets killed four Mexicans who were ' concealed in the open grave and wounded several others . It is supposed that under the pretext of conducting funerals the Mexicans were preparing to dig supposed graves , which were to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the cemetery was from the direction of the grave where the Mexicans were afterward found . Aviators Go a Scouting . Lieut . Patrick N. L. , Bellinger of the Naval Aviation Corps ' started in a hydro-aeroplane from the battleship Mississippi on the first official reconnoitring trip at 11 o'clock this morning . The trips which were made yesterday by Lieut . Arthur Bellinger and Ensign Melvin L. Stolz were principally in , tendqd as-preliminary tests . Bellinger .. flew up over the city at great speed , sometimes at a 70-mile-an-hour rate . The rattle of the machine brought the natives out in great numbers , but many-of them , not knowing what it was , fled in terror into their houses and stores . Half an hour after Bellinger came down Ensign Stolz went up in another high-power machine . He also flew over the city at great speed . Both the aviators came down at times close to the housetops , and at other times flew to great altitudes . In to-day 's scouting flights Lieut . Bellinger went first out along the Interoceanic Railway to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intact . He and Ensing Stolz will map the country beyond Vera Cruz from their machines for the use of the commanding Officers in any forward movement . . Vera Cruz had , the quietest night that it had enjoyed since the occupation of the port by the United States naval forces last Tuesday . Not a shot was fired by a Mexican in any part of the city so far as known . Citizens Turn in Their Arms . Following the order that all residents of the city turn : in at the office of the Provost Marshal all the weapons in their possession before noon today , people of all classes flocked in and stood in long lines at the office to make their surrender of offensive and defensive property . The assortment of weapons which was delivered up included rifles , revolvers , dirks and knives of every variety . Many little boys were in the line , each bringing one or more weapons , and there were some women also . A receipt was given for each weapon surrendered to the American au -- thorities and when noon came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As the population of the city is only about 30.000. this means that about one out of 15 of the inhabitants gave up a concealed weapon of some sort . This total is in addition to the large number seized by marines and bluejackets iast week when they searched all the houses whence sniping operations had been conducted . ? There were stacks of rifles and - great heaps of small arms piled around the American Consulate when the last Mexican with his weapon had been disposed of . Machine Guns Guard Outpost .. The outposts of the American lines have now been pushed eight miles out from the city . About 2,500 men are engaged on outpost duty between the city ' and Gen. Maass 's forces . Major Smedley D. Butler is in command of them . Intrenchments have been thrown up at.advanced points , and machine guns have been put in position , , ready for any attack . The guard around the pumping plant at Tejeria has been doubled to prevent any tampering with the city 's water supply . It is reported that Mexicans of Gen. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tracks between Tejeria and Soledad , where the former commandant of Vera Cruz has his ' headquarters . A thousand men are said to be tearing up the rails and generally wrecking the line . The chief result of this destruction at present will be to make difficult the transportation . of refugees between the severed ends of the railroad . It ? is reported here . that the first of the army transports , bringing the brigade of Soldiers under Gen. Funston from Galveston , will arrive to-morrow , The troops will ' be immediately dis : embarked and sent to join the force of marines and bluejackets which is on duty outside of the city . It is likely that all the bluejackets will then be withdrawn to the ships . The United States battleship North Dakota arrived here to-night . Not Enthusiastic Over Mediation . The text of the mediation proposal made by Argentina , Brazil . and Chile to end the conflict was sent by wireless to all the warships to-day by order of Secretary Daniels . The naval officers and enlisted men were not stirred to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ details of the plan , as printed in the newspapers to-day , smiled over it . . Americans who came from Mexico City assert that Huerta will interpret President Wilson 's acceptance of the proffer of the good offices of the South American republics as a sign of America 's desire to quit .                     