@@680575

txt Cases of accidental Triumphant poisoning that lead to Courage fatal results are not . ecognized R rare enough to exI plain . the keenly sympathetic interest which has been felt all over the country in the young Georgia banker whose death early yesterday ' morning ended a week-long fight for life that was declared by his medical attendants hopeless from the beginning . Such accidents are constantly happening , and will doubtless continue until the deplorable but too common habit of keeping highly poisonous drugs close to ordinary household remedies and in containers not distinguishable by touch has been abandoned . Moreover , though a rich man , Mr. WALKER 'S eininence as a financier was confined to the little City of Macon . Again it was character , the quality recently declared of supreme importance by JOHN PIERPONT MORGAN , that made the difference and turned an episode otherwise commonplace except to a narrow circle of relatives and friends into a drama that touched the public heart by its compelling pathos . And though by unanimous agreement among all who knew him Mr. WALKER was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made him from the moment he realized his dreadful mistake a National figure was courage  --  the one which , however highly other virtues may be praised , stands alone in the sure ef tic cacy of its appeal for admiration add respect to every human being . That it should do so is not without good reason , for , ignoring the insensitiveness to pain and danger which is mere brute ferocity , courage includes or makes easy the practice of so Many other virtues that the assumed association of all the rest with it is almost fully justified ? as is the opposite assumption that all the vices go with cowardice . Mr. WALKER faced what he probably knew was next to certain death with a bravery at once so calm and so cheerful that he instantly fixed the attention of the millions to whom the newspapers , alert to their opportunity . revealed it . Without a trace of the bravado which is so often the veil of fear , and with as little of the resignation which contains something Of surrender , he.made his death a victory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fine life , though for a cause so needless and so lamentable . Though t h 0 boss A Solemn barbers have consentWarning ed to grant , among Barbers. other concessions deto mended by their journeymen , the abolition of Sunday work , that Is probably the point the yielding of which will most annoy and inconvenience the public and do most to injure the professional practice of an ancient art already seriously threatened by a mechanical invention that gives skill and safety to the amateur selfministrant . Of course there is general sympathy with the demand of the barbers for one full day off a week , like the rest of us , and their hours have certainly been cruelly long , but , of all days , Sunday is the one when the greatest number of men show most consideration of personal appearance , and the closing of the barber shops on that day will certainly be resented by all except the strictest of Sabbatarians  --  the large majority of whom shave themselves , anyhow . A shave ' Saturday night will not do , for that means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ length that makes it 's weare'r 's ' face look most like the face of a coalheaver in action on a hot Summer afternoon . Even tile , strictest of Sabbatarians except ' works of mercy and necessity from their ban , and shaving partakes ortOth those qualities , while the proximity of cleanliness to godliness has been long asserted without eliciting any ' audible . denials since the age when grumpy hermits tried to prove filth a means of grace . What a man may do without sin for himself of a Sunday morning another man may do for him , or so it would seem . The ? stupid ViolenCes of which the barbers have been guilty of late made us all pretty angry with them , and if now they indulge in ? ? he culminating impertinence of decicrpg without consul. : tation.with.t.li ? tr patrons when . th , ey NW. or rather when they will not , render a distinctly personal service  --  a service of ' the kind that people want when they ' want it and not otherwhiles  --  then the well-advised manufacturer of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least twice as many acres as it now covers . And what will the barber do then , poor thing ? ? A Reproof Just where , in New York State , the town Gently of Warwick may be is Resented , one of the few things as vet unknown to the present commentator , but he ventures the confident assertion that it is ' far back in the woods . Were that not the case , one of its inhabitants would not have sent to us the letter printed on this page yesterday , protesting against public discussion , especially in the newspapers , of Yale 's senior societies , the influences they have exercised ' and the necessity for changing their methods . These things our misguided correspondent vainly imagines  --  after the manner of certain Anabaptists  --  are distinctly private , concerning Yale alone , and he censures Yale men in particular for not observing the proverb which advises doing laundry work at home behind ' Closed doors . That proverb , like most others . is a dangerous generalization from a few cases , and those dubious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The public 's right to know about and to express opinions on all matters connected with Yale or any other educational institution is firmly based on the public 's deep interest in their proper Conduct ? on the injury which the public suffers from collegiate abuses of any sort . Whoever will  --  and can ? is privileged , of course , to defend the past practices of Yale 's senior societies , and to resist any changes in them that he considers undesirable or even unnecessary . To insist that consideration of the desirability or the necessity should be secret , however , is to ignore all the realities of the situation and to show a complete misunderstanding of the essentials of propriety . Publicity is often painful , but it is always reformative when reform is needed and always harmless when everything is all right . Yale will very easily survive the present sensation and be the better for it . For what more can Warwick ask ?                     