@@681016

txt One of the .. " femiA Grievance nista " who spoke at Hardly t h la Cooper Union . meeting last week Intolerable dwelt with what seemed to be unnecessary stress of indignant emotion on the enforced taking by women at marriage of their husband 's names . As this particular orator , though married , is still known in both her professional and her private life as " Miss " Foie LA FOLLETTE , she is herself a living proof that any woman who chooses to follow her example can do it without suffering for it any more than she has  --  which is not at all . To be sure , once in a long time such a violator of custom would or might find herself compelled by law to sign the resented name in addition to the one wvith which she was first provided , but this is hardly a grievance to get much excited about in a world so abounding in real troubles and hardships , and even if she refused to comply the penalty would be an inconvenience only severe enough to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of us . Miss LA FOLLETTE complained that when a woman marries she was expected to change " Miss " into " Mrs. , " in order that everybody may know her status , while men retained the honorific that served them as celibates , though it might easily be argued that the safety of society depended at least-as much on the revelation of their condition to all and sundry as it does in the case of women . Perhaps the arguing would be easier than the proving , but the claim has at least plausibility , and to deny that there was any justice at all in it would be distinctly dangerous in these days when " double standards " of every sort are on the defensive . The custom of giving a new title to married women , as such , is , of course , very far from immemorial ; it is not even ancient , since not many years ago , as history counts years , " Mrs. " was granted to women in recognition , not of marriage , but of age or dignity , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a curious fact , too , that the word of which " Mrs. " is a contraction has , in its full form , two meanings widely diverse , one honorable and one  --  not . Still further to confuse the situation , " Miss " is of the same derivation , . and its difference of significance from " Mrs. " is purely arbitrary . And once everybody did , and millions and millions still do , get along well enough with a single name , borne through life unchanged . Lours Maas ELUL Illiteracy made in his speech a Bar to against the literNaturalization. acy test in the Burnett - Dillingham immigration bill the soundest sort of a statement when he said that the place to apply that test was not at Ellis Island , but in the naturalization court . And he might have added that the homegrown illiterate is likely to be less , rather than more , qualified to take part in the government of the country than is the immigrant who can not read and write . The ignorance of the latter at least may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him at home , and he may be not only eager to get it , but quite competent to profit by it when obtained . The native American , on the contrary , who has not been to school or who has not learned anything there , is , in a great majority of cases , mentally defective to such an extent as to make the franchise for him a danger or a farce . Most applicants for naturalization are put through something of an examination as to their degree of intelligence and the amount of their knowledge of our institutions . Only too often , however , the questioning is perfunctory , and , no matter how stupid the answers , a trusted assurance that the candidate will " vote right " wing for the candidate his precious " papers . " Some of the States , while willing enough- to have such men for inhabitants , and to pay them for hard work , not the less necessary because considered too humble or too unpleasant to be done by the descendants of earlier corners , bar them from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is easily defensible , but where it does not sense and consistency suffer . The Federal naturalization law , prop= erly enough , is much simpler than those of the several States defining the cpiallfleations of voters . New York , for readons not at all mysterious , gives the ballot more freely than is done ' in most other parts of the country , and while this is the case advocacy of a literacy test for immigrants comes with an especially ill-grace from a New Yorker . ? The fact is , of course , , that the friends of that test favor It much more as a. re9triction ? 14mmiamfongthan from any idea that the quality of it can thus - be assured . Everybody knows better than that , for everybody knows that practically all of the worst , and most of the realty bad , immigrants can easily leap the literacy bar .                     