@@681891

txt On the return here yesterday of the Steamship Kirkoswald from Marseilles it was disclosed that four fire bombs had been discoverect in her cargo of sugar , and that the bombs found aboard the Bankdale , the Devon City , the Lord Erne and the Cressington Court , which had loaded at this port for destinations in France , had been of similar sort . These bombs were not , as at first supposed , of dynamite , but of highly inflammable chemicals intended to burst into flame in the heat of the steamships ' holds . That they failed of their purpose , alone occasioned a discovery of the new weapons , for had they become ignited , they , as well as the cargoes , would have been consumed and no trace of them would have been left . The fact that their manufacture makes them entirely self-consuming renewed yesterday the suspicion that the fire aboard La Touraine in mid-ocean some months ago was not due , as had been decided , to spontaneous combustion among closely packed bales of uniforms . Secret Service at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the cargo of the Kirkoswald had been known privately here since June 13 , the day following the discovery - of the bombs in Marseilles , France. ? Since then the United States Secret Service , with the co-operation of a score or more of private detectives , has worked steadily , though covertly , to discover the agency in charge of this campaign to supplement the German Government 's submarine warfare . On the authority of a steamship man , high in the councils of the investigators it can be stated now that the personnel of the organization behind this new bomb planting practically has been determined : that the identity of the men who actually placed the bombs aboard the Kirkoswald has been learned . and that arrests are likely at any moment . The same authority declared that the investigation had disclosed that the Fire Committee , to call it such , is perfectly organized and possessed of such financial resources as to preclude the idea that men of the stamp of Erich Muenter , the mad assassin and dynamiter , had any share in its operations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even as agents of the committee , the actual instruments in the bomb placing being selected from men whose daily calling gave them opportunity to conceal the infernal machines in outgoing cargoes . Two Bargemen Guilty . In the case of the Kirkoswald , the guilt of placing the bombs has been laid at the door of two bargemen employed in transporting the sacks of sugar from the American Refinery Company 's plant in Brooklyn to the Kirkoswald , which prior to her departure from this port on May 2 last lay at the Fabre Line pier at Thirty-first Street , South Brooklyn . The centring of suspicion on these men followed only after an exhaustive investigation of the character and habits of every man who had so much as touched a hand to the cargo from the moment it left the refinery . This was made possible by the employment of detectives immediately on word from Marseilles of the discovery of the bombs and by the fact that the payrolls of the Kirkoswald had been kept . " We are confident that no ' longshoreman had a hand in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manager of the Fabre Line , yesterday . " We put detectives on the case at once and they have thoroughly investigated everyone . " Paul Faguet , general manager of the French Line , to which the Bankdale was leased , has employed other detectives , and . his men have reached the same conclusion as our own  --  that the bomb planting has been conceived and directed by a group , the identity of whose members would make startling reading could it be made public . There is no doubt in our minds that all the bombs were placed at the direction of this same group , and that the placing of other bombs had been prepared for , so that vessels carrying munitions of war might lose their cargoes even were they fortunate enough to win through the submarine field . " Plot to Terrify Seamen . " Even the failure of the bombs to explode , " declared one shipping man , " can not be considered - complete failure for the bomb planters , for , in our opinion , their scheme is designed as much to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Could they prevent the ships ' departure from this country their success would be as complete as though they destroyed the vessels at sea . " The bombs found on all the ships were similar and were small cylinders , apparently of zinc , about four inches long by one and one-half in diameter . They resembled shot gun cartridges , and at what would thus be the base were a screw cap and a small tap , apparently for the introduction of inflammable chemicals . The other end was sealed with soft white wax highly imprognatedwith some strong acid which burned the flesh . Anparently the intention was for this acid to eat through the wax , releasing the liquid content , which was counted on to burst into flame in the heat of the hold . The discovery of the bombs , made while the cargo was being unloaded in Marseilles , was described by Captain Frederick Williamson and Chief Officer Herbert Edmondson after the Captain , first declining to discuss the affair at a , I1 , had concluded to correct the version published in evening newspapers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had to do with them , " said the Captain , who is a well-built , bronzed six-footer , about 40 years old , " was to carry the one saved tor me very thoughtfully by Mr. Edmondson up to the office of the Fabre Line next morning after the carpenter had packed it carefully in cotton wool . I took this precaution in case any sudden jolt might set the thing off , and then we should not have the evidence to go by . " I do not know what chemical was contained inside the cylinder , but am confident of the strength of the acid mixed with the white wax at the - end because it made the carpenter rise two feet in the air when he touched the wax with his finger to see if it was soft . The Chief of Police at Marseilles told me before I sailed that the bombs were intended to set the shin on fire and not explosives to blow it up . " I thought my cabin was a bit too warm to keen my bomb in overnight , so I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his cabin , which was much cooler . He answered , ' Aye , aye , sir , ' in the usual fashion , and took it away in his handkerchief . Afterward I found that he took the machine ashore and hid it under an old shed at the end of the pier until the morning . " 4dmondson , in response to instructiotis from the Cs.Ptahls ' Save the ' Lot " lowing account of the discovery of the bombs : It was about 11 o'clock when one of the gang of forty Italian ' longshoremen working the sugar out of lower No. 2 hold , just forward of the bridge , picked up the end of a bag of sugar on the port side , which was partly open , and four small metal objects fell with a clatter on the iron deck . " Third Officer Peter Johannsen , who was in charge of the hold , saw immediately that they were bombs and picked them off the deck and placed them in his hankerchief . The Italians , who are suspicious of anything in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' La bomba , la bombal ' I had just reached the ' tween decks of No. 2 , and the Third Officer was putting the bombs , wrapped in his handkerchief . into my hat , which I handed down to him . " I explained to the Italians that the metal cylinders were only rubbish which some one had put in the sugar bag for a joke , and told them to go below again and carry on with the cargo , which they did after a litth , while . There were about 2,000 tons of sugar in that hold , and the men had been working on it since the morning of June 10 . The bag in which the bombs were found was stowed away down in the middle of the sugar , so that it must have been in one of the first two or three lighters that came alongside No. 2 hold . " After taking the bombs to the Captain 's cabin , who was ashore on business , I reported the discovery to the Superintendent of the pier . He looked at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his clerks to the Chief of Police of Marseilles . The latter came on board in the afternoon and took three of the machines away with Iffm and I kept one to show the Captain when he returned to the ship at 4 o'clock . The chief officer said that only one of the forty Italian longshoremen returned to work the sugar in No , 2 hold next morning . The Kiricoswald , which is of 4,021 tons , 370 feet long , and was built in 1912 , belongs to the Kayle Transport Company of Liverpool , the owner also of the Bankdale , and is under charter to the Fabre Line . She left here May 2 , arriving in Marseilles on May 20 , 9.111 ing again on June 19.                     