@@680687

txt Scant courtesy has been accorded by the Balkan Peace Conference at Bucharest to the request of our Government that in the final treaty there should be a stipulation securing civil and religious liberty to the populations of territory which by cession and annexation may be transferred from one Balkan State to another . The request by our State Department not only embodies a general principle , but it has a practical application , since it is expected that in the treaty a considerable area of Bulgarian territory will go to Rumania , where it is notorious that persons of the Jewish race have long suffered under op-pressive rind inhuman laws and regulations . What we ask is what Secretary HAY asked in 1902 in his well-remembered remonstrance against the treatment of Jews in Rumania . He pointed out that , although they numbered some 400,000 , they were excluded from the public service , from the learned professions , that many civil rights were denied to them , they suffered from unequal taxes , that they could not own land or cultivate it , and that many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All these acts of oppression were in flagrant violation of the forty-fifth article of the Treaty of Berlin , forbidding discriminations in Rumania on account of creed or race . As Mr. HAY pointed out , the laws and municipal regulations of Rumania were enacted and enforced in defiance of the Berlin Treaty . The right of our Government to remonstrate against the policy amid the acts of Rumania was based by Mr. HAY upon the following statement of reasons : Putting together the facts now painfully brought home to this Government during the past few years , that many of the inhabitants of Rumania are being forced , by artificially adverse discriminations , to quit their native country ; that the hospitable asylum offered by this country is almost the only refuge left to them ; that they come hither unfitted , by the conditions of their exile , to take part in the new life of this land under circumstances either profitable to themselves or beneficial to the community ; and that they are objects of charity from the outset and for a long time  --  the right of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ established in , . favor of ? this Government . Inasmuch as the Balkan States made war upon Turkey to put an end to her misgovernment and mistreatment of the people of provinces controlled by her , who were the kindred of the Bulgarians , Servians , Greeks , and since the outrages , oppressions , and cruelties practiced by Turkey upon her Christian subjects gave to the Balkan States the sympathy of the civilized world in their struggle , it is a bad beginning of the negotiations for a definitive peace among the peoples of the Balkans that they should now decline to give guarantees of religious liberty which they punished Turkey for withholding . The manner in which the recent hostilities between Bulgaria and Greece and Servia have been carried on has given to these peoples a most unfortunate ' reputation . The world has been forced to consider that they were semisavages . Nothing would be more helpful in correcting this impression and in regaining for them the sympathy of civilization than the acceptance of the principles urged upon the Peace Conference by our Government . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President of the conference , to treat our request as superfluous , since , as he remarked , " such liberty is the law in every " country participating in the peace " conference , " because the world knows the statement to be untrue . The States of the Balkans have made a serious mistake in refusing to consider the friendly representations we have made to the Peace Conference .                     