@@678999

txt vestigation into the methods of the police of Chicago and other large cities , organization of their bluecoated forces , exercise of the " third degree , " and the character of the benevolent protection societies the police have formed . will be begun tomorrow by a special committee of the United States se ? ate. , committee , neared by Senator Millie of Kansas , is designated to act under the Heyburn resoltuion recently passed and will meet tomorrow for organization and the outlining of its teak . Active work may not be undertaken for some time , but preparation w i13 be made for a line of Investigation such as never before has been attempted Into this matter by the federal government . Letters Denounce Third Degree . Letters denouncing the police methods In using the " third degree " upon suspects who can not be moved to confession or disclosure of facts by the usual means have come to Chairman Curtis from many cities . Newspaper criticism of the extreme phases of the " third degree " have been showered upon the committee in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the committee has aroused more comment . It is evident from the communications received that there is a general demand for publicity upon police methods to determine to what extent force and extreme phases of punishment are used in the apprehension of criminals or the forcing of witnesses to testify . Evidence Is Significant . The investigation will not stop at the securing of some details of " third degree " methods . The material now in the hands of members of the committee is of so significant a character that it ' is impossible at the present time to place a limit upon the committee 's activities . It is expected that before the investigation is closed elaborate inquiries will have been made Into the organization of the police forces of the large cities and the real purpose of their beneficial societies and comparative facts prepared which will be urged upon state legislatures as the boats for new and uniform laws to govern police methods                     