@@679752

txt Plane for a passenger subway system in downtown Chicago are ready for consideration by members of the city council . This announcement , made yesterday afternoon , coupled with the offer to open negotiations for the merger of all elevated and surface lines made to the council Monday night , indicate that Chicago is now clearly on the wrty toward improved transportation . The plans prepared by hto city 's subway commission were approved by Mayor tIarrieon at a conference in his office yesterday afternoon . After the conference Ald. , Peter Reinberg , chairman of the local transportation committee , announced he would call a public hearing for next Tuesday afternoon , at which time the plans will be submitted to the aldermen . The proposed consolidation of the elevated and surface lines will be ' discussed at a meeting of the committee , which will probably be held tomorrow morning . Henry A. Blair , Ira M. Cobo. and Samuel Insull , the three men who played an important part in the recent consolidation of the elevated lines , will explain to the committee the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Trains First in Tunnel . Two plans for subway systems will be submitted to the aldermen by the commission . The first , the construction of which will be urged immediately by the commission , provides for a System , for use only by the trains from the elevated lines . Construction of a system in accordance with this plan would mean the elimination of the " loop . " A second or supplemental plan provides for the construction of a system which will be used by the surface cars . Construction of the system outlined in this second plan will be recommended as a later step . Connection of the two systems is proposed when both are constructed . The system outlined In the first plan would cost approximately 512,000,600 . The placing of all elevated railroad trains underground and the establishment of through routes will be accomplished if this plan is approved and the system constructed . Routes Proposed for Subway . The north and south routes of the proposed subway are State and Dearborn streets , The east and west routes are Lake and Harrison streets . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Water street on the north , and Desplalnes street on the west . Under the first proposed plan trains would run as follows : From the south side , enter the subway at Thirteenth and State streets , run north in State street to Lake , west underground to Desplalnes street , then up to the elevated structure to Oak Park . From the north side , enter the subway at North Water and Dearborn streets , run south in Dearborn to Harrison and then west to Desplalnes , thence on the elevated structure and to all branches of the Metropolitan system . By running the trains from the north and south sides to the west side the engineers plan to eliminate objectionable features of the loop system and establish more rapid service . Small loops also are planned at each entrance to the subway . It is proposed to run local trains to the subway entrances and then transfer passengers to the express trains , which will be the only trains running through the subway , From Curb to Curb Only , The commission has decided to advocate the construction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ building line to building line . This will mean that subside-walk space will not be used by the city . The system planned is a double track system and singled decked . Two tracks in State street are proposed to begin with , but later when s system is built for use or slur-face cars four tracks will run under that wide thoroughfare . Transfer stations are planned at Madison and Adams streets , in both State and Dearborn streets . Connection between the State and the Dearborn street subways is planned In the shape of arcades a block long on both Madison and Adams streets . Probably only four other stations wilt be recommended on the subway  --  two In Lake and two in Harrison streets . The plans will be explained to the aldermen by the commission , which consists of John Ericson , E. C. Shankland , and J. J. Reynolds , Members of the commission would not discuss the plans yesterday . Mayor Harrison Sees Solution . Mayor Harrison stated his views on the subway problem briefly . " The solution of the question , " said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elevated lines through agsulaNray downtown and the using of the surf ce lines for feeders to the elevated lines and as- short haul linos , Of course there should be universal transferring between the various lines . " The subway engineers estimate a subway , built after their drat plan , can be constructed in three years . The city 's ever increasing traction fund will supply all the money needed for the construction of the system , according to the engineers . Ave will simply submit our plans to the aldermen next Tuesday , " said City Engineer Ericson last night . " We will discuss principally the first plan , as that embodies what we belleve , should be the first step in paseenger subway construction . "                     