@@684106

txt When the Army Appropriation bill , which carried $12,000,000,000 and gave the President authority to increase the army to any size , was up for consideration in the House on May 2S , Chairman DENT of the Military Affairs Committee called for the passage of the measure immediately . Mr. DENT has sometimes been criticised for delaying , If not obstructing , necessary army legislation . This was the case when he opposed the Kahn amendment to the hay Army bill providing for an increase of the regular army to 178,000 in March , 1916 . After the entrance of the United States into the war , Chairman DENT did not always show alacrity in dealing with army bills recommended by the General Staff and approved by the Administration . On April 24 , 1917 , Governor CORNWELL of West Virginia , in a telegram urging Representatives from that State to stand by the President , singled out Mr. DENT as au obstructionist . His record since April , 1917 , contains , however , more than one example like that of his vigorous support of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have credit for the best intentions , even if he has sometimes been slow to take professional advice and act upon It . At present Chairman DENT is rather cool to General CROWDER 'S appeal to pass the bill changing the draft ages with the least possible delay . Mr. DENT is in no hurry . " I 'll not let General CROWDF.R tell me what to do , " he says . The Provost Marshal General has no desire to dictate to Chairman DENT , but in a letter to the Chief of Staff , which Mr. CHAMBERLAIN read on the floor of the Senate Monday , General CROWDER made out an Irrefutable case for promptness In the passage of the bill . How ca , n any responsible legislator read that letter and fall to confess Its stern logic ? General CROWDER hopes that the measure will become a law in time to make Sept. 5 a registration day . Chairman DENT does not seem to be very sympathetic . In the Senate , Mr. CHAMBERLAIN Is moving with characteristic zeal . He has called his committee together . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Let the House automatically reassemble on Aug. 19f " There " are very few committee members " here , " he says , " and I do not think " that I could get the others here . I " hardly think I will call them before " Aug. 19 . " In short , Mr. DENT balks in the trail . There appears to be a motive . The Chairman of the House Military Affairs Committee has , ) with a certain condescension , made this statement : I have told the President and the Secretary of War that I would be willing to raise and lower the limits whenever necessary to help win the war , but I wish it to be necessary , and I prefer to raise them before lowering them . That is to say , Mr , pENT is among those who are lukewabn toward the proposal to introduce men " too young to fight " into the war , deliberately ignoring the lessons of American history and the practice of our allies in Europe . Scrutiny of General CROWDER 's letter is recommended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very good reasons to change his mind . It would be a matter of regret if the Hon. S. HUBEBT DENT , Jr. , failed - in this emergency to meet the expectations of those who see in his war rec.Ird much to commend , if occasionally somewhat out of pitch . and out of tune . We do not despair of his coming round to General CROWDER 's point of view and . exerting himself to get the House into line with the Senate , for it is to be noted that , while Mr. DENT bristles to General CRowDER , he says that " if the Presi " dent and the Secretary of War " make such a request , that the bill " in question be speeded to passage , " that 's a different matter . " There is no doubt where Mr. WILSON and Mr. BAKER stand .                     