@@681244

txt Guy . Phillips , Assistant Secretary of the Missouri Pacific Railroad , committed suicide last night by shooting himself in the head in the record room of the railroad 's offices in the City Investing Building . at 165 Broadway . He was last seen alive by Edward Murphy , night watchman of the building , who passed the room on hid  - -  rounds at 9:30 o'clock in the evening , and through the open door saw Mr. Phillips standing in the room , and Parently at work . An hour later he saw him lying back in a chair and went in to investigate . He found Mr. Phillips with a bullet hole in the right temple . A revolver was lying under the chair . Murphy called Patrolman Monegan from the Greenwich Street Station , and Dr. Valentine was summoned from the Hudson Street Hospital . He said that Mr. Phillips had been dead for some time . On the table was a slip of paper on which had been written : " Please notify my wife , Mrs. Guy Phillips , Darien , Conn . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , N. J. , telephone 45 ; also Dr. Harry Moffett. telephone 107 Yonkers . " Mr. Caleff is Treasurer of the Missouri Pacific . Mrs. Phillips was notified at once . It was said at Mr. Phillips 's home that he Lad been ill for several weeks from a nervous ailment , and that his family had tried vainly to get him to take a vacation . He irsIsted on coming to town every morning from his home , at Darien , to his work . Mrs. Phillips and her daughter were prostrated. by the news of the suicide . H. G. Phillips , a nephew of Guy Phillips , who lived with him in Darien , Conn .. said over the telephone last night : " My uncle would not stop work , and we were all afraid that there might be serious consequences , I suppose that the bad condition of his nerves and the strain of the large amount of work he had been doing must have depressed him to such an extent that he suddenly gave up the fight in despair . " Dr. Henry Moffet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Mr. Phillips , was told of the suicide over the telephone late last night . He said that he and Mr. Phillips had been . friends for many years . " I saw Guy a week ago and urged him to go to a sanitarium. " he said . " He was looking very much run down and seemed more depressed than I had ever known him to 1w . At this time , , and on several previous occasions , he spoke of committing suicide because of his ill-health , but we always thought he was Joking and paid little attention to the remarks . " He suffered a nervous breakdown about ten years ago and had to quit business for the time and go to Wiesbaden , Germany , for a rest . Ever since then , however , he has seemed greatly improved in health . Although he refused to ge to a resort or sanitarium when I first suggested It I had determined to make him go to one next Sunday , for he was both my patient and personal friend . His wife was greatly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me to come to Darien and examine him . " 0 . B. Huntsman , Vice President of the Missouri Pacific , when informed of the death of Mr. Phillips , was greatly shocked . He said that he had talked with Mr. Phillips yesterday afternoon , and that he had seemed to be in the best of spirits and health . Mr. Huntsman could think of no possible reason for the suicide . Mr. Phillips harl been with the company since the days of the Jay Gould regime , and had worked his way up from a small place . He was trusted completely by the officers of the company . F. J. Shepard , Vice President of the Missouri Pacific , when informed at his home in Tarrytown last night of the suicide said that Mr. Phillips had been in the service of the company for many years and that he was much respected by all the officials . Mr. Shepard would not discuss the death further . Mr. Phillips was Assistant Secretary of the Missouri ' Pacific , of the St. Louis , Iron Mountain &; Southern Railway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He was President of the Opera House Realty Company , with offices at 165 Broadway : Secretary and Treasurer of the Richmond &; Chesapeake Bay Railway Company , and of the Three States Realty Company , and was Assistant Secretary and Treasurer of the Vrlginia Railway and Power Company .. He had been a member of the Mendelssohn Glee Club of New York for about thirty years , and was for a long while a member of the New York Yacht Club . He was about 61 years old . His brother , George Phillips of this city , was formerly the champion ice skater of the East . KIDNAPPER PLEADS GUILTY . Buono Gives Up When " Squealer " Appears and Gets Long Term , Antonio Buono of 1,136 First Avenue . alleged leader of the band of kidnappers who held 5-year-old Giuseppe Gumnia for a $2,000 ransom on the threat that if the money was not paid the boy would be chopped to pieces and the parts sent to . the parents by parcel post , pleaded guilty before Judge Wadhams yesterday , and was sentenced to Sing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a half nor more than twenty-five years . Buono decided to plead after Matteo Pallazzolo , another member of the band , had been called as a witness against him by Assistant District Attorney Weller . Pallazzolo is also under indictment on the , kidnapping charge . He testified that Buono wad the man who handled the money , for the blackmailers . Pietro Brusco and his wife , Niva , who held the boy in their house , were sentenced last week by Judge Nott to terms of from twenty to thirty and ten to twelve years , respectively . Beneditto Randazzo , another member of the band , was placed on trial yesterday afternoon . When Pallazzolo took the stand , the defendant , Buono , nearly collapsed . Word was passed out to the corridors , where friends and relatives of Buono were gathered , that Pallazzolo was ' squealing , " and their cries of rage filled the corridor until the court attendants cleared them out .                     