@@679622

txt There were no deaths or new cases of cholera either at Quarantine or in Staten Island yesterday . At the close of the day , both Dr. Doty of Quarantine and Dr. John T. Sprague of Staten Island Health Department said that they were more than ever sure that there was no cause for alarm . Dr. Doty spent most of the day consulting with Dr. Herman M. Biggs , chief bacteriologist of the Board of Health , and Assistant Surgeon General L. E. Cofer . With Dr. Biggs , Dr. Doty visited both Hoffman and Swinburne Island yes ' terday morning , and on his return announced that he had found the colonies of detained passengers on Hoffman Island and of cholera suspects and cases on Swinburne Island both doing well . Dr. Biggs also expressed himself as pleased with what he had seen . After his trip down the Bay , Dr. Doty conferred with Assistant Surgeon General Cofer about the new bacteriological work , which the United States Governmerit is planning to carry on along the coast among the detained passengers from Italian cholera @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , request , the latter desiring Ito have his ? 6wn opinions as to the best method of defending the port against cholera confirmed . Later in the day Dr. Cofer and Dr. Biggs , with Health Commissioner Lederle , called on Mayor Gaynor to talk over the situation . The Mayor arranged to go with these doctors on a visit to Hoffman Island to-day . Witness Vpholdri Doty 's Course . Unexpected evidence in Dr. Doty 's favor came out yesterday at the Quarantine investigation while Dr. Robert J. Wilson , superintendent of the Hospital Bureau of the Board of Health , was on the stand . He was summoned by Charles Dushkind , lawyer for the accusers of Dr. Doty , and men expected to show , through references to the rules and regulations of the city hospitals under his charge ; that Dr. Doty was not conducting the hospitals on Hoffman and Swinburne Islands with proper care . Dr. Wilson testified that , in the Willard Parker Hospital , where the city 's contagious diseases are treated , doctors , visitors , and nurses are all obliged to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ward where the afflicted patients are kept . " The mothers at Dr. Doty 's detention station at Hoffman Island are not obliged to wear caps and gowns in this way , " Mr. Dushkind said to Dr. Wilson . " But you consider the precaution as absolutely necessary , do n't you , doctor ? " " No , I do n't consider it essential , " Dr. Wilson said , much to Mr. Dushkind 's surprise . Some of the Immigrants whom Mr. Dushkind has called have testified that in the Hoffman Island Hospital children with measles , scarlet fever , and other contagious ailments are placed side by side in the same ward . " You would n't think of treating patients suffering from different contagious ailments in the same ward , would you ? " the lawyer asked Dr. Wilson . I " Scientifically administered , I think such treatment would be quite safe , and I would certainly do it if I could do it myself , " Dr. Wilson answered . " But can you mention any institution in the world  --  except Hoffman Island @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Wilson smiled before he replied : " Yes , I can mention a hospital in which different cases of contagious diseases are treated in adjoining beds . It is ? done in the Pasteur Institute in Paris . " Dr. Doty 's accusers have said a great ideal about his " cruelty " in not allowing the immigrant mothers to see their children freely in the Hoffman Isid hospital . " Do you allow the mothers to see children suffering from contagious diseases in the Willard Parker Hospital ? " Dr. Wilson was asked . " No , I do n't , " Dr. Wilson answered . " In fact , I have just given orders to stop visiting in the contagious disease hospitals of the city because the children cry a great deal when the mothers go away . The crying starts up dangerous bronchial affections , and is also bad if the children have weak ' hearts . " " Would you rely on Dr. Doty to administer treatment scientifically to children having contagious diseases and to select subordinates competent to do this ? " " I would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a week nurses whom he has picked out to work on Hoffman Island ? " " Certainly . " After Dr. Wilson left the stand a TIMES reporter asked him if it was necessary for employes of Hoffman Island or any other station where people are detained , be- I cause they ' have associated witn contagious disease sufferers , to fumigate their clothing before coming to the city . j I do n't think so , " Dr. Wilson said . I myself have come to this hearing direct from the diphtheria ward of the Willard Parker Hospital without either changing or fumigating my clothes . " More Complaints Pat In . James W. Arkell , a. steamship agent of the Bristol City Line , testified that on June 9 the carpenter on the Bristol City was taken off the weasel at Quarantine because the Quarantine au thortities thought he had some contagious disease . " On June 14 one of Dr. Doty 's clerks telephoned me that the carpenter was dead and that I must get a hermetically sealed casket to bury him in , " Mr. Arkell continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the following day Dr. DotY 'S clerk telephoned again that the carpenter was n't dead k-:ter all . I nearly blew up the telephone When I heard this , and contermanded the order for the casket . But the following day they telephoned me that my carpenter realty was dead . z determined this time that before going to any more expense I had better make sure I was burying the right man . So I had two my employes go to the undertaker 's and identify the body before went ahead with the funeral arrangement . The carpenter did n't have any contagious disease after all . He died of an abscess on the liver . " M. L. Lederer , assistant general manager of the Hamburg-American line , testi .. fled that the passengers of the steamship Moltke , which brought in the recent cholera cases , had been held in the preliminay quarantine in the Italian ports for five days before they boarded ' her , and that she was twelve days on the water , and that it was only after the passengers had been held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cholera case among them occurred . " There were no cholera cases or any symptoms of cholera cases on board during her voyage over , " the agent testified . " The Royal Italian Commissioner reported to Dr. Doty that there was absolutely no cholera on board . " Mr. Dushkind laid much stress on this testimony , as he is trying to show that none of the Moltke 's cholera cases was contracted in Italy , but on Hoffman Island through same sewage getting into a drinking water cistern . Dr. Doty 's lawyer , on the other hand , pointed out that the steamship agent 's testimony shows that Dr. Doty was more alert , strict , and careful than the Italian Royal Commissioner was . A. number of Health Department officials were then called in rapid succession . It appeared that they had n't brought their records with them , and Mr. Dushkind complained that the public officials of this city , and . especially Commissioner Lederle of the Health Department , were ignoring the commission 's subpoenas . I wrote to Dr. Lederle asking him for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did n't even answer my letter , " Commissioner Bulger exclaimed angrily at this point . " All I 've got to say is that subpoena after subpoena is going to be issued by us until all the books and records we want are produced . " Commissioner Bulger did n't do much talking on his own account yesterday . An interview which was published over his name in a Sunday morning paper seems to have caused him some embarrassment . The interview quoted him as saying with considerable emphasis and elaboration that he intended to recommend Dr. Doty 's dismissal by Gov . Dix . Early in the investigation Commissioner Bulger promised Dr. Doty that he would not make any statement regarding the case until his report had been turned into the Governor . I refuse to be interviewed on that interview or on any other subject connected with the investigation , " he said yesterday . Drs . Walker , a private physician , and and Murphy , two physicians attached to St. Vincent 's Hospital , in one of whose public wards Cushing , the Hoffman Island @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had cholera was discovered , described the details of the case on the stand yesterday . After either being dismissed or having sneaked away from ' Hoffman Island , on Monday of last week , Cushing went on a spree in Manhattan . He returned to Staten Island on the following Wednesday , but while drinking in a saloon , was taken with cramps and other severe symptons . He went home and sent for Dr. Walker . The latter thought he had ptomaine poisoning or enteritis . Cushing got so much worse on Thursday that Dr. Walker had him sent to St. Vincent 's Hospital . Next day Dr. Walker , from another of his patients , learned that Cushing had been working on Hoffman Island . He drove in haste to Dr. Doty , but the latter had apparently already been tracing Cushing 's movements , for he was making arrangements to take him from the hospital to Swinburne Island . Mr. Dushkind , late in the afternoon session , recalled Maurice J. Doyle , Dr. Doty 's bookkeeper , to the stand and questioned him still further about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an employe for a coal mining concern at 1 Broadway and does n't seem to have any coal business of his own . Nevertheless , . he has received several thousand dollars for coal from the Quarantine authorities during the last few years . Mr. Dushkind brought out the fact yesterday that none of the orders for coal for which bills have been presented by Marston is to be found reristered in the Quarantine order book . Several thousand dollars of public money has been spent , but there is no proof that the coal was actually delivered , " Mr. Dushkind exclaimed . Lawyer Scofield , , for Dr. Doty , said last night that there were undoubtedly records on Hoffman Island by means of which the coal consignments could be traced , and that the orders ' had Iprobably been given over the telephone . Dr. Doty 's Friends Active . It was learned yesterday that Dr. Doty 's friends have been consulting earnestly among themselves recently as to how best to come to his aid . Dr. Joseph D. Bryant , President of the Academy of Medicine , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hospital that he was willing to testify for Dr. Doty at the investigation whenever he was called . Drs . William P. Northrop , Simon Flexner , and Abraham Jacobi have given Dr. Brannan the same assurance . 1 " All the acts with which Dr. Doty has A:o I been charged in the Course-f the present ' investigation are capable of an entirely proper explanation , " Dr. Brannan said last night . " The piano which was tuned by Dr. Doty out of State funds was used by the nurses on Hoffman Island . The flowers and tennis balls were on the grounds of the station . At Bellevue and at other hospitals the public pays the flower and tennis charges , too . In the Sloane Maternity and all other lying-in hospitals women , like the Alexandrovski woman , are encouraged to work in the wards up to a short time before they are going to be mothers , because it distracts their minds . The sick children are not obliged to walk from vessels to the hospital at Quarantine . Orderlies carry them . The well ones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ones whom the ignorant witnesses have seen . Cholera ca n't possibly be carried by the clothes , and any up-todate surgeon will testify that Dr. Doty is right in not obliging his employes to fumigate their clothes before coming to Manhattan . When the first testimony against Doty came out Dr. Northrop sent me a letter saying that Dr. Doty was apparently being blamed for things which he had done on Northrop 's own advice . "                     