@@684528

txt It is a pity that the personal aspect rof the Post Office 's troubles are so much emphasized . The imputation of personal blame carries with it the suggestion that success would have been possible under another Postmaster General . The case against Government ownership and operation of public utilities is strong in proportion that Its faults are such that no Postmaster General could make it succeed . The more the Post Office undertakes the worse will be its record , whoever Is Postmaster General . It is not necessarily a personal reproach to Mr. BURLESON that he failed where the French and British Post Office Departments failed before him . if every personal charge against him were dismissed , the argument on principle and precedent would remain . The British Post Office took over the telegraph in the sixties and made a profit in the first year of public operation , before the momentum of private efficiency was exhausted . There has been a deteriorating record for each year since , down to 1919 . From the second year until now there has been an unbroken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was merely a failure to earn a profit on the payment which bought out the private owners . Later there was failure even to earn operating expenses . ng , lishmen have six-penny telegrams , it is true , but they pay for them " through the nose . " The bill was recently estimated at $200,000.000 deficit , and comes to them with their taxes , not when they are sending the telegrams . There is a greater deficiency in service than in profit , and the record will grow worse as it grows long Pr . The reason for preferring to emphasize this feature of the Post Office 's failure with the wire services is that Director General HINES 'S statement , issued last night , reported the loss on Government . operation of the railroads for the first quarter of this year as $102,000,000 . In no year of peace did the Government ever have a record of deficiency at the rate of a half billion dollars . But that loss will be trivial compared with the loss through adding Government operation of the wire services to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions were unfavorable to Government operation . They were exceptionally favorable , as was said by Director General when l started along the . road the Postmaster General traveled later , and as is apparent from the great press of profitable business owing to war conditions . It is the cost side of the account which wrecks Government operation , under which costs and profits are released from the requirements of the balance sheet . It is doubly untrue that inexhaustible funds can create profit . Itt is not true that the Treasury is inexhaustible . On the contrary , Government operation on the methods of anybody else than Mr. MCADOO or Mr. HINES and Mr. BURLESON would not give profit or satisfaction even if the Treasury funds were inexhaustible . Director General HINES gave better satisfaction as a private operator under handicap of regulation by the Interstate Commerce Commission than he ever will as a public operator . The reason is that he esteems himself released from the obligations which compelled him to give satisfaction as a private operator . As a private operator he would blush for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Office was never under regulation like the railways , and never has kept such accounts as were required from the railways . Mr. ButtezioN says that the Post Office " passed " permanently from a deficiency to a " surplus " with his fixing of postal parcel rates . How can lie prove it ? , Who can deny it when the Post Office can not show what its costs are , having deliberately arranged so that its reCeipts and costs can not be calculated ? His Fourth Assistant ? says that there is a loss of $51,000,000 on the rural mail routes . How can he distinguish this loss from the loss on second-class mail zone rates , or how can he say how much of the profit on first-class rates is due to the loss on the zone rates ? No Postmaster General ever had his costs and profits certified on any businesslike method of accounting . No Postmaster General ever will give service justifying the losses hidden in muddled accounts . Another Postmaster General might fail in-a less irritating manner , or might even achieve such measure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Postmaster General identified himself . That would be the worst blow of all . The country is indebted to the Postmaster General for bankrupting the Government operation of public utilities before he bankrupted the Treasury . We are not among those who consider his administration a failure , in this respect at least . We offer our congratulations to Mr. MACKAY and our condolences to Mr. VAIL . We have approved of Mr. VAIL 'S views , on public regulation of private operation of utilities , and liked him better in that capacity than as a public operator without any regulation . Who shall regulate Government operation ? And what a calamity it would be without regulation !                     