@@680463

txt The question of the constitutionality of the amendment which would extend the provisions of the Hepburn act to include , pipe lines , is soon to be brought before the court of last resort . Attorney-General has entered a motion that the hearing be advanced and general opinion is that the court will affirm his plea . The cases might then be decided some time next fall . The question has been the subject of litigatidn before the Interstate Commerce Commission , the Commerce Court and now the Supreme Court since the passage of the amendment by Congress on June 29 , 1906 . On June 3 , 1912 , after an extended inquiry , the commission ordered thirteen companies to file rate schedules by September 1 , 1912 , but the time was later extended to March 15 , 1913 . Shortly thereafter , six of the concerns involved brought suits in the Commerce Court to annul the order and the Government presented . answers in each case , but subsequent/3-withdrew its answer in the case of the Prairie Oil Gas Co. , substituting a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court , last week , by Presiding Judge Knapp granted a temporary injunction in each caseTho Commerce Court . in its decision , after dealing with interstate commerce law at length , declares that the amendment is unconstitutional and states : " We have purposely placed our decision upon grounds which it effect determine the controversy , and we have done so to avoid occasion for protracted trials and to aid an early review by the court of last resort . " The petitioners were : Prairie Oil &; Gas Co. , Unclo Sam Oil Co .. Tide-Water Pipe - Co. , Ohio Oil Co. , Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey and Standard Oil Co. of Louisiana . Many pipe lines in the United States are admittedly subject to the regulation , becaur , e their owners make a business of transporting oil for others and are therefore common carriers . But the companies involved in these cases own private pipe lines , which arc used in the conduct of their private business exclusively . The petitioners relied upon two propositions . The first was that the amendment applied only to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dedared in judicial proceeding . The Commerce Court believes that Congress intended through the act to make com- mon carriers of all pipe lines earring oil from one state to another , and that the amendment permits of no otbe : construction . Therefore it holds that the amendment applied to the petitioners . The second proposition was that if the amendment applies to all persons and corporations using pipe lines for interstate transportation of oil , it is . tf ... onstitutional because it deprives those . owning private lines solely for their own use , of their property without just compensation . The Government chiefly relied upon the ground that the amendment should be upheld as a valid regulation of interstate commerce to prevent monopoly or a tendency to monopolize , and therefore any incidental injury which results should he regarded as immaterial ; further , that the present act is designed to go beyond the Sherman Act . And the Commerce Court in sustance agrees as to the scope of the act but says : " it is quite evident , however , and the Government makes no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are doing or have done amounts to a violation of the anti-trust law , for here there is no combination , no absorption or control of one by the other , no concerted action of any sort , not even a common understanding . This being so , it must result that the amendment in question , upon the theory now considered , is of broader scope and of much mole drastic character than the enactment of 1890 , and that , as above stated , is the Government 's contention . " The Court affirms the second proposition of the petitioners and bases its decision on the fifth amendment to the Constitution , protecting the rights of ownership . It points out that the law does not prohibit the continued use of private pipe lines by their owners , nor attempt to regulate their use and operation as private pipe lines , but attempts to compel them to become common carriers against their will , which amounts to the taking of private property for public use . In the judgment of the Court there is no basis fur the contention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relation to the monopoly alleged to result from the nature and methods of pipe line transportation . The Court agrees ' that the possession of a pipe line enables its owner to transport oil to his refinery or other market at a very small cost compared with other means of conveyance . And the practical . result'would be that producers without their own pipes would have to sell their output to the pipe line , and in this sense it may be said that they are obliged to sell to it . But it questions the basis upon which it is claimed that the producers are being deprived of anything that rightfully belongs to them simply because they do not or can not provide themselves with the same means of reaching the market . The opinion says : " If a mere act of legislation can change the legal status of his property from private to public and compel him against his will to devote that property to public use , with all the burdens and obligations which he must thereby assume , is not the fifth amendment shorn of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the nature of things one who owns private property of substantial vette has an advantage over those not fortunate enough to have similar possessions . But the advantage so acquired is not monopolistic nor are we able to see that it has any tendency to bring about the conditions which constitute an unlawful monopoly , except upon the socialistic theory that everything should be held in common .. The simplest conception of private property implies possession which , is exclusive and enjoyment from which others may be debarred ; it can not otherwise be private . Those who are excluded have no rightful claim to that which beloncre to the owner himself . " The Court held that it is unquestionably the right of Congress to require public carriers of commerce to make no unjust discrimination , but that it is altogether a different proposition for congress under the guise of regulating interstate commerce to convert pipe , lines into publit utilities .                     