@@682145

txt The ' United Kingdom today witnesses a general abandonment of the truce between the political parties , which was observed during the early months of the war and which , apparently , was cemented for the duration of the war when the Coalition Government was formed . The past week has seen a steady growth of the newspaper attacks on the Government , the general burden of which is the slowness , the lack of foresight , and decision and the mismanagement of the Dardanelles enterprises . While all newspapers disclaim any partisan motives , all the more prominent journals participating in the opposition belong to the Conservative Party , with tile exception of The Manchester Guardian . The newspapers generally hold Premier Asquith responsible . for the conduct of affairs . The Northcliffe group , headed by The Times , and The Daily Mail , with the support of The Morning Post , was joined yesterday by The Observer , which is the foremost Sunday paper , and The Referee , which has a large following among the masses . David Lloyd George is the only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's support some time ago in his speech charging the Government with being " too late " at the most ImportanterIsAs of the war and at the same time gained for himself a larger following . The two latest counts of the indictment of the Cabinet are the postponement until the holidays of the Munitions bill and the postponement of giving the country any insight into Lord Derby:3 report on his recruiting results . In the meantime the verdict of , union labor on Mr. Lloyd George 's appeal to relax union rules In munitions works so as to permit the entry of ** unskilled laborers is awaited with interest . One hundred and fifty delegates of the Engineering Society meet in London this week to ' consider terms for settling al differences with the Government . Cabinent Council Today . A Cabinet council will be held today , and it is expected that it will take a decision on the question of whether the recults of the Derby scheme of recruiting justify continued adheision to the voluntary system , or whether some form of conscription will become necessary . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ George . Minister of Munitions , was engaged in an important munitions mission in the Clyde district , hence the postponement until today . The Times suggests this morning that the conscriptionists are in a majority in the Cabinet , and that should force be decided upon some anti-conscriptionist Ministers will resign . However , they will not go to this extreme until all hope of obtaining unity in the Cabinet is abandoned . Their plan , according to The Times , is to give the single men another chance for a fortnight , during which time the serious situation will be brought home to the nation , and if this plan still fails to bring the men to the scratch , the Ministers may reluctantly abandon their opposition to conscription . Another solution suggested is a general election on the question of conscription . and it is stated that the Ministers have also discussed such a solution . The Times military correspondent , who is evidently skeptical of the success of the Derby scheme , urges the House of Commons to insist in the coming debate that the Government shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say , reveal the difference between the establishments and the strengths . He infers that the battalions are not being kept up to their proper strength , and that the whole question of the numbers abroad and at home needs close examination . , " If Parliament is determined and . ruthless , " he says , " it will compel the Government to count only the men fit to serve in the field . We have paned the stage where we can allow ourselves to be fobbed off by resonant platitudes advocating secrecy . This claim ihas been the mainstay of failure , and ? we want no more of it . " The correspondent concludes That the Allies , counting only the men actually at the front , have about 0,000,000 to the enemy 's 5,000.000 , but that this superiority has been almost reduced to equality by the strategy of the past year and by the special conditions of the Italian theatre , which enabled some 300,000 to 400 , - 000 Austrians to hold up the Italians . " It is impossible to win the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " and still less possible to win . it soon . Therefore provision for such numbers is tile primary duty of the Allies . " Post Now Denninils Compulsion . The Post in an editorial advocating conscription . says : " We have been silent as much froth ' shame as from any other reason on the ' orgy of fraud , threat , and cajolery , nilS.r : called the voluntary system . it seemed , to us degrading - even to write about it , but the time for silence is now dyer All those who believe in edrenulsiOn:wiii : ' now have to sterol by their belief- ' There Is a point at Which procrastination amounts to betrayal . "                     