@@684478

txt Maine , three days ago , voted down a proposal to put herself in line with othelStates and hold her State elections in November . Maine is not given to useless spending of money , and to hold two elections a year costs something . Why did she do it ? If an outsider has any right to guess , it was because the position of being . the last important " September State " gave her such prestige that she did not want to give it up . Ai. : so odd to think of a State holding its elections in any month but November that we are half inclined to think of Maine as an anomaly in this respect , and yet there was a time when every State held its elections of State officers in any month that might suit its own will . It was true that in Presidential elections they all had to go to the polls at tha same time , the first Tuesday after the first Monday . in November . And for a long time , strange as it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as so important that in New York itself the question whether DE Wrrr CLINTON should be elected Governor or not overshadowed the question whether JAMES MONROE should be elected President or not . As the sentiment of nationality grew , the States began to pay more attention to the national elections and less to the local contests . One after another . they corrected their election dates to make them correspond to the national elections . Finally , though there were still many early States , Pennsylvania was the one of greatest importance . Pennsylvania ? another thing hard to appreciate in these days -- Lwas normally and heavily Democratic , and as her vote was up to the usual level or below it the politicians . made their calculations on the probable ? result of the later election in ' November . Pennsylvania abolished the early election and cast all her votes in November , having by that time become so extremely Republican that it would be impossible to calculate any November result by her action in the early Fall . But there remained Maine and Vermont as September States , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the greatest emphasis was placed on the results in the two last named . There were also certain Southern States which cast their votes in other months than November , and hard as it is now to think of any Southern State as doubtful or possibly Republican , that was not the case in the seventies or late six-. ties . After President HAYEs . withdre-qthe Federal troops from the Southern polls , however , the Democrats-that is , the white men  --  took entire control of ? those polling-places , and , ? except lei the case of North Carolina , where there was a strong mountaineer Republican element , the Autumn Southern States began to lose their significance . . So it came about that men placed their telescopes only on Maine and Vermont in September , and on Ohio and . Indiana in October . All except Indiana were presumably Republican ; but if the vote fell below normal in any of , then ) it was regarded as an indication that the Democrats were . likely to win the subsequent Presidential . election in November . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it Worked . quite contrary to the tradition . Vermont was not very illustrative , but Maine went Democratic , while the Republican majority in Ohio was reduced and Indiana went Democratic . Nevertheless , GARFIELD , the Republican candidate , was elected President . It was afterward charged " that ' the very fact of these Autumn reverses had led the Re publicans to pour money into the doubtful States and carry the election . There was , in fact , so much corruption , especially in the way of bribing voters , that the position of the September and October States was regarded as disgraceful and menacing . It was especially so ' in Indiana , where money without stint was poured forth by both parties merely to carry the October election . These States abolished the October election for the sake of decency . Of late years Maine , which has rigidly stuck to the September election , has had no political immorality to complain of , but that is doubtless due to the fact that she is much less of a barometer than she used to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been a change in the character of the Maine electorate , as there has been all over New England , due to the fact that a new class of voters has moved in , and the once rock-ribbed Republican States have become doubtful . In other words , it is no longer possible to calculat : : by , the falling off of the Republican majority , for the reason that there is not any more any safe Republican majority by which to calculate . Still , Maine desires to stick to the old rule for whatever there may be in it in the way of p : . estige . We think there is very little nowadays .                     