@@683929

txt Nothing important , " runs the communiqu ? ' during the period of calm which precedes the great battle . Sometimes the wording is varied with the announcement of an artillery duel at a certain point , or a - raid which brought in ten prisoners , or a local attack which succeeded in occupying such and such a hill or village . How far these phrases are from expressing the reality ! In warfare of today nothing is considered worth labeling an artillery duel if fewer than 10,000 shells are fired in twentyfour hours by either side on a front perhaps two or three miles wide . Sometimes the figure runs to twenty , thirty , or even a hundred thousand daily . It is hard to realize what this means . Last Fall THE NEW YORK TIMES correspondent visited a socalled quiet sector in Flanders , where the daily shell average was only four or five thousand . The air was full of the ceaseless and horrible din of flying shells followed by the roar of explosions and showers of deadly splinters . Here and there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way to the rear , and as I passed along the trenches ? a battalion commander would say : " I had three men killed half an hour ago in the boyau of a dugout . " That is " quiet " on the battlefront . An artillery duel worthy of mention in a communiqu ? is far more terrible . And that is the daily experience of the allied soldiers in the present period of " calm . " At such a time local attacks and raids have particular importance . By " raid " is meant a foray into the enemy 's lines , the object of which is not the capture of territory , however insignificant , but the taking of prisoners and , as an invariable side issue , the bombing and destruction of dugouts . The essential purpose of a raid is to acquire information . The nature and position of the enemy defenses are carefully noted , and the examination of prisoners permits the identification of the divisions opposite and often affords priceless information . Local attacks serve the same purpose , but their principal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the enemy might facilitate a subsequent attack , or whose occupation by the Allies would aid the operations of defense . Present conditions lend themselves to this incessant minor warfare . A group of newly captured German prisoners said that few trenches were being constructed on their side . The first line was formed by a chain of holes  --  made by shells or dug for the purpose  --  held by a few men with rifles and mitrailleuses . Barbed wire , the simplest yet the most difficult of all obstacles to an infantry advance , was employed comparatively little , and it was.not. impossible for a party . of fkring raiders to penetrate the line under cover of darkness . On the courage and initiative of these little groups may depend information that will decide the fate of the coming battle . The highly skilled French staff organizations can draw deductions of supreme ' importance from apparently trivial details . Miraties of courage and devotion are performed nightly in these operations carried out in cold blood by men who realize the danger to the full and know that their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by French officers that the American troops have shown splendid aptitude for this sort of fighting . What that augurs for the future may be judged from the remark of a Major of a famous French regiment to THE NEW YORK TIMES correspondent : " Each time a new I draft comes to my battalion I try them out on night work and raids . When they have made good at that I know that I can depend on them for SAYthing. " 