@@680763

txt The New I York , New Haven &; Hartford Railroad promulgated to-day its new rules regulating the advancement of firemen and engineers , puttiiig fitness and ability above seniority . The new order is effective at once and supersedes the code agreed upon by the railroad and the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers . In several respects it is adverse to the regulation sought by the Brotherhood in the new agreement it is proposing . It is understood that members of the Interstate Commerce Commission have unofficially approved the rules . Here ' is the new regulation : Rights of engineers and firemen to preference of runs shall be governed by fitness , ability , previous service and seniority . An engineer or fireman losing his run , by reason of it having been discontinued , or having been taken by an engineer or fireman his senior , or for any reason not brought about by any fault or action of his own , shall be entitled , if competent , to any run on the same division held by an engineer or fireman his Junior in seniority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's road experience as an engineer shall be allowed to run local passenger trains , and no engineer who has had less than two years ' road experience as an engineer shall be allowed to run express passenger trains . No engineer will be allowed to run either local or through passenger trains until his competency has been certified to b7. : the road foreman or engines and master mechanic , unless accompanied by the road foreman of engines or other competent employe until his competency is determined and certified to . Spare passenger engineers will not be permitted to run express passenger trains unless they have served a satisfactory probationary period as firemen or engineers in freight or local passenger service over a reasonable portion of the territory covered by the run , unless accompanied by the road foreman of engines or other competent employe until his competency is determined and certified to . Test for Firemen . No fireman will be eligible for assignment or advancement to through passenger service until his competency is established . The list of . spare passenger engineers will be composed of men taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the enforcement of these rules and the maintenance of proper discipline on his division . The decision of the superintendent in all matters of discipline shall be final . unless an appeal is made as prescribed . Any appeal from the decision of the divx , 4ion superintendent as to discipline , rates of pay , or working conditions must be made in writing to the superintendent within thirty days of the date of notice to employe affected . Any appeal from the decision of the division superintendent as to dimissal will not be entertained until after a joint statement containing all facts from the division superine tendent and committees representing the aggrieved employe has been made to the general manager , who will , if the facts justify . authorize an anneal . This appeal will he heard by a committee appointed by the general manager , at which time both sides will be represented , and the decision of this board , or a majority of it , will be final . Safety the First Aim . In announcing the rules the railroad company issued the following statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the management to impose hardship or onerous condition upon its employes . They are solely intended to promote safety in operation . The rules do not in any way interfere with or change the hours of service , the rates of pay , or other working conditions . As adopted they are practically the same as on many Eastern roads . Regarding statements appearing in the newspapers of a controversy in connection with the adoption of these rules , when the purposes are understood by the men involved the management is satisfied that they will be accepted as an honest effort on the part of the management to bring about improved conditions , and that no controversy can exist between the men and the company where the question of safety only is involved . " In connection with the promulgationa of the rules the following is quoted from I a letter addressed by General Manager Bardo to ' he engineers and firemen of 11 the New Haven System : I want to emphasize as strongly as I can tliat which I have repeatedly stated to your committees that these rules are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rules do not meet the exacting demands of the service and to comply with the recommendations of the Interstate Commerce Commission and the Public Utilities Commission of the State of Connecticut . and are for the sole purpose of increasing - the safety of our service and for the Protection of our patrons and employes . There is no desire on the part of the management to estrict the rights or withdraw from service any man . who is physically fit and by experience qualified for his position . The obligation of the railroad Is plain . These rules will not interfere with the seniority of the men except where the question of fitness , ability . and previous service are involved , and since these requirements can be definitely fixed by the'record and service of the men involved there is no opportunity for favoritism and none will be permitted . 