@@682699

txt While we common If Hampered , folk , or most of us . Why Were have been disposed They Silent ? to give the doctorsta good deal of credit for the decline of the poliomyelitis epidemic , and to assume that they had won , or were winning , a victory of sorts over it . American Medicine mournfully admits that the disease is still quite unconquered . Indeed , it practically confesses that  --  the Precautionary measures taken , as well as those designed Lu be curative , have been of little or no efficacy , and sees in the decrease of cases merely the fact that at present the mysterious germ is finding few to attack except the naturally immune . It even makes the discouraging statement that there is likely to be a new flaming up of the plague with . the , return to the city of susceptible children .. so soon to come ! According to this authority , too , the failure of medical science would have been less nearly complete if the ' munleipal health officials had not been hampered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politicians . In making this startling charge the writer of the article is not as definite ass he might be ? as , seemingly , he should ? be , if he has the facts to sustain his very serious accusation . He only says that-because of " politics " not only have there been frequent delays in establishing quarantine , but in many instances it has meant little or nothing ' to those on whom it was placed . As an additional and closely related cause of the too obvious failure to control the epidemic , he mentions , without specifying , errors of omission and commission of which the hospitals , with some notable exceptions , have been guilty in connection with the handling of poliomyelitis cases , and he includes in. these errors " neglect , carelessness , and actual venality . " To laymen , now , there have been no visible or measurable restrictions on the Department of Health . So far as we could see , its physicians have done everything that suggested itself as desirable to - them as experts , and certainly they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the suspension of travel , that would have been considered intolerably despotic if even attempted by any other class . To this control the public has submitted with but rare protests , and those always futile , except in that strange place , Oyster Bay . If the municipal doctors have had a grievance , they should have proclaimed it aloud . Its instant removal would have followed . Evidently , and not at Zeppelin all surprisingly , a large Honors and articulate fraction Protested . of the English public thought that to bury with full military honors  --  or with any honors at all , for that matter  --  the remains of the Germans who fell with the burning Zeppelin at Cuffley carried magnanimity to excess . The protests against it were prompt and vigorous enough , it seems , to influence the Government authorities to the extent set forth in dispatches this morning . That there was excuse , and even reason , in England , for the feeling that these men were not worthy of the respect paid to other dead enemies need not be denied , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a form of warfare which to any except the upholders of militarism at its very extreme was little or not at all better than plain murder  --  or plain assassination , if that word can be applied , as the word " murder " certainly can , to a killing that has no consciously selected victim . Responsibility for the airship raids . however , does not rest to any measurable degree on the men actually engaged in them , and to say that they should have refused to do such vile work  --  that decently civilized army or navy men would have refused to do it -- ls to ignore the practically irresistible force of military discipline . The soldiers and sailors of every land do what they are told  --  they obey the orders of their superior officers , step by step , up to the highest . There has been no effort or thought to punish in any way the private soldiers who , at the command of a mad Captain , shot the Irish editor SKEFFINGTON , and presumably they would be buried with the honors due to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what must be called their " duty , " though it involved the performance of a task in itself both abhorrent and criminal . To have buried the Zeppelin men as at first proposed would , indeed , have put a severe strain on British generosity , and to bury them decently and quietly , with only the ceremony ' for soldiers killed on active service , was , perhaps , on the whole , wiser , but , none the less . the original plan did have its merits , some of them very practical ones , as was pointed out in this column yesterday . An interest which Was There waned with queer a Bremen speed into something Capture ? close to forgetfulness , to so far as the general American public is concerned , has been revived by the arrival here of travelers from England who declare that the recently much-discussed submarine named the Bremen was captured and taken into an English port some weeks ago . The tales differ as to what port it was , and give no details as to how or where the boat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ category of important If true , and not a few people still are more inclined to ask , " Was there a Bremen at all ? " than to wonder where she is . For such incredulity there is not much ground . The arrival of a second ' more I or less merchant submarine from Germany was prophesied with convincing sincerity in the same quarters where that of the Deutschland was confidently foretold , and elaborate and expensive preparations for her reception and ' that of her cargo were certainly made . The only imaginable motive for deception ? that of making useless occupation for a few Allies ' cruisers  --  does not adequately account for these demonstrations of expectation . So there is little question that there was a Bremen , and hardly more that she has been either destroyed or captured . Whether one fate or the other has been hers , the British naval authorities would follow their established policy of suppressing the news of her end . Why they do this is not very clear . It does leave the Germans in a state of painful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British point of view , but it alsu deprives the British themselves of a Justifiable Joy , and that makes the account about even . And whatever has or has not happened to the Bremen , the probabilities are that a Bremen will get here sooner or later . The first German submarine to arrive Is sure to bear that name .                     