@@683530

txt WOMAN SUFFRAGE DANGER . G. W. Wickersham Points Out Lessons of the City Campaign . Mrs. Gertrude Atiserton , in a letter to THE TIMES published this morning , in-quires : Does any one for a moment imagine that one of the thousands of loyal , thinking women of New York City would vote for Hylan or Hillquit ? They would turn out en masse for Mitchel , whether they liked him or not , whether they were Democrats or Republicans . And she adds , very truly : The election of either the Socialist or the Tammany tool means the disgrace of New York City . Now , Mrs. Atherton , in common with many other ladies who are advocating the extension of the suf f:age to embrace women , centres her attention upon the " thousands ' of loyal , thinking - semen , " and neglects to refleet upon the very great number of thousands of women who would vote for Hylan or Hillquit . Indeed , the first effect of woman suffrage , it seems to me. would be to double the Socialist vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mr. Hillquit are Socialists , and for this reason the Hillquit followers and the Socialist Party ardently support the cause of woman suffrage . Mrs. Atherton further says : I know the bogy of the east side woman ; but there are only a third as many foreign-born women in the whole United States as men . I do not know where Mrs. Atherton gets her statistics , but it is well known that there is a very large number of foreign-born women in the City and State of New York . I think also that no one will dispute the fact that women are more tenacious of early prejudices than men , and far slower to adopt new views or to yield to the influence of new environment . The . women of foreign birth would yield less readily than the men to the influence of American environmeint . Many of them spend their lives In a community of persons of their race , and do not go out as do their husbands , fathers , and brothers and mingle with English-speaking Americans . They retain in far larger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ready to appreciate the present menace to continued freedom and the need of raising armies to secure us against the German assault . Therefore , to extend the suffrage to all the adult women of New York State at the present time would be greatly to increase the number of pacifist , pro-German , and anti-American votes . The consideration , which , quite apart from any further argument , would determine the question for me whether or not to vote in favor of woman suffrage at the present time is the great need of the strong , united support of the whole country in the vigorous prosecution of the war in which we are engaged . There are already too many disloyal voices ; there is too much pacifist , pro-German influence . The essential issues of the war are not yet fully recognized by the entire nation . They certainly are not appreciated by a ? number of ladies ardently advocating woman suffrage who have pledged themselves not to contribute to any cause , even to the purchase of Liberty bonds , until what they regard as the paramount @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present time there should be added to the electorate in this great State 1,700,000 voters , ( an equal number to the male vote cast at the last Presidential election , ) untrained to take part in public affairs , unaccustomed to the exercise of the franchise , unaccustomed to think seriously of political problems , the chance of the election of a Hillquit or atHylan would be greatly increased and the movement toward unification of the country in the vigorous effective prosecution of the war seriously weakened . The question whether or not this radical step in the modification of our form of government shall be taken , at a moment when the nation is engaged in girding itself up for war , is one which must be answered by the men of this State on Tuesday next . It is the duty , the high duty , of every adult man to vote pro or con on this proposition , and he should determine his vote by asking himself in all sincerity these questions : First  --  whether or not he is satisfied that the evidence submitted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been introduced it has resulted in a sub- , stantial improvement of governments Personally , I believe that there is no such evidence ; that the utmost that can , be said is that woman suffrage has resulted in no substantial change in the character of the government of the States in which it exists ; that it has Introduced an emotional element which at times results in the adoption of some reform which responds to an emotional appeal , but that no substantial improvement in government has been adopted in any suffrage State which has not been adopted also in States whose men only vote . Second  --  Whether or not he is satisfied that it would strengthen the hands of the Government to extend the franchise at this time to hundreds of thousands of women unused to the exercise of the suffrage , unaccustomed to consider and determine with a view to the welfare of the State serious questions which are put before the people , or to consider and determine the qualifications of men who are candidates for respective offices . Third  --  Whether the extension of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living in the City and State of New York , to thousands of Women of Slavic and other alien origin and education would tend to the better support of the Government in the administration of the draft law , in the vigorous methods of national defense , in those other stern measures which will have to be resorted to in the prosecution of war , when the fact of the partici'pation of the United States in the conflict shall have ome home by actual experience to the people , instead of being a mere intellectual recognition of a struggle going on on another continent . Finally , the elector should consider whether or not the State of New York , with its already highly complicated electorate , with its unassimilated groups , is the State to embark at the present time upon a further experiment in extended suffrage , the consequences of failure in which may be of such untold injury to the whole country . There are many other arguments pro and con bearing upon the question , buthe considerations above mentioned seem to me of paramount importance at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ submit them to the consideration of your readers . GEORGE W. WICKERSHAM . New York , Nov. 2 , 1017 . Votes Lost to Mitchel . ? Toward the end of October I moved away from an election district on Broadway . About the same time nine other families moved out of the building and twelve families moved in , there having been three apartments not occupied . Altogether in this immediate neighborhood ( for I only moved thirteen blocks ) there were forty-nine changes . Far the greater number of families in both apartment houses take THE TIMES , and if they take THE TIMES it is a fair inference they are Mitchel voters . All of them are disfranchised , owing to their having no fixed residence thirty days before Oct. 13 , the last day of the primaries . What is the answer ? ALIBI . HOLLAND 'S PRESTIGE . If It Has Suffered , It Is Expected to Recover . William Stearns Davis , Professor of History at the University of Minnesota , writes an article in THE NEW YORK TIMES of Oct. 29 , in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for its policy of trying to avoid being drawn into the war . On the contrary , the professor advises us Dutchmen to follow the United States ' example and declare war on Germany . Now , what chance would I lolland stand against the German fighting machine ? None whatever . All the land frontier of Rolland is bounded by Germany and the portion of Belgium now held by Germany . The frontier is en- , tirely open . Germany has thirteen times Holland 's population , and if Holland declared war on Germany , Holland would meet the fate of Belgium and Rumania within a very short time with no resultant benefit to the Allies . In fact , such a fate for Holland would be a calamity to the Allies , as it would furnish new submarine bases and new supplies to Germany . England and France have their hands full , and before they could conic to the aid of Holland with guns and airplanes the greater part of Dutch soil would be overrun by the German hordes . The British and French war lords realize this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; no more do the Washington strategists . It is only theorists like the professor Who urge the Dutch Government to take such a suicidal step . Because Holland shows no inclination to pursue this course , the professor accuses the Dutch of cowardice . His conclusion is entirely unwarranted , and is indeed an infamous attack on the good name of Holland . The professor asks why Holland does not obtain its coal from England . As yet he does not seem to have heard that Britsin 's allies , Prance and Italy , are themselves clamoring for coal , and that even in England there is a coal fain ine . Also , the professor asks : " Would Holland have tolerated the same treatment from Siam or Haiti as it stands from Germany ? " Naturally not , but would the United States have declared war on Spain if Spain had been thirteen times the former 's size , and its territory immediately joined the United States ? If it be true that , owing to the misrepresentation of amateur statesmen like the professor , Holland 's prestige @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the harm done will he only temporary . The present Duch Government has guided our kingdom through many difficulties and has proved itself perfectly capable of looking after the honor and the interests of the country and its inhabitants . Mrs. Atherton 's Argument . The gist of Mrs. Atherton 's reply to Anna Katharine Green on , the suffrage amendment would seem to be a compilation of her personal predictions rather than an argument on the effect of the enfranchisement of women . Mrs. Atherfon cautiously implies that by ' admitting women into the political arena ? good results would ensue , such as new subjicts for table talk , but she sums up by admitting her personal indifference to the ballot and its inadequacy to procure her anything . Her argument seems to hinge upon a vague sense that something is amiss in the world which can be righted If the ballot be given to that portion of the community which the novelist admits has " lost its power to blush , " and to whose intelligence she is not flattering . Mrs. Atherton has naively demonstrated that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lower intelligence rather than by these as highly endowed as herself . For just this reason . plus the undesirability of admitting into the political arena an influx of pacifism , socialism . and feminism , upholders of true patriotism exhort all voters to do their utmost to defeat the woman suffrage amendment . A LINCOLN REPUBLICAN . He Urges Strenuous Efforts to tied Mr. Mitchel . I am a Republican ! In me the principles of republicanism are inbred from the old regime . Since the day when , as a boy , I stood close before a rural platform in Illinois , at Beardstown , and , for two hours or more on a hot Summer afternoon , listened in awe to Abraham Lincoln speak as never man spoke before or since , when he defeated Stephen A. Douglas in intellectual combat for the Presidency of these United States , my devotion to Republican principles has remained intense and implacable . Not blindly , my party right or wrong , but my party  --  right ! Never have I held that all good political principles are fundamentally Republican , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never been so blindly partisan as that . My party vote has often borne eliminations . Certainly it will on Tuesday next carry the name of John Purroy Mitchel , whom my convictions confirm as the one man among the several candidates for the great Office of Mayor of this great city who 13 justly entitled to and is qualified for Its vast and vital administration ! The safety of every interest that Involves New York City Is not only concerned but is safeguarded in his election . It is a hazardous hour for the welfare of our city , a critical situation that confronts us , and I am convinced that every Republican should spring with heroic sacrifice and make strenuous efforts for the sure election of the one man , the one safe , true and tried man who is equal to and is verified for the office of Mayor  --  John Purroy Miichel ! Three of the candidates for the Mayoralty have claims for consideration as representing reputable organizations , it is true ! Morris Hillquit incurs an inverse and discreditable classification . Avowedly he represents elements which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governing through violent opposition to our Government . Long ago Hillquit issued a pamphlet , or book , a review of which I read in Tug TIMES , whose opening decaration is : " This country belongs to the people who live in it ! "  --  a rank falsehood . This country belongs to the people who made it from the beginning , and who , by the Dternal , will forever control and govern it ! This country will never belong to or be ruled ley the insurgency of darkest Russia or any hotbed of insurgency in the Old WOrld ! In my opinion Hillqui  --  s late utterances , in defiance of the Government 's declarer tion of war against Germany , are very nearly treasonable . Hearst , Hillquit , Hylan , Hohenzollern When James G. Blaine was running for President he was defeated by the three It 's . Item , Ronmnism , and Rebellion . Why tot elect Mayor Mitchel by four B 's . Hearst . Ililiqult , Hylan , Hohenzollern ? Musical Instruments for the Troops . To keep the boys from being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' . Instruments to the boys " overseas . " The musical instruments may be mandolins , banjos. ukuleles , guitars , violins , eornets , elarionets. flutes , accordions , and mouth organs . In their rest billets these will be greatly appreciated . If for any reason whatever private families have discarded these , if In good condition , they may be sent to the office of LieUtiniant John Philip Sousa. 1 West Thirty.fourth Street , New York City . JOHN PHILIP SOUSA. 