@@681620

txt A strange rumbling sounded through Eighth Avenue at Forty-second Street just before 10:30 o'clock last night . Tile asphalt pavement heaved and billowed like the surface of a sea , and with a roar a torrent of water burst through the . paving almost exactly in the centre of the north crossing of Eighth Avenue and Forty-second Street , shot several feet into the air , and began to flow northward in the avenue , following the Slight grade which extends to Fiftieth Street . Within a few moments the avenue and the side streets running westward were filled with a turbulent stream nearly three feet in depth which swept along on its surface boxes and barrel staves , cans , and the other rubbish of a thickly populated city street . A water main , believed to be of the 48-inch type , though the Water Department men could not find the break , had burst , and the flood which issued from it turned Eighth Avenue and adjacent side streets into rivers and brooks , until the district resembled part of an Ohio town in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the damage might be could not be estimated last night . Within an hour , however , cellars for blocks had been flooded , surface cars were stalled in two and three feet of water , and taxicabs floundered in the sweep of water which swirled about their wheels . In houses along Eighth Avenue then stoodat the furnaces ready to draw the tires and at 1 o'clock this morning the Water Department ordered that done .. , . Men from the . gas company . hovered about the flood earlier , admitting they feared each instant to hear the report of a gas explosion caused by the water and the current of the surface cars . From many of the tenements along Eighth Avenue families Moved their lighter belongings and betook themselves to the homes of friends out of the danger zone for the report spread quickly that the flood was undermining the foundations of the tall flat houses . What caused the break coula not be learned . Men from the Water Department stood out helplessly by the torrent speculating but unable to do more . Why the water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from them . Soine of them said that there were four locks in the neighborhood by which various mains could be disconnected . Apparently they could reach none of these and did not know which one to aim for . Avenue Like a River . Meantime the water continued to rush from a hole which had , extended now until it ran for fifteen feet along the avenue . The force with which the flood poured into the street did not seem to diminish and at midnight it was running ' as strongly is when it began . The avenue from house line to house line was a river , so deep even on the sidewalks that it swept into stores and almost into the raised doorways of tenements . There is a down grade from Fortysecond Street to Fiftieth , and another westward toward the river from Eighth Avenue . The water followed this natural course , so that crowds could , and did gather , in the various cross streets east of the avenue to watch the inundation . Capt . Ormsby and the reserves of the West Forty-seventh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but the theatres in the Times Square neighborhood let out their thousands soon after the break occurred and throngs of men and women in evening dress hastened toward Eighth Avenue . They saw lines of surface cars extending northward in Eighth Avenue and eastward in Forty-second Street . There were also one or two stalled south of the cross street and ' west of the avenue . In the flooded region the lights were out in the cars , for the traction company shut off its power after the flood had continued for more than half an hour . In many of the stalled cars were passengers nevertheless , for many women declined to alight in the water which swept past . Rescuers Wade in Stream . Policemen in rubber boots carried some to the pavement , and girls and women were assisted across the flooded side ' streets by willing men and boys . Some would not risk the journey , though , and sat , apparently content , until the water should have been shut off . A taxicab going north in Eighth Ave , nue attempted the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the worst part of the flood . An elderly man , two young women : and a youth stepped out into the water and instantly were swept from their feet . The men struggled back , but the girls were sent spinning along until policemen rushed to their rescue . They were taken to Kelly 's klotel at a corner where . Dr. Harkness of the Polyclinic Hospital attended them , and they continued their journey in another cab , The flood played queer tricks with the electric light circuits of the neighborhood . The street lights were not interfered with , but some stores were left in darkness while a store next door remained illuminated . Restaurants , saloons , and stores of the neighborhood had been well filled with people when the water first burst I into the street and hundreds were marooned for hours . Loew 's American Theatre let its hundreds out a few moments after Forty-second Street and Eighth Avenue had become a river , and the policemen , in rubber boots , helped women , children . and men to creep around the sides of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the flooded area . Shortly before midnight several engineers from the ? Department of Water Supply , armed with maps showing the location of slots and locks in the neighborhood , arrived . After fifteen ' minutes they admitted- that they had no idea what had caused the troubje or just where the seat of it was situated , and Ithe flow of water had not abated at .2 I o'clock this morning . Residents or the neighborhood had given up hope of having ' the : Herod stopped . The torrent bad run three I feet deep as far away as Forty-third Street and Ninth " Avenue , but ' this seemed to be Its high level                     