@@681311

txt Senate 's Adjournment Prevented His Confirmation Yesterday . WASHINGTON , Aug. 6 . ? When the news of the death of Mrs. Woodrow Wilson was received this afternoon the Senate adjourned . Consequently no executive session was held to consider the nominations of Paul M. Warburg of New York and Frederic A. Delano of Chicago as members of the Federal Reserve Board . The completion of the organization of the board awaits the Senate 's confirmation of these nominations , and Administration leaders are determined to press for prompt and favorable action . The motion of Senator Bristow that Mr. Warburg 's testimony before the Banking Committee be made public is also up for disposition . The Senator is opposed to Mr. Warburg , and has given notice of his intention to insist upon the motion . The Reserve Bank Organization Committee is expected to meet in Washington today to canvass and declare the result of the votes of the member banks for Directors of the twelve Federal reserve banks . A few of these results have been announced by the committee from time to time , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be determined until all member banks had voted or the polls had been closed . Some of the banks were very dilatory in respect to casting their ballots , and recently the committee notified the delinquents that they must vote not later than Aug. 1 . As some of the ballots had to come from the Pacific Coast , the committee has waited until now to be sure that all ballots mailed by Aug. 1 had been received . The election of three Directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York has already been announced . These are William Woodward . President of the Hanover National Bank ; Ilenry Towne , ex-President of the Merchants ' Association , and William 13 . Thompson of the Stock Exchange firm of Thompson , Towle &; Co. , who lives in Yonkers , The three other Directorships to be filled by the member banks have been closely contested between Franklin D. Locke of Buffalo and IV . W. - Woodard of Granville , N. V. ; between William H. Vary of Watertown , Master of the State Grange , and Leslie R. Palmer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Treman of Ithaca , ex-President of the New York State Bankers ' Association . and J. C. Leggett , President of the Cuba National Bank , Cuba , N. Y. These contests , as three already have been declared elected , will fill the quota of Class A and Class B Directors of the Reserve Bank here . One of the first duties of the Federal Reserve Board , when it has organized , will he the appointment of the three Class C Directors , representing the Government , which will complete the Directorate of the local bank . Similar action will be taken in respect to the other eleven Federal Reserve Banks . One of the Class C Directors in each district will be Chairman of the board of the Federal Reserve Bank and Federal Reserve Agent , representing the Federal Reserve Board . Another of thorn will be Vice Chairman and Deputy Federal Reserve Agent . Upon their appointment in this district it is expected that the Directors will meet and begin preparations for the physical organization of the bank , including arrangements for a place of business and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CONVENTION CASE . Justice Seabury Hears of Fraud in Special Election . The application of William Jay Schieffelin , Chairman of the Citizens ' Union for an injunction restraining the Boards of Election throughout the State from preparing ballots or doing anything else with respect to the nomination or election of delegates to the Constitutional Convention , was argued yesterday before Justice Seabury . The New York City Board of Elections was represented by the Corporation Counsel 's office . The only other election boards to be represented were those from Suffolk and Ulster Counties . Mansfield Perry appeared for Mr. Schieffelin . No question was raised as to the sufficiency of evidence of fraud in the April election as presented by the Citizens ' Union , and the only defense made was that by the Corporation Counsel who raised the point of procedure that a taxpayer 's action against the Board of Election would not hold and cited a dictum of former Judge Cullen in support of his contention . The Attorney General of the State was not represented , and Justice Sal1 bury expressed surprise as he said the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been notified . William Allaire Shortt appeared at first for the Democratic State Committee , hut later withdrew . The plaintiff submitted a large bundle of affidavits of electors , householders , and handwriting experts to substantiate the charges of fraud . Among them were affidavits from Loren C. Horton , handwriting expert , showing about : too forgeries of names of electors in the poll hooks , in addition to those contained in his affidavits filed previously . Justice Seabury. at the request of the defendants , adjourned the hearing to next Wednesday for further argument and submission of evidence . The Citizens ' Union is continuing its investigations and will have further evidence of forgeries and fraud implicating election officials , it was said , when the case comes up again . MAYOR 'S AIM FOR C. C. N. Y. Would Train Men for Business and the Public Service . Mayor Mitchel yesterday reappointed James W. Hyde as a Trustee of City College . In a communication to the board announcing the reappointment the Mayor ex.plained that he had tried to bring the Trustees of the college and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I desired especially to fill vacancies in the board with ' men who were interested in the modern development of education , and who are concerned to make of the City College an institution of distinctive value to the City of New York . To accomplish this , it has , seemed to me the City College should look to training men for public service , should give emphasis to training in business administration along the lines of the work done by Harvard University . and should regard as its peculiar province the training of young men for successful participation in the municipal and commercial activities of the city , : IA opposed to the rigid academic training of the conventional college . " With several great private universities in the city , is it not a question whether it is wise for the city to conduct a general university , nr an institution merely for higher academic training ? Similarly with the growth of our public high school system , it seems a matter of doubt that it is wise for City College to maintain a secondary school. - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was ripe for the formulation of a - c I ear policy " to govern the future development of the college along lines which will thoroughly justify the cost to the cite of maintainingit and which will advance the institution . " WAR ENDS LIFEBOAT CRUISE .  --  -- -Honeymooners on the Lundin Turn Back to New York . War brought the honeymoon trip of Edward Sivard and his bride , who started last week to cross the Atlantic in a Lundin lifeboat , to an abrupt end . When the boat reached Boston on Sunday telegrams were waiting which directed the boat to return to Long Island City . With its low-covered deck and quiet movements it was feared the craft might be mistaken for a submarine or a torpedo boat and sent to the bottom . The Lundin will probably reach its anchorage in the East River this morning .                     