@@680559

txt Expressing his determination to sign the Alien Land bill recently passed by the Legislature , Gov . Hiram W. Johnson of California to-day telegraphed to William J. Bryan . Secretary of state , a long explanation of the action taken by the Legislature . The message was in answer to President Wilson 's request , sent through Mr. Bryan , that the bill be vetoed . " I am sending a statement of California 's position , " he said , " and it ' is my expectation to sign the bill . " When asked if he would sign it to-day the Governor replied that he did not care to set a definite time . " It may be twenty-four , possibly forty-eight or seventy-two hours before I sign it , " he said . Gov . Johnson 's message follows ; Hon. William J. Bryan , Secretary of State , Washington , D. C. : Your very courteous telegram relating to the Alien Land bill reached me late Sunday night . T take it , from our conversation and your request made to me to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Federal Government , that your message embodies what it was your wish and the wish of the President to say to us before final action . In this response , it is my design most respectfully to present the situ ' ation from our standpoint and the views that actuated our Legislature in passing , the bill and that impel me to sanction it . For many years a very grave problem , little understood in the East , has confronted California ; a problem the seriousness of which has boon recog. sized by statesmen in our Nation , and has been viewed with- apprehension by the people of this State . : When the present-Constitution of California was adopted more than thirty years age , It ! cep tattled the following declaration : Th ? p presence of foreigners ineligible to ? become cititens of ? - the " United States is ? declared to le dangerous to the well-bung of the State . and the Legislature shall discourage their immigration by all means within its power " Of late years our *problem from another angle has become acute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in reference to our , agricultural lands until finally affirmative action in : - ; 1 attempted solution became imperative . This attempted solution is found in the action of our Legislature in the passage of the Alien Land bill . In the phraseology of ' this bill , in those whom It affects , in its scope , and in its purpose , we believe we are within our legal and our moral rights , and that we are doing only what is imperatively demanded for the protection and preservation of our State . In this enactmF nt havg kept ever in mind our National good faith as evidenced by existing treaties . and our desire and anxiety have been to act only in such fashion as would commend us to our sister States , and would justify us to our fellow-countrymen . Reasons for Japori 's Protests . The objections to our bill are based , first , upon the treaty obligations of the Nation , and , secondly , upon the assertion that our act is offensive and discriminatory . The protest to our measure , as your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The bill that is now before me provides substantially in its first section that all aliens eligible to citizenship under the laws of the United States may acquire real nroperty In the same manner as citizens of the " United States , and the secord section provides that all aliens . other than those mentioned in the first section , may acquire real property in the manner and to the extent and for the purpose prescribed by any treaty now existing between the Government of the United States and the nation or country of which such aliens are citizens of subjects . and may in addition lease for a period of three years lands for agricultural purposes . Thus we ' ' ave made existing treaties a mart cf our law . end thus we have preserved every right that any foreign nation by international contract has insisted upon preserving with our National Government . The treaty of dill with Japan , in reference to ; he citizens and subjects of each country . provides that they shall have " liberty to own . or lease , or occupy houses . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their choice ; to lease land for residential and commercial purposes and generally to do anything incident to or necessary for trade upon the same terms as native citizens or subjects submitting themselves to the laws and regulations there established . " Directed Only t A g-rleulture . We assume that the right of Japanese to own real property , for the Purposes - described , is absolute in our State , and we seek to deal only with our agricultural lands . We embody the treaty in our law , and we add to it permission to lease nee agrieniturat : ands for the period of three years . Where such extraordinary care has been exercised to preserve honor and good faith , in the very words of the . contract made by the protesting nation with our own , and to do more by authorizing leases of agricultural lands , it would seem that we ought not to be open to any accusation of violation of treaty rights . or of desire to intrench upon that which belongs alone to the National Government , or which might become a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no offense ; we make no discrimination . The offense and discrimination Is contained , it is claimed , in the use of the words " eligible to citizenship . " a ea in making a distinction bet weep those who are eligible to citizenship and those whc are not . We do not ? eetion the Japanese , or any particuhitrace . The Constitotion of California in 1879 made its distinction , and theft . never has been protest or objection . The naturalization laws of the United States , long since , without demur from any nation , determined who were and who were not eligible to citizenship . If invidious discrimination ever Were made in this regard the United States made it when the United States declared who were a4 it who : were not eligible to citizenship , and ( when we but follow and depend upon the statutes of . the United States and their determination as to eligibility to citizenship we can not be accused of indulging in invidious discrimination . May I venture to call to your attention the immigration law now pending in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress , where apparently certain classes who shall be excluded from our country are described as " persons who can not become eligible under existing laws to- become citizens of the United States . " At this very moment the National Legislature , without protest or objection  --  indeed , it is published in Calif  --  rnia by express consent ? is using the terms that are claimed in California 's law to be offensive and discriminatory . Discrimination Against State . At least three States in the Union have in the past enacted laws similar to the contemplated law of California , and the enactments of those other States have been without objection or protest . That the protest is now made in respect to California but emphasizes the acuteness of the problem confronting California and demo ! , strates that California is differently viewed than other States of the Unior. , and that if discrimination exists it is discrimination against California . We insist that , justly , no offense can be taken by any nation to this law , and more particularly does this Seem to be clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by its own law , prevents acquisition of land by aliens . It is most respectfully submitted that , after all , the question is not whether any offense has been taken , brit whether justly it should be taken . I Voice . I think , the sentiment of the majority of the Legislature of this State when I say that if it had been believed that offense could justly he taken by any nation to the proposed law . that law would not have been enacted . We of California believe firmly that in our legislative dealings with this alien land question we have violated absolutely no treaty rights . We have shown no discrimination : we hare given to no nation the right to be Justified in taking offense . So , .. believing with a strong reliance on the justi and the righteousness of our cause and with due deference and courtesy and with proper consideration for the feelings and the viewse of others . we had hoped the authorities at Washington would have seen the question as we in this State have been forced to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blind . Sass He Will Sign It . And so . with all respect and courtesy , the State of California feels it ? its bounden duty to citizens to do that which the interests of its people demand : that which the conscience of its people approves : that which violates no treaty rights : that which presents no discrimination , and that which can give no just cause for offense . You have suggested to me delay . but this question was very earnestly and fully presented by you to our Legislature , and the Legislature determined to proceed . My province is to approve or disapprove the law as presented . Our pele. ass in the op islature , have overwhelmingly expressed their desire for the present Alien Land bill . The vote in the Senate was 35 to 2 and in the Assembly 72 to 3 . With such unanimity of opinion , even did I hold otheri vews . I would feel it my plain duty o sign the bill , unless some absolutely controlling necessity demanded contrary action . Apparently no such controlling necessity exists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President that I feel my duty to my State compels rne to aprove the action of the Legislature . p HIRAM JOHNSON . Governor of California . So far as the California administration is concerned , the Governor 's telegram ends the land bill controversy . Gov . Johnson has until June 16 in which to sign the act , and in the normal course of events it will become a law at the expiration of ninety days from the closing of the Legislature or on Aug. 10 next . The only contingency that might arise to check its operation from and after that date is the threatened referendum petition which Theodore A. Bell , a Democratic leader , has said he would circulate against the measure as soon as it was sighed .                     