@@679744

txt Canadiannewspapers are now strugOng with the double scandal of a deficiency in their population and apparent maladministration of one or two departments of their Government . Canada maintains one of the most elaborate establishments in the world for the encouragement of immigration . Almost a million dollars a. year  --  eight millions for the census period  --  has been expended in various sorts of advertisements of the Dominion 's attractions for the world 's floating peoples and payments , resembling bounties , for the attraction of them . Moreover , it has been officially reported that these payments have produced results . The immigration has been reported at 1,705,375 , whereas the total growth of population Is 1,730,000 . This leaves out of account the natural increase , which must have been at least a million . The Dominion 's optimists have added this natural increase to the official Immigration and have persuaded themselves that Canadians numbered nine millions . The moderate calculators would have been pleased with eight minter 's . Now with one accord they are asking why there are only seven millions , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been no such immigration as has been reported or there has been a leak . The suggestion is interesting to us because there is no possible ' place for the missing Canadians to leak to except the United States . Fabulous estimates have been published of the millions of American men and dollars which have drifted northward , and now the Canadians themselves suggest that the drift perhaps has been the other way , and that the Canadians bought and paid for have not stayed bought , but have been mere birds of passage to the United States through Canada . This must , demonstrably be so , except for inaccuracies In the census . We know what " million clubs " can do in boosting population in the minds of envious rivals of New York , but their best efforts are not fit to compare with what is now going on in Canada . Several cities claim that streets were overlooked , one claims that an entire ward was omitted , and not one of them admits that it is as small as the census alleges . There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be another census . The blame is put on the enumerators . They are said to have been appointed solely for their political fitness , and to have been paid in considerable part for listing parcels of land rather than for counting noses . Canadians are torn with conflicting emotions . The scandals are most titillating to the politicians , but they ' would dearly love to find that they are more than seven millions , even at the loss , of the scandale . It is possible to reconcile the discrepancy in some degree by comparison with our own immigration figures . They show both the loss of many Americans to Canada and an unsuspected immigration from Canada to the United States . The Canadians keep their immigration books on a system of single entry . That Is ; they reckon only arrivals , and keep . no tracts rof dePart-tires . Of course , only the net goes swell . the permanent population , and ' nobody can be blamed if some of the bonused immigrants prefer to settle , on our side of the border . Nobody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foster our growth , or is in fact dissatisfied with our growth . We are rather disposed , to look askance at some recent arrivals , and to take note that increasing difficulties in earning a livelihood make the arrival of more competitors something to be thought about , as it used not to be in the era of free land , in which Canada is now living . For the single year 1909-1910 , if the United States figures ' are correct , 116 , - 377 crossed into Canada from the United States and 94,496 crossed into the United States from Canada . The net gain to Canada is a mere 21,881 ? hardly , the arrivals of which Canada has boasted in single months . If the comparison is confined to Canadians alone , the United States ' lost 15,203 Canadians and gained 44,328 . We also gained something on the net movement of " other aliens . " That Canada made the gains she did ' is due to the fact that we did lose more citizens of our own than It is altogether agreeable to contemplate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 22,832 . These details have a political as well as racial significance . Canada loses population to us in the East , where they have little influence on our politics . But their emigration ' has a considerable importance in its effect upon Canadian politics , especially when considered in connection with the fact that the Americans who go to Canada go where their influence is most effective if they enter Canadian politics . According to this census , the East loses nine members and the West gains twenty . The loss is where the alleged anti-reciprocity vote is strongest , and was cast really for reasons of race and religion and imperialist flag-flapping . The gain of new members Is where the ' American immigration is strongest , and where reciprocity is likely next time to be voted upon on its merits , -                     