@@681805

txt Britain is apparently on the eve of a momentous change in the Cabinet whereby some of the Liberal members will give place to strong rnionist and Labor leaders , thus forming- a coalition Government , designed to inspire complete public confidence and support , and to prosecute the war with the greatest efficiency . Among the shifts involved in this great political revolution is the displacement of Winston uhurch111 First . Lord of the Admiralty and the succession of ex-Premier Arthur J. Balfour to that vitally important position . ' Phis change , made necessary by the resignation of Lord Fisher , ' the First Sea Lord , because of strife with Churchill , is at once the feature and the immediate cause of this amazing overturn . Well-defined reports , which have been in general circulation for thirtysix hours , seem to indicate that Bonar Lew , Lord Derby . V. E. Smith , and Austen Chamberlain , and perhaps other Unionist leaders besides Balfour , will enter the so-called " ' national Cabin , t , " while Viscount Haldane , Earl Beauchamp , Lord @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to he marked for retirement . Story of the Crisibi . I am sending you thee following account of the political crisis which confronts Great Britain . The information it contains can be relied upon , and altogether it presents as complete and impartial a story of the revolution which is taking place as can be told . The writer is J. L. Garvin , editor of The Pall Mall Gazette and Observer. , He says : " We have to reveal the main facts about an overturn as sudden and extraordinary as any in the whole history of Parliamentary Government . A thunderbolt has fallen upon the face of politics and changed everything . " We can not call it a bolt from the blue . ( the firmament over Downing Street and Whitehall was gray and lowering enough , ) but a meteorite out of the clear air could not have been more amazing . " The crisis at the Admiralty has involved the whole Ministry and the opposition . Lord Fisher has resigned , and he has not only made impossible Mr. Churchill 's retention of his present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The Cabinet . as it stood before , has practically ceased to exist . You can no more put it back than restore Humpty Dumpty . " A national Ministry , such as we have urged for months and foreseen to he inevitable , is about to be formed for that purpose . Active negotiations are already afoot and we ' believe the chief opposition leaders have already agreed to enter the Government . " There are difficulties , but they may be and must he overcome , and they must be overcome quickly . We can have no Interregnum at a time like this . " We must stand together as a nation or lose the war . By comparison : with that everything sinks into the merest insignificance . " We must have an absolutely thorough reconstruction , which will end once for all the doubt , muddle , and lethargy in some directions , and the friction and faction in others . The reconstruction thust , be dictated with View to two purposes only : First , war efficiency , and , second , national union and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the nation in every vital respect stronger than before . Anything weaker would be a crime against the country . How the Revolution Came . " Before we enter into a frank discussion of men and measures in relation to this matter of supreme urgency , we .. /Uust try to explain how the revolution came about . We can then better examine the very serious question of what statesmen should have what offices in a National War Ministry , representing all parties , we hope , but certainly the Liberals , Unionists , and last , but not least , labor . " For some weeks the political position has been more serious than the general public supposed or even than some Ministers realized . The drink muddle was followed by the penalty that scourges all moral weakness and opportunism in war . After that the Government ( or we should rather say the late Government ) was never so strong again in the eyes of many who had been among its firm and influential supporters Clash in the Admiralty . " Meanwhile there was a parallel difficulty in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and masterful ' Personalities clashed , Mr. Church ill and Lord Fisher They couldnot co-exist in the Same department . " The nominal question on which the split came was the Dardanelles . The thing went deeper than that , There was fundamental incompatibiltity . The tension was bound to show itself , and was latent from the beginning . Shrewd judges prophesied that something of this kind would happen . rIene fault was in the nature of the sitelation , not in the men . " Before Lord Fisher returned , Mr. Churchill 's mastery of Admiralty adfministration and his historic stroke of ; courage in mobilizing the fleet before /the Germans could strike had rendered services which will be held in ever'lasting honor when the dust of this ; thankless hour has cleared away . " Mr. Churchill could not easily ( change his former way and begin to iback down . It might have been better ; if he had taken another office when rord Fisher returned . " Lord Fisher is as ill-fitted as any iman living to be content at such a ! moment as this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; his professional functions . Fisher , it *must be remembered , has to an elemental degree the temperament of tgenius . He is not merely a man , he its a force of nature . " Unfortunately , even Fisher hesitated at a critical moment He did not approve of the original employment of the fleet alone in connection with the Dardanelles enterprise . He could have stopped it by putting down ( ' his foot . He was therefore involved in ; Common responsibility with the rest of the Board of Admiralty . " But he wished more and more to ( be free from that responsibility and to . , a.1-ec a fresh start altogether with the handling of the fleet and with the ethods of the Admiralty administra- : ion . Fisher . Resigning , Upsets Churchill . " The situation was such that the sailor by resigning had it in his power ' to dislodge the statesman . Last week , when the First Sea Lord had a special . udience of the King and had suddenly , on Saturday a long interview with the prime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going to happen . ' Few , indeed , were prepared for what did happen . Lord Fisher regated , pulled down his blinds , and ent to Scotland . Mr. Churchill 's position as First Lord became impossible , of course , but so did that of the Govphrnment as a whole . This was for vaious reasons . not all of which can yet ie told . " in the Dardanelles affair , as in the teanta-erp affair , Mr. Churchill 's renponsibility is shared with the other Ministers , and if he were on his dejfense , which he is not , his case on both accounts would be exceedingly strong . I " But the issue goes far beyond that . The whole method and temper of the ; Cabinet administration in war time is the real question at stake . It was evident that the Government had eased to enjoy a sufficient measure of national confidence and that a rehonstruction on a broad patriotic basis pause be undertaken . Fisher 's coup furnished the occasion to the late Ministry . " It must be remembered that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; it was a party group in a narrower sense . It did not represent anything like the whole of its own supporters . It included , for instance , no Nationalist or Labor members . It eves evident that a Cabinet drawn from the regular Ministerialists , who are a little more than a third of the House of Commons , and who are far less than a majority of the whole country , could not possibly reflect the full political ability of the nation -- could not continue to command a sufficient extent of national unanimity and ought not ' e monopolize office now for decisive . iuestions , by comparison with which all the rest , including the seneetion of Fisher 's coup , is already ancient history . The Possible New Cabinet . " How is the National Ministry , to be formed ? What members of the present Government are to retire ? Who are to go ? Who are to stay ? What opposition leaders are to be included ? How are the offices to be reshuffled ? " In deciding these questions everything must be subordinated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efficiency and establishing a solid unanimity of public confidence . Otherwise the statesmen of the various ' parties would not insure mutual sup-1 port by combining , but would only compromise each other . " First , Mr. Asquith is the only possible Prime Minister . In the power of keeping together colleagues of contrasting views and temperaments he has no rival . That quality has been priceless in the past to a party combination ; it is more requisite than ever for the efficiency of a national combination . " If Balfour , as is-expected , becomes the First Lord of Admiralty , by far the best solution will have been found . Lord Fisher would welcome it , Mr. Churchill would welcome it . Balfour is silk and steel . No man has more of the temper of Pitt . As civil head of the navy Balfour would command the enthusiastic confidence of the nation and the empire . He has already a private room at the Admiralty , and is thoroughly acquainted with the business . " Mr. Churchill 's high ability and patriotic services make it out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the War Council . He will be provided with another office . We should like to see him Secretary of State for India , a post which fascinated his father , but was never so important as now . There the characteristic part of Churchill 's knowledge and gifts would find a more admirable scope than in any other office . Lloyd George and Kitchener " Lord Crewe , if he leaves the India Office , ought to remain as President of the Council . " In view of the fact that a colossal and vital department of affairs , not vet recognized , has been created since the struggle began , ought not a , new office to be created , Minister for War Supplies ? Of such a Ministry Mr. Lloyd George ought to be the head . " We are ourselves convinced that this change would do more than anything else to insure and hasten the winning of the war . We can not say now how deeply we hope that something will be done in that direction , but we shall return to the subject . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to an unlimited extent , the whole industrial power of the nation , labor and capital alike , women as well as men , must be organized under a man of genius , with the requisite combination of driving power and tact . The one man for the purpose is Lloyd George . " If Lord Kitchener goes to the front , then indeed Lloyd George ought to be the full War Minister . In that case Mr. Bonar Law ought to be Chan-cellor of the Exchequer . To the present requirements of that high position he is admirably adapted by his business training and by the remarkably acute and shrewd faculty which he brings to bear upon the management and exposition of all financial subjects . " Austen Chamberlain 's appearance in his great father 's place as Minister for the Colonies would be an event with a thrill in it It is the solution that we ourselves would much prefer though Churchill 's name has been mentioned in the same . conpection . " It is understood that Lord Haldane ceases to be Lord Chancellor , and retires from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ word to say in circumstances where honorable recognition is needed . - Sir Edward Carson , who might well have claimed the woolsack , stands out , we believe , though he approved the Combination , as does Mr. Redmond . In many ways it would be better that Lord Reading should become the Lord Chancellor and Sir John Simon Lord Chief Justice . Lord Derby and Smith to Enter . " In any case F. E. Smith 's claims to become Attorney General are . beyond all dispute . He represents the more advanced and popular wing of the Unionist Party . No Unionist member of the House ' of Commons equals him in his power to stir patriotic feeling among that Tory democracy of the North of England , which forms so large and indispensable a part of the industrial masses on whom we depend to produce shells , shells , shells . For similar reasons the inclusion of Lord Derby is imperative . No public man has shown a higher spirit , a sounder fibre , or stronger common sense since the beginning of the war . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind is not unlike that of the late Duke of Devonshire . " We hear that reasons of health will unfortunately prevent Lord Lansdowne from joining . It will be diffi. cult to choose between some other Unionist Peers , Lord Milner , Lord Curzon , and Lord Selborne . We do not at present know whether either Lord Milner or Lord Curzon is prepared to serve . " Mr. remains in the Ministry . That is his just reward for a memorable fight when he risked his political life to save the navy , and did save it , in 1909 . " We conclude with the following summary , which is fairly full , though not quite complete : " Ministers retiring  --  Lord Haldane , Lord Beauchamp , Lord Lucas , Mr .. Harcourt , and Mr. Birrell . " Unionists entering  --  Mr. Balfour , Mr Boner Law , Mr. Chamberlain , F. E. Smith , and Lord Derby . " In addition Walter Long will have an office if his health permits him to accept it . Finally , it is recognized that Arthur Henderson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that beggars every political play ever put on the stage . " In some quarters the speculation as to the causes of the clash between Churchill and Lord Fisher is not confined to the question of the Dardanelles operations . It is suggested that the sinking of the Lusitania may have been one of the causes of the break . Churchill 's defense of the Admiralty in regard to that vessel is recalled . Many naval critics on this side of the ocean questioned whether the pleas advanced established the Admiralty 's case , as put forward by the First Lord , Whether the special measures of precaution in regard to the Transylvania were taken at the instance of Mr. Churchill or by sealed orders , or in fact whether there was any difference of opinion on the Admiralty Board on the question is being hotly debated in naval circles .                     