@@679430

txt 1 There can be no complaint that the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company has nothing substantial to propose . It pro ' pos83 nothing less than a rapid transit I revolution which as yet those most inItereeted give scant ' signs of appreciatMg. but which it is well worth their while to understand , the more partioulartr that its significance is not be , ing generally expounded . In brief the meaning of the plan is the substitution of a. new rapid transit slogan for the old " Fifteen minutes to Raritan . " There was nothing in that for Brooklyn , but it can not be said that there is nothing for Manhattan in the new cry of " Fifteen minutes and five cents from Borough Hall to " a long list of delectable localities in Manhattan . There is an equally long list of obscure regions which are distant eastwardly from Manhattan about the same distance that the Bronx lies north of the Manhattan shopping and theatre and hotel districts which fall within the time and fare limit of the old Harlem slogan . At present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and three or more times as distant measured by time or convenience . The new slogan ** " Equality of access to Manhattan for 23,000 acres of residential region . " A district half as large again as Manhattan now lies strangulated and depressed by conditions of aloofness from the greater city 's social and commercial life which react with depressing effect upon the finances of the entire city . Subways can not develop such an area , not if any imaginable wealth were squandered upon them . The necessity is not for arteries to carry great floods of city lifeblood to these stunted regions , but for surface veins covering wide areas with population which shall pay their growing taxes and not find them an imposition to be resented . Particularly does this dawn of hope apply to that large area lying between the five and ten mile radius from Times Square , and within the broad sweep from Fort Hamilton , Gravesend Bay , Canarsie , and clear round to Whitestone and Flushing . Outside this fanshaped proposed addition to Manhattan lies the huge commutation area . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large is under no necessity of disclaiming any partisanship for any particular locality . The interest of the central borough is that all boroughs shall have equality of opportunity so far as public action can give it . Every resident of any locality who enters Manhattan , Is a welcome and wealth-bringing guest . Manhattan wants and welcomes all from everywhere because it finds its profit in fulfilling its function , just as profit for the other boroughs lies in their fulfilling their function . There is no discrimination against the Bronx In urging the utilization of unused facilities in other directions . The Bronx has had a splendid chance , and has profited handsomely , and all rejoice thereat . But the suspicion is growing that the Bronx ' is something of a cannibal , feeding upon the necessities of its brethren . In plain language Bronx real estate is too dear to be afforded if any other can be had . The subways carry people to and from the Bronx with convenience , but the area within the subway sphere is held at prices out of reach of home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is not because the Bronx Is solidly built that eyes of longing are cast on cheaper and nearer territory . It is because the Bronx is not built up as it might be that it Is expedient to give those who wish opportunity to look elsewhere under equality of conditions . If any one wishes to appreciate the fundamental alteration made possible by this change in the transit situation he needs but to make a list for himself of the transit opportunities now existing and those proposed across Forty-second Street in both directions . Every north and south route may be here crossed by an east and west route which has lain unused for weary months while subway enthusiasts were thinking of anything else except using those already in existence . The speediest and fullest use of existing routes " demands that the next subway construeton should have that for a main object . It is sad to think that at this interesting situation the developer of the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company and the builder of the Manhattan subways drop lout together . Brooklyn is not suitably grateful to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pending . Manhattan is grateful to Mr. Yong B. MCDONALD , and ought not to be forgetful of him at this time of his prostration . It is difficult to say what form the rapid transit situation might have taken if he had not had the nerve to undertake his great task and the capacity to complete it . Since then there has been a welter of proposals anti nothing accomplished which will compare with his efficiency                     