@@678971

txt Undoubtedly the most striking and impressive of the suggestions of Mr. RoosaVELT at Christiania is that of a " League of Peace , " formed by " those great powers honestly bent on peace , " " not only to keep the peace among themselves , but to prevent by force if necessary its being broken by others . " It may be interesting to consider to which of the powers this plain must be applied in order to be successful . There are four powers which might , if they could come together in a perfectly frank and sincere agreement , enforce the peace of the world  --  Great Britain , Germany , the United States , and Japan . There is no combination of the other powers that would undertake to engage in war against the united resistance of these four . The armies of Germany and Japan in their present condition of efficiency , their navies and the navies of Great Britain and the United States would make all attempts at war on which these nations Were united in fixing , a veto entirely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that peace could be preserved by the threat of force by the three Occidental nations of this quartet , for if Great Britain , Germany , and the United States should determine to repress any hostilities in which Japan could enlist with any probable allies or enemies their action would be final , Again , if we limit the assumption still more , it may be said with much reason that a really earnest agreement between Great Britain and Germany to keep the peace themselves , and to prevent its being broken by any others at all likely to wish to disturb it , would be effective . And the difficulty in the execution of Mr. Roosrnrmir 's alliiring plan lies , not in the secondary . but , in , the ; =primary : aim og , . : the.t.9:Ck:ret ! '  - -  tkent ; 74OtIn. - : ; - vreyenting7 ; n- ,  - -  AistnFhanee , of the ac by others brit iIl ing the peace between themselves . So far as recent events show there is no effective dosire for war among the other nations that would not bo stilled if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to discountenance war among others . The busy minds of statesmen In - all the minor storm centres or those watching these centres from the great capitals all turn to4vard London and Berlin . Could they see there assured signs of continuous calm they  --  would neither fear nor hope for war to disturb their plans or to pro . mote them . In the uneasy , confused affairs of the nearer East , for instance , no one would give a second thought to the Turks ' troubles with the Albanians or to the ambitions* of Service and Greece , or even to the far-reaching schemes of Austria , were it not for the possibility of involving Germany and Great Britain . The situation of Japan in the Orient and its relations with the Occident are - more remotely affected , but they would be relatively easy to foresee if the relations of Russia and France and Germany and Great Britain were based on the secure maintenance of peace on the part of the last two powers . Ii  --  or Japan , though she has a strong and welltrained army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ navy is hopelessly opposed , as it would be were the navies of Germany and Great Britain combined against it . It is , then , to Berlin , whither he next proceeds , that Mr. ROOSEVELT must take his conception of an armed League of Peace . It is on the statesmen and the rulers of these capitals that the influence of the public sentiment he undoubtedly represents must be concentrated . We can not think that the problem Is rendered easier by being thus simplified . It is by no means a new one . It has baffled some of the keenest and strongest minds of each nation . And it will be still further complicated by the death of the King of England , and the passing away of his peculiar influence abroad and at home                     