@@683705

txt Ten men were killed and seven injured by an explosion this afternoon . in Magazine No. 2 , at the Newport Naval Torpedo Station . Naval officers started an investigation tonight to determine the cause of the accident . It was said to be due to the accidental discharge of a quantity of fulminate of mercury , There are more than 3,000 employes at the station , and that more damage was not done was due to the fact that the high explosives are stored in small quantities in isolated magazines . Only the one magazine exploded , although the concussion wrecked Magazine No. 1 . At midnight eight of the dead at the naval hospital were identified as follows : William Caswell , T. E. Wyatt , J. H. Ccnnolly , David J. Sullivan , John Francis Murphy , J. Andrea , Timothy Fitzgerald , and ' RAM Frazier . Two others dead are stilt unidentified . Two men who were discovered alive in No. 1 bonlbproof died before they could be reached . They were George Spooner and Joseph Matclza . . Their bodies were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are in the ruins . The explosion In the magazine , where detonators are filled , sent a pall of thick yellow smoke over the city and for miles around . When the fire whistles all over Newport began blowing there was a rust ' to the naval station by relatives of those working there . More than 200 girls are employed in the munition department at the station , and it was announced immediately that they were not ' in danger . Captain Edward , L. Beach , commanding officer of the station , ' soon organized a force which extinguished the fire following the explosion , and they began the search of the debris for the dead and Injured . Local police and firemen who arrived later helped in thif work . Several of the men rescued had lost a leg or an arm. - One arm was blown nearly a quarter of a mile from the magazine . The ferryboat Wave was commandeered and Surgeon French fitted her out as an improvised hospital ship . A general call was sent to Newport for physicians and nurses and they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Beck , Chairman of the Emergency Committee of the American Red Cross , and Mrs. French Vanderbilt . Half an hour after the explosion the Government landing to the torpedo station was blocked by several thousand persons anxious to know if their friends or relatives had been injured . Marines were detailed to hold back the crowd , with orders to allow no one within the station without a pass . Little information was given the anxious crowd , except that the 200 . girls working in the primer department were unharmed . The building in which these girls were at work was only a hundred feet from the bombproofs . The concussion threw most . of them into hysterics and many fainted . When it was seen that their building was not harmed  --  and that none of them was hurt they were quieted and went on with their work . An hour after the rescue work started two bodies had been dug out of the wreckage of the magazine . Private Frederick Mills of the Marine Corps , who was on guard a quarter of a mile frog the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , inflicting a painful wound on his head . Five of the injured men were : I. A. Murphy , who lost a leg and whose condition is serious ; Frank Vetrie , badly burned and broken right arm ; George R. Buchanan , burned ; Joseph Sullivan , burned . and James Mahoney , burned about the body and bruised . Today 's was the first explosion at the naval station for twenty years . In the last accident there four men were killed by an explosion of a guncotton magazine . Chief Clerk Sullivan , . who aided in the rescue work today performed the same duties twenty years ago . It wad ' said at the naval station that only enough explosives for a day 's work are kept on hand in the magazines . It was said that in Magazine 2 , in which detonators were filled , there should have been only about a third of ' a day 's supply . As the torpedoes and shells are filled they are taken to the storage magazines , away from the station at ! Rose Island . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time of the accident was 125 pounds of T. N. T. ' The magazines are bombproef structures , built ! into the earth , and are used rather as ' workrooms than as magazines . That the less of life in the bombproofs was not greater was due to the I fact that at noon about half of the usual number of employes in- the shelters had I been transferred temporarily to the i primer department . 