@@681646

txt The German Emperor has taken a personal hand in the reply to be delivered to the American note inquiring as to the manner in which the German naval war zone order will be enforced with respect to American neutral shipping . Word reached Washington tonight that the Emperor had invited Ambassador Gerard to come from Berlin to the vicinity of the eastern war front for a conference with regard to the American note and that the Ambassador would make the Journey , accompanied by the German Imperial Chancellor . It Is believed here that this indicates that the Kaiser wishes to understand thoroughly the American attitude and to have the German position clearly explained to the United States Government , and that it foreshadows a reply In the same friendly tone in which the American note was phrased . Danger in Convoy Plan . Much interest was shown here tonight In the report from Berlin that the German reply would suggest that a United States warship should convoy American neutral ships through ? the projected German naval war zone . Such a proposal would probably complicate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history that the British Government has refused to recognize the right of convoy , although at various times the United States Government has tried to obtain its general acceptance by treaty . It was suggested tonight that it would merely complicate things in Germany 's interest if the plan embraced American warships convoying contraband to England and food ships into Germany . If convoys were used , however , the United ' States would not convoy contraband goods into England , because . the rule requires that a convoy is exempt from search , on assurances given by its-commander that there was no contraband on board , and the United States Government would not . and could not , permit its naval commanders to give any assurances that would deceive one of the belligerents . With respect to convoying vessels carrying foodstuffs into Germany , - the rule would be the same , because if the Brit-. ish Government , spurred by the enforcement of the retaliatory features of the German naval war zone order , should retaliate on Germany by declaring foodstuffs to be absolute contraband , American naval officers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make sure by examination that the cargoes of the ships they were conveying did not contain contraband . No representations have been made to the British Government on ' the basis of the conversations held at the State Department by Count von Bernstorff , the German Ambassador , with ' Secretary Bryan and Counselor Robert Lansing . It had been suggested that the German Ambassador 's views might serve as Abe basis for a communication from the United States to Downing Street that might serve as an entering wedge for a better understanding between Germany and England in the food spply controversy . But Counselor Lansing said tonight that no such representations had been forwarded to England . by the United States Government . . . What the German Ambassador had to say in his Picture of the situation is tin .. derstood to have greatlyimpressed'ati. dials of the Administration , who are very anxious to bring about an adjustment of a very difficult and delicate international situation . Nothing was put in writing , but it was understood that the Ambassador had instructions from his Government before he presented the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ path of shipments of American foodstuffs into Germany . for Use ' Only ' by the civil population of that erailltry , it would have a vital influence upon ' the retaliatory measures upon which Germany had embarked . The State Department is awaiting the responses from England and Germany before it takes any action that may complicate the situation . It is expected that following his personal conference with the Kaiser , Mr. Gerard will send a Complete statement of the German situation . While the German answer can not be anticipated , it is expected here that the kalser 's statement will amplify the views already submitted verbally to the State Department by Count von Bernstorff . As explained in authoritative quarters here the German position is that it will be impossible to rescind the enforcement of the war zone order unless assurances are given by the British Government that foodstuffs destined for the civil population of Germany are permitted to proceed to German ports . Food for Civilians Only . The German Foreign Office has given assurances that no imported foodstuffs will be covered by the German decree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of foodstuffs in Germany . Through Count von Bernstorff , the German Government has offered to allow these foodstuffs , destined for use of the civil population , to be distributed under the jurisdiction of the American consular and diplomatic officers so as to guarantee that these provisions will not be used by the military or naval forces of Germany . The German view is that the key to the whole situation is the attitude to be taken by Great Britain toward foodstuffs going to the German civil population . The question with England is whether , if the German Government takes over all foodstuffs the admission of imported foodstuffs into Germany will aid the armed forces . It is evident in Washington that there is a serious misunderstanding somewhere of the positions of London and Berlin in the rival capitals , and that if the attitudes of the two Governments are correctly represented there is an opportunity for the United States to offer its good offices in seeking to bring about an adjustment . Count von Bernstorff informed Secretary Bryan and Counselor Lansing that the vital issue between the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the stand England would take toward shipments of foodstuffs into Germany for use by the civil population . He made it plain that if the cargo of the Willhelmina was not to be allowed to go forward under guarantees it would only be used by noncombatants , and if - there was to be a general British prohibition of the importation of such foodstuffs into Germany , it would be regarded by the German Government as an attempt by England to treat Germany as a besieged fortress , " to starve the people of Germany . " It was thus made plain to the State Department in behalf of Germany that if this is to be the attitude of England , the only response of Germany can be the retaliation intended by the German War Zone plan . PurpoMe of War Zone . The German contention is that the protected war zone is partly military and partly retaliatory . That portion of it which embraces the intention of the German Government to use all means at its disposal against British troop ships and ammunition shipments to France is deaeribed as military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attitude that may be taken by Great Britain with respect to importation of foodstuffs into Germany . That portion of the war zone which embraces attacks on merchant shipping of the Allies , and as to which neutral ships bound for the North Sea are warned to take the north of Scotland course is described in quarters close to Count von Bernstorff as retaliatory . It was explained to the State Department yesterday that if the cargo of the Whilhemina and foodstuffs generally were permitted to go to Germany under guarantees that it would not be used by the German Army retaliatory methods would not be necessary . 