@@679524

txt At the hearing in this city next week by the Assembly Committee on Cities on the Stilwell bill , which proposes to take . a large slice of City Hall Park ' for new County Court House , delegations tO . oppose the measure are likely to include . some of ? the best-known organizations of the city . The manner in which the bill was railroaded through the Senate has ' prevented many from taking Action so , far , but it is believed that all those who. joined the opposition to the City Hall Park site last Spring will be found equally determined to resist the grab this year . ' . , The City Club , People 's Institute and Fine Arts Federation issued a pamphlet at that time setting forth the many objections to building a new structure in the park and the . advisability of removing the present Court House and City Courts to bring out more clearly than ever the architecture of the historic City Hall . The Fine Arts Federation represents the : National Academy of Design , New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Water Color Society , Society of American Artists , Architectural League , American Fine Art So. : clety , Municipal Art Society , Society of - Beaux Arts Architects , National Sculpture Society , National Society of ' Murat Painters , New York Water ? Color Club , Brooklyn Chapter of the American Institute of Architects , and Society of Blue trators , and it Is expected to take definite action on this new proposal at its next meeting . The Republican Club , the Women 's Municipal League , and the Bar Association also protested last year , and the Ameri-. can Scenic and Historic Preservation Society , and the Colonial Dames of America have notified the Assembly Committee their opposition , - Speaking yesterday of the strong fed . ing shown when the question came up . before , Frederick Lamb of the Municipal Art Society gave this as a reason to believe that there was little chance of the Stilwell bill 's scheme being put into . effect . He said : " They will never succeed in building the Court House in the park . The history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to any encroachment whatever , on the scanty park space that we have , so I 'm not staying awake at night worrying over it . They tried to run a Speedway through Central Park , and it was stopped after the work . had already begun . Even the much less dangerous plan to give the National Academy ' of Design a site in Central Park was defeated , although that only meant using a site already occupied . " The people will not permit an inch of space in the parks to be devoted to public buildings , and if they really thought that there was any chance of it , they woubi go down to the City Hall in such num. - , hers that the Mayor would be obliged to . give way . That 's why there is not more . popular agitation of the matter new : Every one is so certain that the scheme will fall through that they refuse to , worry about it " The Stilwell bill specifically authorizen- the justices of the Supreme Court to take , as much land in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down to the limits of the present court buildings . The Tweed Court House occupies a space 183 feet by 248 , but the Court House Commission , of which ex-Chief Justice Morgan J. O'Brien was Chairman , recommended last year that the new building should take up a plot 430 feet by 215 . It was proposed that the centre of the Court House should be at much the same distance from the rear of the City Hall as the present building . but wings would be thrown out on either side which would extend practically across the entire north side of the park along Chambers Street . It would reach within 70 feet of Broadway and 115 feet of Centre Street . This would rdqulre an increase of the present ; 35,000 square feet to 04,240 square feet , nearly three times as much . It would cut down the green lawns that now stretch along Broadway in front of the Stewart Building to mere strips that could not possibly retain any artistic ' value . One of the chief arguments of those who oppose such a plan is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City Hail a dignified civic centre . J. W. Alexander . President of the National Academy of Design , referred to this yesterday as he discussed the Stilwell bill . He declared : " I know the National Academy has acquired the reputation with some people of being after parks itself , but it does seem to me that it would be a great mistake to permit any encroachment on City Hall Park . We have there one of the finest pieces of architecture in the city . and it is most important that it should have a. proper setting . " What I would like to see is an effort made to get rid of the Post Office from the southern end of the park , so that the City Hall might be seen , as it should be , from the junction of Broadway and Park Row . Now that they are going to build a new Post Office near the Pennsylvania Station , I do not see why that should not be done . We should then be free of a hideous architectural specimen . ' Pero should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Park but the City Rail itself . " Edward Hagaman Hall of the American Scenic and Historic Preservation Society pointed out that when the city granted the Post Office site to the Federal Government it was expressly stipulated that the building to be erected should be used only as a Post Office . He asserted that the existence in it of a law library ViOr lates this proviso , and the city would be within its rights irk , demanding the return of the site . Mr. Hall wrote to Mayor McClellan on the subject , but the latter left office soon afterward , and the matter was allowed to drop . The erection of the new Municiod Building and the contemplated building , of the Woolworth tower , at Broadway , . - . and Park Place , in the opinion of many of those who are opposing the Stilwell plan , has made it more than ever necessary to restore City Hall Park to its original limits . Both structures will draw . much larger numbers of people to the vicinity , and the need of fresh air spaces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Abbott make a happy remark on this very Court House question , " said the Rev. Dr. Slicer . " Some , . one said that he could not see that there was any lack of air near the City Hall , as he often found it hard to keep his hat on in that neighborhood . " ' Then your idea of fresh air , ' said Dr. Abbott . ' would be a blast from the Subway . ' There 's a lot of difference be . ' tween a draught and fresh air . ' " It seems to me that there is not a single argument worth considering for building the new Court.House in City Hall Park , and I can not believe that the majority of the Judges are for it . It would overshadow the finest piece of architect .. ure in the city , and with the Madison Square Tower destroyed , we should be reduced to a dull level of utilitarianism. "                     