@@683518

txt In less than a week . the books will close on an oversubscription of the Liberty Loan . The way to ' make that sure is for all concerned to act as though there were some doubt of it . It is difficult to prove that doubt , because it implies a doubt both of the worth of the bonds and of the soul of the people . On the point of worth there lever was such an accumulation I : reason and authority . The man who doubts that the principal and interest will be paid exactly as promised is not fit to be outside an asylum for the feeble-minded . The man who suggests the doubt which he does not believe , for reasons which would not bear examination , ought to suffer punishment . The man who believes in the loan ' but who turns his back on it for other investments is a profiteer , and if there is a justifiable conspiracy it is one to make trouble for profiteers in war time . Wall Street is disciplining its profiteers in a manner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of other profiteers . Wall Street 's profiteers have seen their bargains turned into losses until the Liberty Loan seems like their best refuge against shrinkage of their principal and interest . Excess profits have been taken away from the industrial profiteers both by taxation and by price regulation . Thus far only wage-earners and farmers have not been reasoned with in that persuasive manner . They are the very ones whose interests lie in the success of the Liberty Loan , and in their liberal support of it . The Treasury is not asking for funds to put away .. The three billions asked for , and the six billions which will be taken , are the biggest wage fund ever assembled in the sight of workers in this country . It might almost be said that the worker who promises to put some . part of his wages into the bonds thereby insures himself that he shall receive the wages for that purpose . As for the farmers , they never again will have such a chance to exchange dear crops for cheap bonds . It is as sure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hereafter , and that the bonds will sell for more . The farmer who should exchange his farm , at the price for land resulting from this year 's crop prices , for Liberty bonds will make more on interest than he will by farming . When crops are cheaper , farms will be lower and Liberty bonds will be higher . Let those who hesitate consider this point : The 4 per cent . bonds of the secondl Liberty Loan , in the judgment of experienced financiers , will go to a premium , giving the buyers not merely good interest but a profit besides . If they do not go to a premium , if because of the vicissitudes ) f war or Government finance they should fall below par , there is every probability that the next loan will year a higher rate of interest , higher than 4 per cent. , and these bonds would be exchangeable for bonds of flat issue .                     