@@680003

txt Serious objections , most of them - valid , have been raised against practically all the methods of restricting the influx of immigrants into this country proposed in Senator Dit.taxo14. - txt 'S bill . The requirement that the immigrant shall read and write fails to take account of the fact that , while it would exclude large numbers of able ? bodied men whose muscles are needer , in foundries and mills and on the railways , it would not bar the most dangerous of the criminal classes nor those grouped under the heading of " undesirables . " ' We need not restrict our immigration in this way . The number of aliens who come in is not in itself dangerous . It is no greater in proportion to the population than it was in 1870 or in 1800 or in 1010 . For fully two generations , in fact , the percentage of foreign-born has hardly varied , and the Republic endures . The mass meetings of protest in Cooper Union against the Dillingham bill concerned themselves not only with the educational test it imposes but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall " take ad " vantage of his residence in the United " States to conspire with others for the " violent overthrow of a foreign Gov " ernment recognized by the United " States . " It is not likely that this provision will pass the House . It Would be impossible of just enforced ment , though It might result in excluding at ports of debarkation many immigrants from the Czar 's domain . It is fair to assume that there is in it the menace of espionage . The bill requires a certificate of identity from every incoming alien . There are practical objections to this provision . The Dillingham bill declares that these certificates shall be evidence that their holders were regularly admitted to this country . But what of the hundreds of thousands of aliens already here and unidentified ? Would it be possible to distinguish them from the newcomers subject to the new requirement ? Then , too , if his certificate were lost , under this bill the alien could neither embark for a trip abroad nor be readmitted . Moreover , there Is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sort of " ticket , of-leave " system for aliens , would cost vast sums to enforce , would work for delay , and would increase unnecessarily the number of exclusions and deportations . The labor exclusionists dictated it The President Is already authorized to send commissioners to foreign lands to enter into agreements with them for the exclusion of undesirable immigrants , and to prevent the evasion of our laws . Such agreements , Senator DILLINGHAM.S commission has pointed out , form the " best method " by which to exclude criminals . The principal evil relating to immigrant aliens is not aimed at by any provision of the Dillingham bill . The congestion in the cities is largely due to ignorance of opportunities in the small towns and rural districts of the country . One-third of alien incomers save money , not for investment in American farms , but in farms of their nativity , for which they pay generally higher prices than govern In the rural districts of America . The United States has an Information Bureau In this city , but it does not advertise in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only when asked . The average ignorant foreigner never thinks to inquire , does not know the location of the Government 's bureau , or even that it exists.1 , But the agents of foreign land-exploiting companies advertise in the foreign colonies , and the steamship companies I and immigrant bankers do the rest . The very best and most thrifty classes of aliens , those who save money , those who are needed to build up the country , depart from it . No contract-labor law operates against the proposal to advertise extensively among the alien colonies in this city and elsewhere the advantages of other sections . This is the real solution of the problem , which is not one of immigration , but of distribution                     