@@680602

txt President Wilson , Secretary , Chairman Owen of the Senate Committee on Banking ' and Currency , and Chairman Glass of the corresponding commitee in the House . held a conference at the White House to-night and tentatively decided upon some changes in the Administration bill for a revision of the banking and currency laws . The introduction of the measure , which was to have taken place on Friday of this week , has been postponed to next week to enable those concerned to give consideration to the changes discussed at to-night 's conference . President Wilson now plans to read his currency message to Congress next Monday and the currency bill will be introduced soon thereafter . By postponing presentation of the bill a few days the President hopes to obtain absolute harmony . During the next few days members of the Banking and Currency Committees of both houses will have an opportunity to see the bill and be consulted by the President . The President took occasion to-day to deny that Secretary Bryan had interjected a note of opposition to the currency bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cabinet and " not a shred of truth " in any report Of friction-elsewhere . Not a Bryan Bill . Reports that Mr. Bryan authorized the bill and that his attitude was responsible for the decision to make changes in the measure also were denied . Mr. Bryan did make . certain suggestions , but he regards this as an Administration measure , and holds that it is his business to support the Administration even at the expense of seeming to be inconsistent in his belief that the Federal Government should have complete authority over the issue of currency and the national banks should have no part whatever in putting out circulating medium . Bryan had what he said was his first long talk on the question to-day when h emet Secretary just outside the Executive offices . For nearly an hour they stood leaning against the iron fence along Executive Avenue , while sightseeing automobiles halted and permitted their passengers to gaze upon what Secretary Garrison , who happened along , called " a sub-committee of the Cabinet . " It was said that Mr , Bryan had not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it along in a general way . TEE NEW YORK TIMES presents the full text of the bill as it stood up to to-night 's conference . The measure was drafted by Mr. , the Secretary of the Treasury , Senator Owen . and Representative Glass . It provides for the establishment of Fedral reserve banks , for furnishing an elastic currency , affording means of rediscounting commercial paper and the establishment of what its authors regard as a more effective supervision of banking . It is described , for short , as a " Federal Reserve Act . " It carries radical changes in the national banking system in connection with the creation of a Federal Reserve Hoard cf nine members . This board would have control and supervision over not fewer than twelve Federal reserve banks . to be established and conducted by Federal reserve banking associations geographically arranged so as to cover the entire continental territory of the United States . All national banks will be compelled to join these Federal reserve associations , but State banks and trust companies fulfilling specific requirements enumerated in the measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federal re ! vs hanks . The number of Federal reserve banks may be increased at the discretion of the Federal Reserve Board . The Federal reserve banks , in addition to acting as fiscal agencies for the Federal Government , would be allowed to receive deposits from all banks belonging to the Federal reserve banking associations . The Federal reserve banks would be allowed to do for member banks a rediscount business on notes and bills of exchange arising out of commercial transactions issued and drawn for agricultural , industrial and Commercial purposes . Pass on Discount Paper . The Federal Reserve Board would , have the right to determine or define the character of the paper thus eligible for discount But such definition would not include notes or bilis issued for carrying or trading in stocks , bonds , or other investment securitiesi except notes having a maturity of not ckceeding four months issued by States , counties , or municipalities . A striking featere of the measure is its provision that all money in the general fund of the United States Treasury Shall be deposited in the Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enacted . After that the revenues of the Government are to be deposited in such banks at regular intervals . The total balance in the general fund at the close of business to-day was $135,185,26 . A new note issue of additional currency is contemplated by the measure . This jests would be designated as " Federal Reserve Treasury Notes , " not to exceed a-5 ( 10,0 ( 10,00a plus an amount equal to the amount or national notes which may from time to time be retired under the provisions of the proposed law , and would be authorized by it . These notes would-be legal tender redeemable in gold on ? demand . At the discretion of the Federal Reserve Board . these notes may be Issued to a Federal reserve bank on application , accompanied by collateral security , to protect the notes , equal to the sum of the notes . The bill provides in detail the liens and other conditions for the protection of these issues . The Federal reserve Treasury notes are to be convertible into gold on demand at the Treasury or any of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the further issuance of what are now known as national bank notes , by providing that no national bank shall receive from the Controller or issue circulating notes in excess of the total amount of the notes which the bank has outstanding . It also provides that no national bank which in the future reduces its outstanding circulating notes shall issue circulating notes in excess of the sum to which its circulating notes may be reduced by such withdrawals . In an effort to fully protect 2 per cent . Government bonds upon which circulation is based , the new currency plan provides that the Secretary of the Treasury , on application , shall exchange the 2 per cent bonds bearing circulation privilege deposited by any national bank as security for circulating notes . for 3 cent . ' United States ponds without circulation privilege , payable in enty years and exempt from all taxaICIIT . In proportion as the outstanding 2 per cents . are thus refunded the power of national , hanks to issue circulating notes secured by United States bonds would cease . No bank would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in excess of 5 per cent . of such bonds in any one year . Twenty years after the passage of the act all holders of outstanding 2 per cent bonds will also receive in exchange 3 per cents of like denomination , payable in twenty years from issue , and without circulation privilege . Twenty years after the passage of the act all national bank notes still outstanding would be recalled and redeemed by the national bank within a period and under regulations to be provided by the Federal Reserve Board . The bill contains specific provisions regarding the bank reserves and bank examination . The text of the bill provides that hree of the members of the proposed Federal Reserve Board shall be named by the President , and that the Controller of the Currency shall ne one of the other six members . This , it was understood . had been changed so as to eliminate the Controller from membership and increasing the number of members of the board to he appointed by the President from three to four . The President was as firm as ever to-day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revision act placed on the statute books before the end of the nresent session . ' In spite of the President 's denial that no serious differences have arisen between the party manages over the terms of the currency bill . there was plenty or gossin at the Capitol to-day that the measure was unsatisfactory to some of thane managers and would not be presen  --  ed nriil their differences had been harmorIzed. 