@@679546

txt Foreign delegates to the forthcoming International Peace Meeting at Lake Mohonk were entertained atia luncheon yesterday afternoon In the National Arts Club . Clergymen of many denominations attended and all declared that other countries looked to America to lead in the peace movement . The luncheon was preceded by a meeting under the auspices of the Federation of Churches at 1 Madison Avenue , at which the Rev. W. Moore Ede , Dean of Worcester , was to have been the principal speaker . As his boat was delayed by the fog , he did not arrive until just before the luncheon , so that the only speeches in the morning meeting were made by the Rev. John Clifford , President of the Council of the Evangelical Free Churches of Great Britain , the Rev. Frederick Lynch , and Rabbi Stephen Wise . About 1,000 preachers of all demominations attended this meeting and one-fifth of them were at the luncheon . In the morning these resolutions were adopted : First  --  That the work of conciliation and peace between the nations is a task so ethical and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ care of churches of every name . Second. ? That leadership in establishing international peace ought to be undertaken by the churches of America because of their geographical position , which has removed them from such inherited antipathies as divide the people of Europe , and also because in their composition the American churches represent all the nationalities which In case of war between civilized nations may be under the sad and godless necessity of attempting to destroy one another . Third  --  That at the present hour the en . lightened policy of President Taft and Sir Edward Grey have made the matter of chief concern and promise for the attainment of international peace to be the negotiation ' and the adoptiol of Complete arbitration treaties In which such questions as national honor and vital Interests , hitherto excepted from arbitration , shall be submitted to The Hague Court , therefore be it Resolved , That we urge the churches of the United States to use their utmosrlaflaence toward molding a public opinion which will uphold the President and the State Department in negotiating treaties which shall bind the contracting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by diplomacy , both with Great Britain and France , as now proposed , and with all other nations which may become willing to enter lntu such an agreement with our Government . Resolved further , That the ministers of New York City express the hope that the United States Senate will promptly ratify the arbitration treaties with Great Britain and France when the same shall be submitted to them ; and that these resolutions be transmitted to the President and to the Hon. Ellhu Root and the Hon. James A. O'Gorman , Senators from the State of New York . The principal speaker in the afternoon was the Dean of Worcester . He said In part : " Dr. Clifford and I are here to-day representing the German and Engles ' churches federated to promote better feilh ing between those two countries . Vele do n't ask the United States to join th. , 0 movement , but we do venture to suggest , that you should try to lead in organizing the churches for international peace . You are not only the largest nation , but there ' are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this movement . which is being forwarded by your President . The new Temple of Peace which is being builded in The Hague owes itself to the generosity of an Amrican . " I should like to emphasize the importance of this movement being held by the churches . During the past year there have been many indications of peace , and also there have been many ? indications of war . Great Britain , for instance , groans beneath the weight of taxation caused by the building of Dreadnoughts . " The expenditure for war in our country Is alarming , and I am told that it is the same in yours . This indicates that in spite of progress there is much to be done , and I am most anxious that the Church shall remain in the lead in this matter , that peace shall be restored to the nations in the name of God . " You may ask , What can the churches do ? Our business is to educate people and to keep before them the Christian ideal . What the world needs is Christian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Church have stood together in this matter . There has been no other question which has found them so firmly hand in hand . I appeal to the churches on this side of the ocean to stand together In the same way , and not only union is wanted but catholicity of spirit . " Allan Baker . a member of Parliament , told of the effect of Lord Grey s announcement of President Taft 's peace proposal in the House of Commons . " We were wondering how long the action of building Dreadnoughts could go on without breaking civilization , " he said , " and here seemed a way out of our difficulties . A thrill of excitement passed through the house . We felt that a step ' had been taken in the United States which was responded to by Parliament . What would it mean if the three Great Christian countries . England . the United States , and Germany . should join hands for peace . You should be our leaders in this matter . " The Rev. Newell Dwight Hillis quoted Ambassador Bryce 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arbitration between England and the United States during the next few weeks will determine how things will go on this planet for the next hundred years . " Dr. Hillis then urged an to get together to work for peace . If all sects In our Christian world worked together . " said Dr. Hillis , " could put a stop to the opium traffic and the white slave traffic . We would have hands steeled. for strength and silked for sympathy . " William J. Schieffelin , President of the Federation , presided at the luncheon , and other speakers included the Rev. John Clifford , Seth Low , the Rev. John Henry Jowett , and the Rev. John Howard Melish . LIBRARY OPENING TO-DAY . President Taft to be the Chief Speaker at the Ceremonies . President Taft is coming to town to ! day for the opening of the new 59,000.000 Publid Library at Fifth Avenue and Forty-second Street , at which he is to be the chief speaker . The ceremonies will take place In the main entrance vestibule at 2 P. M. , before an audience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ space . Temporary seats have been put in for these special guests , which will Include only a few prominent citizens , the greater number being National Government , State , and city officials . President Taft and others taking part in the exercises will speak from the central marble balcony overlooking the vestibule from a height of thirty feet . Besides the President , the speakers will be Gov . Dix . Mayor Gaynor , John Bigelow , President of the New York Library : George L. Rives. a library Trustee , who will deliver a historical address : Park Commissioner Stover , and Thomas Hastings , one of the architects of the building , who will deliver the keys to the city . The opening prayer will be offered by Bishop Greer and the benediction by Archbishop Farley . The exercises will have been concluded by 4 o'clock , when 15,000 persons , to whom invitations have been sent , will be admitted . No one without a card will be , admitted . Every precaution , it is announced , has been taken against panic , and no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at any time today , or carry cameras In with them . Gov . Dix a iii be Morgan J. O'Prien 's guest at luncheon at the Hotel Knlckeroocker before the ceremonies at the                     