@@681729

txt Major Ambrose Bierce , the author and journalist , who has been sought by his family for over a year , has been found . The mystery of his disappearance was cleared up today by the receipt of a letter from him by his daughter , Mrs. Helen Cowden of this city . This brought the surprising information that her father was a member of the staff of Lord Kitcisener and was aiding in the health . The State Department in Washington has been engaged since last Fall in trying to find Major Bierce in Mexico . He was thought to have been murdered there while procuring material for a book on conditions in Mexico . Bierce 's Romantic Career . Ambrose Bierce was born in Ohio in 1842 . He served as a line officer throughout the civil war , and received the brevet rank of Major for bravery on the field . As a journalist he wrote of peace and the ways of civilians until a war stirred some corner of the earth and then he , took to writing tales of soldiers . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Civilians , - dealt with companions in arms he had met during the civil war . The book was popular both in America and Europe as it depictedl the actual conditions encountered on the ' firing line by men who had enlisted . Major Bierce was living quietly in retirement in Washingtor , ovhen the American army started on ' ? ' ilae move toward the Mexican border . He heard the call j as did many other men of the writing profession who had been in previous wars as correspondents , and he departed fer points he thought an American invasion might later reach . In September , 1914 , the State Department received a formal request to heap in ascertaining the whereabouts of Major Bierce . The request was from a California friend , who transmitted it through Secretary of the Interior Lane . The State Department telegraphed to John R. Millman , an American Consular officer in Mexico . to institute a search for the missing writer . Secretary of War Garrison cabled instructions to General Funston and other American army officers in Mexico to assist in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigators could find located him in Chihuahua City in December , 1913 . At that time a battle was impending between the Federals and Constitutionalists . A report persisting in Chihuahua City was to the effect that Major Bierce started for his former home in California just before the battle . When no word was heard of him for eight months literary men took up his case on the supposition that he had in some strange mariner lost his life . Manyarticles were written on his disappearance and the unique literary and military career which preceded it . Vivid War Stories . Major Bierce came of New England Parents , who had settled in Ohio . He began to-challenge books about the civil war as soon as he turned to journalism after it was over . He delighted , in criticisms of the various volumes published , to exploit a theory of military practice which he had at his fingers ' end . Of the battle of Chickamauga , in Which lie was wounded . Major Blerce made a story that ranked among his most vividly written tales . Of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made one more general attack we should have had to meet them with the bayonet alone . I do n't know why they did not . Probably they were short of ammunition . I know , though , that while the sun was taking its own time to sink we lived through at least one death , each waiting for them to come on . At last it grew too dark to fight . Then away to our left and rear some of Bragg 's people set up the " rebel yell . " It was the ugliest sound any mortal ever heard  --  even a mortal exhausted by two days of hard fighting without sleep , without rest and without hope . There was , however , a space somewhere at the back of us across which that horrible yell did not prolong itself , and ? through that we finally retired in profound silence and dejection unmolested . Through most of his writings Major Bierce snapped a satirical whip . in a Poem , " Convalescent , " he brought out his idea of the constant dangers of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'm safe , is that what the phy:51clan said ? What ! Out of danger ? Then , by heaven , I 'm dead ! He first became known in newspaper circles through a column entitled " Prattle , " which he contributed to The San Francisco Examiner . He was also a contributor to The Overland Monthly , and for a time was editor of The Wasp . He was considered for many years the Dean of Pacific Coast writers . 