@@678970

txt We are inclined to doubt the accuracy of the Boston dispatch printed in The Sun yesterday to the effect that the " real reason " for the recent vote of the Trustees of Tufts College to abolish co-education there and to establish a separate college for women lay in the accident of a bequest of $500,000 for that purpose . Quite irrespective of this bequest , it had been the unanimous opinion of the Faculty that the establishment of a separate woman 's department would be beneficial to both sexes at the college . Some of the reasons in the special " committee 's report in April , to which there was complete assent , were given as follows : In a few studies , the delicacy of treating fully a subject where both men and women were present in the same class . This was not , however , by any one considered a sufficient cause in itself to justify a change . The invariably different viewpoint ' due to the difference la sex ) from which men and women approached nearly all of the subjects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recitation , of properly presenting the subject to the comprehension of both sexes . A natural diffidence on the part of both sexes to enter , during a recitation , into any argument with the other BOX over any subject under consideration . Then follows the statement of e ... very remarkable reason : The tendenoy of women to select courses in which , from the nature of the subject and their natural aptitude and ability , they will secure high marks , coupled with the general desire of women for high marks . This seoures to the women students a higher average standing than the men , and consequently a rather disproportionate part of the awards , prizes , and prestige , which , under co-education , are always awarded in common for both men and women . If the women took more of the courses ordinarily taken by the men it is probable that the results would : be somewhat different ; but as it is , it appears , rightly or wrongly , that the incentive on the part of the men to work for honors and awards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , due to the peculiar competition - above referred to . Here is , undoubtedly , the chief cause of the failure of co-education in the colleges , which within a year has been confessed by a reversal of their practice at three other institutions in the United States , and has been proclaimed , after investigation , by educational authorities in England . A High School Principal in Chicago recently separated the boys and girls in his charge " to accustom them in their early teens to differentiate in their characteristics so that they shall be prepared for the higher complementary relations of life . " Surely it were a wise step to introduce students to common fields of competition in scholarship  --  if necessary , by segregating the fields . The real difficulty in the maintenance of the co-educational system is the increasing multiplicity of , courses , such as those in domestic science , which appeal to women alone . The women students are already , and proerly , apart in purpose from the men students . The segregation should be welcome to both . Nevertheless , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is right in its contention that the instruction accorded to young women should be " full and vigorous . " Their minds are susceptible to such instruction , nevertheless they are women 's minds , and to be trained in great part to women 's occupations .                     