@@679364

txt Three Chicago witnesses before the railroad securities commission , a railroad president , a bank president , and a railroad general counsel , went . on record yesterday as favoring federal regulation of railroad security Issues . They were F. A. Delano , president of the Wabash railroad , S. S. Mitchell , president of the Illinois Trust and Savings bank , and Burton Hanson , general counsel of the Chi ' eago , Milwaukee and St. Paul railway , ca ho 1 all advocated federal control for Its ad ? Vantages over the Jurisdiction of the various states . The other witness , Rufus C. Drivers president of the Union Gas and . Electric coin-party , defended the Issuance of " watered " stock by the railroads and the sale of securities below par , and declared that as long as the government regulates the railroad rates it has no concern with the amount or price of their securities . In other respects , however , the witnesses were in virtual agreement , the railroad men as well as Mr. Mitchell defending the practice of issuing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ method of finance . Would Concentrate Regulation , " I think It is altogether desirable that there should be federal regulation within res. spoilable bounds , " said Mr. Miteneit , who is a director of four railroads . " In the first place it - would concentrate that regulation . Railroads now are under the regulation of severe/ states differing in Such a degree that smitten would bealmplitied a great deal , and the regulation would be batter done under federal Jurisdiction . " I see where there would be a great eon-diet unless It were done exclusively by the federal government , but I do n't see how the states could be forced to give up that power " Federal charters , be said , would also cure many present evils of a divided regulation , as well as anticipate future evils . In most respects Mr. Mitchell 's views agreed with those usually expressed on behalf of the railroads " I do n't see how you could forbid a road selling its stock or bonds below par , " he continued . " That is a matter of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security , and the rate of interest . I do n't see how you could take any basis that would preclude selling at the beat price obtainable , and the buyer and the seller would be the best Judges of that . Rates Apply to All Roads . " It does n't occur to my mind that Capital ' - s &; ion bears directly on charges for transportation . The interstate c rarerrcr ? corn-mission la making rates to apply to all rends alike regardless of the innOUn t of their stocks and bonded Indebtedness . " The railroads are now getting full value for their stock . I do n't hear any of them giving it away as they did in the past . " Mr. Mitchell was not in favor of increasing the responsibility of directors by legislation , saying that he did n't ' gee how they can be brought much more in touch With the property than at present because the vast army of employes and officers required to run n railroad makes it necessary for the directors to depend largely on the reports of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earnings expended for Improvements , which Mr. Delano had characterized as vicious . Mr. Mitchell said it did not require regulating because , " a railroad should be allowed to earn something beyond its dividends for extensions and improvements that do n't give any great return and to provide for emergencies . If the rates are regulated and are reasonable that belongs to the stockholders and the shippers ought not complain If the rates are fair . " Delano Favors Uniformity , Mr. Delano favored federal regulation se tending to promote more uniformity than state regulation . " Federal regulation of railroad securities " he declared , " as applicable if , corporations operating in more limn uric state , would be much preferable to regulation in diet . rent states , which produces chaos . To my notion . the limit to which we can row safely go would be some stiffening up of the law in respect to the responsibility of directors for the Issuance of added capitalization and , sworn statements as to the funds raised and the dispoeltion of those funds . Legislation Which seeks to cover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to prescribe definite methods . " Federal regulation on the right lima is deoldedly advisable and it should as far as possible be made applicable to corporations doing internee business . However , It le s mistake to suppose that the law can prevent dishonesty in business . The moat the law can do is to insure as clearly as possible the proper rules of procedure and to make the Infraction of those laws readily puniehable . Either state or federal regulation should give way . " Overcapitalization and Rates . Mr. Delano said the practice of Issuing securities at less than par is often necessary financing and that if a temporary condition can be titled over by , selling securities at a sacrifice it is the wisest thing to do . Overcapitalization , he asserted , has a tendency to reduce rather than to raise rates . By " overcapitalized road " Mr. Delano explained he Meant a road Capitalized beyond Its earning power , not beyond its coat . Asked if the manager of an overcapitalised road , would not first try to raise rates rather than take business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be so . The practice of capitalizing earnings put into the property , in improvements is a vicious practice , " he said in reply to questtons . " It opens the way to trickery on the part of directors . The law might limit It to the capitalization of such earnings as have been expended Inside of two years , but not for several years back , as in a certain notorious calm " It was assumed that Mr. Delano referred to the Alton deal , In which Mr. Harriman capitalized earnings put Into Improvements years before . Opposes Double Regulation . Mr. Hanson appeared In place of President A. J. Earling of the Chicago , Milwaukee . and St. Paul railway . " I think federal regulation of securities would be extremely advlsable. ' " he said , " and I am not sure but that It . Is entirely practical . If the Issue of securities by interstate carriers comes within the right to regulate commerce I think congress could ? xenctse that power to the exclusion of the states . It is impractical to have two kinds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be supreme . " Dawes Defends Watered Stock . Mr. Dawes agreed In the main with the other witnesses except in his strong advocacy of watered stock . " The natural flow of capital into new enterprises , " he said . " 1s along the watered stock channel . This channel should not be obatruoted without an effort nt least to find another . " I think no excuse fet ? be based on the sessumption that there Is fraud in the Issue and first sale of watered stock or that it lends Itself more readily to fraudulent misrepresentation or upon the other assumption that rates are higher bp reason of outstanding unpaid issues of stock . I think the abolition of unpaid Stock would impede the organ ! . Sation of corporations and impair the *M . Manny of their operation . " I think it would also withdraw as opportunity heretofore held out to ambitious and enterprising men without money . " If the government Interferes in a manner to check the flow of capital into railroad Investments the cost of operation will Increase and the power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freight rates . " Point of View Surprises , Mr. Dawes ' point of view proved somewhat surprising to the commissioners , who plied him with questions alto the practical effect of his views , " Limitation of capitalisation , " he asserted . " will never prevent the careless public against the danger , of its unwillingness to investigate . It Is only a coincidence when the par value and the market value of a stock are the same and the difference invitee InveetigaPim . " It had been expected that George M. BM-olds of the Continental an Commercial National bank would be the next witness , but he Will not be able to attend and I. H. Roemer of the Wisconsin railroad commission will take his place . Other railroad and banking representatives will be heard tomorrow and on Friday . Will Meet in Other Cities . Following the hearing at Chicago the commission proposes to hold hearings in several other cities , In addition to those previously held in New York and Washington , before making its report to President Taft as to the advisability of the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commis , don tomorrow a committee of the National Industrial Traffic league , representing the shippers , will hold a. conference with a view to ascertaining the views of the freight rate payers on the subject . They will discuss the advisability of fed-. oral control ; first , If It excludes similar state control , and second , If It Is found not to exoleoe state regulation .                     