@@684823

txt Cherbourg is an opin roadstead , a decayed military port for French warships of the old sailing days . The liner made the trip from Southampton easily in the afternoon and evening , and there we picked up , from the tenders , our French ppssengers for the Atlantic run . England and the Continent are behind us . The sensible voyager travels light in these days . BO it is impossible , from a two months ' trip involving personal contact with so many of the men who are actually grappling with the problems the war has left , to say nothing of the immediate problem of bare living , not to bring on board a freight of fruitful thought , incalculable in volume or yield and not capable of being set down in the customs declaration off Quarantine , which is already giving the passengers anxious thought .. GRIM AFTIMMATII OE WAR It is perhaps impossible in a single article to summarize usefully the result of observations recorded in the score or more which preceded this one . Undoubtedly war has left behind it in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of death , devastation and misery . The condition of eastern Europe is such , particularly in parts of Germany , Poland , industrial Russia ( for what it is ) , Austria , Hungary and the Balkan states , as may easily mean in the coming winter a famine such as the world has not seen since the Middle Ages . Its destructiveness may be incalculably greater than anything India has ever shown . And that famine , unless all signs fail , may be followed by a pestilence recalling : , hose that swept over Europe after the long wars of religion , when the Black Death stalked abroad in the land . Readers of De Foe 's " History of the Plague Year " , covering the year 1665 in London , can get a picture which only needs to be multiplied in terms of a Continent . As the inscription on the doorposts of the sick put it , " Lord , have mercy upon us " . CERTAIN MORAL GAINS And yet there are moral gains not at first perceptible , not shown in any increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the working class . This is not to impugn for a moment the sacred record of the unselfish middle class , ground to powder between the upper millstone of administrative incompetence and the nether of the insatiate demands of organized labor . But the moral benefit of permanent value , one in which the whole world will share , or may share if it will , is the explosion of dangerous fallacies , dynamite-laden shibboleths , the submerged mines which Bolshevism and kindred piracy scatter in their wake . Theories of government , compromises on plain economic law , which appealed to so many of our people and so many of their teachers , have been tried out and found wanting . SOCIALISM 'S FAILURE Socialism the world over , as any student of war results must have seen , was partially successful only in the degree when it ceased to be socialism . The Government postal administration , for instance , was not socialistic . A3 NifiMani ' H. MaHock , the author of the undeservedly forgotten " New Republic " once said to the writer , " Under socialism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will write the letters " . Does the Lenine government in Russia permit even this freedom of speech ? Germany does not , and its Cabinet of thirteen all call themselves socialists . It is a mere label , and is , it need hardly be said , no guaranty of the goods in the package . Autocracy in strong hands , amounting to martial law , has been a success where it was necessary that there should be one mind in absolute control which could be made up quickly . But there is nothing new in this , and certainly nothing socialistic . On that matter , indeed , Germany told us all we needed to know long before the war . Her people acted with one heart , and were efficient up to a point when the threatened world realized that it was a bad heart . STATE DEPARTMENT 3IEDDLING So far as that kind of Ship of State which those who believe in government . doing everything private enterprise has hitherto done is concerned , the masts which carried its wind-catchers have gone by the board . Small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  a prediction Macaulay ( who did not understand the American Constitution ) prematurely made of our own country seventy years ago . To take a concrete instance , at its best government administration of the railroads in any country at war was a necessary evil . At its worst it was chaos . It was successful in Britain only to the extent the administration kept its hands off , and left competent railroad operating officers to manage the railroads . In Germany it has ' left behind it a wreck of the railroad system about as complete as imagination could conceive . In France the railroads , which before the war were prosperous only where they were in private hands , were reduced to the level of official incompetence , and are today not an asset for France but a liability . Sonic humorist persists in labeling a number of the passenger coaches " grande vitesse " , but the " great speed " which the term implies would make an Erie commuter take to bombing . ANOTHER EXPLODED FALLACY And another fallacy which has been exploded , as intelligent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in peace time can fix prices with anything but injury to the consumer . The writer did not find a single instance where the maximum price fixed by government regulation had not been , in effect , a guaranty to the profiteer . It utterly dis .. regarded varying costs of producticin at the outset , and was on the wrong track at once because it never was on the right one . In practice it fixed prices at a figure demonstrably profitable to the producer with the poorest facilities . It imitated the labor union , in fact , which regulates speed and quantity of output by the capacity of the most incompetent . It kept in business producers whose capital should have been active elsewhere , those on what the old political economist called " the fringe of production " , thereby securing for the producer favorably situated enormous profits without risk . About the only defense set up in the countries the writer visited was that this return went back to the treasury  --  in the form of surtax , excess profits tax and war tax . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so , in America or anywhere else  --  what becomes of these concealed billions ascribed to the profiteers ? A VINDICATION OP COMPETENCE And another result of the war which must inure to the public good is the vindication of the competent man . He has proved his inestimable value to the body politic , whether his wages were a dollar a year or a hundred thousand . The Marxian doctrine that lafror produced everything and therefore deserved all the reward has gone glimmering down to perdition . The war has shown that labor undirected produces the merest makeshifts of individual living ; that it can not look ahead or profit from the past ; that it can not even take up its slack or protect a nation by foresight from the commonest natural emergencies of life itself : These lessons have emerged from a journey made with an open mind , after seeing the world situation in a clearer perspective , which no description read in the comfortable security of a well-warmed , well-lighted New York office could ever have given . To claim there were no preconceptions would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us that " there 's no such animal " . Such a preconception is admitted in the statement that the writer found fundamental conditions in- Britain greatly better than he had supposed , and in Germany , incomparably worse .                     