@@680537

txt After virtually deciding two days ago to pass an anti-alien land law , which , while conforming to the terms of the treaty of the - United States with Japan , was yet more drastic than any preceding ' measure in barring the Japanese from owning , leasing or bequeathing land , Gov . Johnson and the majority leaders in the Legislature receded a bit from this position to-day and amended the measure in the Senate so as to allow ineligible aliens ( not named as such ) to lease-agricultural property for a period not exceeding three years . The amendment made the bill identical with the measure introduced id the Assembly last night by Assembly man Bloodgood . Late to-night the bill as amended was stilt under discussion in the Senate . but certain to pass when a final vote could be reached . Amendments. , to the amended bill were being voted downH by about 15 votes to 5 . The assembly II Is expected to pass the bill to-morrow . The original hill , as drafted by Attor ney General Webb , prohibited both own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protests from large land interests that would be seriously affected if leases wore eliminated , it was thought best to make a specific exemption in the bill before final passage . Call Amendment Weakening . A sharp debate preceded the adoption of the amendment as presented by Senator Boynton . Several Senators , including the Democratic leader , Mr. Carni netti , asserted that it so weakened the bill that Japanese colonies could exist en practically the same basis as at present . The vote in favor of making the amendment stood : Ayes , 23 ; noes , 13 . Under ordinary circumstances the amended bill could not be ready for final action before next week , but tile majority leaders had arranged in aci- , ** quick action .  - -  While the - Senate wag , . &fighting; 44yee this amendment the new , bill with - thd three years ' lease pro-Vision in it was , brought out to the Assembly from corn-8 mittee and was started toward passage in the lower house . But while the Senate showed a disposition to heed local protests against the measure and amend it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in accordance with the recommendations of President Wilson and Secretary Bryan . The proposal , which came up in a resolution offered by Senator Curtin , was defeated by a vote . of 10 ayes to 2G noes . The affirmative side comprised eight Democrats , one Progressive , and one Republican . The negative was solidly Progressive . Senator Curtin 's resolution proposed that " the people of the State of California defer to the wishes of the President of the United States , and this Legislature will not at this session pass the bills advised against . " With this was included the condition that it be understood the people of the State desired substantially the ends sought in the Administration measure , and " that the President of the United States be requested to endeavor to secure such treaty or other agroement from any nation , protesting against the passage of the bills under consideration , as will effectually accomplish the end and purpose herein mentioned . " The resolution ended by declaring , " that if at any time the Governor of California becomes convinced that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requested to call an extraordinary session of the Legislature . " Appeal for Reeolntion Vain . The chief arguments advanced in support of the resolution were : 1 . That the bill was discourteous to the President of the United States and the Imperial Government of Japan . 2 . That the ends it sought might be better and more permanently attained by Federal negotiations . 8 . That those opposed to it might invoke the referendum , thus inhibiting effective action under its provisions for a year and seven months , during which Japanese , advised of the intentions of the State , might acquire all the land they were able to buy without let or hindrance . " In 1907 and 1911 , " urged Senator Curtin , " we had the same conditions and the same Federal appeal , but with no assurances or promises of relief . Why should we be so hasty now when we hearkened then ? Senator Shanahan thought the amendment adopted by the majority was a weak spot . He saw nothing in its language to prevent Japanese from renewing three year leases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feared that the bill would surely lead to a test of the eligibility of the Japanese to ' citizenship ? a test that might result contrary to the wishes of the State . During the nearly five hours of argument on the amendment and the resolution the galleries and lobbies were jammed with standing men and women , among whom were many Japanese who listened with inscrutable faces . During most of this time Secretary Bryan sat in the office of Lieut . Gov . Wallace . right across from the Senate chamber . He seemed to be in excellent humor . He has said nothing on the Land bill since his last conference with the Legislature . He wishes to remain until the Alien Land bill is passed or some substitute for it . As it looks now , he will be able to leave to-morrow night .                     