@@679867

txt At first glance the seizures from French ships by Italian war vessels Seem like a modern repetition of the famous Trent affair , which brought this country so near to disastrous quarrel with Great Britain fifty years ago . It is claimed by the French Government that the seizures were effected beyond the limit that the Italian blockade can be held to run , that the property seized was not in intent or in obvious character contraband of war , and that both the property and the persons against which the Italian naval officers proceeded were entitled to entire respect from belligerents . On the other hand , tile Italian Government , so far , maintains that the property  --  two aeroplanes  --  was distinctly within the definition of munitions of war , and that the persons , some twoscore Turkish members of the Red Crescent Society , corresponding to the Red Cross , included armed men on their way to serve against Italy . It is reported in the dispatches that the Italian Government has proposed that all the matters arising out of the recent incident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other hand , it was at first rumored that France , since her officials had once decided on the character of the Turks seized , would refuse to submit the decision to itrbitration , and had even ordered a naval demonstration at Toulon to enforce the position thus taken and the demand for the surrender of the captured persons . Such action on the part of the French Government would be too cruelly absurd , too appallingly inconsistent with reason and with the true interests of the country . It would rest on the ridiculous assumption that not only the responsible Ministers of France , but their subordinates , are infallible , that they are incapable of reaching a conclusion from defective information or of making qwq the , more ludicrous in the light of the : fact that there is a dispute pending between the French Consul , and the Department of Foreign Affairs ' as to the true reading of a- dispatch sent by the latter to the former . The later report this morning , that France will arbitrate , but demands first the surrender of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the face of the information so far accessible the differences between , the French and Italian Governments are precisely of the sort that arbitration can most properly and safely settle . The two nations afe at peace and it is ' but a few years since they entered on a friendly agreement by which the position of each in Africa was fairly defined and each pledged to the recognition of the acknowledged rights of the other . Moreover , in the present situation in Europe it is plainly the interest of France to remain on the best attainable terms with Italy , since that nation is a somewhat reluctant and uncertain party to the Triple Alliance , from which Franets'has the most to fear . That alliance is a pledge that all the parties to it will unite to resist aggression , upon any one of them . Whatever might be the claim of France as to its course toward Italy , that course would be interpreted in their own interest by Germany and Austria , and if these powers declared it to be aggressive they would be bound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other hand , the assertion by France that the recent incidents are acts of aggression amounting to a manifestation of hostility on the part of Italy would be very hard to sustain . It is inconceivable that the two Governments will not settle their differences either by diplomacy or by arbitration . Any other course would be disgraceful as well as disastrous                     