@@679202

txt Charles Meyers of 46 Bronx Street , this town , died in the . White Plains Hospital this morning of injuries received on Saturday evening , when he was run down by an automobile on the Tarrytown Road , just west of the fair grounds . It is not known who were in the car , as they did not stop to see how badly their victim was hurt . Meyers and his nephew , John Lynch , left their home on Saturday afternoon at five o'clock lo go to Elmsford where they expected to obtain work as lathers . Jobs on a new building were promised them and they were told to return on Monday . They left Elmsford at seven o'clock and started toward home . They had gone about two miles when a touring car came around a. curve at a speed said to have been sixty miles art hour . The car was traveling in the direction of Tarrytown. * The two men were on the side of the road , alongside of which is an open ditch . The curve at this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward the men they had no opportunity to get out of the road for it was hardly an instant before the machine was upon them . Meyers was nearer the middle of the road than Lynch , and the machine struck him in the side , throwing him against a rail fence . The automobile sped on and was lost sight of , Lynch says , In a cloud of dust before he realized what had happened or had a chance to get the number . of the arteelt th at . It wa c dark at this polo ' , and his brief vision of the car led him to believe that it was a gray one . Lynch lifted Meyers from where he had been thrown some twenty feet and carried him to a grass plot on the side of the road . He then waited for a trolley car . which lie tw was about due on its way to White Plains . In a few minutes one in charge of Conductor E. 0 . Ouedette and Motorman Pope came along . Lynch hailed the motorman and stopped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked them to bring his uncle . who was still conscious , to the White Plains Hospital . The motorman and conductor alighted from the car and offered to do so just as another touring car coming in the direction of White Plains with only the chauffeur stopped to inquire what had happened . When told he volunteered to take Meyers in his machine to the hospital . saying that he could get him there quicker . The offer was accepted , and Lynch and his uncle were taken in record time to the hospital . Drs . Black and Purdy found that he had received five had cuts about the head . while his whole left side had been crushed in . He was still conscious when taken into the hospital , but lapsed into unconsciousness an hour later , and died at 2 o'clock this morning . He leaves a wife and two daughters , 2 and 10 years old respectively . It was only on Saturday afternoon that he moved into his new home at 46 Bronx Street . He was to have moved on Friday , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and as he was superstitious of that day and feared something might happen , he decided not ta . move his family until Saturday . Meyers married a widow three years ago . His wife 's former husband was also a lather , and was killed by falling from a building at Mount Vernon . Coroner Squires said this afternoon that he would make every effort to find the parties whose auto killed Meyers . On Saturday evening hundreds of automobiles passed through White Plains on the way home from the Vanderbilt Cup races , and it is the opinion of the pollee that Meyers was killed by some automobile party coming from the races . The police in every town of Westchester County have been asked to try and find some clue as to the owner of the car .                     