@@679126

txt There were several bathing accidents in the waters around New York and New Jersey yesterday . Hundreds of campers along the water front at Orchard Beach , on Pelham Bay . witnessed a struggle for life in the water in which one boy was drowned and his brother rescued in an exhausted condition after he had tried to save his brother . The drowned boy was Frank Martin , 16 years old , of 3,878 Third Avenue . Frank and his 14-year-old brother , Joseph , started from home yesterday morning for a day 's outing . They went to Pelham Bay . taking their bathing suits with them . They hired a rowboat , and . donning their bathing suits , went out about 200 feet ( corn the shore , in sight of the campers of Tent City . Neither of the boys knew how to swim . but they had brought with them two pairs of water wings , which they adjusted under their arms , and then jumped from the boat . They had been floating about for a few minutes when Frank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he Immediately sank , Joseph went to his brother 's rescue , and his water wings slipped from him . Nevertheless , he grabbed Prank and tried to hold him with one hand while he caught the boat with the other . His strength was not equal to the task , however , and Frank sank . Campers on the shore - had raised an alarm , which was heard by the members of the life-saving corps , and a boat was put out to the rescue . They arrived just as Joseph was slipping from the boat . The police and life-saving corps members then began a search for Frank 's body . but did not recover it . Miss Anna Sasengo , an eighteen-year-old sa I osgIr7 in a downtown department store , who lives at 808 Union Avenue , the Bronx , had a narrow escape from death by drowning while a contestant in a 100-yard swimming match at Pelham Bay Park . ' Miss Sasengo , with four other young women , had entered the swimming match . On the way out to the turning point she was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ log struck her in the chest , venderIng her unconscious . As she threw up her hands and sank . about fifteen young men plunged into the bay , but before they could reach her the other girls who were swimming with her caught her under the arms and dragged her to the shore . An ambulance was called from the Fordham Hospital , and Dr. Steiner , who responded , revived Miss Sasengo . She refused to go to the hospital , and Went home . Paul Sear , 2 years old , went out in a rowboat with his father . Paul Sear of Kreicherville , S. I. , yesterday afternoon . Crossing Staten Island Sound a roller from a passing steamboat threw the boy out of the boat . His father dived after him . Hp had to go down several times before getting the boy . and when he did the youngster was dead . John J. Sullivan , Vice President of one of the leading banks of Cincinnati , was seized with an attack of paralysis while taking a surf bath at Atlantic City yesterday and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ widow and four adult children , two sons and two daughters . One of the latter is In Europe . The body and the bereaved family left Atlantic City last night in a special car for their home in Cincinnati . Ten-year-old James Lynch was swimming In the Morris Canal , Jersey City . yesterday , and diving from a bridge , sank so deep that his head was imbedded in the mud . He was unconscious and seemingly lifeless when extricated by John Ryan of 568 Garfield Avenue . Young Lynch was taken to the City Hospital . He is in a critical condition .                     