@@683926

txt Further steps to give the nations allied against the Central Powers complete control of their resources so that they may be devoted to war purposes , combat the danger of Germany profiting through commercial dealings , and conserve tonnage , were announced today by the War Trade Board . On and after May 2T , azesnding to an agreement just reached , no commodities , except in a comparatively few cases covered by general import licenses , shall be approved for shipti-ent to the United States by the Consuls in any country in the world until applicationa for licenseshave be , ' ut acted upon favorably by the War Trade Board and the number of the United States license covering the shipment is submitted . This practice has been effective in connection with the restricted list , but the present ruling makes it applicable to all commodities . It is believed that , in conjunction with the new regulations which make it necessary for exporters in the United States to obtain the approval of the War Missions of Great Britain , France , Italy , and Belgium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerning imports will go far to prevent unnecessary production in any of the nations allied against GerMany , and will practically close the last door upon those who have schemed to obtain sanction for commercial relations which might aid the Central Powers . Shipments is Ges  --  Tnan . Interest . It has been found , for instance , that on several occasions shipments have reached the United States which , upon their arrival here , were not acceptable to the War Trade Board . It is believed I that in some cases the shipment of these goods was brought about by per ; sons seeking to aid Germany . Other shipments , made in good faith , were considered unessential to the war program by the board . The Government was then confronted with the problem of determining what to do with such shipments upon their arrival in American ports . To return them would require the use of considerable cargo space which could not be spared . As tee , result of this situation , the shipments , as a rule , have been permitted entrance to the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being involved has been established beyond a reasonable doubt . " The agreements which have now been entered into are considered of the greatest importance in bringing about the-close co-ordination of all the principal nations at war with Germany in effectudilly preventing waste of industrial ' resources as represented by labor , materials , and factories and in making - Germany in fact , as well as in theory . a commercial outlaw . It is pointed out also that the studies involved in the new procedure and the records which will be obtained covering practically all industries in the allied nations , will prove invaluable in future 1 . trade relations and result in an international understanding among the allied nations which will make possible a complete control of their commercial relations in the future . The War Trade Board , in announcing today to United States consular agents throughout the world ? that no Invoices were to be consulated except as provided in the plan outlined , made the significant comment that the new system " will also give the War Trade Board an opportunity of passing upon all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are put in transit . " In this connection all industries in the South American countries , where many Millions of dollars of German capital are invested , either openly or in secret , will face the danger of overproduction of goods for shipment to the United States unless they first wait for applications for exportation to this country to be passed upon by the ' War Trade Board . Careful investigation of all applications to license such shipments , where there is suspicion that German interests are involved , will be made . The cases where general import licenses remain in force , and where the new regulations do not have to be observed , ' are : Commodities not on the restricted list where value does not exceed $100 ; portations into Alaska , the Canal Zone , the Philippine Islands . Hawaii . Guam , Tutuila . Porto Rico ; the Virgin Islands . when for home consumption and not for . trans-shipment ; commodities from Can ; : ada and Newfoundland , except those covered by the Presidential proclamation of Nov. 28 . Commodities on the restricted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sent by lake or rail and When they originate li : Canada or New foundland ; fresh fruits and fresh vegetables when sent overland from Mexico or overland or by the Great Takes from Canada , or by rail from Cuba ; goods previously exported from the United States when the value does not exceed $500 ; personal baggage necessary , for use on a journey ; fresh vegetables from Bermuda shipped on vessels approved by the War Trade . Board ; fresh fruits and fresh vegetables from Cuba shipped on vessels approved by board ; empty drums , cylinders and containers , American owned , which have been used in the exportation of commodities from United States ; tobacco from Cuba and the West Indies ; cotton from Mexico . Announcement was made today that , in line with the general plan for more complete control , shipments of raw ' cotton . except Sea Island and Egyptian cotton , for Great Britain , France , and Italy will have to be approved on and after July 1 by the commissions representing those nations In this country before applications for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the colonies of Great Britain , France , Italy , and Japan also must have special licenses approved by the War Trade Board , but in such cases the approval of the commissions is not demanded . The- same rulings will apply after July 1 , to shipments of commodities not exceeding $100 In value for which licenses issued by branch offices of the War Trade Board and by Collectors of Customs have been sufficient .                     