@@681979

txt Action of Pan-American Conference ' Foreshadows Acceptance of Carranza Three Weeks Hence  --  Positive Declaration That Intervention Is Not Being Considered . / The Pan-American conference on the Mexican situation , which met yesterday at the Hotel Biltmore , reached an agreement which within the next three weeks will determine the recognition of a de facto Government in Mexico by the United States , the A B C. powers , Bolivia , Uruguay , and Guatemala . The Government to be recognized will be the one which in the opinion of the Governments of the United States and the republics of South and Central America is the strongest , physically as well as morally . Whether that Government will be Carranza 's or Villa 's there was not official intimation , but the stronger of the Mexican Governments at present , it is generally agreed , is that of Carranza , or the Constitutionalists . Secretary of State Robert Lansing represented the United States at the conference and presided at the session . The . others Present were Ambassador da I Gama of Brazil , Ambassador Naon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Bolivian Minister ; ISenor de Pena , the Minister from Uruguay , and Se/tor Mendez , the Minister from Guatemala . I The conference began at 2 o'clock and ; lasted for more than three hours . When it adjourned it was until Saturday , Oct. 9 , when Secretary Lansing and Ambassadors and Ministers from the countries named will meet , and it is believed will arrive at a final and definite decision as to the recognition of a Mexican Government . In the interval the various countries concerned will , through their diplomatic agents in this country and in Mexico , conduct independent investigations , the purpose of which will be to decide which Government of Mexico , from a standpoint of physical and moral strength , is entitled to recognition . At a meeting in Washington on Oct. 9 the various representatives of the PanAmerican countries will compare notes , and , it is predicted , be able to agree entirely as to which faction in Mexico is entitled to official recognition . Hesitate to Name Carranza . " Does the outcome of today 's meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the question put to every participant in yesterday 's conference . " There is no ground for such an assumption , " was the sense of every reply to that question . " But it is said that the Government judged the stronger will be recognized , and as Carranza 's Government is generally .. admitted to ' . be tile stronger , . does not that , **30;1269;TOOLONG , .... ? . Wog ' : IM " " 7 giver , no , stl one , : *eifatb , e ' At the ' . eenchialon. ; : skf eth which has eiveii " indiOatliSeal'VCCGW. historic in : Pan-Atheriban " re/ittlen.s , ' the . following statement was given out on behalf of the conferees by Mr .. Sweet , secretary to Secretary Lansing : The conference held in New York on the 11th of August , . in addition to deciding upon the transmission- of a telegram addressed to the persons constituted in authority In Mexico inviting them to cease the struggle by the organization of a de factor Government by common agreement among them , resolved to recommend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further analysis of the Government arising out of such agreement , provided it guaranteed the lives and property of nationals and foreigners , " and in the event of such agreement not being possible , " the recognition of any provisional Government with - the material and moral capacity necessary to protect the lives and property of nationals and foreigners . " In pursuance with the resolution and the impossibility of recognizing a Government of all the factions , owing . to the lack of such agreement , the diplomatic representatives resolved at the last conference to communicate to their respective Governments that . in their judgment , the time has now come to carry out the policy agreed on at the conference of the 11th in case of the impossibility of recognizing a de factor Government springing from the common agreement of all the factions . Terefore , the de facto Government aspiring to recognition must possess , Should this policy be approved by all the Governments , the material and moral capacity necessary to protect the lives and property of nationals and foreigners . Each Government shall itself judge such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separately at such time as it mal deem proper . Recognition will naturally entail as a result the appointment of diplomatic representatives accredited to the head of the Government recognized . The American diplomats hold that , in adopting this resolution and in considering the situation of Mexico at previous conferences , as well as in addressing to the persons constituted in authority in Mexico the circular of Aug. 16 last , they have merely exercised in the most judicious manner possible , the indisputable international right of taking the preliminary steps toward the recognition of a de facto Government in a case of civil war , Vested in all Governments , without thereby Interfering , either directly or indirectly in the internal affairs of Mexico , an interference which has not at any moment been contemplated . It has always . been a sense of the conference that the pacification of Mexico is  --  a question to be exclusively decided by the Mexicans themselves , and it trusts that a Government recognized by all the Governments of the world will be able to attain that result and assure the welfare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was held behind closed doors and not a hint of what was being done or discussed was allowed to leak out until after the adjournment . The diplomats had before them the replies of the various Mexican leaders to their appeal to compose their differences and set up a joint Government , as well as a mass of data relating to military , economic and social conditions in the revolution-torn country . The information was carefully considered and weighed , and at the end of the conference the delegates were a unit in the belief that the time had come when some sort et Mexican Government should be recognized , since Carranza had refused to join in peace negotiations for - which the Villa leaders all expressed themselves as willing . No Idea of Intervention . It was also the consensus of opinion , It was said , that intervention in the affairs of Mexico was not to be thought of at the present time . It can be stated on the highest authority that at the present moment at least intervention of any kind is not even being thought of by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Mexicans are to be permitted to settle their own differences as best they can , but the Government that will be recognized , probably next month , will be expected to render good assistance in settling these differences in short and positive fashion . The conferees will immediately get in communication with their Governments and will inform those Governments that it is the sense of the Pan-American Conference that a de facto Government of Mexico should be recognized . Furthermore , the Foreign Offices of the various Governments will be informed that the conferees are agreed that this recognition should be given as soon as POsible and that to delay it would be unwise . It was stated that representatives of the various factions in Mexico would be asked to file briefs or to offer any other evidence as to their respective standing to the conference . Their status and the ; force behind them will be decided by the United States and the other Governments concerned without their assistance , although ' data as to the facts offered by the factions will be considered . The Governments concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neutral frame of mind . Each Gov- , ernment will endeavor to obtain all the reliable data that it is possible , to get ' together , and at the meeting in October this data will be submitted to the joint study of the conferees , and it is hdped  --  and this hope now amounts al-1 most to a certainty  --  that a final and definite decision as to the Mexican problem will be arilyed at . " Do you think the October meeting of the Conference will be the last , and that it will mark . the . solution of the Mexican problem ? " - one of the conferees was . asked . - Yes , I hope ' . se , , for-I think that by . then-we will be-responsibli:Advised as ) 4CY*04f The : wholes Matter , as it tieWista:nds ; " , he'addett ' 84 -- fade iia to- gOtiern : Mental . stability ; that is , -a government strong - enough not only to- guarantee its own power , but ' also to protect the lives and property of foreigners in Mexico . The last is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nationals of the countries , other than of Mexico , are concerned . " Secretary Lansing and the other conferees were- all smiling and in happy mood when they emerged from he conference room shortly after 5 o'clock , and it was plain that they were all optimistic for the Mexican problem . During the conference many representatives of the Carranza and Villa factions were seen about the lobby of the Biltmore . They all seemed to realize that matters of supreme importance to their interests were being considered . After the conference and the announcement that the stronger Government would be recognized , within the next few weeks the Carranistas appeared greatly elated and the Villistas corespondingly depressed . After the conference the South and Central American envoys left for their Summer homes . Secretary of State and Mrs. Lansing left last night for Hen , dersons Harbor , this State , where the Secretary will enjoy his first vacation this Summer .                     