@@684713

txt The strike in the steel trade which began yesterday morning is altogether a strike for power , for the control of the industry , and it is a strike upon flagrantly false pretenses . It was not ordered in response to a demand of the actual workers for a redress of grievances or for the improvement of conditions . The work of preparation for this strike was begun more than . a year ago by a few radical agitators and has been carried on by a large number of paid Organizers who have been busy stirring up a spirit of discontent among the men and persuading them to act under the leadership I of the radical or " Red " element . All this is made plain by the very frank statement of Mr. WILLIAM Z. FOSTER , the Secretary of the Steel Workers National Committee , who is quoted as saying : I started in ' the work of organization in August of last year . about thirteen months ago . There were only three or four of us at the outset , but we grew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at work , some paid by the American Federation of Labor and others by the local bodies which were organized . Including volunteers , there are about one thousand organizers on the job now . Mr. FOSTER is the joint author and publisher of a pamphlet in which his extreme radical views are frankly stated . He regards " the ' wage system " as a " brazen and gigantic robbery . " He holds that " the thieves " at present in control of the Indus " tries must be stripped of their " booty . " He is frankly an advocate of ? revolution ? " only after such a " . revolution will the great inequalities of modern society disappear . " In , plan , the capitalists are not to be expropriated by purchase but by confiscation , by violence . " When " the psychological moment arrives , " the working class , hungering for " emancipation , will adopt the only " method at its disposal and put an " end to capitalism with the general " strike . " It would seem that Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any rate , this advocate of revolution , riot , and confiscation , frankly avows himself to be the man who " started " the work of organizing the strike that has now begun . Mr. FITZPATRICK , who is an associate in organizing the strike , is also a believer " in the socialization " of basic industries . One of the workers In their cause is Mr. T. J. VIND , general organizer of the American Federation of Labor in the Chicago district . Mr. VINO , according to his own avowal , was one of those who " voted to keep us out of the war , " believing " that we had no business In the war . " Addressing the strikers at Gary , he said : " The strike wo n't " stop until the steel workers become " the lawmakers , at Wa:ihington , " D. C. " Here we have a perfectly candid revelation of the underlying Writ and purpose of the steel strike . ' rile fomenters of the disturbance take little pains to conceal either their doctrines or their aims . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forward would , of itself , engender the suspicion that they were not laboring in the interests of the workers , but in aid of the revolution In ' which they believe . Mr. FITZlienercx , for instance , censures . Judge GAar because " he refused to listen to President WILSON . " Even had ho listened to President WiLsort , , had he consented to a conference , there is. every probability that the strike ? rould have been ' ordered neveithe : less . Moreover , it is hardly open to Mr. FITZPATRICK to call attention to Judge GARY 'S refusal to listen to the President . Mr. WILSON urged the organizers of this strike to defer action until after the labor conference in Washington . They refused , and insisted upon calling the men out on Sept. 22 , as they had planned . Thousands of steel ' workers refused to obey the strike order and continued their work yesterday . Other thousands refused to work . It is impossible to judge from the events of the first day whether the strike is to become general or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . those who obeyed the strike order are largely foreigners , among whom radical ideas have found , lodgment , who were more easily persuaded to quit work than the more sober-minded and steady wage earners in the industry . The men themselves , most of whom are extremely well paid , as the figures of the United States Steel Corporation sir ow , must realize that the strike wan ordered for some other purpose than for an increase of their pay or a betterment of their conditions of labor . A great part of the v.orkmen are not in sympathy with the radical ideas of Mr. FOSTER and Mr. FITZPATRICK .                     