@@682296

txt In offering to the House of Representatives its laboriously constructed bill the . Military Committee submits an explanation of its provision for the expansion and so-called federalization of the organized militia of the States . The explanation contains this paragraph , which is obviously intended to silence criticism of a project which seems purely political in its object , and will , if put into execution , tend to build up a gigantic political machine inevitably-exercising great power in the future : The committee has no doubt of the constitutional authority of Congress to provide for the discipline , organization , training , and pay of the militia as is set forth in the bill accompanying this report . The framers of the Constitution evidently intended that the militia provided for in that Instrument should be a national force and never had any doubt that Congress had full power to make it so . The framers of the Constitution provided that the President of the United States should be Commander in Chief of the army and navy . " and of the " militia of the several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " United States . " That provision is made in Article II. , Section 2 . In Section 8 of Article I. the power is bestowed on Congress to call forth the militia " to execute the laws of the " Union , suppress insurrections , and " repel invasions . " In the next clause of the same section provision is made to empower Congress to organize , arm , and discipline the militia and govern such part of them as may be employed in the service of the United States , " reserving to the States respectively " the appointment of the officers and " the authority of training the militia " according to the discipline pre " scribed by Congress . " There can be no question that the second clause is dependent upon the first , and that the framers of the Constitution had in mind the use of the militia by the Federal Government only when there were Insurrections to be quelled or invasions to be repelled . The proposed legislation will doubtless increase the size of the organized militia in many States , but it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience of the War Department under the Dick law proves that the development of the National Guard to a high state of efficiency while it remains under State control is a very difficult , if not impossible , undertaking . We have hopes that in some States there may be a disposition to interfere as little as possible under the existing State laws with the Federal authority over the Guard , and the payment of the Guardsmen may tend to increase their military efficiency . But they will still be subject to duty as suppressors of riots in the States . and their management will always be more or less confused with State politics . Mr. HAT and his fellow-committeemen remark that much has been said by well-meaning but superficial persons " about forty-eight little armies " commanded by forty-eight different " Generals and trained in forty-eight " different ways . " But in spite of the superficiality the repetition of that familiar criticism of the federalization plan betrays , there still will be forty-eight little armies commanded by forty-eight Generals and trained according to the disposition of the officers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because complete authority can scarcely be exercised by the officers of the army in the circumstances . Persons not generally accounted ' superficial , however , %aye expressed either strong disapproval of this plan of dubious federalization or doubt of its practicality , among them being President WILSON , ex-Secretary GARRISON ' , Major Gen. SCOTT , Chief of Staff ; Judge Advocate General CaowDER , and Mr. HENRY L. STimsorq , who was Secretary of War in President TAFT 'S Cabinet . It Is too much to hope that Congress will reject this plan , but there is some promise of an adequate citizen army in the shred of Mr. GARRISON 'S Continental Army plan which - is retained in the bills of both houses . The President will have the power to make that vital .                     