@@679448

txt One hundred men in the rooms of the Utopia Club , on the second floor of the building occupied by Post Office SubStation J , et Eighth Avenue and 124th Street , had the surprise of their lives late yesterday afternoon , when Detective Carlsoi , scrambling up a scaling ladder , broke open a window and jumped in among them . Before they had time to destroy any gambling paraphernalia , Deputy Police Commissioner Flynn , Lieut . Collins . and Detective Kane , at the head of twelve other policemen , dashed up the stairs and began an assault from another quarter . Three doors that barred their way were quickly smashed in . The police say that they found in the rooms S700 in money , a craps table , and twelve racing charts , which they confiscated . ' The Utopia . Club had occupied the rooms for but two weeks and , it is said , intended to move to other rooms to-day , In fact there were plenty of evidences that such a step had been planned . It is said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Farrell of the West 125th Street Station , and twelve warrants were issued by Chief Magistrate . When the men found in the place were led to the street a detective , who had been in the rooms , was stationed at the door . He wore a mask to safeguard his identity , and pointed out to Lieut . Collins the men for whorl warrants had been issued . Four were arrested as common gamblers , and four charged with committing misdemeanors , and were taken to Police Headquarters . The others gave names and addresses to the pollee and were allowed to go . The raid was witnessed by a crowd of more than 6,000 persons , who packed the streets and elevated railway station at 125th Street . Reserves from the West 125th Street Precinct were called out to handle them . The Shenandoah Club , the Tammany organization of the Twenty-first Assembly District , of which Michael J. Hassett is the leader , has rooms in the same building . DRAG LAKES FOR MISS ARNOLD Three in Central - Park Thoroughly Searched , but All Without Result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Supt. Beattie of the Park Department , dragged the three lakes in Central Park yesterday for the body of Miss Dorothy Arnold . The body was not found . Rakes attached to long ropes were used on the lower lake by men in boats , and every foot of lake bottom was thoroughly dragged . A crowd gathered and watched the work . There would be a ripple of excitement when a rake would come into contact with some object , and the men would exert extra strength . In every instance the obstruction proved to be sunken wood . The searchers dragged the Seventy-second Street lake and the Harlem lake with grappling irons , a large crowd of curiosity seekers looking on . This work was ordered by Park Commissioner Stever in compliance with a request from Garvan &; Armstrong , lawyers , of 40 Wall Street , the legal representatives of Miss Arnold 's father . John S. Keith of the law firm of Garvan &; Armstrong , and . the-personal counsel of Mr. Arnold , said that ' on the night of Dee . 12 when the girl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lake% but it liave  --  been . " easy for the girl to break through . Mr. Arnold has long held the view that his daughter would be found in one of the Central Park lakes , Mr. Keith wag asked whether Lorenzo Armstrong of the law firm had gone to Porto Rico in search of Miss Arnold , and he replied that Mr. Armstrong 's mission there was entirely foreign to the Arnold case , ALL SUBWAY TRAINS TO STOP Lights Out for Two Minutes as Fune-s1 rat Services for J. B. Begin. , To show respect to the memory of the late John 13. , builder of the Subway , all cars in the entire length of the Subway will come to a halt for twee minutes this morning , beginning at 10:30 , the hour of his funeral at St. Patrick 's Cathedral . All lights in the cars will be turned off from the central station . The stations all along the route will be draped in mourning . Resolutions to this end were passed at a meeting of the Directors of the Interborough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work of the builder were also passed by the engineers and contractors who were 1 associated with him in the Subway work . At the meeting Frank Hedley , Vice Pres:dent and General Manager of the Interborough , said : " In the death of John B. the City of New York has lost a citizen whose foresight , enterprise , and ability gave to Greater New York the rapid transit Subway and solved , In a. large measure , the difficult problem ' of interurban transportation , upon which the de-velopment of the metropolis " so largely depends . His death marks the pa eaing away of a man whose great work will always remain his most fitting monument , recording his service to the public and his contribution to the development of the City of New York . " 