@@679949

txt The police fired on a mob that was attacking the pollee station here to-night , and killed three of the rioters . ManY more were wounded . The outbreak was due to the bitter feeling around against Mayor H. M. Schriver . Political speeches last night and this evening stirred the public anger to white heat , and the rioting began . Sheriff 0 . L. Bruner at 11 o'clock telegraphed to Gov . Deneen for militia to help the police maintain order . The city will probably be put under martial law tomorrow . Shortly before 11 o'clock to-night the mob stormed the City Hall and police station , and when the police fired into the air a volley of brick bats was thrown . The rioters surged In and the police were forced to shoot low . Three persons are known to have fallen at the first volley , and more were wounded . The police station has been repeatedly bombarded with bricks and clubs thrown from across the street . The mob is crying : " Get Schriver ; " He is the Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beat John Looney , a lawyer , and proprietor of a political weekly , because of an attack on the Mayor 's character . The publication of this paper was stopped and the edition confiscated because of the alleged obscene matter It contained . Mayor Schriver recently began a campaign to rid the city of undesirable persons , so he announced , but his enemies declared he wanted to oust his political enemies . Announcement of the suppression of Looney 's publication was made at a mass meeting of opponents of the Mayor , and after the meeting a large crowd went to the newspaper office to get copies of the paper . The Mayor 's opponents were angered by the fact that Mayor Schriver had physically chastised the editor . The police ordered the crowd from in front of the newspaper office and several arrests were made . To-day the body of Frank B. Potts of Winona Junction , Wis. , was found in a. hallway . It was reported that he had been killed in the disturbance in front of the newspaper office . Feeling ran high , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the recall of , Mayor Schriver and Commissioner Hart were circulated . A crowd gathered after the meeting , swearing vengeance for the attacks made on the crowd at the newspaper office . Some of the rioters declared that the police had murdered Potts , although physicians announced to-night that the man probably died of apoplexy . H. M. , candidate for District Attorney , at whose meeting the crowd formed to go the newspaper office Monday night , disclaimed responsibility for the action of the mob that attacked the police station to-night , The crowd had vowed that they would stone the Fire Department to-night , because members of the Fire Department had aided Monday night in dispersing a I crowd by playing a line of fire hose , but Ithe fatal result of the attack on the police prevented . The Sheriff decided that militia would be necessary to preserve order , and he wired to Gov . Deneen . In the meantime the Sheriff swore in as many deputies as he could , and the police called out all members of the department to clear the streets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ angered Mayor Schriver , is now in a hospital recovering from injuries sustained during his fight with the Mayor . Later reports state that five persons have been shot , and that the firing continues . Several hundred persons were In the mob at the police station where two of the leaders of disorders that had previously occurred were detained . Mayor Schriver , directing the police squad , gave the order to cliarge the mob . When the shots were fired a number of men were seen to fall . This caused the rioters temporarily to withdraw . Three men were picked up dead . Nine were so badly wounded they were hurried to a hospital . Their names have not yet been learned . After the dead and wounded had been removed the mob reorganized , and one of the leaders directed the crowd to a hardware store for the purpose of breaking down the doors and securing a fresh supply of arms . This move was checked by a squad of police which was at the hardware store when the mob arrived . In response to Sheriff Bruner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city several companies are expected before morning . At midnight , the authorities seemed ? to have the situation well in hand , although new outbreaks are momentarily feared . The local and Moline militia companies are now on the ground . There has been much political and editorial friction in Rock Island for nearly fifteen years . Occasionally there have been violent outbreaks , and once two editors fought a duel in the streets as a result of a quarrel between rival publications over political and city affairs . Editors have come and gone , but each newcomer sooner or later got into quarrels with public officers or his contemparories in the newspaper field . Politicians at times have bought offensive papers , but some one itching for the fray has come into the city and opened a newspaper office .                     