@@682357

txt A dispatch from Athens , dated Saturday , received by the Havas News Agency says : " The populace has pillaged the building of the Serbian Legation at Sofia , says information obtained from a reliable source . The Bulgarian authorities arrested the men left in charge of the building . " The American Minister at Sofia protested to Premier Radoslavoff , who justified the action of the people on the ground that Serbia , having ceased to exist as a. nation , the legation building belonged to Bulgaria . " 10,000 STRIKE TODAY IN ALL NEW SUBWAYS Timbermen and Laborers Employed by 40 Contractors Demand Higher Wages . TO SAFEGUARD THE WORK Union Instructs Men Not to Leave Any of the Excavations in a Dangerous Condition . Officials of the Tunnel and Subway Constructors ' International Union announced at the conclusion of a meeting yesterday of about 4,0(9) timbermen and laborers engaged in subway work that a strike for higher wages had been voted by these workers and that all labor in the new subways being built in New York City would be brought to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class in the city who , according to the union leaders , are of- ' fected by yesterday 's action . The men met in MeIcher 's Harlem Hall , ** and 208 East 128th Street , at 11 o'clock in the morning , and were addressed by President Thomas E. O'Brien of the New York Branch of the international organization . International Secretary and Treasurer Michael Carraher , and International Organizer Tieto Pa. celli . There were also present Frank X. Sullivan , counsel for the Central Fedi erated Union , the local organization of the American Federation of Labor , and other labor leaders . The strike vote was taken in Italian , this being the native tongue of most of those who attended the meeting . The strike , if it proves as extensive as promised by the union , will affect about forty contractors in the General Contracwre . Association of 51 Chambers Street . - The President- ' : of this organize ! tion is D. A. Carver of Bridgeport , ! J. , and the Secretary is C. A. Crane of 535 West 141st Street , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the new subways is being done by these Iforty contractors . The union demands formulated at the . meeting yesterday provided that , begin- : ning on April 1 . 1010 , timbermen 5 " 30 a day were to receive 5:1.25 a I day ; that timbermen 's helpers receiving from $2 to $2.25 a day were to receive 1$2.40 a day , and that laborers receiving I from 51.60 to 51.75 a day were to receive ' 52 a day . The men also demanded recognition of the union and a more rigid observance by the General Contractors ' I Association of the eight-hour day . City Officials Were Warned . It was explained by Attorney Sullivan for the labor organization that Mayor Mitchel , Controller Prendergast , the Public Service Commission , and the members of the General Contractors ' Association were informed four weeks ' ago that these demands were to be made . " It was only just to the public that all those concerned be notified of the action contemplated by the Tabor organization , " said Mr. Sullivan , " and I personally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Public Service Commis : sion , and the contractors . The letters were ignored by all of them , with the exception of the commission , which I merely acknowledged receipt of the letter . " Although the letters were written on March 1 , the movement for an advance in wages and for recognition of the union became known to the contractors as early as last October , and they had plenty of time in which to come to an understanding with their men had they been so inclined . " A printed list of instructions were handed to the timhermen , their helpers , and the laborers as they filed out of the hall . All of them were ordered to quit their places beginning this morning . after first making sure that their part of the work in the subways was not left in such condition as to endanger the public , or as would invite the possibility of a cave-in . Caution Agalttat Violence . - " Now that it has been necessary to suspend work in the subway pending a settlement of our grievances every man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worked and quietly remove his tools , " the instructions read 1.11 part . " Remain away from the job until the union obtains our demands . While we are engaged in this conflict abstain from all intoxicating beverages . Stay away from all saloons . Report at all strike meetings of your branch . Keep the peace . Let no one involve you in violence of any kind . " Secretary Crane of the General Contractors ' Association explained that two mediators from the State Industrial Commission called on him on last Friday with an offer to arbitrate the differences between the men and the employers . " I explained that the only course open to the men was to take up the question with their individual employers , and that there was nothing I could do , " said Mr. Crane . " It seems to me now , ' however , that the proper course for the union would be to take their ease to the Board of Estimate and to the Public Service Commission , and request these bodies to make adjustments iQ the bidding prices under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The contractors bid for this work according to the price of labor , materials , and conditions at the time the i work was assigned . They would be in rather an awkward fix if they were compelled to change these prices whenever asked to do so by their employes No contractor could contemplate such a condition without facing heavy losses Contractors are not like merchants , who can afford to pay more when business , is profitable and brisk . Contracts are taken according to certain fixed conditions at the time the work Is let , and they must continue to carry on their work in accordance with their estimates . " Other members of the General Contractors ' Association expressed skepticism when informed that the union promised to call out 10,000 men . 