@@680342

txt According to The Daily Express , one of " the most amazing State plots in modern history " , is now being engineered in London , and for some time has been receiving the attention of the Foreign Office and the Brazilian Legation . It is described as a plot to seize and colonize a vast and practically unknown territory , 150,000 square miles in extent , to the extreme north of Brazil , known as the Counani . Plans are being laid by the leaders of the remarkable filibustering venture , according to the story , to induce a large number of British naval and military officers and non-commissioned officers and men to go out in a fleet armored ships , which will be provided later , to seize this piece of Brazilian territory , drive out such Brazilian troops as may be found there , and colonize the country as a . Utopian republic . The leader of the venture is said to be Adolphe Brezet , who for years has been living in a London suburb . This personage is alleged to have induced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fairly well-to-to , and keen for adventure , to take commissions in his army and posts in his civil service . He has , as Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs , an American tvlib manages several small businesses from a tiny office in the city . Brezet among other incredible statements asserts he is able to arrange loans from German sources , according to one account , amounting to S50,000,000 . Brezet tried his plans before without result , and The Express , after relating some of his exploits , warns the men who are foolish enough to mix themselves up in the affair to have no more to do with the matter , inasmuch as . apart from other possible consequences of such a rash adventure , the Foreign Office intends to see that no such expedition is ever carried out . KNOCKED ANNOYER DOWN . " You Little Masher , " Says She , but She Would n't Appear in Court . Men and women shoppers on the ground floor of the Fourteenth Street Store beard a woman cry out shortly before 5 o'clock Yesterday afternoon , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a man who stood in front of her , exclaiming as she struck him in the face : " You beast , you ! You little masher ! It 's a pity if a woman ca n't shop without being annoyed by such as you . " The little man pitched backward over a stool and fell to the floor . His velvet hat rolled off and he lost his glasses . Ile scrambled to his feet , puttered about till he had got his glasses and his hat , and then fled toward the door . The woman followed him , swinging her handbag , with which she had struck him several times as he sought his hat and glasses . The man was nearly at the entrance , when several men set upon him . They closed around him , and one , brandishing his fist in his face , was shouting that he intended to beat him up when Policeman Abell rescued him At the Mercer Street Station the man said he was Joseph M. Voss of 15 West Sixty-fourth Street . He displayed a card engraved with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Society , 810 Singer Building . " In the corner was the name M. A. Blautman , but the man Insisted he was Voss . He said he was 56 years old and was married . He denied that he had tried to flirt with Mrs. Thompson , declaring that she had looked at him as though willing to have him speak . He said he had been waiting for his wife , who was to have met him there . Licut Finn told Mrs. Thompson that she must appear against Voss in Night Court . The woman flatly refused , saying that now she must return to her children . Samuel ** of 304 East Thirteenth Street , who had followed the party to the station , said that he had been a witness of the whole affair and would appear against Voss . On these terms Voss was locked up , No witnesses appeared at the Night Court , and the prisoner was discharged . 