@@680836

txt An incident of the A Lesson recent election that for the caused no excitement , Politicians . and therefore has not received the attention it deserves , was the election up in Westchester County of V. EVERIT MACY as Superintendent of the Poor . This is an office that there , as in most other places , has hitherto been treated as a minor , but rather toothsome , " plum , " to be thrown to a party worker , zealous and efficient enough to deserve a public salary as payment for partisan exertions , but not of sufficient importance or influence to make worth while the giving to him one of the jobs attractive to more ambitious politicians . If to the mind of any slate-making " leader " in Westchester it ever occurred that a Superintendent of the Poor could do more or better than honestly distribute the county 's alms among its paupers , that thought has been carefully concealed . Very evidently , too , the sort of honesty expected of him has usually been easily compatible with " taking care " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ choosing them as subordinate purveyors of largess , or even with spending the money appropriated . With some view to making capital for future elections . That the Superintendent might make a scientific study of the pauperism in his county  --  that instead of Merely " relieving the poor " he might try to discover just what had brought them to such desperate straits and build a fence at the head of the precipice down which they had fallen instead of sending an ambulance to pick then ) up at its foot  --  these are things that have been held too " academic " for practical palltics . Yet Mr. Macv , a man known by those who know anything about such matters as competent and eager to work along the new lines , got , on a ticket in other respects weak , a nomination for the place ! Of course , he was instantly and savagely attacked by the county organs of the opposing party , and with such arguments ! What did a rich man want of a place like that ? Who could expect him to do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had expressed dissatisfaction with the established methods of dealing with the poor ? And so it went , these foolish papers fondly imagining that the voters of the county were as unintelligent as themselves and still cherished the musty old illusion that any man in their own party was fitted to hold any office , and any man out of it . unfitted . The voters , having learned a thing or two in recent years , calmly ignored the partisan appeals and elected Mr. MAcy to the . position which , there are manyand good reasons for believing , he will fill with benefit to the county and honor to himself . Mayor Krau 's Why Transfers praise of the work Had done by the New to be Made . York policemen on Election Day is enthusiastic , but it seems to have been well deserved . According to all reports , they preserved order more than fairly well , showed few or no signs of sharing the bitter animosities of the campaign , and performed intelligently and impartially the duties imposed upon them by the law . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performance at least in part to the fact that on the eve of election all the Captains , as well as all the patrolmen , had been transferred from the precincts where they knew and were known by many people to precincts where they were strangers to all . When the purpose to do this was first announced , it seemed to some of us , and presumably to not a few , a most serious reflection on the honesty of the police ? an evidence , lamentably clear , that confidence in their power or inclination to resist temptation was lacking in their superiors . And truly there is more than plausibility in the theory that a really good policeman would be efficient anywhere in proportion to his familiarity with conditions and personalities there . On reflection , however , one can see that while that theory , as a rule , may be true , the transfers could still have been justified without any necessary reflection upon the character of the force as a whole . This is for the reason that the duties of policemen on Election Day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made both simpler and easier where nu appeals to them in he name of acquaintance or friendship Can be made . That was not less advantageous to the good policeman than to the bad one , the former being spared the time-wasting trouble of refusing to allow himself to be swerved from propriety , while the other escaped temptation . The wholesale transfers , therefore , if a reflection at all , were rather on us voters than upon the ' men in uniform . At any rate , that is a permissible as well as charitable interpretation of it , and charitable interpretations , fortunately , are quite as apt to be true as uncharitable ones . That the thought ' of Both Should sending a woman to Hang the gallows should Neither . exOr cite general repugnance is natural , and natural is it , too , that this feeling should be made the stronger by the fact- that the woman just condemned to this hideous death in Connecticut is young , not ill-looking , and obviously , when her crime was committed , much under the influence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her own . That she knew the difference between right and wrong when she took part in the deliberate planning of her husband 's murder and in the cruel execution of that plan is beyond question , however , and it is the sickliest form of sentimentality , in these days , to demand leniency for her on the ground of sex . Last , if at all , and not first , to make this claim should be other women who are members of a Political Equality League . They above all are under obligation to show willingness to accept full responsibility with the full equality they demand , and , were they consistent , with their plea to Gov . BALowim for Mrs. WAKEFIELD 'S life , they would put in one for that of her male accomplice . For of arguments against inflicting capital punishment upon anybody for any offense there is no lack . These arguments have been held sufficient and convincing by the lawmakers of several countriesi and by several States in this country , and indubitably the general tendency of civilization is toward the abolition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be considered useless as well as horrible , But not one of these arguments is more cogent with respect to women than to men , and only by making confessions of inferiority which the members of Political Equality Leagues certainly do not and will not make could they reasonably expect to gain a hearing . Gov . BALDWIN refuses to interfere with the course of the law . He should not , since it was for a wholly different purpose that he was intrusted with the pardoning power , and he knows it                     