@@683285

txt THE SMALL NEUTRALS . A ' Hollander Speaks for His Country In Reply to Senator Knox . As a Hollander I follow with great interest what is being said , both in your own articles and in reported speeches , ' about the small neutral nations . Senator Knox of Pennsylvania referred to them ? in your Senate as those " who sit by mute and cold when liberty and civilization are at stake . " Surely many of your own compatriots v ( ho were over in Holland during the war must be indignant at such a misleading statement . That Holland is neither " mute nor cold " she has amply proved , both by her repeated protests against . all violations of international law ; for instance , against the Belgian deportations when the Netherlands Government took such a decided stand against mighty Germany , and also by what she has done , hard pressed though she is herself , to alleviate the sufferings of the war . Few people over here realize what it meant to get all at once over a million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not yet six millions . But the houses , the pocketbooks and the very hearth of the Holland people flew wide open , arid people stinted themselves and are stinting themselves , to be able to give and help . As long . as we had . any supplies to spare large quantities were sent into Belgium , and thousands of relief parcels were daily sent from Holland as gifts of sympathy to . allied prisoners starving in Germany . After great trouble and endless Inegotiations with the German authorities ; little underfed Belgian and French children were finally brought . to Holland to be saved from a certain death from tuberculosis . The heavily British wounded , exchanged against heavily German wounded , fetched at the German border and taken to England ( and vice versa ) were the guests of the Holland nation and tenderly cared for , until even these transports on Holland steamers were no longer safe from the ruthless U-boats . Do your readers know that even at this time Hollanders are running hospitals in France , Serbia , and Russia ? Do they know how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the thousands of Belgians , British , French , and Germans we had to . intern according to international law ? Surely these are not the acts of a nation that sits " mute and cold when liberty and civilization are at stake " ! A new proposition is the German deserters wile come in increasing numbers into Holland . To turn these miserable people back would be to give them up to certain death , and true to her centuryold tradition of being a place of refuge , Holland is keeping and feeding these people , too , together with allied prisoners who managed to escape to Holland . ' Work there is none for them . The utter lack of coal and raw material has increased unemployment to an alarming extent , notwithstanding the fact that 372,000 men are mobilized since July ? 31 , 1914 . This mobilization not only means a ruinous daily kost but also necessitates more food supplies , more coal , more blankets , and at the same time more support for the families at home . Without coal , grain , wool , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ east and the deep ocean to the north and the west surely the outlook for Holland in the next Winter is gloomy indeed . The allied nations are fighting because treaties have been violated and international law has been trampled under foot ; why , then , utter hard and untrue statements about a small neutral nation which , thanks to her splendid Government , has rigorously kept to the pledged word and international law , and in all her own distress yet manages to do so much to alleviate the sufferings of others : Any one coming to Holland can see with his own eyes that , anyway , Holland sits not " mute and cold when liberty and civization are at stake . "                     