@@681612

txt What will probably be recorded in military annals ' as the second battle of La Bassee , took : place yesterday morning , and resultedl in the defeat of a strong German army that had been massing for days behind , this part of the line . Hundreds of Germans were killed , and several remained in our hands as prisoners , including : two officers of high rank . The strategi cal advantage gained by the Allies is considerable . Without beIng too exact , one may be allOwed to say that the Conflict eased roughly along the triangle of Auchy-lesOLa Guinchy , and Givenchy . nce again at various points where the issue had to be decided by cold steel did the British prove more than a match for the Germans in the use of the bayonet . A railway line runs from Bethune to La Bass &; parallel With the canal , run- , ning but a few yards north of it . The Allies hold both towns , and , naturally , ' : these lines of communication are of the utmost importance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Germans to get astride the railway and cut our communications . Just before Christmas they made a big move and drove the Indians out of Givenehy , but were repulsed in their turn , with heavy loss . For more than a week past word had been brought to the allied commanders of large movements of German troops to this important part of the line , so the British were fully Prepared , in a general sense , for any big move , though the soft condition of the ground still forbade expectation of anything like to attack en masse . Deserter Says Attack Is Near . But it is the eve of the Kaiser 's birthday . About ten minutes past 7 o'clock Yesterday morning a pricate , who now has his right arm in bandages , was just beginning to think about breakfast in his mud lodging when to his astonishment a German soldier came tumbling over the top of the trench . It was a Hanoverian , and in a moment he was looking down the business end of the British soldier 's rifle . But he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prisoner and declaring that he was Sick of the war and the typhoid-stricken ' trenches . Fre added , when another Tommy began to wield his bayonet threateningly , that a grand attack by the Germans had been planned for 7:3o o'clock . The deserter was speaking the truth , for just as our men were starting break : fast in the fighting trenches , only forty Yards distant at the nearest points from : the German line . a cloud of men was seen silhouetted on top of the advanced German trenches . As the front ranks of the enemy clambered over into the open the British sentinels ' shots rang out and the battle was joined . In a moment the regiments , holding the advance posts , were ready and the dense mass of grey reeled under a withering rifle and machine gun fire . But the grey wave swept on over the sea of corpses and those that first managed to get unscathed to within fifteen yards of the British trenches threw grenades , which wrought death ! and destruction in the ranks . The gray flood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sheer weight of numbers . Then followed a mortal combat at close quarters . The rattle of musketry gave place to the hoarse cries of gasping men . stabbing and thrusting . Next these sinister sounds of battle were drowned by the htunderous diapason of heavy guns . At one or two points the German tide actually rushed on Mr 400 yards before it broke like spray on the rocks behind , represented by some of the most celebrated corps in the British Army . Meanwhile " Jack oJhnsons ' were falling thick . but the heavy British guns reaped a far richer harvest owing to the superior bursting power of their shells . Still the enemy came on in dense gray masses ; bent on piercing the Allies ' line at this very important point and maintaining the wedge at all costs . But the Hanoverian is no better than his Sava ' rian and Prussian confrere at a manto-man fight with a Briton , wielding a clubbed rifle and bayonet . and finally the tide turned in favor of the British . The British troops , reinforced , fell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and were crumpled up , many of whom surrendering in groups . When the battle ended , at about 11 A. M. , the British had retaken their trenches , but whether they pressed the counter-attack further and seized part of the German position I am unable to ? lseertain . Armored Train in Battle . A British armored train operating with the troops in this section of the battlefield figured prominently in the battle , and with its powerful naval guns silenced several of the German cannon . Yesterday 's battle , in which probably not fewer than 25,000 men ' were engaged , may be summed up as a severe reverse to the Germans . 