@@684349

txt Having talked with a considerable number of prominent persons and through other means I have obtained an idea of the general situation involved in the making of peace . President Wilson this afternoon had his first conference with the other American plenipotentiaries since his arrival in Paris . The President has taken his own time and ways of getting at what he desires to know , the better , to prepare him for dealing with the representatives of the allied Governments . Despite the undercurrent of criticism over the delays inaugurating active exchanges , which is aimed at the various European statesmen , it is becoming evident that President Wilson is quite as willing as others to postpone the inte ? - allied gathering until he gets his bearings and builds a mental foundation on which the American position will rest . It may now be snid that . the President intends to prolong his stay in Europe beyond the period which was tentatively in his mind when he left America . Then he contemplated arriving bowe about . the middle of January . Now he think : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The President . has arranged no itinerary for his travels in allied countries , and has not determined whether he will go to Italy . A decision in this connection may be reached after consultation with the King of Italy , who arrives in Paris tomorrow . This intended prolongation of the President 's stay carries some significance . Jt is apparent that he finds it necessary to devote more time than he originally estimated for the purpose of conferring with his fellow plenipotentiaries and those who like Colonel House , Mr , Hoover and Mr. Hurley have had an opportunity to study the situation prior to the President 's arrival . The President 's decision to remain longer than he expected tends to confirm the understanding obtained from his confidants that he is not bound to an infl2xiblc program of peace settlement , but desires to get the point of view of the other nations involved before fully determining the cotfrse of the American Commission . He has in mind certain principles , which are , however , subject to change . if the conditions or new information appear to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in accord with any propositions for taking from Germany everything possible in the way of indemnity without regard to the condition in which it leaves the German people . It is understood that the President believes , or . did when he arrived in Paris , that the indemnity exacted should cover fully all the damages sustained by the Allies through Germany 's war activity , thus enabling ful restitution to the alined Government and injured people . But punitive damages are said not to figure in the President 's program . It should be clearly understood that this and other ideas in the President 's mind are merely tentative and subject . to change if convincing evidence is furnished him that it is necessary to go beyond the actual damages , estimated liberally in order to make Germany and per partners realize fully the completeness of their defeat . At the same time the persons who are in position to know the sentiment of the American Delegation express confidence that Wilson and Lloyd-George are not far apart in their views as to what extent material damages shall be assessed against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are disinclined to agree to an arrangement which curtails American freedom of action in constructing naval vessels . Present sentiment appears to be that while willing to have the maximum naval building programs of the powers fixed , nothing should be construed to prevent the United States from constructing as many warships as any other Government . This subject is interwoven wi ' . the question of the freedom of the seas and Wilson would like to have it disposed of in the peace treaty instead of postponing it for a separate conference , following agreement on the peace terms . The same thing applies to the subject of a League of Nations , in the formation of which the American and British Governments appear to be in complete harmony . As the formation of a League of Nations and the definition of the freedom of the seas involve the consent of neutral Governments , their views will be essential to complete the world pact . Already suggestions are being heard in Paris that while the Allied conference is in progress , neutrals should be asked to send plenipotentiaries here to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be embodied in the treaty with the Central Powers and repeated at separate conventions neutrals would sign . The thing that strikes an observer most forcibly at this time is the uncertainty existing concerning the position the United States will assume when exchanges begin with the allied Governments . A complete American attitude is by no means defined . This is pointed to , however , as having a good effect in disabusing the minds of the Allies of the belief that the President came to France with a plan of settlement definitely fixed . 