@@678945

txt From Berlin comes Seeking the , news that certain New great nobles ? " Prince " Adventures . is the convenient though not quite accurate translation of their title  --  have found uses for their time and their money that once would have seemed most shocking to their order and still are somewhat so to those of us who know little about Princes except what we have read in old books . For these innovating Princes , instead of riding about on horseback in search of amorous or martial adventures , have deliberately gone Into business , where the risks , If not less , are at least very different and the reverse of romantic . And , as if to emphasize their abandonment of all the traditional Princely roles , these Great Ones have chosen to engage ' in the most modern kind of business  --  that of combining little companies into big companies . To be sure , there are occasionally in these transactions , according to some authorities , reminders of those in which the more enterprising Barons of olden days employed their large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Princes knew a thing or two about exploiting the public and the utilities thereof . This may account for the evolution of the German nobles into high financiers , manipulating the stocks and bonds of urban transportation companies . They are a bit careful about such enterprises over in Germany , however , and it is notable that the members of the " Princes ' trust " each put a lot of real money  --  and his own ! ? into the enterprises they are promoting . That is n't at all like playing the game  --  after the rules established by the Robber Barons . An explanation of the aristocratic resort to business may be found in , the fact that the officers of the German Army no longer form a caste quite as exclusive as they did once , and that therefore the profession of arms , has lost something , of its attractiveness for those who formerly adopted and followed it as a matter of course . Their argument seems to be that if they must associate with common people even in the army , they might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finance , where the profits are larger  --  sometimes . Certainly in the  --  to them  --  new field they will not lack the stern joys of mortal combat , and they will not find existence at all monotonous . The Social . Democrats will take care of that . After mentioning sevControversy eral. wise persons who May not only thought but Revive . set down in books that Now beyond an ice barrier which surrounds the pole there is a pleasant land of Summer , where flowers and birds abound , one of our correspondents asked yesterday how we or others knew that these authorities were wrong and that recent reports of a frozen sea all over the apex of the earth was right . There , row , is an interesting question , not easy to answer in a way absolutely conclusive . It is , perhaps , the very best argument that has yet been brought forward to support the contention that Dr. Coox 's story is as plausible as Mr. PEARY 'S , and that if one is denied the otter must he . It is true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another kind of eminence have figured out to their own satisfaction that the region around the pole is warm and habitable . One of these men , and not the least learned or intelligent of them , was convinced that the earth turns , not on its axis , but on a big hole , down the sides of which an explorer could agreeably wander into a new and concave world , peopled with an amiable folk leading a warm and peaceable existence . Mr. PEAKY did n't find the big hole ; therefore he did n't go where the hole is . Nothing could be more logical than that , and the Cook party has a right to chirk up again . It despaired too soon , for of course its members would be quite happy if they could only get everybody to admit that their hero was not alone in ? making mistakes .                     