@@682546

txt The Mexican situation must be viewed as it now is , not as it has been . Its past history , with its record of good intentions frustrated , of good offices ungraciously received , of political and military blunders , is of no present significance . We know pretty well where we are , how we arrived is of small consequence . It is necessary that our future course shall be free from hesitation and unmarred by blundering . The hostilities that hare thus far occurred may be of no great relative importance . war may yet be avoided , but ' every action of our Government must be predicated on its certain knowledge that danger exists and must be met . From this time forth in dealing with the Mexicans we must be guided entirely by our duty to ourselves . We can take no further note of their inclinations and prejudices , as we have so frequently in the past . If there is a good strategical reason for ordering the troops of General PERSHING 'S cornmand to move northward , so that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made on the border , the order will be given . It will have - no relation whatever to the opinion of civilians as to whether the punitive expedition should or should not have remained in Mexico . Whatever is done will be done for military reasons and under military advice . Pride will not - kek , the troops where they are if the tactical demands of the situation com peal their temporary retirement . On PUS Other hand , if the military authorities decide that the troops are well placed as they are , there they will re main . The haste of the de facto Govern. - nient of Mexico in attempting to dis ; - Cialin re:sponsibility for the encounter Tatlarrizal indicates that its mood is , : net wholly warlike . Obviously the erican mood is not warlike . We do : , 41-iddeSire.to make war on Mexico . But RAVE ) is no further excuse for parley or ' Present . relations are not-Reacsfut They i*vpinOki trained almost to the breaking point . We can no longer give weight to the argument that the Mexican people do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first , and the coherent statement of our position in Secretary LANSIHG 's note of June 20 leaves no possible room for doubt of our indisposition to interfere in the affairs of our neighbor if our neighbor will keep her house in order . The border outrages must be stopped , and we must have complete assurance that they are permanently stopped . Meanwhile , the rumors of foreign influences at work in Mexico against the United States are wholly without verification . There is no indication whatever that the United States has anything to contend with in the present crisis except the traditional Mexican prejudice and intractability . If we are compelled to make war on Mexico , and it is the fervent hope of every good American that we may not be driven so far , the main military movement would be from the northern border . While the ports would all be blockaded and the harbor fortifications shelled if resistance was made , the army would move southward step by step , pacifying the country as it proceeded , setting the people to work at their accustomed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schools . Starving people would be fed , capital would be supplied to open or rebuild plants which the cruel revolution has destroyed . Much time would be required and probably heavy losses would he suffered at first . It is not a prospect to look forward to with cheerful spirits . But as the line , always in communication with the border , extended southward , the opposition would continually grow weaker . ) The object of the war , the establishment in Mexico of a stable Government of Mexicans by Mexicans , would be achieved in time . It is for Mr.1 CABRA:s:ZA and his Generals and civil , advisers to hay now whether or not we must undertake this unpleasant task .                     