@@680855

txt President Huerta 's friends to-night describe the attitude of the Executive as one of expectancy and curiosity as to prospective action by the United States , rather than one of anxiety . They say he has given them no indication of changing his mind about not resigning , and is proceeding with the affairs of the Government with all equanimity . They add that he regards as probable intervention by the United States , and an order was sent to-day to the State Governors to report immediately how many soldiers they can have ready by Thursday . The official explanation of this is that It is merely part of the plan announced in a recent decree increasing the army to 150,000 men . The . departure of Americans from Mexico continues , although in decreasing numbers , which indicates that the great majority of those intending to leave the city have already gone . A train for Vera Cruz , with scores of refugees aboard , was held up to-night in the freight yards by the burning of several oil tank cars . Invitations to the opening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Corps . Anxious to Get Arena The American Charg ? d'Affaires , Nelson O'Shaughnessy , dined to-night with Sir Lionel Carden at the first official dinner given by the British representative . No new instructions from Washington have been received at the Embassy , according to the Charg ? , who is reporting daily to the State Department on political conditions here . Fearing that a blockade may be established coincidentally with the installation of Congress on Thursday , the officials at the National Palace are showing anxiety regarding a shipment of 15,000 rifles due at Vera Cruz to-morrow . The recruiting campaign by conscription is being carried on vigorously , and there is little doubt that the number of men now ready for service is greater than the supply of rifles . Failure to land this shipment would be embarrassing to the War Department . The ' completion of the ? preliminary organization of both branches of the new Congress is regarded here as putting the final touch to President Huerta 's defiance . Surprise was caused here to-day by ' the publication of dispatches from Washington , indicating that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support the notification given by John Lind , the personal representative of President Wilson , to Gen. Huerta warning him against permitting the new Congress to convene . Talk of the possibility of Gen. Huerta resigning is still heard , but all the acts and utterances of the Provisional President are calculated to dissipate the idea that he has any such intentions . Rumor of Flight to Fortress . The announcement that a diplomatic reception would be given by Senora Emilia Aguila de Huerta , the wife of the Provisional President , at Chapultepee Castle to-morrow gave rise.to story that Gen. Huerta had taken . up his residence there . It was explained that Senora Huerta had decided to:hold the reception at the castle because of the inadequate accommodations of the private home of the Huertas in Liverpool Street . Chapultepec Castle is the official residence of the Mexican President . Since President Madero vacated ! the place it has been undergoing renovation at the hands of painters and decorators . Members of the German and Austrian colonies held a meeting to-night and discussed plans of defense in case disturbances occurred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which is much commented upon by foreign residents , is the continued absence of any anti-American among Mexicans in the Federal Capital . In spite of the efforts of Certain native newspapers , both editorially and through their news columns , to stir up such feeling , they have met with little success so far as ou  --  and evidence shows . Similar effo the part of the Mexican press at the time of the Madero revolution the streets of the capital with mobs of the lower classes , led by students , who shouted against everything American . Mexicans explain the difference of sentiment on the present occasion as clue to the character of the controversy , which fails to enlist the sympathy of most of the People . No announcement has yet been made of a successor to Manuel Garza Aldape as Minister of the Interior . The removal of Querido Moheno from the Foreign Ministry to that of the Interior and the appointment of Pedro Lascurain to the post of Foreign Minister , which he filled under President Madero , have been discussed .    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        