@@680153

txt It is impossible to deny that the New York Progressives have made a fine beginning . In the first place , they had a good fight in arid around their meeting at Syracuse between the supporters of two rival candidates for the Gubernatorial nomination . That is a good sign . A fight at a convention is an Indication of life ; in this case it meant that in the opinion of those attending the meeting the nomination was worth fighting for . Then , Mr. HOTCHKISS having killed off Mr. PRENDERGAST , and Mr.PRENDERGAST having performed the same friendly service for Mr. HOTCHKISS , the nomination went to Mr. OSCAR STRAUS . In very truth it may be said that in this case the candidate is better than his party . Mr. STRAT.79 has had a good deal of experience in public affairs , he has held a high administrative office in Washington , and he has served with credit and distinction in a diplomatic post of importance . Experience , by which he is well qualified for the office of Governor , is conspicuously lacking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new to the business of politics , very few of them have had any training in a public post . Probably they feel that these defects would be speedily cured by the success of their party . We hardly know what Mr. Srstaus will do with his platform . Some parts of it may be embarrassing . If the New TcrIethird-tennerS could achieve due ierforinance , .. of- : . ialPtheir pledges and , iiipirdses  --  inade ' Syracuse we should say ? . , that - everybody would ' be perfectly happy except the corporations and the owners of . property : some of them , even . might find a-place in the sun , as the Kaiser put it. , after this joyful programme had gone into effect It is astonishing that these Progressives should have found so many ways of conferring bliss upon the people . It would be more astonishing if they should find a way to make good their promises . There are really many , very many , good and salutary planks In the platform . Reforms are promised that would be opposed only by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instance , these Progressives promise " to use the powers " of the Government to protect property " rights no less than heretofore , " yet they favor the enactment of laws to " recover the control of the unlimited " perpetual , or practically perpetual , " franchises heretofore alienated by " improvident public servants . " That means the recall of franchises granted in the past under which business is now being carried on . If there are any property rights a franchise is ad property right , yet the Progressives would select at their pleasure certain of there rights for destruction . Again , they would legislate effectively to prevent " involuntary unemployment . " Men and women are unemployed because nobody at that particular time finds it to his advantage to employ them . The Progressives would have them employed , obviously at somebody 's cost . The somebody would naturally be the public . The cost of abolishing involuntary unemployment would therefore be assessed upon the taxpayers . They also propose to establish a minimum standard of wages . If their minimum standard should happen to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employed , the employer would be involved in loss . That would seem to be taking the employer 's property . But we suppose the Progressives hold to the doctrine that any law made by them to further the ends of social justice would be " due process . " The Progressives promise home rule for cities , a good deal Of it Their platform says that municipalities should have the " power to adopt and amend their charters " in matters relating to the powers , duties , terms of office , and compensation of officials . the incurring of debt , and " methods and subjects of local taxation . " Those powers might be conferred in a charter granted by a Legislature . but we do not understand how a city could make and adopt its own charter . ' A charter is a grant from a higher sovereign power , the State . But perhaps the Progressives would set up little sovereignties all over the State wherever there is a city . There is , of course , a promise of the . ' Initiative , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ genuine without this label . They would make the Constitution amendable on easy terms . But as they indorse everything in their National platform it is unnecessary to specify . They denounce the Levy election law " as a bipartisan conspiracy . " It has been our understanding that the law is the result of a Tammany conspiracy . Its passage was opposed by the Republicans at Albany . However , a slander or two may be overlooked in such a programme of felicity . For one thing , the Progressives of New York are faithful to the standpat protectionist principles of their great chieftain . They are against special privilege , and they denounce the use of Governmental power for the private gain of the bosses , but there is not a word about the tariff , which is the very home and seat of special privilege , and is the greatest living illustration of the use of Governmental power for private gain . We do not know that it makes a particle of difference to the taxpayer or the consumer whether the money filched from his pocket goes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufacturer . But Mr. ROOSEVELT has made it perfectly evident that he has no intention of attacking ' the protective tariff . Naturally , the meeting at Syracuse had to be guided by his policies .                     