@@683340

txt WHEAT FOR NORWAY ? The Position of that Country and the Nansen Commission . Isee from an editorial article it today 's issue of THE NEW Yonx TIME 'S that Dr. Nansen wants 15,000,000 bushels of wheat for Norway . Them are 2,500,000 people in Norway ; that means six bushels pro persona , which , according to estimates generally accepted as correct , is precisely the amount which the average person consumes In a year . When I Studied Norwegian geography thirty years ago I learned that Norway at that time could produce enough of foodstuffs to feed a little more than one-half of her population . Since thett the progress in agriculture and the eeclaiming of waste tracts through Government activity have more than kept pace with the increase in population . What then is Norway to do with the seven or eight millions of bushels she will not actually need ? In the uplands of Norway people use barley and rye almost exclusively , and even on the coast and the lower parts of the valleys as much barley and rye is used as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she will , of course , export to Swedeli , and Sweden will in turn set free some of her own food grains for exportation to Germany , so that indirectly Germany will get the benefit of the extra seven or eight millions of bushels of American wheat . Germany bites the hand that feeds her and Norway only feebly remonstrates . Was there ever such a humiliating spectacle ? The Norwegian Commission is a curious combination of intellectuals and professors . Nansen and Morgenstjerne , certainly no enthusiastic pro-Allies , are pro-Germans of the same type as Georg Brandes in Denmark and Bjtirn Bjornson and Sigurd Ibsen in Norway . A favorite pose of this class of men is to affect a certain superiority , claiming that " the world is mad " and , of course by inference , Norwegians , Danes , Swedes , Dutch , and Spaniards belong to the sane remnant . In their heart of hearts they would not regret to see France , England , Russia , and the United States beg for peace on the Prussian terms . They do not at all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which has been safely pro-Ally in all the countries mentioned . JOHN EIESLAND . Professor and Head of Department of Mathematics , West Virginia UniversitY . DRIED FRUIT EXPORTS . Scandinavian Taste for This Ameri. can Food Increases Astonishingly . At a time when the British Government is urging upon the United States the necessity of stopping the export of foodstuffs and raw material to nehtral countries adjacent to Germany , on the ground that these eventually find their way to the enemy 's country , a recent cablegram from London is of interest . It reads : The President of the British Prize Court today decided that the 1,800 tone of dried fruit seized on the steamship San Francisco and the steamship Pacific should be released to Sweden . What guarantee has England that these goods will remain in Swedish hands ? The amount released represents about one-third of the total prewar import of dried fruit to that country . Furthermore , before the war Sweden had on hand over 11,000 tons of these goods . What has become of them ? The increase of dried fruit imported by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States alone , according to the official trade returns , the exports were as follows : 1913. 1915. 1916 . Denmark .. 6,188,743 33,299,975 13,828,396 Sweden .4,668,673 23,24S,296 26,396,759 Norway ? 1,108,756 4,047,751 6,270,531 Is it conceivabitt that the population of Scandinavia has suddenly developed such an extraordinary taste for this particular kind of food as to justify an increase of over 400 per cent . in their im-port ? Judging from my own experience in Scandinavia , ( not very long ago I was present at the loading of a German steamer on the quays at Copenhagen , and I saw 1,000 tons of dried fruit , mainly dried apples , going on board , ) I am inclined to believe that the Germans have not run short of that commodity , in spite of the British blockade , and I am sure many are of my opinion .  - -  Here an interesting question may be raised : Great Britain put no obstacle in the way of shipment of onions from Spain to Scandinavia , although fully aware of the fact that their ultimate destination was Germany , until those shipments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inquiries to be made which revealed the astounding fact that they were used by the Germans in the making of explosives ; the ingenuity of Herr Chemist Professor is proverbial , . and who knows if he has not been capable of putting these inoffensive dried apples to some deadly uses ? An American Army In Russia . I have been this long time past looking for a statement on the profound Importance of the sending of an American army to Russia and Rumania . The argument for this expedition is overwhelming in its force . First , because the first great democracy owes it as a sacred duty to Russia In her present condition . An American army there would be an encouragement and moral stimulus to the Russian Army and people beyond all estimates in values , material and spiritual . The need of that stimulus Is too deep to require emphasis , and it can not be given too soon . Then , also , the Pacific Coast is wholly free from the submarine menace . Moreover , to send the coast and mountain troops westward would help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Finally , there is abundance of food products in Russia , and all that heavy and essential transportation would be avoided . F. B. NASH .                     