@@679648

txt Are Not Removable , and Recent Episodes in City Administration Apparently Are Overlooked . THEY LOSE FEW POWERS Proposed to Bar Them from Board of Aldermen , but Retain Right to Vote on Financial Wants . Within the last five years  --  but prior to the advent of the present fusion administration  --  all the Borough Presidents , with the exception of one , have been under charges for official misconduct . It is a matter of notorious record that three out of the four thus accused of malfeasance in office were ordered removed by the Governor after a hearing . These very disheartening episodes in the history of New York City administration , though of recent enough occurrence to be fresh in the memory of every person who has followed public events , have evidently been overlooked or disregarded by the framers of the proposed new Charter for New York City . In the Cullen-Foley New York City Charter bill , which the Legislature will take up for consideration when it reconvenes in September , no provision has been made for the removal of Borough Presidents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Charter framers in dealing with the officials elected at large throughout the city . But it is a radical departure from the provisions of the present Charter , and as if to emphasize their intent that the Borough Presidents should be immune . they have retained in Article 2 of the chapter dealing with borough officials  --  which has reference to Coroners  --  that these once so exalted officials shall be removable in the same manner as Sheriffs . This is the only provision the existing Charter contains with reference to the displacement of derelict elective city and borough officials . The framers of the Charter bill have decided that the growing importance of the Boroughs of Queens and Richmond entitles the Chief Executives of those boroughs to a salary equal to the salary paid to the Borough Presidents of Manhattan . Brooklyn , and the Bronx . The CullenFoley bill provides for a uniform salary of $7,500 for the Borough Presidents . Under the present Charter the President of the Borough of Queens and the President of the Borough of Richmond get only $5,000 . If the Cullen-Foley Charter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no longer have a seat and a vote in the Board of Aldermen , as they have now . But they will retain their seats in the Board of Estimate , with the allotment of votes they have under the Charter now in force . The propriety of permitting a Borough President , as a member of the Board of Estimate , to vote on appropriations for public improvements within his borough , of which , as Chief Executive of that borough , he would have the spending , was brought into question sharply at the time the so-called Ivins Charter was before the Legislature . Both Mayor McClellan and Controller Metz , who were then in office and were ex-officio members of the Ivins Charter Commission , pointed out that the dual functions of the Borough Presidents had been conducive of all sorts of deals and dickers in the Board of Estimate for the looting of the City Treasury and that the powers vested in the Borough Presidents frequently left the Mayor , on whom , after all , the responsibility rests for the condition of the city 's finances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what they termed the " five little Mayors . " who held forth , each in his Borough Hall and all in the council of the Board of Estimate , with votes enough  --  if acting in harmony  --  to tie the board on the most important questions of city finance with which it could be called upon to deal . In the Ivins Charter an attempt was made to remedy this by taking away from the Borough Presidents the administrative functions which had rendered their offices the mecca of seekers after political patronage . Control of the administrative departments in the Borough Government thus would have been assured the Mayor , while the Borough Presidents would have had more time to devote to their duties on the city 's fiscal board . This , as might have been expected , aroused a storm of protests from the politicians , who always ' had found in the Borough President a powerful agent for the building up of their local machines . This opposition , in a measure , was responsible for the defeat of the Ivins Charter . The present charter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their dual power as appropriating and expending officers . In one respect the administrative powers of the Borough Presidents have been abrogated . The creation of a central Building Department , under the direct control of the Mayor , has deprived the Borough Presidents of one important administrative function by restoring a condition which existed prior to 1901 and which was changed then ostensibly in the interest of borough " home rule . " But after a fashion borough " home rule " has been well taken care of in the proposed new Charter in that all the more important administrative departments in the City Government would be compelled to establish branch offices , with deputies in charge , in the various boroughs . In nearly all other respects the Borough Presidents will perform the same administrative functions with reference to the control , maintenance , and repairs of streets , with reference to public improvements and care of the public property within their respective bailiwicks , as under the present Charter . In the Boroughs of Queens and Richmond . as under the present Charter . the street-cleaning forces will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Cullen-Foley Charter bill creates one new bureau in the Borough President 's office  --  the Bureau of Incumbranccs ? with a Superintendent in charge . This is done by transferring from the Street Cleaning Department the duty of removing from the streets ' Obstructions to traffic . While the courts have decided that the Coroners , as county officials within New York City , ceased to exist when the Greater New York Charter went into effect . they are classed as borough officials for the first time in the CullenFoley Charter bill . This measure gives the Aldermen from a borough the power to fill any vacancy that may occur in the Coroner 's of rice within their respective boroughs until a successor can be chosen at a general election . This is the fourth of a series of articles dealing with the proposed Charter to appear eau ) . to Tills Tams.                     