@@684693

txt An order for 200,000 tons of steel rail has been allocated between Bethlehem Steel , Lackawanna Steel and various subsidiaries of the United States Steel Corp . by the Railroad Administration . In addition to this business , some railroads , expecting to be returned - to private ownership during the next few months , are already sending out inquiries for rolling space for rails for next year . One road has reserved space for a considerable tonnage . Exact division cf the 200,000-ton rail order has not yet been ascertained , but it is learned that Bethlehem and Lackawanna divided a little over 100,00G tons between thorn , with the Steel Corporation getting 80,000 or 90,000 tens . The action of the roads which are sending out feelers for next year 's rolling space is of particular interest at present . While there is no indication that the movement is at all general , there is every reason to expect that it will become so later . Paucity cf railroad orders has been the principal banci'cap to a boom in the steel business since the depression that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mills for months past Lave been busy . How good is the demand for steel . apart from railroad buying , is indicated by the fact that a:though railroad consumption , normally some 30% or total steel consumption , has probably averaged less than 5.7 , - in recent months , operations for some time past have been close to SO% of capacity and the Steel Corporation 's unfilled tonnage reports of the past two months indicate that new business has been considerably in excess of shipments . A return to even normal conditions in railroad buying , it is felt , Would mean capacity operations for the steel mills . As a matter of fact . there is an immense backlog of railroad orders botind to come to the mills sooner or later . The tonnage of new rails laid in the past four years has been greatly below normal replacement needs . Even before the United States entered the war , rail buying was blow normal , because the mills were occupied with shell bar orders at high prices , and were not anxious for rail business ; while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off in the hope of an easier market when peace was consummated . Since the railroads have been under Government control , the volume of rail buying has been still : urther reduced . Placing of rail orders by the roads for next year will almost certainly be followed by activity in locomotives . cars and other equipment . The situation of the roads , in regard to motive power and rolling stock , is identical with ' , that respecting rails . The shortage of cars below normal recniirements of the roads is placed by well-informed observers well up into the hundreds of thousands . One steel man estimates it at close to 750,000.                     