@@682041

txt It has been known since Wednesday , when the directors of the Reading Iron Co. were scheduled to meet to affix their signatures to the transaction , that a hitch had occurred in the deal involving the transfer of control of the Pennsylvania Steel Co. to the Bethlehem Steel Corporation . Until a week or so ago , it was believed Henry C. Frick was agreeable to the sale of Pennsylvania to Bethlehem Steel , but it seems that he has since changed his views . Mr. Frick has an option on the Pennsylvania Railroad holdings or Pennsylvania Steel , and is now the stumbling block in the negotiation . W. H. Donner holds only a small interest in Pennsylvania Steel , but a large interest in the Cambria Steel Co . Why Mr. Frick should hold up the deal at this time is not stated . The Pennsylvania Steel Co. has not been a great success and the payment of par for the preferred and .1.5 for the common is regarded by steel manufacturers as a reasonable basis for control . Under the management of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enjoy greater and more stable prosperity . It is understood that Charles M. Schwab did not seek control of Pennsylvania Steel . He was selected by the Pennsylvania Railroad people because they believed be was the logical man to operate the property . Mr. Schwan named the price at which he would take over the property and has made no effort to In-lace the Pennsylvania Railroad to accept his terms . According to steel manufacturers Bethlehem Steel interests are disgusted w ith the trend negotiations have taken and it would not Pe surprising if they themselves called the deal off . ? As a matter of fact they have been advised by certain ir.fluent  --  al rends to seter all negotiations . The Pcnnsyltania Steel Co. and the Cambria . Steel Co. ' mould have been merged long before this , had the Interests identified v ith the properties received any encouragement from the Goternment . But opposition developed from the Department of Justice , the claim being made that a consolidation would he in violation of the Sherman anti-trust act No objection was raised to the passing of control of @ @ @ @ @ @ 