@@681528

txt Holds the Institution 's Greate$* Need Is " More Intellectual Atmosphere Among Students . " NEW HAVEN , Conn. , Dec. 6 .. - . Mthough the proposal to establish a third college at Yale University " soundei most attractive , " there are grave ? Weal tions to the plan , according to President Arthur T. Hadley in his annual report , made public today . The informal proposal has been discussed in the university press for nearly a year , and haa created much interest , especially among Yale graduates in the Middle West . " Many believe that the lack of general interest in study is due to the size of the college and the heterogeneity of the student body , " says Dr. Hadley . " Such men say make the colleges smaller . In , stead of having two undergraduate departments , academic and scientific , have three , or perhaps more . " As compared with our present organization at Yale this would mean : " 1 . A separation of the select course from the Sheffield Scientific School , leaving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a college for ' the promotion of the physical , natural , and mathematical sciences , ' to quote the terms of the charter of the Sheffield Trust . This would probably involve a lose of about one-third the present Mem. bership of the department . " 2 . A conservative policy in regard to academic entrance requirements in order to secure a more homogeneous sty-. dent body , and a corresponding restriction of the distinctively academic teaching to meet the needs of those who des re an education of the old-fashioned type , based on thorough preparatory school work in foreign languages . " How large a number would thus be excluded it is difficult to guess : perhaps 300 , or as many , in round numbers , as now attend the select course in the Scientific School . " 3 . A gathering of these two groups into a third college which does not require so much mathematics as is necessary for the student of science , nor so much Latin as is necessary for those who wish to pursue a college course of the old-fashioned type . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it seems almost ungracious to point out objections , yet they are very grave ones . The first objection , Dr. Hadley says , is the expense . The proposed college would probably require . $3,000,000 , he estimates . " To get the required amount , " the report says , " it would be necessary to appeal to large donors ; and so far as the experience of this office goes , the third college would not furnish an effec. tive ground of appeal . " Another defect , which Dr. Hadley calls " less obvious but more fundamental , " is that it would fail to satisfy either the schools , the students , or the parents . " A boy goes to college , " Dr. Hadley says , " not wholly for the sake of pursuing certain studies , but for the sake of breathing a certain atmosphere , of competing for certain traditional rewards of undergraduate life , of entering certain societies that his father has known , and meeting certain men , or the successors of certain men , whom his father has met @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he created in a day . A three-milliondollar endowment will not produce them . It will simply prepare the ground op which they can grow . " The proposal does not really meet the present difficulty with which we have to contend . We want a more intellectual atmosphere among the students as an immediate essential for making Yale what it should be . ' We are offered a proposition which meets certain a , iministrative difficulties , and which will at a good deal of expense enable us to arrange our course of instruction in more logical fashion . We are not offered anything that will give intellectual stimulus . "                     