@@680959

txt Footsore. ragged , and half famished after three days ' march afoot for sixty-seven miles Over a wind-swept mountain road , the 8,300 Mexican Federal soldiers and Generals who were driven from Ojinaga , with 1.067 women and about 300 Children and infants , arrived to-day within a few miles of Marfa , whence they are to be transported by train to El Paso . The ragged remnant of the Ruerta army will be formally interned at Fort Bliss Tuesday as wards of the Government , there to be held Indefinitely on the footing of prisoners of war . It will be the first time the American Army has been called upon to shelter , feed , and clothe an entire division of a foreign army , which includes six disarmed Generals . None of those in the unique caravan which , with its disarmed Mexican soldiers , women , children , horses , burros , and dogs , struggled for miles along the road , was more visibly affected on coming within sight of Marfa than Gen. S. Mercado , the commander who ordered the evacuation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Riding on a horse , his uniform covered with dust , he was confessedly humiliated not only at the defeat of his army and the necessity for flight to foreign soil , but also because of a report from Mexico City that he would be court-martialed should he return to his Dative country . The other Federal Generals , who mingled with the United States cavalrymen who acted as guards  --  Castro , Aduna . Landa , Orpinal , and Romero  --  had given tip their swords , but some still retained on their uniforms the bits of gold braid Which had not been torn off . The march afoot from Presidio abounded with incidents . The birth of a child , the death of several wounded soldiers , the search for water in the desert , the constant straggling of refugees from the line of march , and the rounding again , were some of the difficulties with which the cavalry , commanded by Major , had to contend . The Mexicans , guarded virtually as prisoners , outnumbered the escorting American soldiers ten to one . Women Suffered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ army as it zigzagged through the Mountain passes and reached backward into the distance ten miles away , was a picture of exhaustion although the prospect of soon reaching the railway and ample supplies of rations seemed to reVive the marchers ' courage . Since they were driven from Ojinaga and crossed the border into the United States eight days ago , the refugees have had only scant food supplies . Their march of sixty-seven miles to this point was made possible by the establishment of three camps along the way . These camps had only limited rations because all the foodstuffs anti Water had to be carried by wagon from Marfa . Many of the Mexicans were Poorly clad and without blankets , so that their suffering at night was intense . It was remarked by the American officers that the women stooa the march best . There were instances of women who yielded their places on horseback Or burros , to men who round themselves tired by the walk . This confirmed the prediction of Gen. Mercade that the women would not impede the progress of the column , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enduring fatigue . The marching column stretched out over a great distance to prevent confusion and to reduce as much as possible the suffering from the dust that rose in clouds from the well traveled road All semblance of an army was Missing . It was a curious Mingling of people and animals , while in places the women with their red dresses and shawls gave a touch of brilliant color to the scene . Whenever there was a space in tip , line or between a horse 's less there was almost sure to be a mongrel dog determined to follow its master Wherever he went . . Child Born to Refugee . A little group of women by the roadSide , formed by the permission of those in charge , attested the birth of a child . The old women who attended the Mother announced that a child had joined the procession and the news traveled down the line , arousing a fire of conversation . A rooster saved by a doting master from Ojinaga , crowed his triumph from the back of a burro , to which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boy sang in a low tone a wild air , half Spanish and half savage , and the music-lovers crowded closer to encourage him with applause . The procession passed a rude cross stuck In the middle of a little pile of stones . It marked the spot where a man had been killed . Many crossed themselves at sight of the emblem . Children , perched on the top of burros that were almost covered by their burdens of domestic property , laughed t .. nd beat the animals with sticas. men who had tobacco , seriously mraw. paper cigarettes , as they trudged Now and then some one staggered to the roadside and sat down . to he picked Up by the relief wagons which followed the main body of refugees . A burro dropped from his back a b4. - 1- die of little ironwood sticks , the pridelpal firewood of the district . And the , Mexican woman , as a thrifty housewife , refused to move on until it was again strapped . tightly to the pack saddle . Wood had been provided in each camp , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done , and she was taking no chances about it . A woman , riding on a horse , nursed her infant at her breast , drawing a thin red shawl around his little bddy . Wide-eyed , serious-looking babies looked from the arms of mothers on the moving scene . Women and children and Men from time to time ' Yielded their places on horse or burro to some friend Or kinsman , who needed  --  a rest . To-night the refugees . encamped near this town , are looking forward almost With hope to their prospective trip to El Paso even though they will virtually be prisoners there .                     