@@684321

txt HENRY WHITE . Qualifications Which Fit Him for His Place in the Peace Mission . To the Editor of The New York . Times : It has seemed to me that the biographical sketches of Mr. Henry White have been rather inadequate , and I think it is due the American people that they should know what'very good reasons the President had for selecting Mr. White to represent us at the Peace Congress . There is no one in the United States who has the exhaustive first-hand knowledge of European politics and diplomacy enjoyed by Mr. White . He began his diplomatic career in Vienna in 1883 , and was transferred In the following year to London , where he remained , with the exception of the years 1893-7 , until 1905 , having been First Secretary of Embassy froin 1897 to 1905 . One heard far more of the First Secretary in those days in London than of the Ambassadors , and probably no American ever lived in England who had such a wide circle of friends among the men who were making history . ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and to France 1907-09 . It was during his stay in Italy that he distinguished himself in the eyes of Europe by his masterly domlnr.tion of the Algeciras Conference . As Mr. White has always avoided the limelight , and as the United States has heretofore taken little interest in European diplomacy , and as he has never held office In this country , he is naturally far better known to Europeans and to Americans living abroad than to the bulk of his own people . That his services were highly valued by successive Governments , however , is sufficiently demonstrated not only by his almost uninterrupted career in the Diplomatic Service for so many years , but by his appointment as Chairman of the American delegation to the Fourth Pan American Congress at Buenos Aires , ( 1910 , ) and as Special Ambassador to Chile for the celebration of the centenary of that country 's indepen-. thence . He was also senior delegate from the United States to the Agricultural Conference in Rome in 1005 , which resulted in the foundation of the International Institute of Agriculture in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and art . There is no diplomatic wile unknown to Mr. White . lie enjoys the respect of the ' diplomatists of Europe . He is , moreover , a man of distinguished Lip-. pea rance and manners . Good Americans may sniff at this last brace of qualifications , but if they knew their Europe they would be profoundly grateful , for Europeans are accustomed to distinction in their diplomats , and half the battle is won when they recognize an American plenipotentiary as one of their own kind . Diplomats do not look poised and distinguished without a good deal of practice . I do not hesitate to brag that he was my choice from the first , and this with no detriment to the other eminent Republicans suggested . Outstanding abilities are not enough in themselves at this stage of the game . We need all the wits we ever had , plus a long experience in every diplomatic convolution , to sit at that peace table ; and President Wilson has shown his usual far-seeing wisdom in his appointment of Henry White . As to his utterances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ r ? to recall , in spite of the terrific drama which has made our memories creak during the last four years , that this was at a time when we were all trying desperately-to be neutral . deferring to the expressed wish of the President . And although Mr. White 's daughter did marry a Prussian , that event occurred some time before the great war ; and after we entered in 1917 he never made any attempt to communicate with her . These things should be taken for granted in a man who has served his country with such devotion for so many years , and I feel almost apologetic for putting them down in bald black and white . But as all classes in the United States are calliitg for the truth , and nothing but the truth , let it pass . GEI1TRUDE ATHERTON . New York , Nov. 30 , 1918.                     