@@680373

txt From Europe . and espe:ially from London . have come within the past ten days or two weeks a good many communications . most of them confidential , so far as personality is concerned , which show that the high financial powers and the possessois of great capital across there arc now looking upon the American business and commercial situation with the keenest interest . These men recognize tae great impulse which " it ill be caused by the marketing of our magnificent crop of 1912 . In the magnitude and diversity of our harvests . and in the discovery of the secret . by which our trade mith foreign countries van be greatly increased , there are . Eulope ? iiniss. good grounds for an optimistic feeling in the United Stales . Some of the private correspondence which goes Iron , American banking - houses to Eutope , in the form of meekly circular letters , reports that business men from all over the United States are now experiencing a prosperity which is unsurpassed . What Europe is asking appears to be whether or not all these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ series of years .. Is the United States entering upon an era of prosperity greater than any other nation has ever known ? The leading financiers of London believe that this question can not be answered until a : least a year or two have passed . They wonder whether the people of the United States realize what the demand . for capital in the next four or five years are to be . These demands are to be world encompassing . South America will , within the next five years . be ready to absorb hundreds of millions of new capital . Furthermore . however great may be the demands made by retail traders upon the manufacturers of the United States for dry goods and other commodities , nevertheless these demands can not be continued - unless the United States is enabled to . procure great amounts of new capital , principally for the imperative needs of the railroads. and also for the exploitation of the inttural resources of the country . if the railroads of the United States can secure the new capital they need , they will at . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of new capital which is needed for the development of the natoral resources of the United - States which are now awaiting immediate development . Europe thinks if our railroads are thoroughly equipped and possess abundant terminal facilities , and if the capital be furnished for the development of some part of our great national resources , then there is no reason why the great business prosperity now under way should not be long continued and greatly increased . - However just or however unreasonably tapprehensive the view taken by many financiers of London and of Paris may be , nevertheless it is a view which may tend to prevent the United States from obtaining the capital which is so greatly needed . Europe will not invest in American securities if capitalists are persuaded that American business and banking methods justify the recent criticisms . On the other hand , these men of finance suggest tentatively that conditions may so shape themselves that American capital may find it expedient to make large investments elsewhere than in the United States . In other words , our own capital may be driven out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is said to be this : The men of great experience in the gathering and the investment of capital of Europe , and especially in London , are waiting to see whether the people of the ' United States , by legislative enactment and by popular agitation , are going so to act and speak as to prevent the securing of large issues of new capital for the United States ; or , on the other hand , so to act and speak as ? to stimulate the - flow of capital to this country . 