@@679166

txt Four Suspects Arrested Following an an Investigation of a Factory Fire . After tracing a steamer trunk containing 10.000 cigars , thought by the police to have been stolen from the La Va.rrosa Cigar Company of 233 Pearl Street , Pinkerton Detective George L. Dougherty and Central Offipe Detectives Butt ; Shevlln , and Finn last night arrested at a warehouse in Fourteenth Street Charles Harrington of 127 South Fifth Street , Jersey City ; Charles Ackron , a saloonkeeper , of 648 Jamaica . Avenue , Brooklyn , and Jacob L. Simon of Paterson , N. J. , as suspicious persons . The cigar factory In question was destroyed by fire on the morning of Aug. 8 , and 25,000 cigars were either burned or stolen . The detectives say they recognized Harrington as " Jack Shepard , " whose name and pedigree are given in a book of reminiscences written by the late Inspector Byrnes . They say they followed him and the three others and saw them ship the trunk from Ackron 's home . 123 Reid Avenue , Brooklyn . to a curio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 203 West Thirtk.enth Street , and finally to the Fourteenth Street warehouse , where they were arrested . The detectives arrested also as a suspicious person Henry Knox , who lives at the West Thirteenth Street address , who , they say , was taking a handbag containing nine boxes of unstamped cigars to a Hudscn Street saloon . All the cigars , the police say , were identified by Jacob Goodman , manager of the La Varrosa Company , as among - the 25,000 lost there at the time of the re . 74 INJUNCTION IS VACATED . Another Chapter In the Fight for Glidden Trophy . Following the decision of the Contest Board of the A. A. A. in sustaining the appeal of the Chalmers Motor Company from the decision of Referee Whiting awarding the Glidden Trophy for 1910 to the Premier Entry i , and declaring the Chalmers Entry 5 the winner of the contest on July 22 , suit was brought by H. 0 . Smith , the President of the Premier Company , and the entrant of the Premier car , for a perpetual injunction restraining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seeking to have the award . of the referee to the Premier entry reinstated by the courts . A temporary restraining order was ganted , on the application of the plaintiff , by Justice Ka.pger in Brooklyn , and argument was had before Justige Putnam on Aug. 18 to continue the injunction , pending the final trial of the plaintiff 's suit . An opinion was handed down yesterday by Justice Putnam vacating the injunction and refusing to interfere with the decision of the contest Board upon the question at issue . The Justice finds no evidence of fraud , and holds that . such being the case , the courts have - no jurisdiction in sporting events which are governed by special rules made by the bodies conducting them .                     