@@678766

txt What is Mr. TAFT 'S notion of the power granted him by the Constitution to appoint officers in the service of the United States and of the duty that goes with that power ? Suppose . for a moment , that he were not a party leader , but a Judge before whom had come a case in which he was called on to answer those questions . Would he say that the power was given to the President to promote the - success of one party and the defeat of another , or to advance the interests of one faction in one party and to injure another faction ? And if he ventured to make this amazing decision , in what provisions of the Constitution , in what report of the proceedings of the Constitutional Convention , in what subsequent utterances of the members - of that convention , in what authoritative and pertinent decisions or opinions of the Federal courts would he find the shadow of support ) for it ? We are aware that such questionings remind us of " the heaven from which we came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ White House or the Capitol at the present time . But ' they are grave and interesting questions all the same , which a former Judge and actual President might ponder for instruction , admonition , and reproof . If , however , Mr. TAFT does not find it convenient to devote his time and attention to the study of such queries , if he prefers to take the politician 's view of his powers and duties in regard to appointments , there is still much for him to consider . As long ago as the Autumn of 1907 , when preparations were making in his own State for his nomination as the Republican candidate for President , there was pronosed in the State Convention . of that party and unanimously adopted , avowedly with his approval and at his suggestion , a pledge to seek the revision of the tariff in accordance with a definite and practical principle  --  namely . that the duties should not exceed the difference between home and- foreign cost of production with a reasonable profit to the home industries . Later this pledge was put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was nominated . Still later during the campaign and after his election , he accepted this pledge unqualifiedly , and bound himself : . , as firmly as his word of honor next bind a man in public office to carry it out . A tariff bill was passed at the late session of Congress . It was elaborately debated in the Senate , and to some extent in the House . It was vigorously attacked and was earnestly , if not very candidly , defended . After its passage by Congress it was signed by the President . Later he made a tour through the land and delivered numerous speeches , some of them devoted to the tariff . In the debate in Congress , in the speeches of - the President , there has never been the slightest or remotest approach ' to a declaration that the tariff fulfilled the pledge of the party , the pledge of the President . Now in the Middle West there are certain Senators and Congressman who fought this betrayal of the party pledge , and who are sustained in that fight by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They have returned to Washington resolved , so far as lies in their power , to secure the righting of a great wrong . The offices within the control or direct gift of Mr. TAFT are being used to defeat this purpose , to strengthen their opponents , and to drive them out of pliblic life . We can not readily understand the ethics or the wisdom of tactics on the part of the head of a party which tend and are intended to defeat and persecute members of the party whose only offense is strict loyalty to the explicit , authoritative , repeated pledge of the party. -                     