@@681898

txt One hundred workmen , twenty guards , and the Bridgeport police reserves took a hand in a riot tonight at the new plant of the Remington Arms Company , where it iS planned to make small arms for the Allies . The riot brings to fever heat the labor excitement of the last week , which yesterday caused the walkout of the structural ironworkers at the plant and today a walkout of the millwrights and the ironworkers on the new plant of the sister company , the Remington Union Metallic Cartridge Company . The three thousand workmen have been stirred Into a great unrest in the last week by some unseen influence . Major Walter W. Pennfield , U. S. A. , retired , head of the arms plant , says pro-Germans are back of the strike . This the labor leaders deny . A hundred Portuguese laborers were on their way out of the 102-acre construction plant just after 6 o'clock tonight when fellow guards heard F. T. Lewis call for help . Running lip , they found him surrounded by the workmen , two of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The guards , former army men under the direction of a detective agency , rushed into the melee , swinging their heavy oak sticks . The rest of the workmen went into the fight and a hurry call was sent for the police . Sergeants James Ramsey and Samuel Gregory rushed all the available policemen to the scene . When these arrived they found the guards had routed the workmen . Men were lying here and there where they had fallen . Most of them managed to scramble away when the police came in sight . Frank Monte , 18 years old , of 18 Whiting Street , a laborer , was unconscious . He was taken to St. Vincent 's Hospital , where it was found that a guard 's stick probably had fractured his skull . He is also suffering front lacerations of the scalp and body bruises . Cause of Outbreak a MysterT ? The guards could give no reason for the sudden attack except the spirit of general excitement . Mystery is added to the outbreak by the fact that the laborers are in no way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The belief of Remington officials that outside influences are at work to paralyze the completion of the new factory is growing . They intend to start an investigation by detectives to find out the reason of the unusual conditions among the thousands of employes , none of whom has made a single complaint as to pay or hours . Without a seeming grievance the workmen have suddenly developed complex demands which are framed in such a way that it is impossible for either the Stewart Company , which is doing the construction work on the new plant , or the Remington Company to comply without antagonizing another branch of the Federation of Labor . Most of the union labor leaders went to New York tonight in a body announcing that they would be back by tomorrow night . The machinists have declared they will call a general strike throughout Bridgeport if the difficulties are not settled by Friday night . Strike of the Millwrights . Throwing a damper over the hopes of the Remington Arms eorapany for an immediate settlement of a strike that threatens not only indefinite delay in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be made arms for the Allies , but also a paralysis of the entire munition industry in Bridgeport , the 125 millwrights about whom the labor dispute centres , at noon today laid down their tools at the call of the structural ironworkers , who went out yesterday . This further complicates the already complex labor situation , because the millwrights are officially members of the Carpenters ' Union . It was because they joined the Carpen- ' ters ' Union last week that the ironworkers struck , asserting that the work done by the millwrights Is properly a branch of the metal trade . At the lunch hour today walking delegates of the ironworkers went to the Remington plant and when the millwrights came out of the stockade about the 102-acre building plot ordered them to strike . The construction work can not go on without the millwrights , who were putting up the shafting for the new arms-making machines . The ironworkers say that if millwrights are employed as carpenters , they will call out the machinists in twenty-two Bridgeport shops ; the carpenters say that if the millwrights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up the laying of floors in the entire new plant . Vice President John A. Johnson of the International Bridge and Structural Ironworkers has received pledges of support from all the allied trades in Bridgeport , and the Central Labor Union ' at a meeting tonight voted to strike if the necessity arose . Mr. Johnson said tonight : " I have the metal trades behind me. and I can tie up not only construction work on the new Remington plant , but I can paralyze every one of the twentytwo firms in Bridgeport that are working for the Remington people . If the Remington and Stewart firms do not yield to the ironworkers by Friday night there will positively be a strike of all toolmakers , machinists , and ironworkers in all the plants . As an organization we will not be trifled with . " The carpenters are just as firm in their declaration that they will not back down and have further muddled the situation by declaring that they will not accept the decision of President Gompers of the American Federation o . Labor . The ironworkers were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carpenters have the strongest union in Bridgeport , controlling practically every carpenter in the City . That the Remington would make concessions to ring- about a settlement was indicated today by the posting of a notice that after Aug. 1 the hours of work of all parsons in the employ of the concern in all of its plants would be cut from ten hours a day to eight hours , with no reduction in wages . This means a forty-four-hour week . This change does not affect the employes of the Stewart Company , who already are on an eight-hour basis . It does , however . affect 1:i3O00 persons in the employ of the Remington company , and will affect the 10,000 workers who will be employed in the new plant the Stewart people are building . Labor officials who were gathered here from all parts or the eastern United States were apparently incensed today over the statement made by Major Walte ? W. Penfield , U. S. A. , retired , head of the Remington plant , that he believed German money was back of the strike , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to foment a bricklayers ' strike a few weeks ago . They have called upon the Major for details . He has refused to retract a word of his statement . which was published exclusively in THE NEW YORK TIMES . " German influence is , most likely to want this strike , " Major Penfield said today . " If the heads of the labor unions can tell me ' why , with the Stewart Company running a closed shop , every employe being satisfied as to wages and length of hours and no individual complaints having been received by any official of the company , they have decided to call out our men and stop our work , I will be willing to believe that no money has been paid to them and that German influence has not been at work . 1 shall continue to hold this view until it has been disproved . " From the offices of the Remington Company this statement was issued this afternoon : The statements appearing in the newspapers yesterday and today covering the labor troubles at the plant of the Remington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ous view of the situation than is warranted by the facts . THE NEW YORK I TIMES intimated this morning a probar , bility that the manufacture of ammunition at Bridgeport would be brought to a standstill , and that most serious consequences would result . This is the impression which the labor people are anxious to convey . But the whole affair so far is like a tempest in a teapot . No sane reason can be given for this strike of the ironworkers or for any contemplated strike where men are engaged under union rules , paid union wages , and*given continuous work , and when they admit they have no grievance against their employers . The affair does not admit the probability of any serious disruption , unless there have been hidden influences at work , which may only be conjectured . It has been arranged by the labor organizers for all of the metal trades locals to take votes on a strike by Friday night . A mass-meeting of machinists has been called for Friday night , at which Mr. Johnson says strike action will be taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He said tonight that he had arranged for a large number of strike agitators to come to Bridgeport Saturday morning if the big strike is called , and that every piece of machinery at the command of the metal trades would be used to win the claims of the ironworkers.                     