@@681059

txt The fate of the Mitchel Polies bill was sealed to-night when the Republican Assemblymen , after a protracted conference , decided not to make it a party measure . - . The action to-night , it is believed , foreshadows the defeat of the bill in both houses . The Republican Assemblymen from New York City Were about evenly divided in their attitude on the bill despite the pressure brought to bear on them from the Republican leaders in New York City to line up in support of the measure . After it had been decided not to make the Mitchel bill a party measure , a. ? viote was taken to ascertain how Many of the Republicans would give the bill their individual support . Only 89 ? Republicans voted , 22 of whom declared in favor of the Mitchel bill , - provided Mayor Mitchel would accept an . amendment to give the Board of Review filial and complete power to reverse decisions of the Police Commissioner . Mayor Mitchel already ? had declared against such a provision , All the New York County men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Republican Assemblymen had not been long in progress before it was apparent that the leaders would have no easy task in committing the Republican Assembly delegation to , the Mitchell bill . A majority of the Brooklyn delegation , under the 4eader ? ship of Assemblyman Alvah W. Burlinguine , Jr. , rose in open and rampant revolt . Speaker Sweet started the conference by declaring that , while he was in favor of State police , the time was ' too short to bring in such legislation and that under the circumstances the Assembly had better let Mayor Mitchel have what he wanted . " Sena tor Root and other party leaders are urging the passage of this bill , " said Speaker Sweet " As great Republieans , we ought to heed their wise counsel . " ? Al met W. Hoff of Kings , introducer of the bill and Chairman of the . Cities Committee , urged the ! ? passage ? ( , ) , t ! . the bill . Assemblyman Stodete York said he woiild siipliet the- bill ' if the proposed Board of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Police Commissioner . . Assemblymen Ahern , Lockwood , Green , Brennan , and Langhorst , all from Kings , opposed the bill . The up-State Republicans refrained from . taking part in the debate . It is said that in the event of the passage of the bill Samuel S. Koenig , Chairman of the New York County Republican Committee , would expect Mayor Mitchel to make up by a generous bestowel of patronage his palpable neglect to reward so . , ar his Republican supporters in Mr. Koenig 's political bailiwick . It is no secret to those who have observed conditions that Mr. Koenig 's continued tenure of office in the Republican County Committee might depend upon his success in wresting patronage from Mayor Mitchel for his Republican flock . This success in getting patronage may depend upon what happens to the Police bill in the Assembly . Suggestions are being made here that the patronage deal contingent upon the Passage of the Police bill in the Assembly is one of gig , antre proportions , involving the repeal of the Inferior Courts act by the next Legislature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party . This would automatically legislate out of office all the city Magistrates and , if certain legislation now pending should prove successful , the Justices of Special Sessions as well . That would give patronage amounting to a million or more annually to Mayer Mitchel to bestow . The Republicans here who have worked hardest for the success of the Mitchel bill believe that the Republicans would be the chief beneficiaries if the Mitchel bill should pass the Assembly with Republican votes . One of the Democratic Senate leaders said to-night that the Mitchel bill would go down to defeat there even if it should pass the Assembly . In the Senate Mayor Mitchel 's missionary endeavors have been directed toward winning over members of the Democratic ma ' jority. chiefly from rural districts . Federal patronage , it was said tonight , was being used as bait , and it was intimated that eight of the thirtythree Democrats would line up for the Mitchel bill in the Senate                     