@@679172

txt III Gen. HAxcocic 's ghost must exult amid the shades at the latter-day discovery that the tariff question , after all , is local , although he went to the political Shambles for his alleged ignorance in perpetrating such , a heresy . The hearings before the Inter-State Commerce Commission suggest that there is now room for another Gen. Hancock to declare , before the general perception of it , that the railway rate question is another matter between localities . Surely there is a pitiful lack of perception or suggestion by either railways or shippers that the rate question should be settled upon National rather than restricted considerations . There is no shipper who apparently would not be ' willing to retire from the contention if his individual interests were satisfied . In like manner each railway is animated by- its own interests , or the interests of the territory which it serves , rather than by the National interest . The railways do not venture to suggest that the right to charge any given rate is a right such as is enjoyed by the owners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ price satisfactory to the seller . But the shippers do not hesitate to contend- that they have a claim approaching a right to take what they want at their price rather than the price ' desired by. - the purveyor of the service . The entire discussion thus . assumes the aspect of a. dispute over the divi -- SUM of profits , or of burdens , and therefore one of business policy rather than of " right . " Like the tariff it is a wrangle over spoils . Railways and shippers might , if they would , and should if they could , reach an adjustment more satisfactory to both than any decision to be enforced by a law which must be universal in Its action and permanent in its form . The findings of the commission must apply to all railways and all shippers , and can not be altered easily when it is reached . Yet the railways are putting in proof of the most diverse conditions , and one shipper must be - prejudiced by any finding which covers all shippers , although it can not be just to all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a twilight zone within which mutual adjustments are preferably a matter of business arrangement rather than of adjudication . The appreciation of this is likely to dawn upon the shippers when - they get their ad.tudlcaticrl-4                     