@@679893

txt Speeding eastward as fast as steam can carry him is a confidential messenger of the National Roosevelt Committee , who carries with him a ' remarkable memorial bearing the signatures of no less than eight Governors , and addressed to Col. Theodore Roosevelt , Oyster Bay , L. I. This memorial is the most important outcome of an all-day conference of leaders of the National Roosevelt Committee held at the Congress Hotel to-day and participated . n by these Governors : J. M. Carey of Wyoming , William R. Stubbs of Kansas , Charles S. Osborne or Michigan , Herbert S. Hadley of Missouri , Chester H. Aldrich of Nebraska , Robert P. Bass of New Hampshire , W. E. Glasscock of West Virginia , and R. E. Vessey of South Dakota . Ex-Gov . J. Franklin Fort and Congressman Charles M. Fowler of New Jersey also were present The missive to Col. Roosevelt recites the history of the progressive Republican movement and of the industrial and political difficulties which have stirred the country in the last three years , and declares that in the opinion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former President stand for re-election . The Colonel is petitioned to tell the country whether he will or will not accept the urgings of his friends and admirers and be a candidate for the Presidency , or , if he ' does not wish to appear as a seeker of the office , to make some statement calculated to encourage his supporters and advise them they are not working in vain . The communication to Col. Roosevelt was not given out for publication . If the Colonel wishes to make it public , the Governors declare they have no objections . First Conference of Its Kind . The conference is the first of its kind ever called in the history of the Nation , having , as it did , for its object the devising of methods to re-elect a former President who , by his acts and utterances , apparently is not a candidate . Prior to the actual conference being called to order by Chairman Alexander H. Revell the eight Governors participating in the proceedings held a secret ' session , at which none but State Executives were admitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the following statement ; Having assembled for the purpose of considering the situation that now confronts the Republican Party , we declare our belief as to the necessity and advisability of the nomination of Theodore Roosevelt for President . Momentous questions are pressing for solution , questions which touch every phase of human life and industry . On the one hand , they relate to the effective maintenance of the rights of men in the Interest of all , and on the other , to the effective control of capital in the interests of all . What the country is seeking is justice as between man and man . It wants equality of opportunity safeguarded by adequate law . It demands this justice and this equality of opportunity that the Nation may endure . A principle is of no avail without a man ; a cause is lost without a leader . In Theodore Roosevelt we believe the principle has the man and the cause the leader . It is our opinion that this is the sentiment of the majority of the people of the United States . Notwithstanding the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people have decided to make him their candidate . It is for the people to decide who shall be their President irrespective - 4f the wishes of the citizen selected . Knowing the high sense of public duty with which Theodore Roosevelt is imbued , we are satisfied he will not refuse to heed the call of the people : that he will if nominated accept the nomination , and if elected will undertake the onerous but honorable office of the Presidency ; that he will discharge the duties of the Chief Magistracy with the same faithfulness and consideration of the interests of all the people ; that he will display the same rugged courage he manifested during the years he was in the White House ; that he will apply without fear or favor his well-known doctrine of the square deal to the honor and glory of his country and the welfare of every citizen his record demonstrates . We believe he has the same capacity and Initiative to develop and expand the commercial and industrial prosperity of the Nation that he has to correct its evils and abuses . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are inspired , first , by the obligation of our American citizenship , and , second , by our loyalty to progressive Republican principles . It is our firm conviction that if Theodore Roosevelt is nominated his election is assured . We express our firm conviction that he will accept the nomination as a duty he owes to the country , and we wish to present his name in this united manner and urge that all who desire prosperity with progress shall loin in the demand for his nomination and election . his statement was signed by all the GoVernors except Gov . R. S. Vessey of South Dakota . His failure to sign as given out was because of an engagement which hurried him away from the conference . His colleagues said he was in sympathy with the text of the statement . Twenty-four States Represented . The general conference was participated in by nearly seventy persons representing twenty-four States . The members as reported by Secretary Edwin Sims were as follows : Alabama , Oscar R. Hundley ; Arizona , Dwight B. Hurd ; Colorado , W. J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and P. B. Stewart ; Georgia , E. H. Brinson , W. N. Mitchell , H. A. Rucker , and W. J. Tilson ; Illinois . E. J. Brundage , Chauncey Dewey , H. S. Duncombe , Lawrence Heyworth , Carl T. Murray , L. W. Noyes , Ralph Otis . James Pease , Walter S. Raymer . Alexander H. Revell , Edwin W. Sims . John R. Thompson , William H. Weber , John A. Bass , and Dwight Lawrence : Indiana , Edwin M. Lee : Michigan , Roy Barnhart , A. W. Brown , Jay Hayden , Arthur L. Holmes . Frank Knox , Charles McCarty , Oscar Marx , Charles A. Nichols , and Gov . Chase S. Osborne ; Kansas . Henry J. Allen and Gov . W. R. Stubbs ; Kentucky , Leslie Combs , D. C. Edwards , and Isaac Fisher : Missouri , J. W. Coburn . Gov . H. S. Hadley . E. Mont Reilly , and R. A. Roberts ; Massachusetts , Nathan Hale ; Nebraska , Gov . C. H. Aldirch avid John 0 , Weiser : New Hampshire , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gov . John Franklin Fort , Charles N. Fowler , and William H. Mackay : New York . John A. Stewart : North Carolina , Richmond Pearson ; North Dakota , J. W. Scott ; Ohio , Walter F. Brown , Arthur L. Garford , A. W. bless , Nat C. Wright . and M. J. Wade : Oklahoma , A. E. Perry , George C. Priestley , and J. A. Veasey : Pennsylvania , Alexander P. Moore am ' Richard Quay ; South Dakota , Dr , H. F. Ratte and Gov . R. S. Vessey : Tennessee . J. H. Buttram and M. N. Schoetz ; West Virginia , W. S. Edwards , Gov . W. S. ' Glasscock , S. D. Loach , and M. J. Malamphy ; Wyoming , Gov . J. M. Carey . Alexander H. Revell presided at the conference , and each Governor and many of the delegates made reports on the growth of the Roosevelt sentiment in their respective states . Resolutions which concluded with a strongly worded , protest against the use Of Federal patronage in obtaining the nomination of a Presidential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Taft , this final aQtion was the result of startling declarations of Southern delegates , who ... detailed incidents of how the steam roller is already at work in whipping Southern Federal officeholders into line for the renomination of the President . The resolutions also favor a direct expression in each State upon the preference upon the Presidency as a preliminary to the National Convention . The resolution , as it was understood on all hands , was a. retaliatory stroke at the action of the Republican National Committee at its meeting in January , when , under the leadership of men who are in close political touch with the Administration , a resolution was defeated which would have formed a basis for a Nationwide direct Presidential primary . The resolutions in full are as follows ; Believing that Theodore Roosevelt represents those principles and policies of government upon which the Republican Party must depend for Its future success , it is the conviction of this conference that public sentiment demands his nomination for President . The Nation is in need of a. fixed and firm policy , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and we are also convinced that he is the one man who can at this time surely unite all elements of the party and also attract a large body of independent voters . Recognizing that the voicing of public sentiment is the only way . in which success can be assured , we favor the selection of delegates by such popular methods as will guarantee a full and free expression of public opinion in the selection of delegates to the National Republican Convention . To this end we favor an expression of the people 's choice for President by direct vote for candidate in each State and we appeal to all of the voters of the country who believe that the nomination and election of Theodore Roosevelt give assurance of uninter'rupted prosperity to both capital and labor to unite with us in an earnest effort to effect his nomination . And - we protest against the use of organized political machinery , based on patronage , to deprive the people of many voices as to their real choice . The resolutions bore the signatures of Henry J. Allen , Kansas ; William @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Jersey ; Arthur II , Garford , Ohio , and Richmond Pearson , North . Carolina . The Committee on Permanent Organization was named as follows : Walter Brown of Ohio , Chairman ; A. P. ' Moore of Pennsylvania , Charles A. Nichols of Michigan , John A. Stewart of New York , and Edward J. Brundage of Illinois . This committee recommended that the temporary committee headed by Alexander H. Revell , which has been sounding the sentiment of the country , constitute the permanent Campaign Committee . ? The headquarters will remain at the Congress Hotel , and business will open Monday morning with a full corps of committees  --  Executive , Finance , and Publicity ? in operation . A general publicity committee was appointed , consisting of N , C. Wright of Cleveland , A. P. Moore of Pittsburgh , and John Callan O'Laughlin of Washington . A plan of finance was discussed , but this will be left to a committee to be named later . A popular subscription plan is the one favored by which citizens may contribute to the campaign fund amounts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . of the delegates to the National Convention from the States represented at to-day 's conference will be for Col. Roosevelt , according to a poll of the spokesmen for each State . Of the twenty-four States having representatives present , twenty-two made a forecast of the Roosevelt sentiment as represented in delegates to the Chicago Convention . These twenty-two men come from States having a total of 65 ; votes . Or this n umber 408 were claimed by Roosevelt . Most of the speakers asserted that their estimates are conservative .                     