@@680977

txt After a stormy debate that threatened at times to develop into a rough-andtumble fight , the National Democratic Club , at a meeting at the clubhouse. 81T Fifth Avenue , adopted resolutions last night calling for the reorganization of the Democrati , ? Party in the city and Stine and the is iSrernent of Charles F. Murphy as the leader oP Tammany Hall . The members of Murphy 's " Old Guard " made a desperate effort to stop the adoption of the resolution , but Chief Judge Edward F. O'Dwyer of the City Court , President of the club , gave the Murphy adherents a taste of boss rule , and adjourned the meeting without allowing a roll call amid yells and hoots of derision that could be heard a block away from the club . Smarting under their defeat , the Murphy supporters threatened to take the matter to the club 's Board of Governors . At one time it looked as if President O'Dwyer might be attacked . A dozen of Murphy 's friends crowded about the Chairman 's table , and , shaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rollcall on the obnoxious resolution . At the same time , in other parts of the room altercations that bordered on fisticuffs were in progress . After announcing an adjournment , President O'Dwyer left the room . and the Tammany members tried to get control of the meeting to rescind the club 's action . Thomas F. Smith , Secretary of Tammany Hall , who led the Murphy forces , followed the retreating President and dared him to put the resolution to a standing vote . " You do n't dare have a show down , " shouted Smith amid yells of approval from the Murphy supporters . With the hubbub at its height , after President O'Dwyer had left the room , Alderman William P. Kenneally seized the speaker 's gavel and announced that inasmuch as there had been no resolution to adjourn the meeting was still in session . A score of Murphy sympathizers again took their seats , and former Sheriff Julius Harburger was made Chairman . Harburger started to make a speech bristling with epithets , but the noise began all over again and the rump meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President O'Dwyer which ' sans , ii t:i1 ; 1 trouble and which was declared adopted : ? ? Resblved . We fatlir She immediate ; re " : organization of the DeineetatIO State Committee and the county committees in Greater New York , That we are opposed to the present leadership of Charles 5 ' . Murphy , and declare it our belief that the interests of the Democratic Party , its future prestige and success , demands his immediate retirement from all participation in party affairs . There were about 100 of the 725 members of the , club present when the meeting , the regularly quarterly one of the chit ) , was called to order by President O'Dwyer . Trouble was in the air for it had been announced that an attack upon Murphy would be made . Murphy had prepared for what was coming , although " Tom " Smith said later that Murphy 's friends did not know that sushi a drastic resolution was to be presented until late in the afternoon . Anyway , Murphy had time U. get together his " Old Guard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harburger , Thomas F. , Philip J. Donohue , John W. Keller . William P. Kenneally , and Sam I'rince . They sat well up in the front and awaited developments . The meeting started with a resolution calling for an amendment to the direct primary law ofefred by Theodore W. Myers . This was secondly loudly by Mr. Smith . Then came another resolution offered by ex-Judge Thomas Feltner , which condemned " invisible government and pledged the club 's support to the national leadership of President Wilson . " Mr. Smith seconded this resolution , and both were adopted . Then President O'Dwyer resigned his chair to exJudge Feltner long enough to make a speech , in which he defined his connection with the club covering the last twenty-five years . Then he attacked Murphy as the cause of the Democratic defeat in the city last Fall . The President then referred to Tammany 's refusal to give a renomination to Mayor Gaynor . President O'Dwyer then read the resolution calling upon Murphy to retire , and Alexander Konta moved its adoption . " Tom " Smith jumped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a reply . Many of the members tried to shout him down , but he w , as allowed to speak finally . He said that President O'Dwyer was unduly agitated , and he urged the members not to be influenced by what they read in the newspapers . " It is amazing for the President of this organization , " he said . " to say that what has been brought out in John Doe ! proceedings constitutes the guilt of all those persons who have been named in connection with grafting . Leaders of the party organization have been the I targets for all kinds of arrows in for1 mer times , as they have to-day . The most atrocious ailegations have been made against leaders who adorn the best pages of American history . I have no carrel with the man who condemns the leadership of any man or who disagrees with the conduct of organization affairs , but 1 do condemn the attitude of the man who says that in indictment constitutes guilt . These charges have been put forth by hired press agents of men who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men . " Mr. Smith then moved that the resolution be tabled , and Alderman Kenneally seconded the motion . There were cries from all over the room for the previous question , and Kenneally argued that the motion was not debateable . Ex-Judge Leitner stilled the tumult by a long speech in which be said that the party had been discredited , and that it was time for action . All the members were on their feet yelling at the same time when President O'Dwyer announced that the resolution was to be put to a vote . Banging the table with his gavel he called for a yea and nay vote . The vote seemed to be equally balanced for and against the resolution and the Chair man , bringing down his gavel with all his force announced that it had been carried . " Judge O'Dwyer learned his lesson in Tammany Hall thoroughly , " said Secretary Smith . " It was the worst instance of boss rule I ever saw . The whole proceeding was clearly illegal and the mattter will be put before the Board of Governors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twenty-five Governors of the club . among them Secretary Smith . ex-Judge Warren W. Foster , Nathan Straus , Charles Guggenheim , John J. Quinlan ; John F. O'Brien , Thomas F. Donnelly , John - VV . Keller , Thomas L. Feltner , Theodore W. Myers , William F. McCombs , Jesse R. Grant , John P. Leo , Richard Croker , and Richard Croker , Jr .                     