@@680987

txt Los Angeles , Portland , and Seattle bow to San Francisco as . the appropriate seat of the Pacific Federal Reserve Bank . In that manner the Western bank will unite the resources of the Coast States and will be more useful both to the coast and to the national system . It is a pity that this example of co-operation has not been more generally followed elsewhere . The hearings of the reserve bank organizers , generally speaking , have been more remarkable for the local jealousies they have disclosed than for the perception that there was anything of national significance in the new departure . Most of the speakers for their respective cities have argued as though they thought the country would profit by whatever could be taken from New York . There are exceptions , of course , and , singularly enough , more in the West than in the East . The St. Louis Clearing House formally resolved that it was to the advantage of the entire system that New York should maintain its present primacy . At the Chicago hearing the modest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national reserve system , but a different note was struck there by the spokesman for Minneapolis . Mr. CHAPMAN of the Northwestern National bank said : New York should stand as a bulwark between the United States and Europe . Europe will be more impressed - with the scheme the larger You make the New York bank . How different is the Eastern sentiment . and how little representative of New York sentiment is the spirit of the organizer who comes from New York . There is no bowing to New York as there is to San Francisco , nor any perception of the fact that it is impossible to have any other financial metropolis than New York . Boston , Philadelphia , Pittsburgh . Washington , and other Eastern centres will none of them defer either to each other or to New York in the interest of all . It is said in The Journal of Commerce that there are to be eleven reserve cities and that New York City 's share will be New York State , except the western portion . On the Atlantic Coast there are to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington counting as one . This is according to the theory of the organizers that present banking and trade statistics were not decisive regarding the new banking organization . Under the new act conditions were to be more as they ought to be ideally , and therefore less like the present result of unregulated growth . The new organization was to pay greater regard to railway accommodations and mail facilities , and there was to be laid out a system more symmetrical than the present . It sounds well , but the principle is not observed when the region best provided with means of communication is to be overprovided with reserve centres . The result is that large regions with inferior communications are to be supplied with fewer centres than they ought to have on that theory of apportionment . It would have been better to have fewer Eastern centres , with branches tributary to them . In that manner the Western States which are so appreciative of the East  --  we hope on account of anticipated future services by the East , as well as on account of appreciation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the theory of geographical apportionment , which is departed from when so many reserve centres are grouped within a few hours ' railway ride .                     