@@684266

txt RESCUE RUSSIA . German ' Peaceful Penetration ' Must Be Resisted at Once . To the Editor of The New York Times : Germany will shortly , if forced to do so , acknowledge her defeat and make a surrender as . complete as that of her allies . Even if she should attempt to temporize further , the delay can not long be continued . With the cessation of fighting the hardly less intricate reconstruction of devastated Europe will become the paramount isspet It should be apparent to all that the greater the military defeat sustained by Germany , the greater will be the effort made by her to recoup the disasters of war through the ' successful prosecution of her economic plans . To defeat these will lie no less an achievement than her military discomfiture . Germany has established and maintained the Bolshevik ' in their criminal domination of Russia and through them has acquired a temporary hold upon the industries of Russia , which she will be compelled to relinquish ? only through a complete understanding on the part of the Allies of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through careful , diligent , and painstaking thoroughness on their part . Assume for the moment that Germany becomes a democracy . Her peoples will at once say to the peoples of Russia , their neighbors , that the hardships imposed by Germany were due solely to the Kaiser and his military advisers , and that free Germany desires to co , operate with free Russia in the develop- : . 1 ment of ? the great resources of Russia for the good of both . They will make this appeal as strong and as far-reaching as , they made their appeal to the BOISIIOVild , Nvhich was effective in overturning law and order . Her economic purposes will not have been altered by , defeat , but they will be - just the same purposes that the Germans have always had in reference to Russia . While the hatred of the Russian people for , Germany has come to be intense , neverthe , less such an appeal as will be made by the self-styled free people of Germany to the free people of Russia for the ostensible purpose of mutual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the same methqds of bribery , unless the Allies intervene and definitely and purposefully adopt and carry through a comprehensive plan of economic aid and support in - the rehabilitation of Russia . ? The hopelessness of Russia under its present trials must be well understood , and the necessity of prompt succor we should all realize . Our reasons for the delay in bringing promised aid have perhaps been justified , although tie Russians are having great difficulty in understanding the cause . It was necessary that all the efforts of ourselves and of our allies ' should have been concentrated upon the western front and on the military defeat of Germany . With that purpose accomplished we can advance no further reason for failure to comprehend Russia 's needs and the urgent necessity of providing the required relief . An additional means of more promptly reaching the heart of Russia will now be available , by the surrender of Turkey and the opening of the Dardanelles . This is most opportune and should be promptly utilized . ' A legally established Government , consisting of a Directorate of five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now in existence , located at Omsk , in Siberia , and this Government begs for our prompt support . There can be no doubt but - that ' the saving of Russia lies very close to the hearts of the American people , and it is certain that our Government will have all possible support in carrying out this vast undertaking . A prompt expression of the desire of our people , through their various civic organizations throughout the . country , in support of the Administration 's announced policy of helping Russia , should be made known and should receive the hearty support of the entire nation . In other words , let us undertake the reconstruction - program with the same unanimity of purpose and with the same energy as we have shown in the prosecution of the war . S. R. BERTRON. , - New York , Nov. 6 ; 1918. 