@@682517

txt It has been evident since April that the spread of the Chinese revolution and the enmities acquired by Yuan SHIH-KAI among the republicans by his arbitrary course as President and his coquetting with monarchy and preparations to have himself crowned as Emperor after his referendum and unanimous " election " would drive him out of the country or out of office . He consented to the establishment of a " responsible Cabinet , " and one was appointed , though it can not be much more than a name until a really representative Parliament is created , till all the provincial Legislatures are restored to working order , and working relations are set up between them and the central Government . All these reforms , demanded by the revolutionaries , are not enough for the extremists . YuAN 's head alone would satisfy them . Trusted he could not expect to be . Not merely on account of his toying with the Patriotic Peace Fists or Boxers , whose power was such that it is claimed that he could not openly op- , pose them ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : a double course . Not merely because in the popular belief he was a traitor to the Emperor KUANG-HSU when " the old Buddha . " the Empress Dowager , stole the throne in 1S9S . Such grotesque legends of famous public men exist in the imagination of the Chinese people that the best or the worst administration , provided the secular proprieties are observed , can not count for much . There will be a rebellion . If the great man can put it down , he is safe . YUAN could n't put the rebellion down . How much of sheer political purpose , how much of fanaticism. secret societies , and the desire to loot lies in the existing and successful rebellion or revolution must vary from province to province , and eludes foreign speculation . That China is much less fitted for an actual republican form of Government than Turkey or Persia , which treated themselves to their brief hour of " free institutions , " seems clear from her vaster area and population . her extreme differences of dialects and interests , the difficulty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Emperors or their interpolated conquerors . Government variously diffused in various regions , accepted or sporadically rebelled against . maintained itself long in China by a sort of habit , backed now and then by sufficient military force . It was as Commander in Chief of the Army of the North that YUAN m as called from the " disgrace " so sure to fall upon too powerful a Chinese statesman , to boost up the decrepit Manchu throne in 1911 . Between the rescuer and the rebels , the Manchu dynasty was driven out ; Dr. SUN , the South China republican leader and candidate for President , was ' driven out , and YUAN , gathering the fruits which others had sown , came to be Provisional President and President Yuax . He was " the strong man " of China , but he was not strong enough . Whatever his merits as an army reorganizer , after the war with Japan , he could not make head against the Irebels of the South and the interior . The revolt reached to the coast , penletrated Shantung , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I have considered with great care , " said Yuart in March , " during the past two days and nights " the question of canceling the mo " narchical regime , and I am con " winced that the earlier the cancel " lation is effected the better it will " be for the people . " He had just heard that half a dozen provinces could not be kept down . An opportunist , given to delicious confessions of humility and sudden somersaults of opinion , he overplayed his game . President , dictator in effect , Emperor that never came to the throne , he seems to have been unstable of purpose , unequal to a task which he made greater than his means . And he must have underestimated lhis opponents , one thinks . His death is convenient for them and takes him i 1 from an impotent struggle . The suggestion that he was assisted out of the world by poison is too romantic for the West , but natural enough to the East . His successor , the former Vice President Li HuANG-YuNG , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General MAN , Minister of War and State , especially of the former , will prove the more important personage .. A difficult time for China , and Japan politely keeping watch . ? ? Yttax caMe'up - from nothing , like LiHUNG-CHANG , ? tO be the first , man in his country . ' In the last three or four years of transition , followed by anarchy , perhaps circumstances would have overpowered any Man playing his role . But . a Napoleon , or a Louis Napoleon , who boggles in the attempt to fulfill an ambition founded on the 1 betrayal of his trust is not a sympathetie or a strong figure                     