@@680229

txt Some of the steps to be taken by the Democraic Party in carrying out its programme of reform have been practically decided upon , it was said yesterday on ' high authority . Here are three of them ; An extra session of the Sixty-third Congress to revise downward the PayneAldrich Tariff bill , which was one of the great issues of the pre-election campaign . The continuation of Champ Clark as Speaker of the House of Representatives . The continuation of Oscar W. Underwood as majority leader of the House of Representatives . Gov . Wilson , at his home in Princeton , has steadfastly refused to comment on his plans . He has followed out the course of listening to all suggestions and remaining silent himself , but there are many things which lead to the conclusion that the President-elect is in sympathy with the course proposed . In remaining silent the Governor is clinging to the declarations he made in his campaign speeches . He declared then that there would be no immediate upheaval : that nothing would be done to cause disquiet amorg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then , he said , would receive the deepest consideration and thought , and that is exactly the course be is pursuing now in refraining from commiting himself to an extra session . But those Democratic leaders who recall the condemnauon that Gov . Wilson called down upon the framers of the Payne-Aldrich Tariff bill in his speeches have little doubt as to his ultimate stand on a special session . He declared then unequivocally for an immediate revision and for the purging of the tariff schedules of special privilege . If both houses of Congress backed him up , he promised the people of the country such a reform measure , and leaders willing to talk about it do not believe that the President-elect will consider delaying the tariff revision for a year or more until the next regular session of Congress . " Original Wilson men . " among them United States Senator-elect William Hughes of New Jersey , Representative A. Mitchell Palmer of Pennsylvania , and National Chairman William F. McCombs , make no secret of their belief that Champ Clark , who was one of the strongest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but accepted his defeat and I joined in working for the Governor 's succes at the polls , is the one to succeed himself as Speaker . He carried his State , Missouri , for Wilson by nearly 200,000 . Four years ago the State was carried by President Taft . Much confidence is placed in Leader Underwood 's ability to steer the new Tariff bill through . As Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee his will be the principal hand in making it . While Democratic leaders are speaking confidently of the extra session and the work to be done , Gov . Wilson is not to be budged from the position he took immediately after election , which is to say nothing new . But while he has not given his official sanction to such a plan , the supporters of the programme outlined point to the fact that there is riot the slightest indication from him of any opposiion . As to the make-up of the Governor 's Cabinet there has been less talk within the past few days . No one is attempting to offer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably will not be known until the Governor makes hid own announcement . Before coming to a decision the Governor is gi ing to seek the advice of men prominent in the Democratic Party , just as ne did at Sea Girt when he was reach1115 a decision as to the committee to di ect his campaign for the Presidency . Then he consulted with William F. McCombs , William G. , Senator Gore , and many other Democratic leaders , and heard all arguments before making any announcement . That , so the leaders believe . will be the course he will follow now . These leaders probably will be called in for consultation immediately after the Governor 's return from his vacation , or possibly while he is away , Chairman William F. McCombs retouted to New York last night after a two days ' rest at Princeton . He is planning to go on a vacation himself soon .                     