@@682324

txt The particularly dramatic climax wherein Grand Admiral von Tirpitz was dropped from office has ' thrown most of the Germans into the most interesting state of mind they have experienced since the war began , and the probable results are still puzzling even to professional observers . Knowing little or nothing of the inside details of the submarine controversy and the final test of strength between Chancellor von Bethmann Hollweg and von Tirpitz , which ended in the Grand Admiral 's defeat , and dependent largely on the hints and innuendoes of the more daring of the von Tirpitz press and the more favored Government papers , the average German has for several weeks been forced to feed on a crop of rumors which have contained just enough truth to seem plausible . As a result , the feeling of the average German in the street is approximately as follows : He has a strong desire for peace with honor , and the quicker the better ; a conviction that France and Russia are practically beaten , and that but for England peace could be made tomorrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allied coalition against Germany together . He also believes that England is Germany 's real and only enemy : that there can be no Peace until England is beaten ; that England can be beaten by ruthless submarine warfare , and that the ' von Tirpltz plan of torpedoing all ships found in English waters is probably the only way of beating her . Furthermore , . the average German has implicit confidence in his Kaiser , and believes that whatever decisions have been or will be made will be in Germany 's best interests . This feeling is mixed , however , with a sentiment of deep regret that a strong man like von Tirpitz , whose appeal to the popular Imagination has been , almost equal to that of Hindenburg , has gone , and a suspicion that the submarine warfare is not being pushed to real effectiveness against England . No one knows the mind of the German masses better than the German Government , and , accordingly , one finds it trying to influence possible doubting Thomases through every channel at its disposal , and trying in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every confidence In the wisdom of the Government and military leaders . A strong effort also is being made to convince the people that ' war will be waged to a finish . with every means at German 's disposal ; that more vigorous submarine war is being made . i and will continue to be made , on Eng-land 's commerce , and that the passage ! of Von Tirpitz has made no difference In the situation . Whether the Government propaganda will succeed ur von-Tlrpitz will oe able to come back are questions winch it is premature to try to answer as yet . The answer will depend partly on tta success or failure of the new submarine warrare and partly on the American Government 's acceptance or rejection of Germany 's contention that arint.d British merchantmen have forfeited the status of peaceful merchant snips and may be torpedoed without warning . Significant Newspaper . ti tlelc. - ? In connection with the Government 's ' reassurance to the German people that von Tirpitz 's retirement does not mean a suspension of the submarine war , the utmost significance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . is believed to reflect the Chancellor 's own views . This article says : " From all one hears one must reach the conviction that our responsible statesmen are In complete harmony with the military leaders . The aspect of the whole situation is very different from what it was when the Chancellor announced Germany 's readiness to enter upon peace negotiations under certain fixed conditions . These words , uttered with a feeling of strength and of absolute supremacy over the enemy , and not at all from a feeling of weakness , found a fanatical echo among our enemies . Even at that time the Chancellor made it perfectly clear that should his honorable wish to avoid further senseless bloodshed prove futile , we were determined to redouble our strength and our efforts in order to open the eyes of even the blindest among our enemies . " Today there is absolutely no doubt that every means in our power must be employed . Over this there is. as we have reason to believe , no difference or opinion whatever in any quarter . To be sure , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarding our several means of warfare and questions of internal organization . This duty not to lift the veil compels our responsible statesmen to let many a piece of gossip of little basis , which usually confuses the souls which have little power of resistance . to go uncontradicted . " But in the last analysis we may be assured that all the leading men have fully realized that the severity of a war of annihilation is unchained against us , and that they are firmly determined to bring the war to a victorious finish by all the weapons at their disposal . At what time and place and in what measure these arms will be employed we leave to those who are in a position to form a judgment on the basis of all the material at their disposal . " Every person would bring a heavy burden of blame on himself who would exploit the secrecy which still continues of necessity in order to excite the impression that in this or that office the strength to make the final decision and to use the utmost energy which this great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the irresponsible persons with very incomplete knowledge of the facts to draw conclusions that will not be able to stand against serious criticism as soon as all the details are made public . That very harmony to which so much Importance is attached in the highest official quarters requires that such practices shall not be able to transgress the sharp limits Which must be drawn about our political as well as our military warfare , and which , we repeat , will continue to be drawn with an iron will to make use of everything which the German national strength and the German spirit of invention has given us to our rn-In ? fortune and the ruin of the enemy . " Itisvarlan Paper 's licbuke . In connection with this inspired attack by the Lokalanzeiger on the gossipmongers and submarine champions , who are seeking to undermine the Chancellor by charging him with weakness , the following statement , which appears simultaneously in the offMal Bavarian State Gazette , is significant , when one reads between the lines : " For some time there has been propsted publicly in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agitation , the harmful effects of which we have followed with some anxiety . Everybody who Is conscious of his responsibility must be agreed that the spread of such propaganda must be opposed by all possible means . " The essential energy of decision and inner contentment will be only too easily harmed and impaired if the spreading of rumors and insinuations shall undermine the solid confidence in the leadership of the empire 's destinies , to which the.responsible leaders of our nation have full claim . To the southern parte of the Fatherland such rumors have come . and , we must say , to our regret . that attempts have not been lacking to spread the fear throughout the land that because of a lack of firm decision on the part of the leadership of the empire all the available means of war will not be employed or are not being sufficiently employed . All such efforts we denounce // The . General Government , and also the Bavarian Government , are . thoraughly informed regarding the  --  military and political problems to be solved . and , : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have complete faith In I the military and political conduct of the war . He who undertakes to shake the confidence of our people sins against : he Fatherland . To strengthen this con ! fidence Is the duty of every German . "                     