@@680101

txt The Senate this evening , by a vote of 27 to IS , passed the House Excise bill . Various amend:nents , none of which affected the body If the Democratic measure , were adopted , send thirteen Republicans then voted for the final passage of the bill . This measure . which levies what is practically an income tax of I per cent . on the net earnings of individuals and partnerships In excess of $3,000 , was aimed to supplement ' the corporation tax law , aiready in force , and its passage to-day le thought to foreshadow the passage tomorrow of a measure seriously reducing the duty on sugar . The receipts from n. : Excise bill are expected to make up the dafIcit resulting from curtailments n the sugar levies . The most important amendment adopted to-lay by the Senate has nothing to do with the levy , but threatens the most serious trouble for the measure when it gets into conference . It Is the Gronna amendment , already in one form attached to the Steel bill , repealing the Canadian Reciprocity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on print paper in place of the present duty of 53.73 , with free entry for paper from those Canadian provinces which do not discriminate against the United States . This amendment was voted down when it was offered to the Wool bill last night , but this evening it was adopted by a vote of 37 to 26 , Senators Johnson and Thornton were the only Democrats who supported it . The text of the provision fixing a new tariff on paper is : That from and after the passage of this act . , duty on chemical wood pulp shall be onetwelfth of one cent per pound , dry weight , If unbleached , and one-eighth or one cent per pound if bleached : and the duty on printing Paper . as described in paragraph 400 of the act approved Aug. 5 , 1002 , ( the Payne. - Aldrich tariff law. ) shall be one-tenth of one cent per pound if valued at not above 3 cents per pound ; two-tenths of one cent per pound It valued above 3 cents , and not above 5 cents Per pound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 5 cents per pound . The portion of the reciprocity law now in effect , which admits paper free from certain Canadian provinces , was defended by Senators Williams , Bacon . Smith of Georgia , and- other Democrats . If this free paper provision were allowed to remain they , would be glad , they said , to support a repeal of the balance of e Senator ' Bacon finally offered imelfdinent to repeal-al/ of the'reeineocity law except the free paper section . It was defeated , to .27 , Bristow , Clapp . Poin ( iexter , arid Works being the only Pro47essiveS tyke voted for it . - The Gronna amendment was then-adopted , and Mt Bacon offered an amendment exempting from tax all incomes derived from bonds and outer signs of Indebtedness which have already paid the levy . The amenument was accepted without a roll call , The tariff leaders of the House will insist on the retention of the provision for the abolition of the Tariff Board when the sundry civil bill , recently passed ay the Senate , is returned to the House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his colleagues on the Ways and Means Committee want the Executive Tariff Board abolished , and will not be influenced by the amendment of the Senate contemplating the restoration of the appropriation for continuance f the board . The leaders will have the backing of the Democrats of the House , and the board seems doomed . On the motion of Senator Fletcher the Excise bill was amended so that the tax would not apply to labor organizations , agricultural associations , or fraternal orgcnizations of an insurance character . A ; : ian to check the tobacco monopoly by a special excise tax on production above a certain amount , offered by Senator Hitchcock , was defeated . , This proposal was for a special tax on the production of more than 20,000,000 Pounds of tobacco , 400,000,000 cigars , the same number of cigarettes , and 4,000,000 pounds of snuff , by any one company . For an annual production above this quantity , the tax would rise rapidly , so that It would soon become prohibitive . Mr. Hitchcock declared such a taxing system would curb a tobacco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " mistake , lack of judgment , connivance , or in some otherway . It developed to-day that in his eagerness last night to defeat the Penrose Wool bill , Mr. La Follette had made his substitute so sweeping that the Cummins Tariff Commission amendment was also superseded . To-day , accordingly , Mr. Cummins offered it as an amendment to the Excise bill , and it prevailed by a vote 38 to Senators Thornton and Chamberlain , Demterats. who had supported the amendment last night , returning to their party and voting against the amendment . So nearly identical - with the income tax law , which the Supreme Court ' declared unconstitutional a decade and a half ago , is the Excise bill that Mr. Borah of Idaho , an insurgent , tried to substitute for it a straight out income tax levy of 2 per cent . His position is that such a levy would force another hearing before the Supreme Court , and he believes the court would reverse itself . Three Democrats , Mr. Culberson of Texas , Mr. Hitchcock of Nebraska , and Mr. Martine of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a vote of 23 to 33 . Earlier in the day the Democrats In caucus had declared for ' the principle of the income tax . but ' decided to stick to the House measure pending the adoption of the proposed constitutional amendment , now before the States . On the vote on the Excise WIT the Democrats were supported by these Progressives and Insurgent Republicans . Senator Bourne , Bristow , Clapp , Crawford , Cummins , Gronna , Jones , Kenyon , La Follette . Nelson , Poindexter , Townsend . and Works . Views are divergent to-night as to the effect of to-day 's action In the Senate . Some believe the Democrats made a great mistake In not accepting the straight out Income tax amendment . which would have been easily understood by the voting population . These critics say that the average citizen will never he persuaded to understand the meaning of the excise tax , and that he will always hold up against the Democrats their vote against the laborite levy . Thus Mr. Burton of Ohio , a regular Republican , voted for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Pomerene. will have to explain why he voted against it in favor of the lees direct levy . The prevailing opinion seems to be that the President will veto the levy , though there is some ground for doubting this . It will be recalled that when lie induced the Senate to Insert the corporation tax instead of the income tax into the Railroad bill of 1910 , he admitted the possible constitutionality of the income tax , but deplored the necessity of forcing the Supreme Court to reverse itself . But , as the excise tax is not precisely an in. eome tax , that reversal could now ba accomplished with a better grace . The assumption . however , undoubtedly is that he will veto it . It is believed that the insertion of the Canadian amendment was chiefly aimed at the killing of the whole measure in the House , and it is quite likely tat such will be the effect . ? ! . It is reported to-night that Senators Cummins and La Follette for the insufEc ' gents are prepared to surprise the leadere , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offering as an amendment to the " Sugar bill a measure revising the cotton schedule . Long ago Mr. Cummins threat " ened that if the House ( lid not sehu up a cotton bill , he would offer one as ati ? amendment , and the Sugar bill to-morrow ? offers him his last chance . Such an amendment would have a strong chance of adoption , though ninny -- Democrats might object to rushing out ? a measure like this without study without any scrutiny by the House Committee on Ways and Means . The amend= : ' meet , however , promises at least another Interesting feature in the already badly tangled tariff snarl . In the House Committee a cotton bill hao been framed by the Democrats , and tlfeonly thing needed for its introduction is for the Senate to show itself in a receptive frame a mind . But it is unlikely that the passage of the Wool bill and the excise measures , or even the Sugar bill to-morrow would be construed as indicating such an attitude on the part of the Senate so late in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not yet been made available . The Democrats have determined to support Senator Williams ' bill , introduced today , providing a one-third cut in all sugar tariffs , and a cut of forty per cent . on the molasses tariff . The House bill provides a basis of free sugar , but this will not be indorsed by the Democrats . It is expected that a compromise measure will be offered by the Republican leaders reducing the existing duty of 81.93 on refined sugar by from n to 40 cents per hundred pounds . This compromise may be adopted by the Senate , but it is expected that in the end it will give way , as in the er.se of the woollen schedules , to a Progressive bill still further reducing the duty . 