@@679406

txt During his tour in South America four years ago Mr. Ellin : RooT , then our Secretary of State , spoke with eloquence and fervor , and repeatedly spoke , in advocacy of more extensive commercial relations between this Republic and the republics to the south of us . In many brief discourses at the capitals and chief commercial centres of the countries he visited he pointed out the great benefits to them and to us of the peaceful exchanges of trade . Having drawn from these speeches of Mr. BOOT a very firm impression that he Is a friend , not an enemy , of larger commercial intercourse , we are astonished at the information brought in Washington dispatches that he has appeared before the Senate Finance Corn- I mittee urging an amendment to the McCall reciprocity measure which , if accepted by the Senate . would send the bill to conference and so expose it to the danger of being defeated altogether . I since the House might nut accept the ' I amendment ; while if the amendment were accepted it would deprive both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its important benefits . The intent of Mr. Roofs amendment is to prevent the provisions relating to wood pulp and print paper from becoming effective until all the restrictions now imposed in certain provinces of Canada upon these products originating on the Crown lands are removed . We say that is the intent of the amendment . That is its apparent intent . That would be its effect if it did not tin the agreement altogether . We must assume that if Mr. ROOT were really opposed to reciprocity with Canada he would declare his opposition openly on the floor of the Senate , and not by the familiar subterfuge of a possibly fatal amendment . What change has come over Senator ROOT that he should now seek to narrow the operation of the reciprocity agreement and to put obstacles in the way of our commerce with Canada ? In his address at the third Conference of American Republics held in Rio de Janeiro July 31 , 1900 , Mr. ROOT said that be understood It was the purpose of the Conference " to promote this mutual interchange and assistance between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all our countries . " he said . " that can not benefit the others ; there is not one that can not receive benefit from the others ; there is not one that will not gain by the prosperity , peace , and happiness of all . " At a banquet given to Mr. Roor in Bahia July 24 , he said : " We can both aid each other by the peaceful exchanges of trade . Our trade . yes , our trade is valuable , and may it . increase ! May it increase to the wealth and prosperity of both nations ! " At Buenos Ayres , Aug. 14 , he said : " can rejoice in each other 's prosperity ; we can aid in each other 's development ; we can be proud of each other 's successes without hindrance or drawback . " This note is common to all or most of the speeches he made on that historic tour undertaken to cement friendly relations with our sister republics of America .. Mr. ROOT told the people of the Argentine that he hoped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be sent there to develop their resources . Why go to the Argentine when Canada is at hand ? She has need of our capital , we have need of her products . Is Mr. Poor more concerned about a few paper mills In the northern part of the State be represents in the Senate than be is about the development of our commerce , which this agreement , nationwide in Its scope , as the President has said , would do so much to promote ? A statesman of Mr. Rooe 's great ability , it seems to us , should scorn the imputation that he represents a district or an tittered . Solicitude for a few paper mills ought not to make the New York Senator deaf to the demand of the whole country that he give his hearty support to a measure which would in so many ways promote its prosperity . By what reasoning has he convinced himself that the paper manufacturing Industry of the United States is in such an enfeebled condition that it needs continued protection ? The Mann Committee of the House , after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at all . The slight reduction of duties in the Payne-Aldrich bill was followed by an increase in the prices the paper manufacturers demand from their customers . If ever the cause of a protected interest was without merit , it is the cause of the paper manufac:toren . We can not understand why Mr. RooT , abandoning the policy of freer 1 commercial exchanges which he advocated in his South American speeches . should now consent to appear as the champion of trade restriction and of that policy of exclusion which President I Mob:ins:Lux in his last speech con-1 demned.                     