@@679781

txt Detectives of the Alexander Avenue Sta. - , ' tion in the Bronx are searching for an la.utoist who they believe struck and killed six-year-old Howard Mangold of 234 East 137th Street , last night , and then , putting the boy , either dead or dying , on a pile of steel girders in front of a building in course of construction at 137th Street and Third Avenue , made off . The boy was found on this pile of girders , which are raised four feet from the ground on a pair of wooden horses . His back was broken and he was dead when Dr. Preston 1 of Lincoln Hospital saw him . It was evident that the child could not have reached his seat on the girders unaided . The boy was noticed first by Nicholas Cinelli , a conductor on the Union Railroad , who had stopped in the neighborhood to buy a new uniform and had just left a near-liy store With his purchase . It was snowing hard and Cinelli wondered that a small boy should sit out In such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the street and shook the boy by the shoulder , intending to arouse him if he had fallen asleep or to give him into the charge of a policeman if he proved to be homeless . The boy 's body was limp in Cinelli 's grasp , and then the conductor noticed that the youngster 's clothes were torn and covered with slush and mud . Cinelli called Policeman Gannon of the Alexander Avenue Station , who went off to summon an ambulance from Lincoln Hospital . Nine-year-old Thomas Holliday of 2,511 Third Avenue identified the body and ran to his playmate 's home . Mr. Mangold hurried back with him and carried his son into the house , where Dr. Freston found him a moment later . The surgeon said that in addition to a broken back the boy had been hurt internally . It seems certain that he must have beep killed instantly . Yet the police could find no one who had seen the boy hit by automobile , wagon , or trolley car . There is a trolley track within fifteen feet of where the boy was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ car had hit the lad . It could not have tossed him to the girders and no motorman could have carried him there with a earful of passengers looking on . From the extent of his injuries and the condition of his clothes the police decided:that the boy must have be-en Struck by an automobile . ? It was snowing hard at ? 7:30 o'clock when he was found , and there were few persons In the streets . An auto might have struck the child , and its occupants could have placed him on the girders and got away unnoticed . Mr. Mangold told the police that the boy had had supper and then had asked to go out and play for a while in the snow . He left the house at 7:10 o'clock , so the accident must have happened between that hour and 7:30 o'clock .                     