@@682642

txt After having first formnlly rejected the proposal of the conference committee of railroad managers that the United States Board of Mediation be called upon to adjust the wage controversy between the railroads of the United States and their train employees , the chiefs of the four brotherhoods yesterday suddenly reversed their position . At the close of the morning session , with an apparent deadlock between the two parties , the managers made a formal appeal to Judge W. L. Chambers , Chairman of the Federal Mediation Board , who was in the city . Judge Chambers immediately notified the brotherhood leaders of the request of the managers that the board act . President Garretson , of the Conductors ' Brotherhood , acting for the four bodies , thereupon notified Judge*Chamhers that the men would accent the good offices of the board as mediators , provided a , an was taken at once . President Garretson of t o Conductors ' Brotherhood made the following comment on the decision to accept mediation : " I can not say what the outcome of mediation may be . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entire matter will be unchanged and the condition will be us it is today . " The form of procedure that will be adopted by the Federal Board of Mediation is as follows : The managers ' committee as being the appealing body will state their case before the mediation board first . This will be followed by a meeting with the brotherhoods ' representatives , the entire 400 or more brotherhood men in the city . Judge William L. Chambers . G. W. W. Hanger , Judge Martin A. Knapp , of the Federal Board of Mediation and Conciliation commenced the hearings this afternoon by having a meeting with the members of the Managers ' Committee . Tomorrow the brotherhoods will have their hearings . The hearings will continue over a period variously estimated at from 4S hours to two weeks . In reply to queries as to the outcome , Mr. Garretson said : " I am a Methodist . It is an established belief in that faith that ' where there is life there is hope , ' which means I am hoping for the best . Permit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information you will get from me . See the Federal Board of Mediation and Conciliation . That body must give out all news for the future . " With the acceptance by the Brotherhood officers of the proposal of the railroad managers to call upon the Federal Board of Mediation , the menace of a general railroad strike practically ceases to exist . While there is the possibility of the board failing to arrange conditions of arbitration satisfactory to both side ; , it is conceded to be a remote one . ' Under the law the Board of Mediation and Conciliation does not itself act ns a board of referees . Its efforts are directed first toward bringing the two parties together on a mutually acceptable basis for a direct settlement of differences : failing which . the Board endeavors to obtain the consent of both sides to arbitration . In case they consent , the two parties each select two arbitrators and the four then select two more . If the first four can not agree upon the last two within a specified time , they are appointed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accept mediation , announced within three hours of the time they had firmly refused it , can not be regarded as a sign of weiticeaing on the part of the men or of any lack of faith in their cause , according to men who have followed every phase of the negotiations closely . In their view , every step the brotherhoods have taken was carefully calculated for its effect in impressing the public mind . The fact that they accepted mediation is ascribed to the conviction that they could gain more that way than by suspending railroad service even for an hour . Acceptance to mediation still leaves the men free to insist upon certain conditions being granted as to the scope of the arbitration . They are expected to demand that the arbitrators be limited to the consideration of the Brotherhood proposals and be prohibited from considering any counter proposals from the companies . On the announcement that the men would allow mediation the stock market became more active and advanced vigorously , the railroad issues taking the lead . 