@@681915

txt Thomas Mott Osborne , Warden of Sing Sing . charged in a speech to Summer school students at Columbia University last night that politicians , who wanted to oust him from the Wardenship had tried to " frame him up , " and that the station platform altercation he had with a confidential agent of the State Superintendent of Prisons in Ossining last Thursday was an outgrowth of an attempted " frame up . " The politicians who wanted to oust him , he said , had " a peculiar reason " for wanting him " replaced by somebody more pliable and less honest . " The address was given under the auspices of the National ommittee on Prisons and Prison Labor , of which Mr. Osborne is Honorary President , and which has its headquarters at Columbia . He first described conditions as he found them at Auburn and Sing Sing Prisons , and then described the reforms he had instituted and their effect on some of the prisoners . Priscns as they had been , he said , were perhaps the greatest failures of civilization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spiritual freedom . " But we have one great enemy to reckon with , " the Warden said , " and that is the politician . " Mr. Osborne told ? of the visit last Thursday of Superintendent Riley 's I agent . Patrick H. went to the prison that day , Mr. Osborne said , because it was understood that he , the Warden , would be absent on account of the double execution the next morning , when Becker and a mulatto were sent to the electric chair . made the visit to get certain prison records and papers , and Mr. Osborne said he waited until he had procured them covertly from a convict before he left Superintendent Riley 's letter for the Warden at the office and disappeared . Mr. Osborne reached the station before had left and got the papers from 's handbag after losing a couple of shirt buttons and be ' ing slightly rumpled up while " reasoning " with the confidential agent , as he put it last night . His assault charge against the agent will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Encouraged to Run Away . " You do n't know what they meant to frame up , " the Warden said to his audience , and then added significantly , " but I think I do . " He did not go into details on this point , but referred to mysterious influences at work in another connection . " We have had three successful runaways and one unsuccessful , " he said . " I could tell you some interesting stories about these . There is not a bit of doubt that some of these men received encouragement from the outside . In other words , there is a powerful opposition exerting itself against the reform movement . " The Warden asked his audience to remember his words if they ever heard of his committing " some frightful crime . " Mr. Osborne read copies of a letter he had sent to Governor Whitman in which he defended his reforms and replied to public attacks on his system , and a letter to Superintendent Riley regarding 's method of " smuggling " the records out of the prison . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regaining the records by writing : " Of course , I knew that this undignified and unofficial proceeding could not possibly be with your sanction . " Mr. Osborne said that he had sent Superintendent Riley copies of all the reports had procured , and that he would send the originals if they were ordered . But this time ? ll have copies of them myself , and they 'll all be numbered . " he said . " And then they wo n't be able to arrange any frame-up . " The Warden declared he liked and respected Superintendent Riley , but he felt that the Superintendent had been misled . " I wish he would come to Sing Sing himself and learn the truth about what is being done there , " he remarked . Complains of Politicians . In an appeal to his auditors to support the prison reform movement Mr. Osborne said : " I think it is up to the people of New York to see that politicians leave mu alone in this work I am trying . to accomplish for the good of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I 'm interested in it . I do n't get any money out of Sing Sing . It costs me money to hold the job . The salary the State allows me I have used to employ an Assistant Warden . " Mr. Osborne asserted that his reforms were practicable and calculated to be of more benefit to society than to the prisoners personally . He cited the following case to prove that one prisoner , at least , had learned to control impulses sufficiently to be allowed to return to the world : " When a man escaped fifteen of the prisoners were sent out to find him and stayed out all night . Every one of them returned , and one had twelve years more of his sentence to serve . That .11-icoaunrwe was tempted not to come hack. of , and that very act proved him capable of taking his place in society again . "                     