@@680519

txt The bills relating to workmen 's compensation were taken up yesterday in the State Senate . On the whole we are convinced that the bill favored by the State Insurance Department Is the better of the two presented . It is known as the Foley-Walker bill . This bill provides compensation for injuries to workmen on the scale of one-half their regular pay during whatever time they may be disabled . The other bill , known as the Murtaugh-Jackson bill , provides for payment of 65 per cent . of regular pay . The radical objection.to this is that it is 30 per cent higher than is required in other States adjoining New York . It does not seem good policy to put the employers of our own State at a disadvantage with their nearest rbrals . Half pay during disability is the prevailing policy in most of the States where compensation is insured , and also in Europe . It is a reasonable rate . Sixty-five per cent is not only extraordinary , as measured by general practice , but it is high enough to encourage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " sojering " on the other . Another feature of the Murtaugh bill is that an appeal to the courts from a decision of the State Board on any disputed claim Is allowed to the workman but not to the employer . There can be no reasonable defense for such obvious class favoritism as this . It is admitted that the State Board may err . By what right , then , may the workman get the error corrected and the employer not ? On the other hand , the Murtaugh bill provides for compensation in a certain number of specified industries . The Foley bill applies to all industries except agriculture and domestic service , and is obviously the better one for the workingmen generally . Apparently the chief point of contention between the supporters of the two bills respectively is the regulation of insurance . There are three forms of insurance proposed . One , contained in the Murtaugh bill , is State insurance of a rather ill-digested sort . Money is to be collected by a State Board and paid over to claimants when due . The State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excessive , or they may be insufficient . In the former case the employers may- suffer ; in the latter case the workmen may . There would be only a few months in which to organize the system ; it would be exposed to many errors , to say nothing of political influence . It is an exceedingly crude plan . A second form of insurance proposed is by-the stock casualty companies . These are , specifically excluded by the to competition with the third form of insurance , that of mutual companies . This seems distinctly the wiser plan . Insurance under a law which , though optional at present , must become com-* pulsory before another year , is a very different matter from insurance in the past , when the uncertain common law defenses could be , pleaded . Then the obligations of the employer were vague and there was opportunity for unlimited litigation . Under the compensation law , the liabilities of the employers and the rights of the workmen are relatively clearly determined . We can see nothing to be gained by the workmen in giving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a State Board , and it seems a plain right of the employer to have a chance to get his insurance on the best terms so long as the State has complete control of the companies he employs . So far as it Is practicable , the system of insurance should be so arranged as to make it to the interest of the employers to prevent accidents . This would be accomplished with more certainty by mutual insurance , we think , than by any other form . The members of a mutual company , all engaged in the same or similar trades , could easily adopt a set of conditions that would guard against the known causes of injury , as Is done by some manufacturers ' fire insurance mutual companies . We are convinced that there should be open competition among all legitimate State-regulated insurance systems ; but it is quite probable that , with such competition , the mutual system would in the long run prevail                     