@@682295

txt Only blind men , or those having eyes which see not , can fail to remark that the city is being made over . In all likelihood it is now taking its final form . It is visionary to imagine another transit improvement on any scale comparable with the dual subway . The state of the transportation art may change again as marvelously as in the substitution of cars for omnibuses , of cables for horses . and of electricity for steam . Flying machines are not beyond imagination , but they , or anything similar , must remain impracticable for the millions through the difficulties of financing . Public funds will not again be available for generations on any like scale . Neither private capital nor the city 's credit can endure the repetition of the losses of the remaking of the city . The recent tax assessment shows that comparatively small areas have suffered losses of tax valuations of tens of millions of dollars , and there is no reason to doubt that the private losses are larger . Those who considered themselves owners of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the possession of loaning institutions , which are reluctant pro , prietors . They have no use for the properties which have come into their possession in default of the loans which they would prefer to collect . Being unable to collect , they are unable to lend again , and the city is threatened with the loss of the support of the building loan funds of great institutions . Already it has lost the support of cheap capital . There has long been something ominous about the strength of the market for mortgage money . It has ranged around 6 per cent rather than around 4 , while taxes have been rising . That , added to the loss of capital by tens of millions , ' has ' put caution into the minds of the improvers of the city 's central districts . The outlook is brightened by the very badness of the situation . It is unendurable , and those most concerned have united ' for its betterment by those private methods which are swifter and surer than legislation . Those who created the new values , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ values , have banded for Self-protection , which will act as protection of the city 's tax resources , and which will relieve the woes of property owners by giving stability to values ; , and perhaps by restoring the old value ? . tp a large extent . There is nothing the matter with the city . These are growing pains , not the pains of disease or dissolution . All that is needed is such care as foresters giveto trees and shrubs so that their growth may be directed as wanted . It was desired that the city should grow in concentric circles , like the trunk of a tree . Cities of normal growth are round . New York was abnormal in its growth . Its citizens could emigrate and enrich alien States , but the city could not overflow into New Jersey . Rivers prevented the millions of Manhattan from enriching the outer boroughs by filling their empty acres . The dual subway will enable the city to round itself as it grows , and will create great values without compensating losses . Already substantial installments have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things to come . The trouble is now within the central borough . The problem here is to stop the losses while allowing the profits to run . The most immediate point of attack is the prevention of such a calamity as befell lower Fifth Avenue , lower Broadway , and the old retail shop centres in the neighborhood of Sixth Avenue , and for a mile northward from Fourteenth Street . The loss there is small compared with the gains to Fourth and Fifth Avenues , but it is the larger values which now are threatened in the same manner . The new wholesale and retail districts on the two avenues comprise perhaps an eighth of the city 's tax resources . In- , eluding the tributary cross streets , there may be between one and two billions of values in properties in danger , of depreciation through overbuilding of a character which threatens destruction to near-by values . The regulation of supply and demand by the forces which control them is the note of the earnest and influential appeal to " save New York . " It is self-help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid to the injured , preliminary to and supplementary to the official zone system soon to appear . The lenders of money are agreed that they will lend no more in the ways from which they and the city have suffered . The occupiers of buildings in the threatened area are agreed that they will not favor the products of those whose workpeople repel their customers , and they offer to supply custom to enable such workshops to make profits elsewhere . That will create demand for the unused accommodations in the abandoned district , and will give the city a sustained development instead of the alternations of splendor and decay which now show a diseased growth . This is a movement for , conservation and protection , and against destruction which is none the less wanton because not malicious . It is a crusade against a demonstrated evil the repetition of which would be inexcusable . The zone , plan will have a similar result . but its coming Is delayed . Quick action is necessary . and can be supplied only by private initiative , such as is represented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The interest is broader even than that . Every taxpayer is interested , for the gain or the loss anywhere is reflected everywhere . The general tax rate is raised by the depreciation in restricted districts , and would be lowered by their betterment .                     