@@679649

txt The - back to the land " cry labors under the disadvantage that the world never had so much to eat as when the complaint of deficiency of labor is loudest . The United States alone is almost in sight of harvests valued at ten billions of dollars , a fact which will Drove once more that this is in truth a country where values as well as costs are reckoned in billions . The explanation of the demand for more labor at a time when existing labor supply is unprecedentedly productive is simple . There is no demand for an increase of all-the-year agricultural labor . The demand is for a supply merely of harvest hands , to work for a few weeks and then return to other occupations . The intensity of the demand is due to the fact that machinery enables farmers to plant and cultivate almost incredible quantities of produce , but housing and marketing are operations not yet reduced to performance by machinery . Take , for example , our current threebillion bushel corn crop . It must be planted and binned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be an impossible task . Human hands could not be found to do the work of those three months unassisted , and the way of supporting and employing those armies for the other nine months would be another insoluble problem . What the price of corn would be but for farm machinery must be left to imagination . The case of wheat is the same . It has been calculated that the human labor in a bushel of wheat un to a time within memory of living men was three hours . Now it is ten minutes .. The problem of cotton culture is not yet solved , but is under attack . It is only because of the truth of these . facts that the United States hal All been able to develop itself from an agricultural into a manufacturing people . A century ago 97 per cent . of the population was agricultural from necessity . The alternative was starvation . Today only one-third of the Population is agricultural , and the abundance is greater , not only of food products but of other things . This is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to other than agricultural labor . It is interesting to notice that the improvement is recent , and at the top or culmination of the agricultural process . It Is useless to plant unless it is possible to reap . Always it was possible to - plant more than could be cultivated until the reaper was in vented . It was the invention of the reaper and the locomotive which made ' possible the cultivation of the prairies 1 and altered ; world history as well as National history . And now it has come to pass that those who enabled the farmers to make fortunes almost incredible in the aggregate are charged with oppressing them . There is no denying the existence of the machines nor their beneficence . But it is said that the makers of the machines ought to sell them cheaper , and have reaped more than the farmers who use their machines , although the aggregate of created wealth is almost incalculably on the side of the farmers . Just so we are told that although American railway rates are the world 's lowest they ought to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although sugar , and oil , and steel have been cheapened or prevented from rising by the effects of the trusts which produce them . their profits are extortionate , and their profits ought to be reduced by law . The comparison which makes these trusts extortioners is not with any price ever realized , for in all cases they are pioneers and makers of ways which did not exist , but with some imaginary standard of conduct and some hypothetical price standard from which the element of profit is eliminated . It surely is to be lamented that this is a world of human imperfections and that some fault is always to be discovered by those looking for nothing else . But after all our conditions just as they exist are the best in the world 's history , and if experience teaches anything it is that human Institutions per- I feet themselves best and most rapidly when the path of development is free and open . The most useful laws are not those which have altered social conditions , but those which registered alterations already effected . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human reason through its nice balance of considerations more complicated than can be reduced to statutory form , and with nicer adaptation to altering conditions . Nobody ever conceived that statutes were the perfection of human reason . It only remains to add that the enactment of economic statutes is more delicate and difficult than the statutory regulation of conduct .                     