@@681446

txt Leading banking interests who are seriously considering ways and means of bringing about a resumption o1 busii  --  ess on the New York Stock Exchange have made such encouraging progress that they now expect to be able to make an important announcement on the subject within a week or ten days . For the present , however , they decline to save even a rough outline of the proposed procedure , saying that the plans are in such a tentative state that it would be impossible to say now what may ultimately be approved and what rejected or =edited . The matter will receive more earnest and careful attention from now on than has been given to it heretofore , - v.hen it had to be subordinated to other questions which the banking interests regarded as more important . Shortly after the outbreak of the war it was recognized that certain things would have to take precedence over others , and a program was laid down which recognized as the first requirement the necessity of making arrangements to pay of the notes of New York City at their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this country confessed its inability or disinclination to meet its obligations to foreign creditors , or to pay them in gold , the only say in which they could be properly discharged . Next in order of pressing necessity to the payment of the New York City obligations was the need of breaking the deadlock in the foreign exchange situation , and although exchange rates have not yet been depressed to the normal level . substantial progress has been made , and the operations of the $100,000,000 gold fund are meeting the expectations of the bankers in charge of its administration . It is confidently predicted that the price of sterling will not again advance to the high levels of about a month ago , and that within a reasonable time there will be a decline to 4.90 , or lower . When the foreign exchange difficulty was treated in the best way that could be devised , and leading banking interests were afforded.an opportunity to take up other problems , they found the cotton deadlock next on their program . Satisfactory plans to break that have been devised , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $150,000,000 fund at prolonged conferences held at the Metropolitan Club on Sunday between leading bankers , Secretary , of the " Treasury , and Mr. Harding of the Federal Reserve Board . The arrangement of the cotton plan opened the way for consideration of the question of how a resumption of business on the New York Stock Exchange could be facilitated ; and encouraged by their success in dealing with all the other matters on their program , bankers have the utmost confidence that this last requirement of the situation can be successfully dealt with within a short period of time .                     