@@679158

txt In the annual report of the Citizens ' Union , soon to be published , will be an important comparison between the recommendations of the Charter Commission of 1909 and the proposals for the City Government put forward last session by the joint committee of the Senate and Assembly . The ' Legislature actually accepted neither plan , but has continued the committee till next session . How urgent is the preparation of a charter on a proper basis was evidenced , says the Citizens ' Union , by the fact that , although the Governor and Mayor have set their faces for some time against piecemeal tinkering with the present form of government , no less than 125 proposed amendments to the New York charter were introduced in either one or other of the houses last session , and this number was considerably less than the suggestions of change made in 1900 , 1007 , and 1908 . The joint committee of the Legislature announced that it could not accept the basic principle on which the commission 's charter was constructed , but nevertheless it adopted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not like the plan of enacting separately from the charter an administrative code , which should be subject to revision by the Legislature , It took a number of the sections which the commission had thought were appropriate for the administrative code and put them In a code of ordinances which should be subject to the Aldermen . Both the commission and the joint committee were in accord on the advisability of making the disbursing officials distinct from the appropriating ones , but the committee did not believe in the proposed stripping of the Borough Presidents of many of their present powers . It also criticised the centralization of administrative powers for the entire city in the hands of commissioners , on the ground that as a matter of fact subordinate officials would be obliged to make decisions of great importance . To this the Citizens ' Union replies that such dole- , gation of authority to subordinates is inevitable in all large institutions , but the responsibility still lies with the men who " select and appoint subordinates . The Aldermen , as the commission would have it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the committee decided to ? : keep the present board practically unaltered . The Board of Estimate , the joint committee held , should have certain borough members , but there was a difference of opinion as to whether these should be elected by the city at large or one from each borough . The board , as reconstituted , would , under the joint committee plan , have only appropriating functions , all administrative work being left to the Borough Presidents elected as at present . In compliance with the views of the commission , however , it agreed . that important powers relating to the city . map now vested in the Borough Presidents should be centralized in the Board of Estimate . The central purchasing bureau suggested by the commission did not recommend itself to the joint committee . Instead it thought there should be a Fiscal Supervisor , who should standardize purchases and fix the maximum prices for articles obtained by open market orders , subject to the control of the Board of Estimate . There was no disagreement between the Charter Commission and the joint committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the creation of sinking funds to which specific revenues of the city are pledged , and the establishment of a strict policy of requiring all expenditures to be paid annually out of the taxation and to be shown in the budget . The commission and joint committee are also of one mind on the advisability of putting the Board of Education more directly under the Board of Estimate and of abolishing its separate corporate existence , and of conferring on the Board of Estimate , subject only to check by the Aldermen , the absolute control of all salary schedules except those of elective officers . The Citizens ' Union comments sharply on the way in which it was suggested that the recommendations of the joint committee should be passed into law . A little more than a month before the last session ended the joint committee introduced no less than twenty-six bills with its proposals . They had been drafted hastily and were full of serious errors . Recognizing this , the Citizens ' Union says , the joint committee proposed that , while the bills should be adopted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ till after another session . This proposal was defeated largely through the opposition of the Citizens ' Union . which petitioned against it . It proposed that only the most urgent matters be attended to immediately . and that the final draft of a new charter be left to a special commission appointPd by the Mayor or Governor , and supplied with enotieh funds to employ thoroughly skilled draughtsmen to codify their suggestions accurately . This the Legislature . refused to do , but continued the joint committee , with instructions to report next session . The Citizens ' Union has also been keeping a careful record of the doings of every member of the Legislature . through a committee under the Chairmanship of Julius Henry Cohen . This will publish its result 's , especially those referring to the Senators and Assemblymen from the city , in a short time . NEW FIREHOUSES ALL ALIKE . Eighteen to be Built on Standard Plans to Save Architects ' Fees . Plans for firehouses for the most congested districts are completed , and Fire Commissioner Waldo is ready to start work . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others in the near future . The houses are to be fireproof , no wood being used . They will have the most upto-date furnishings . Houses for single companies will have a street frontage of 25 feet , while those for double companies will average fifty feet . Hitherto firehouses were erected without regard to the architectural features of other houses . By standardizing them the Commissioner expects to save architects ' fees . The new houses will cost about $40,000 for the small and $60,000 for the larger ones . Those to be erected immediately will be located at : Manhattan-111th Street and Second Avenue . Fiftieth Street and Lexington Avenue , 181st Street , Amsterdam and Audubon Avenue , 191 Fulton Street . Bronx  --  Morris Avenue , 168th and 169th Streets , Prospect Avenue and 152d Street , Bailey Avenue and Albany Road , Union-port . Richmond  --  Sarah Ann and Hanna . Streets , Tompkinsville . Brooklyn-489 and 491 St. John 's Place , Twelfth Avenue and Forty-second Street , 882 Knickerbocker Avenue , 244 and 246 Loraine Street . Metropolitan Avenue and Varick Street , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Atlantio Ave- nue , Central and Mott Avenues . The designs for the new houses show a basement simply treated in stone , and above this and extending up through the remaining stories of the building , a series of windows with pilaster treatment on either side .. These carrying up the height of the two stories and surmounted hy a simple cornice . The only ornamental feature consists of the coat of arms . of the rats at the second-story level .                     