@@681178

txt With the beginning today of discussion of the actual details of the plan for the pacification of Mexico , the peace conference took on an aspect that seemed to assure success beyond a doubt . Everything goes to show that the complete triumph of the Ambassador of Brazil and the Ministers of Argentine and Chile in their efforts to adjust Mexico 's troubles is practically cerfain . Today 's actual work of the envoys , as far as surface indications showed , comprised a long conversation with Justice Lamar and Mr. Lehmann , the American delegates . At this meeting the representatives of the United States gave their adherence to the plan of settlement as tentatively arranged . On coming from the session Justice Lamar dictated this statement : We have begun to discuss the actual details of the plan of pacification . On a number of them we find ourselves in substantial agreement . Others are still under discussion , and , as to them , there has been no disagreement . We have an appointment tomorrow in Toronto , but notwithstanding we hope to continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time . It is , of course , improper for us to specify the particular points under discussion or those on which we have agreed , and those which are under further consideration . A significant feature of this statement is that it shows that even on the details . ' still under discussion , there has been no disagreement . and that the American delegates , who have been very reticent heretofore , now regard an agreement as likely . Drop Detailed Agrarian Plan . It was learned that at the conference with the A B C envoys the American delegates formally receded from their proposal that the ultimate agreement for a settlement of the Mexican troubles should include a detailed plan for land reform in Mexico . This cleared away the lingering danger that the land problem might form a stumbling block to a complete understanding , although it was well understood yesterday that the land question would be disposed of by a declaration that the new Constitutional Government of Mexico should study the matter with a view to remedial legislation . This declaration will be in general terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegates followed the advice of the mediators and conformed to the action of the Mexican delegates in consenting to sign a general declaration of that character . As things stand , therefore , a plan for pacification of Mexico has been agreed to in nearly every phase presented and only the details remain to be arranged . One of the points remaining for final adjustment is the form of Provisional Government to be established in Mexico after the withdrawal of Gen. Huerta . The United States Government , acting through its delegates here , is still inclined toward a commission , but its ' attitude in this regard is not likely to cause a deadlock . On the contrary , the most friendly feeling prevails among all those concerned , and the conferees are confident that the final settlement will be reached soon , almost certainly within a week . Should a commission form of government be decided on it would be composed of men whose high standing would insure an upright administration pending the constitutional election which would be provided for . If a provisional President should be designated the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most of the Mexican factions . It is pretty certain that any provisional President , selected here , would be a man of liberal tendencies acceptable to leaders and their parties . Private Agreement About- Elnerta- .. There is little likelihood that the formal agreement will set forth in terms that Gem Huerta shall not be a candidate for the Presidency in the election to be carried out under the direction of a provisional Government . which swill relieve him of office . This is a delicate matter , and the parties to the lonference prefer not to discuss it publicly . The envoys are not favorably inclined toward a declaration in the pacification agreement that would proscribe Huerta , and the Mexican delegates . . of course , are anxious that the matter shall be left severely alone . The problem will probably be solved bye private assurances from Huerta , acceptable to the United States , that he will not enter the lists as a candidate in tile election which the provisional Government will conduct . This question has not served to embarrass the peace conference , and is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question , the position of the Mexican delegates has been that only by education and long effort can present conditions be remedied , and that any swift reform by legislation is impracticable at this time . Such legislation , it is contended , would not prevent a reversion to present conditions . The whole difficulty , according to the Mexican delegation , arises from the character of the peon population . It is asserted that agrarian reforms have been attempted in restricted areas in Mexico , and failed mainly because the peon farmers will not retain their holdings for any great length of time . The recession of President Wilson and Secretary Bryan from their original position , however , is not regarded as an abandonment of their belief in the necessity of Providing for the redistribution of the estates among the poorer classes . In . obtaining the consent of the Mexican delegations to a declaration practically pledging the forthcoming constitutional Government to study the question , with the purpose of providing for remedial legislation , the Washington Administration has obtained an acknowledgment of the prin , ciple for which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question disrupt the mediation proceedings , " was the way one of the Mexican delegates put it to-day . " I think there is a way of coming into common accord on this and other points so that we may complete our work very shortly . "                     