@@679933

txt Shorty Gray and John Dowd paid with their lives to-:day for their escape from the State penitentiary at Lincoln last Thursday in which they killed Warden Delahunty and two of his deputies . A third convict in the prison tragedy , Charles Morley , after seeing his companions shot to death by pursuing officers , lost his nerve and surrendered . The satisfaction of the posse , however , in miring down the murderous fugitives is marred by the fact that the battle cost the life of an innocent man , a young farmer named Harry Blunt , who at the point or pistols was forced to aid the desperadoes in their effort to escape . The capture of one and killing of two of the convicts happened near Gretna , a small town about fifteen miles south of this city , after a thrilling exchange of fire which came as a climax to a dramatic chase over the flat country land . Death and recapture occurred just as the three fugitives were within striking dicta r ce of the goal of safety . They had covered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Omaha city limits , where they had expected to receive the Pr tte  --  tion of friends . From the moment of their escape from Prison last Thursday the trio employed the same desperate methods which marked their self-delivery from jail walls , and when the desperate moment arrived they did not hesitate to sell their lives as dearly as possible . But it was an unequal battle , because they were armed with shotguns and revolvers , while their pursuers had a full supply of repeating rifles . Early in the day the telephone operator at Gretna reported the presence of the desperate men . It had the result of bringing to the vicinity six organized posses . They included one from Omaha , another , composed of Sheriff and his Deputies , from Gretna , and a third , made up of Sheriff Hyers and his Deputies , from Lincoln . Sheriff Chase of Sarpy County , with his Deputies , were also within striking distance , and South Omaha sent two posses under Chief of Police Briggs . The Gretna company of militia was also early on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ C. Trouton , were leaders in the party which filially overtook and vanquished the three convicts and shot an innocent victim of the desperate dash for liberty . Briggs had left this city on an early morning special train with several Omaha pollee officers . They got off . the train at Springfield , about fifteen miles away , and there learned of the movements of the convicts . The men had broken into a store at Murdock , between this city and Lincoln , and stolen guns , ammunition , and clothing . It was learned that the men were on their way north , with Albright , an Omaha suburb , as their destination . ) Chief Briggs hired a fast livery team at Springfield , Sheriff Chase had a good span of horses , and Sheriff Hyers of Lincoln also joined the party . Three miles out of Springfield the officers learned that the convicts had forced Harry Blunt and his wife to give them breakfast and to furnish a team and wagon , with which they hoped to escape to Albright . The desperadoes compelled Blunt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rural telephone playing its part , as by its use the pursuers were able to learn from farmers along the route of the progress of the convicts . Reaching a point eight miles from here the officers caught up with the vehicle carrying the convicts near Mowinkle school . Young Blunt was compelled to lash his horses into a run but the officers kept up the pursuit , until they were within a few hundred yards of the fleeing desperadoes . Then Chief Bri:zgs ' driver balked and refused to drive further . Briggs himself grasped the reins and whipped the horses into a gallop . Whe.n they were within a hundred Yards of the pursued men Briggs and Trouton opened fire with their rifles . From that time until Morley finally surrendered it was a dashing fight over three miles of rough country roads . Finally there came a halt when young Blunt toppled back into the wagon , the victim of a bullet . Meantime other members of the posse came up and joined the fusillade . John Dowd was next to fall . According to Morley Dowd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Shorty " Gray was the last to die . Then Chief Briggs shouted to Morley to drop his weapon or he wold meet instant death . Morley , who held aloft a big revolver , dropped it and Briggs ordered him to come forward with his hands up . This Morley did and Briggs took a second revolver from the man 's pocket . Not knowing just what had happened Briggs demanded of Morley the surrender of the other men in the wagon . " They are all dead , " declared Morley . Briggs went to the wagon , taking Morley with him and Sound the lifeless bodies of the victims of the battle . The bodies of the convicts were turned over to Sheriff Hyers of Lincoln , and that of young Blunt to his family . layers took Morley back to Lincoln on an afternoon train .                     