@@681908

txt Dr. von Bethmann-Hellweg , the Imperial Chancellor , conferred today with the Emperor at General Headquarters . While the audience concerned other questions , the American note was also under discussion . Nothing tangible regarding the German attitude on the note is likely to be made known before the Chancellor 's return here . No discussions have taken place at the Foreign Office , and the question whether any reply to the note will be made seems to be unsettled . From a Staff Correspondent . Special Cable to THE NEW YORK TIMES . BERLIN , July 26 , ( via London . ) ? The American note 's far-reaching effect on the Germans is becoming apparent now that they have had twenty-four hours to digest the full text of it . It has undeniably made them very angry . Its tone even more than its contents came as a shock to their pride and stung the Germans to the quick . THE NEW YORK TIMES correspondent found the bitterness and resentment today . This was much more intense in military and naval circles , but even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Wilson 's " neutrality . " Apparently the note has temporarily alienated friendliness for America among the Germans . Their discipline saves them from any passionate outbursts , but the very coldness and restraint of their anger emphasizes it . A leading statesman said today : " I do not know what Germany 's answer is likely to be , or even if there is going to be one . Only two things are certain : First , there will be no backing down on the submarine war ; second , Germany 's answer , if any , will be largely colored according to the tenor of President Wilson 's note to England . Until this is forthcoming the German attitude toward the American note will not be definitgly taken . It would be useless to exp , : ct an answer under three weeks or a month . " Despite the fact that the tone of Mr. Wilson 's note , particularly the " deliberately unfriendly " phrase , has made many enemies among those who have striven for friendly relations with America , peaceful interests are going to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political editor of an influential paper said today the reason for this was that in many quarters President Wilson was still regarded as a potent arbiter mundi , hence it was greatly to Germany 's advantage to maintain friendly relations with America so as not to close the American door through which peace proposals would probably ultimately come . This man seemed to think peace was not so many months off . The Germans expect the Russians to he decisively beaten when the present battle ir . the east is ended , and that with the Russians eliminated as a serious military. , factor England will make use of President Wilson 's good offices to sound Germany as to peace terms . This editor , who was able to Judge the subject dispassionately , which made his opinion valuable , pointed out that the tone of the German answer would depend largely on General von Hindenburg and General von Mackensen . He said there had been a practical armistice in the submarine war for the past two weeks , and he thought that orders would be given submarine commanders to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precipitate trouble with America , at least for the next three weeks while , he said , the big Eastern battle might be expected to be ended and won . This , man thought it likely that Germany would make no answer to the American note except indirectly by a statement of the Chancellor in the Reichstag , which reconvenes at the middle of August . Eugen Zimmermann , Director of the Lokalanzeiger , - who had consistently warned Count von Reventlow and other jingoes , writes today : " We must now prepare for very difficult negotiations ; yes , even for our relations with America becoming much worse . We have not desired it . The Government for that reason In its last note proposed far-going compromises and made practical suggestions . This now turns out to have been the correct course to take , since without this German conciliation the errors and contradictions in the American note would not have become so apparent . , " The situation has now been cleared . Germany will not even now cease her honorable efforts to reach an understanding . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but we also have demanded that America must show the same understanding for our position . America , has done so theoretically by recognizing explicitly the new form of naval warfare , but , while Germany has made concessions to the American viewpoint by means of practicable - proposals , the American Government has refused to see a practical way out . We hope one will still be found which both parties can take . " Would Be a Deliberately Polite : , He criticises the note for its alleged errors of fact and its alleged contradictions , but he takes particular umbrage at the phrase " deliberately unfriendly , " saying " we beg to reserve to ourselves the privilege of determining against whom we are going to be deliberately unfriendly . ' We decline to allow our freedom of utterance to be taken away from us . Despite this very unsatisfactory American note we insist on the right of being deliberately polite toward America as long as it seems useful to us . " In President Wilson 's complete ignoring of the German proposals one notes strikingly his anxiety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American population , so as not to become unpopular . This also is apparent from the highfalutin ' tone of the note . This tone does not frighten us . English influence has made itself clearly felt in the shaping of this note to Germany . With this influence we will have to reckon the whole world over . President Wilson suggests that the German Government join in the effort for the freedom of the seas . Germany is certain not to decline this invitation , but first we would like to advise Mr. Wilson to look to England as to her attitude toward his plans , so he wo n't have any surprises . Or does he already know it ? " Deeds to Answer Note . Captain Persius , naval critic of the Berliner Tageblatt , commenting on Rotterdam dispatches that nine ships have been sunk by submarines , says : " As our submarine activities were not so fruitful in , the last two weeks as formerly , it w4s believed here and there in Germany that the reason was that special precautions were being taken not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ascertain if this really is a fact , but all the more joyful , therefore , is the reported good success that at the same time proves there is no grounds for anxiety or the belief that the wings of our submarines have been clipped . " Count von Reventlow in the Tageszeitung while hailing the renewed successful activity of the submarine re , grets that seven of the nine vessels sunk were fishing boats . He adds : " There is much speculation about the eventual German answer to the American note , but the only real answer is deeds , and the continued submarine war on English commerce . It is important , too , that the submarine war be directed against the enemy 's most vital spot , namely , Great Britain 's transatlantic trade . " This evening 's Kreuzzeitung writes in similar vein . " The note has done one good thing which will be hailed with satisfaction by the whole German people , " it says . " The pen has done its work ; submarines now have the say . " Wolff No Longer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who heretofore has thrown his influence with the party seeking to maintain good relations with America , writes this morning : " Mr. Wilson 's standpoint Is the dia1 metrical opposite of common sense and right . We believe Mr. Wilson trims his ideas of humanity and neutrality to fit the arms and ammunition manufacturing interests . We have always laid special value on the friendship of the American democracy , but we note with regret that Mr. Wilson caters less to the peaceably I inclined democracy than to the greedy plutocracy . " We appreciate that the neutral State , the little as much as the big , seeks to guard the personal liberties of its citizens , and we , too , have the keen wish that all the rules of humanity be observed , so far as possible . But the means to this humane end must be practical , and it is not humane , but a misuse of his noble word , when the protection of human lives demanded of us is to serve to cloak hostile attacks or protect cargoes of ammunition . In Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unanimous on one subject , namely , that we can not accept an American thesis that violates the spirit of justice and the spirit of neutrality . "                     