@@678775

txt The cotton market saw the wildest hour 's trading yesterday afternoon in the history of the Exchange , and while prices tumbled to levels that show a loss of 276 points , or F13.S0 a hale , on option from the crest of this season 's bull movement , reached on Dec. 30 , Eugene P. Scales , the Texas bull , who has been one of the most spectacular of the traders this season , was forced to unload practically all of his May cotton . Brokers who are closely in touch with the Texas speculator 's affairs put his sales of May cotton yesterday at 300,000 bales , at prices ranging from 14.60 downward . The bears , who have been successrully knocking the Props from under cotton prices all week , themselves became alarmed at the panic which was threatened yesterday afternoon , and in the height of the demoralization took over the last 25,000 bales of his May cotton at 13.90 , 20 points above the low level of the day . It was the removal of this load which has been overhanging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought the May option back to thin settlement price . At that level the bears , led by the spot cotton interests , who had taken up the Scales contracts , entered the market with large buying orders , which held prices up to a level at the close , which was from 20 to 25 points above the lowest . Trading on the floor was not over until after 5 o'clock in the afternoon , when the action of the bear leaders had become generally known , and it was the opinion of the group of operators and brokers who gather in Delmonico 's afternoons that the day 's business had never been exceeded on the floor , even in the collapse of the Sully boom in 1904 . The Cotton Exchange does not keep count of individual transactions , which makes an exact estimate of a day 's trading impossthle , but brokers were agreed that the business done yesterday totaled well - over 1,000.000 bales . The slump in cotton has been almost continuous since the first of the year , and by yesterady practically all of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principal factors in the successive drops from the 16-cent level : town below 15 cents had been eliminated . Yesterday 's market was for all pratical purposes a fight between the big interests on both sides and was counted after the close the most signal triumph for the bears that they have had since the Sully other collapsed at 171 , -4 cents , although the extreme drop of 100 points or $5 a bale during the trading has been exceeded . Eugene P. Scales , who ran up a fortune in wheat last Spring from very humble beginnings , was credited with having piled up $6,000,000 of paper profits by following his old leader Patten when he twitched from grain into cotton at the low levels last Summer- It was the current estimate on the Cotton Exchange yesterday that he has lost $6,000,000 of his winnings since the first of the year . Scales predicted 17-cent cotton by Jan. 15 early in the.upward movement , when Ile had reached a place of prime importance in the market He was one of the most persistent of the bulls , and as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavy following to lower and lower levels , the professional element on the Exchange went out for his scale . After a promising opening yesterday with the January option about fifteen Points above the previous close , the later options began to show signs of weakness , which Quickly let them down from five to fifteen points . The news of heavy selling orders was all around the market , and the hammering began in the first trading . Theodore Price and other bears who had turned bulls earlier in the declines were heavy buyers and helped maintain prices . The commission houses who had been large contributors to the stop-loss orders of early In the week were a factor in the buying , and large numbers of small orders were executed In the morning for traders who were Tying to recoup losses by buying for another rise . These orders , with buying by spinners , served to bring about a rally of from twenty-five to thirty-seven points from the early break , but by the noon hour the steady offerings of cotton caused a reaction which put the price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ close . The early afternoon saw a renewal of the rapid downward movement , and at about 2:20 the market began to tobaggan , tahen word that Scales was selling became generally current . The rush of trading which rapidly took on the proportions of a panic , sent prices down so rapidly from above 14 cents that brokers were often obliged to sell from 10 to 15 points below their orders . One broker who had orders to sell 1,200 bales at 14 cents , saw the market drop from 14.10 to 13.90 before he could unload more than 600 bales ; another reported selling 14-cent May cotton all the way down to 13.81 . In all the trading May has been the crucial month . and it was this option in which the activity was most feverish yesterday , and which has been chiefly responsible for the break . The liquidation which followed the reaching of 14 cents a pound for May , brought utter demoralization to the pit , and the Mice went down an additional 30 points for that option , to 13.70 id-a-few minutes , making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ panic of selling , all sorts of rumors were current about disaster to the bull leaders , but after the trading in the Pit was over and it became generally known that the interests had taken up the last 25,000 bales of Scales cotton at 13.90 this theory was modified . Along with the declines in May the other options went down correspondingly , and the after-market trading , which put May up on the reassuring gossip , also sent the less active options correspondingly higher . After the-market yesterday , the ' brokers congratulated themselves on the fact that there have been no failures on the heavy decline since the first of the year . The cotton market has seen nothing like the popular participation in this season 's rise since the Sully boom of 1903-4 . When the smash came in that year failures were numerous and the public 's losses were very great . What is regarded as , the principal factor in the safe weathering of this season 's decline by the commission houses has been the rule adopted some time ago by the Cotton Exchange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a margin of *5 a bale with the officials of the Cotton Exchange . This margin is maintained intact during the life of the contract on which it applies , and must be increased in correspondence with the fluctuations of the market , so as to keep it always at $5 a bait- over the contract price . ' Phe extent of this year 's trading is indicate , 1 in the fact that on one clay this week this trust fund in the hands of the Exchange officials totaled $4,000,0(X) . Storm Delays Orders . In the market hours yesterday brokers found it practically impossibhe to communicate over private wires with their connections west and south . The cable service to Liverpool was also delayed , the Liverpool closing prices reaching the Exchange here only at 11 : 30 o'clock . And private dispatches were from twenty-five to fifty minutes late . This interruption of service had a good deal to do with the weight of yesterday 's decline , brokers figured . It prevented buying orders coming in by bargain hunters in the outlying districts , and at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of their inability to reach customers with demands for additional margin . Margins have been demanded with great exactness by both Cotton and Stock Exchange houses in the last few weeks , and as much as $10 a hale has been a common demand . Even with this wide margin on a broker 's books at the close of Thursday 's market , it is easily understood how yesterday 's 109-point decl nc frightened office managers ' into selling where principals could not be reached because of the storm . After 5 o'clock yesterday afternoon . when the last of the after market trading was about over , the Beaver Street De : - monlco 's was thronged with cotton men discussing the exciting events of the day John , Temple Gwathme3 ' , William Mitchell , Charles Shearson . David Miller , Herman ? Norden . David Bait , Hugh F. , and others of the leaders in the recent market found only one or two belated bulls to condole with . Frank B. Heyn , the New Orleans bull , who started North early in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was one of those in the crowd . He admitted that he had n't taken profits when he might , but insisted that he had ' not done more in the market than get in and out scalping profits at the high prices . The cotton he still held , he said , he had . bought at way down . His partner , Q. Delacy Vincent , was counted one of the luckiest men among seasoned bulls in the gossip yesterday afternoon . Frank B. Heyn told his friends that Mr. Vincent had got out around Christmas which was abent ? the highest level- the market reached . That he had.sald his cotton his partner said , was only because he was ill and had to take a rest . One of the effects of the panic condi-t , Lions after 2 , P o'clock yesterday afternoon was to start James A. Patten post haste for New York . He was reported in Beaver Street to have taken the Twentieth Century Limited : He is due to arrive before the opening here to-day . 