@@681040

txt It is generally thought in Washington that the President will secure the repeal of the tolls exemption clause of the canal law . It is , therefore , perhaps , more interesting than important to trace the souirce of such opposition as will be made . though a good deal of importance does attach to one fact ? that the underlying motive of ' nearly all the supporters of the exemption is the desire for protection to private interests at the cost , of the public . The virus is deep-se4ed , obstinate , and tends to corrupt the sense of honor and to obscure the judgment . Naturally the Republicans of the standpat sort are open advocates of the thinly veiled subsidy involved in the exemption . But the Democrats have not escaped demoralization . Even Mr. ' CNN:swoon is touched by the influence o the protection sophistries . Possibly , in steering the tariff through the many obstacles he had to avoid , be became used to yielding what he considered relatively small - concessions until his judgment and perspective were confused . His position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protectionists in organizing special privilege under the pretext of serving national interests . But President Wiisox is perfectly right in his statement that the exemption is unsound economically , ss well as a grave violation of national faith . It is sustained as an aid to the trade of the United States . But the advantage would be confined solely to the owners of coastwise vessels . Their profits might be increased ; their freight rates would certainly not be lessened . Why should they be ? They are secure from competition by law . If they are exempted from tolls , the result would be a reduction of cost . not of charges for service . The whole business is a striking example of the deceptive way In which protectionist legislation is made to advance private privilege under the guise of patriotism . President WILSON is not blind to the Influence of the protectionist pleas upon his own party . It was this , undoubtedly , that induced him to make his appeal so strongly personal , to ask for support for his Administration . He sought , very properly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loyalty in the Democrats of the Senate and the House , especially the former . He chose his ground well . It would deeply discredit the national Democracy if the first President elected by them in twenty years should be hampered seriously in his dealings with foreign Governments by the refusal of his own party to back him in a policy involving the national honor . Already in the chief capitals of the world the course of the President is receiving the heartiest praise for its courage , its fidelity to national obligations . If enough Democrats should be found in the Senate to defeat the measure the President asks , it is not he that would be dishonored and harmed , it is the nation and the party for the time being in power . The supreme and indispensable asset of the Government in international dealings is the reputation of the United States for keeping Its word . Take this away , impair it , and the President would be incalculably embarrassed and hindered . And the party that brought this about would surely be visited with merited punishment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do this wrong and mischief can be mustered . The betrayal of their country . of their party would be too gross and palpable , and their own surrender to the protectionist interests would be too humiliating and too absurd .                     