@@680793

txt President Etszopr leaves no doubt what is the matter with the New Haven Railway . His plain words take it out of the class of the average company . It was exceptionally unfortunate in its investments and in its relations with its staff and with the public . Its management conceived " a comprehensive transportation system operated co-operatively , " and the public considered it an obnoxious monopoly . " Accidents and investigations estranged the public and demoralized the organization of the company . Wages rose , earnings fell , and the dividends disbursed were not earned . It is hard to imagine anything which could afflict a railway which is not catalogued in President ELLIOTT 'S frank confidences to the public to which he appeals , and without which the future is dark for more railways than the New Haven . At the other extremity of the scale is the Union Pacific . which may be taken as an example of not a few railways whose riches embarrass the general situation as much as the-New Haven 's declining fortunes . The New Haven 's misdeeds are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now pending for a general advance in the railway freight schedules , and there are a dozen or a score of companies whose superabundant resources are thought to be an objection to placing a burden on the public for their benefit . Yet It is sure that rates can not be advanced in exceptional cases , nor generally advanced with exceptions of the rich and unpopular roads . Whatever Is done by law must be done rigidly and universally . That is the nature of law , and is an economic necessity as well . If the rich roads were condemned to reduce their rates it would ruin the weaker roads by starvation through the loss of traffic to the roads which underbid them . If the weaker roads . were allowed to advance their rates they also would lose the business which would desert them for the roads which did not advance their rates . Similar considerationscontrol the wage situation . ? Wages are regulated by the statutes of the trades unions , which forbid underbidding by more necessitous labor and establish rates no less artificial than the rates for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the railway price fabric from all other prices . In ' other trades , When prices are falling , there is an argument for reducing all . prices together for labor aneL . " Cemraddltieaalike . Railway rates and railway ' ors es are idea-able- to ? 41 ! 2iidard ' Both are acted arbitrarily . and It is as hard to alter one as the other . Not for that reason will alterations be evaded permanently in- either rates or wages . Markets are not abolished so easily as that , and they are needed to meet just such dilemmas . Business can not wait while rates and wages are arbitrated . Each day 's traffic is carried , whatever the state of the argument regarding either rates or wages . Gov . Foss makes this clear regarding the conditions of employment , and it is just as true regarding the rate schedules . The public needs the railways as much as It needs the services of the employes , who , Gov . Foss says , are under the obligation of duty Dot to cease to serve the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but they may be compelled to moderate their efforts to serve the public as surely by lawmakers as by strikers . Balance sheets are not to be argued with . When profit and loss shows a sufficient debit the railways will slow down , not because they want to . but because they must . It then will make no difference what are the merits of regulation , or of competition , or of any other theory regarding public utilities of either capital or labor . The country will confront conditions , not theories                     