@@684725

txt The Death of Mar Shimoon . To the Editor of Thai New York Times : My attention has been called to a letter in your issue of Aug. 10 , bearing the signature of Mirza All-Kull Khan . Your correspondent refers to the murder of Mar Milmoon , the Syrian Patriarch , and says that " the facts filed with the Foreign Offices of the allied Governments . prove that Mar Shimoon was killed while nicking an attack upon the town of Salmas . " The facts filed with the allied Governments prove nothing of the kind . I have before me a copy of a telegram , dated March 20 , 1918 , sent by the British Consul at Tabriz to a prominent personage in London , which reads as follows : " Mar Shimoon , the Syrian Patriarch , from Turkey , was proceeding to Salinas when he was met by Simku , who invited him into his house and there shot him dead . " I have resided for some considerable time in Persia . and my experience is that the Persian Government , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their country . have often forwarded " facts " to European Governments which were a pure romance . I have no doubt whatever that the " filed facts " as to the death of Mar Shimoon are one of these romances . Before the Shah is allowed to set foot in either America or Great Britain he ought to be brought to book for encouraging Simku , one of his subjects , to murder Mar Shimoon . Mirza All-Kull Khan has gone out of his way to attack Mr. Paul Shimmon , and says that " the Department of State at Washington has on file formal notices from the Assyrian associations in America disclaiming Paul Shimmon as their spokesman . " I do not know the secrets of the Washington State Department , but I wish to say that I had before me in 1915 the original document appointing Mr. Paul Shimmon the representative of the Assyrian people in America . This document was in Syriac and bore the seal of the late Mar . Shimoon and I translated it into . English F. N. HEAZELL . Church House , Westminster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Depreciation of Our Army In His Newcastle Speech . To the Editor of The New York Times : A report once started dies hard . References crop up every once in a while to one which was started early in July , gaining credence and currency , that Field Marshal Sir Douglas Haig had said in a speech at Newcastle , " Do not forget it was the British Empire that won the war , " The attention of Mr. Evelyn Wrench , Chairman of  --  the General Committee of the British Branch of the English Speaking Union , was called to this report and he wrote to Sir Douglas Haig . This is what the British Field Marshal replied : " The omission to mention the American troops was certainly not due to any lack of appreciation on my part of their work . On the occasion in question at Newcastle I was speaking personally as one Britisher to another on the subject of our own part in the war . I pointed out to my hearers the difficulties of the situation and how greatly the people at home in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had no , occasion to mention the Americans because my references were to the middle part of . the war , particularly the year 1917 , when Americans had not yet taken part in the fighting . This year 1917 , 1 . e. , before the Americans had arrived , was one of the most critical periods of the war . At this time the German submarine campaign was at its . height and the Newcastle and Northeast shipbuilding trades , to members of which I was speaking , did extraordinarily good work . At this time America was our great hope , and in the following year this hope was justified by the splendid work done by the United States Army , both in co-operation with the British and French armies and also when operating by themselves . On the battlefields of Europe there grew up a splendid feeling of comradeship and mutual respect between us . I am sure you hope as much ' as I do that this feeling will be continued in peace , and in particular by the interchange of our young men between British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scarcely begun before the war , the war has given a great impulse . " It is evitent that what the British Field Marshal said , and what he was understood by his auditors to say , was that it was not the British Army but the British Empire , not only the men on the firing lines , but the men and women back of the lines , that contributed Britain 's share in the winning of the war  --  whatever the form of words he used . May I add a brief extract from an address made at a private dinner to General Pershing held at the Carlton Hotel on the 16th day of July , 1019 ? Sir Douglas Haig paid warm tribute to the American soldiers in France , mentioning several divisions and corps by name . He referred to the warm personal friendship and admiration which he felt for General Pershing , adding : " In the great German attack of the Spring of 1918 our troops were inspired to withstand the German onslaught by the knowledge that they only had to hold on until the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their aid . That is the measure of our debt to you . It is a great debt and one that we are glad to acknowledge . In the previous year , 1917 , when General Pershing carne to France with a small staff at the psychological moment , the effect of his arrival on all ranks of the allied armies was Magical . In 1918 that first affair ut yours at Cantigny was hailed by us with as keen a satisfaction as if it had been one of our own actions . Our pride at your action at Chateau-Thierry was very great . " ' Ho referred to tile action in the Argonne with high appreciation . Field Marshal Sir Douglas Haig 10 one of the Vice Presidents of the English Speaking Union and a. devoted friend of America . IDA ' WOOL : . Ardmore , Penn. , Sept. 15 , 1919 . Ireland and England . To the Editor of The New York Times : I draw the attention of G. E. King and other Englishmen to the fact that the Irish paoplc is a people distinct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set of interests and hereditary traditions , and that as a result the first duty of an Irishman is to think first of Ireland and of no other country . Ireland is not a part of England , but a totally different country and people . The Irish people owned Ireland before the first Englishman was known to civilization . There are families in Ireland whose pedigrees go back to a point further than the whole English nation . Not only is Ireland much older than England , but it was Ireland and Irishmen that rescued the English from savagery and heathenism and brought them first within the circle of Christianity and civilization . What would men like C. E. King think , if the tribes of Centrhi Africa , whom English missionaries are Christianizing today , should attempt to make of England a Central Africa colony , and after doing to the English what the English have done to Ireland expect the English to fight their battles for them  --  the first always in attack and last in retreat ? " Sinn Fein " does n't mean " funk " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The words mean " We Ourselves , " as any Gaelic grammar will toll the inquirer . They stand for that self-reliance whose motto is Ireland First , which , 1 hope , will make Ireland a groat nation again , with the old Gaelic tongue , the sister to Latin and Greek , spoken through every Irish valley , with the young men and women of Ireland modeling themselves on the heroes of their own blood like Brian , Columbanus , Cuchulian , Shane O'Neill , Flonn , the son of Cumhall , and Columcille , and Ireland , again set at the centre of the world , rivaling the Ireland ' of the Middle Ages as the island of heroes and scholars . P. E. cRAW1aOltu . New York , Sept. 27 , 1919 . Pay of County Employes . To the Editor of The New York Times : Your editorial in re " Taxes and City Wages " in today 's ' Dams strikes the right chord and is certainly very commendable . However , it does not go far enough in respect to the county @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet at the same time some of the county officials have taken it upon themselves to increase some of their employes , who are underpaid and receive much less than $1,800 annually . These employee are worthy of an advance and their cases have already been brought to the attention of the county officials , but were entirely ignored  --  in fact disregarded ? and looked upon as one not deserving of advancement . I think the Board of Estimate should be called upon to look into these matters and ascertain why all employes should not receive a little recognition . The budget has already boon made up in those departments , but why can not they be compelled to make up a supplemental budget before final action is taken . COUNTY EMPLOYE . New York , Sept. 20 , 1919. 