@@680929

txt Determined action by one little woman representing in her small person the majesty ! of the law of the State as delegated to her by Gov . West , resulted in martial law being declared here to-day by Col. B. K. Lawson of the Coast Artillery , who is also Superintendent of the State Penitentiary . Armed guards , consisting of five militiamen and two guards from the penitentiary , are watching over the saloons , which are tightly under locks and keys . The Mayor , H. A. Stewart ; City Recorder Clark , and three Councilmen , who are in the saloon businessWiegand , Warner , and Woodbury  --  are under arrest . This action followed a demand made by Miss Fern Hobbs , private secretary to the Governor , for the resignations of members of the City Council and other city officials who are accused of violating an ordinance regulating saloons . When her demand was refused , Miss Hobbs peremptorily ordered Cal . Lawson to place the town under martial law . When this had been done she boarded a train to return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began operations by raiding the saloons , of which they took charge . The proprietors have until 4 o'clock to-morrow afternoon to ship their bar fixtures and liquors out of the county , on penalty of confiscation . All this morning the little town of Copperfield was in a state of . excitement , ? awaitine the coming of Miss Hobbs , who , it was thought , was coming unattended to close the Copperfield saloons . The idea that her mission was a joke was dispelled , however , by advices from Baker that Miss Hobbs would be attended by prison guards and militia . At once the accused officials were advised by Attorney James Nichols of Baker to refuse to resign , to refuse to recognize martial law , and to resist any attempt to close the saloons . It was decided that a show of resistance should be made , but that there should be no shooting , but none knew just what turn the events would take . When the train steamed in virtually every citizen of the town was at the station awaiting its arrival , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the train . A meeting was quickly arranged and Miss Hobbs outlined her mission . She demanded the resignation of the members of the Council and of the Recorder and the Mayor . Mayor Stewart acted as spokesman , and declared to Miss Hobbs that the city officials had been legally ' elected , that the saloons were ' being conducted under State licenses , and that no legal steps had ever beep taken to revoke those licenses or to bring criminal proceedings against proprietors of the saloons . Miss Hobbs then - yielded to Col. Lawson , and he arose and read the formal declaration of martial law . There was no display . of arms and no fighting . The military authorities searched and disarmed the citizens , and they found Virtually every one fully armed . Whether or not Copperfield will be under martial law to-morrow night or not is a question which citizens of Copperfield are to-night unable to answer . Word from Baker is that injunctions are being prepared to prevent the destruction of the liquor and bar fixtures to-morrow afternoon , as has been threatened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not before that time ship it out of the town . How these injunctions. if granted , could be served . is a question which is bothering the five prisoners here to-night . Roads between Baker , the county seat , and Copperfield are impassable , owing to heavy snows . Col. Lawson said to-night that he expected to remain at Copperfield until the entire trouble had blown over , or until the members of the Council had resigned and other officials in whom Gov . West had confidence had been selected to succeed them . Gov . West two weeks age received a protest signed by more than half the residents of Copperfield against alleged violations of the law by saloons here , one of which was owned by the Mayor and another by a Councilman . It was charged that liquor was being sold to minors , and that closing hours were not observed . The Governor called on MaYor Stewart to close the saloons and he refused . When Sheriff Raud also refused to act Gov . West sent Miss Hobbs to take charge of the situation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ First . The resignation of the Mayor and such members of the Council as are proprietors and employes in and about any edtablishment dispensing intoxicating liquors . Second . That until a complete reorganization of the City Government be undertaken all saloons be closed forthwith and be kept closed , and , Third . That to prevent any possibility of liquor being sold the stock on hand be shipped out of ttie city and that it be delivered to the railroad station for shipment not later than 4 o'clock P. M. Saturday , Jan. 3 , 1914. 