@@680663

txt The changes in the Banking and Currency bill by the Glass committee are so important and so sound and well advised from the point of view of safe banking as to encourage the hope that by still other amendments the measure may be revised into an acceptable form in time for enactment during the present session of Congress . Two vital changes have been made in the provisions relating to the issue of Federal reserve notes . It is a cause for great satisfaction that the committee has accepted the suggestion made by the Currency Commission of the American Bankers ' Association in respect to the issue and redemption of reserve bank notes . Notes issued by-any reserve bank will bear its own distinctive letter and a serial number , and when these notes are paid into any other reserve bank they will not be again paid out , but will be returned to the issuing bank . The prac -- tical operation of this provision will be that each bank each day will send in for redemption the notes of anyother bank it may have received . Redemption @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of outstanding notes will automatically conform to the actual needs of business . A Federal reserve note will be treated exactly like a bank check , which always returns at once to the hank upon which it was drawn . There is never any danger of the inflation of bank check currency , since the check automatically disappears when it has done its work . The principle is sound , and is applicable to the reserve notes under the provision now inserted in the bill . The alternative that has usually been advocated to a measure of this sort is the progressive taxation of issues beyond a certain fixed amount . But this is obviously an arbitrary method , which imposes an uncertain ? burden on exchanges . The check to . expansion may be too severe for the ? situation or it may prove insufficient . In the other case the check upon undue expansion and undue contraction ? is operated by the actual exchanges , and there is no room for substantial error in discretion . The issue of notes being surrounded with proper precautions in the first instance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tendency would be for the notes to be issued in quantities such as would meet daily requirements , and any deficiency or excess would quickly be seen and promptly and effectually be remedied . The remedy would not be left to the decision of Government officers , or even to that of bank Directors wholly , since the grounds for decision would be plain from day to day and would spring from the obvious situation . The committee has also amended the bill to provide that the 33 1-3 per cent . reserve held by the reserve banks against their note issues shall be kept entirely in gold , not in gold ? and lawful money , as was provided in the original draft of the bill . This is a change for the better , since it puts - the reserve upon a basis that is be . yond all question . We think the committee should still consider most seriously an increase in the reserve requirement . Greater security would be ? had by accepting Mr. CONANT 'S suggestion that 331-3 per cent . be made the minimum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 50 per cent. ; then , instead of taxing the note issues , in the discretion of the Federal Board , a progressive tax might be imposed in the ratio that the reserve fell below the normal 50 per cent . This change would be in the interest of absolute security , and would not act as a direct burden upon exchanges , which would be the effct of taxing the notes . Thecommittee has yet to consider the question of exclusively political control of the banking system . The disposition it has shown thus far to consider candidly suggestions made by practical bankers , many of which ? have been actually embodied fir the , bill . makes it seem probable that in tills respect also it may be persuaded to make the necessary amendment . The addition to the Federal Board , as has been suggested , of four members appointed by the President on nomination by the banks of the reserve districts , increasing the membership of the board from seven to eleven , would not disturb the Government control , but would have the immense advantage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of training and experience in the banking business . It must be remembered that under this measure it is proposed that we shall substitute a banking system practically new for a system that has served us for more than.half a century . It is certainly not unreasonable to ask that , In the operation of the new system , knowledge and experience gained under the old system shall be made available for wise guidance                     