@@680594

txt WASHINGTON , June ** the House Banking and Currency Committee met to-day to prepare the proposed legislation on banking and currency . Representative Lindbergh of Minnesota , Progressive , offered a motion that all future meetings of the committee be open to the public . An attempt to table the motion was made and lost . Then a sub-committee was appointed to consider it and report at the next meeting . Representative Bulkley of Ohio is Chairman of this sub-committee . Its other members are Representatives Wingo of Arkansas , Seldornriclge of Colorado , Platt of New York , and Smith of Minnesota . Mr. Lindbergh 's motion was in accordance with the definite policy which the third party members of the House have adopted . They have gone on record against closed , or secret caucuses , and against secret committee work behind closed doors . The Bulkley sub-committee probably will grant a hearing on the Lindbergh proposal . Three of the Progressive Party members have been designated to appear with arguments in favor of " lifting the lid " from everything connected with the formulation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Kelly are to argue for the third party men for this propaganda . Members of the committee insisted that the reference of the Lindbergh motion to the Bulkley sub-committee should not be interpreted as a decision for or against open sessions . The purpose , they said , was to give the Lindbergh proposal fair consideration on Its merits . A canvass of the committee indicates that Its membership is about evenly divided over the - Lindbergh idea . Some favor It , enthusiastically , others are equally strong in their opposition , while some are doubtful . In all probability the matter will be passed over to the Democratic caucus tor ultimate decision . The members of the new committee were in session scarcely long enough today to get acquainted with one another . All except seven of its twenty-one members are newly chosen . They do not know each other 's views on banking and currency matters , and there has been no crystalization of sentiment . Several members asked Chairman Carter Glass for enlightenment regarding plans for the consideration of banking and currency legislation . Mr. Glass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He said , however , that President Wilson was very anxious for the enactment of currency legislation and would like to see it enacted during the special session . Mr. Glass told his colleagues he thought that in about ten days there would boo something tangible which the committee might consider . This was interpreted as meaning that something would be transmitted to the committee frau ! President Wilson . It developed to-day that members of the committee were much in earliest in their desire to obtain results along non-partisan lines in the proposed legislation . The Republican members of the committee are ready to co-operate with the Democrats and the lone Progressive along these lines . But some of the Republican members said that if President Wilson urged the Democrats to introduce and stand behind an " Administration ' Banking and Currency bill politics would be injected into the matter .                     