@@683396

txt Little news is permitted to come out of Spain . The continuous severity of the censorship , the official ' list of nearly 400 killed in the disorders incident to the railroad strike and the attempt at a general strike , the recalling to the colors of the army reservists of 1914 and 1915 , daily shooting and shell fire , ferocious rioting in Barcelona , the heart of always separatist Catalonia ; reports of a republican movement suppressed with the loss of more than 300 lives in Bilbao ; the suppression of the Liberal newspapers , the promise that order will be restored before long : all this makes a , picture characteristically Spanish , a picture of a , vigorous nation or . collection of provinces , extreme in opinion , of a constitutional monarchy in name , perpetually in danger from a revolution proclaiming a republic , and from a rebellion of the Carlists , those undying Jacobites  --  a constitutional monarchy in which the people do not govern . The charming personal qualities of the King , his supposed sympathy with the Entente @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , worsened by the war , or the political system by which the monarchy keeps an uneasy throne . The two chief parties , distinguished for fOrm 's sake as Liberals and Conservatives , are really one in purpose and method . They keep the monarchy going . If the anti-monarchical parties are , strong in the cities , in the country districts , where the economic condition of the peasants is usually wretched , the Government can get a majority . In the science of gerrymandering the Spanish politicians make their American brethren look like novices . Bribery flourishes . It is even truer of Spain than , of Hungary that the Government always " carries " an election . Against the irreconcilable Carlists , strong among the inferior clergy and country folks of the Basque Provinces and North Catalonia , the Crown relies upon the support of the Church , whose interest and wishes are always considered in legislation , and which gets patronage and privileges from the Government . Against the Socialists , the Radicals , Republicans , Federalists , Reformists , the Crown depends on the army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ branches of it , seemed , if anything more than a skillful exploitation of the increased necessities of the Crown , a serious danger it , but they have been appeased , apparently . Crown , Church , army , two political parties led by cynical politicians , dividing the spoils of office , aided by and aiding the masters of economic life : that is the Spanish Government . As yet , the people have small hand in it . Beyond the clamor of pro-German and pro-Ally in Spain one listens for the popular voice . Is it fanciful to trace in the disorders in widely separated parts of min ' ? im echo of Russia ? " The word revolution , " says a contemporary Spanish writer , " is a magic word for the Spanish " people . The race , with its impa " tience of authority and its strong " individualism , has a born revolu " tionary instinct . The tradition was " kept alive all through the nine " teenth century by a chain of half " military , half-popular outbreaks . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does , on the satisfac " tion of all but the people , which is " thus made the victim of unjust " fiscal , military , and civil laws , con " tributes to fostering the revolution " ary spirit . The last great strike was " but a rehearsal of more ambitious " schemes . One can easily imagine " the hopes ' raised by the Russian " Revolution in many a Spanish " heart . " On the other hand , that revolution , by leading the Republicans and Socialists to demand intervention in favor of the Allies , must have stiffened the anti-popular combination on which the throne rests .                     