@@682639

txt The result of the ballot upon the question of a strike by the train service employ-6s of the United States will be formally announced tomorrow . Informally , it is already known that the men are almost unanimous in favor of giving their representatives power to take some forward action in a controversy which has reached the stage of disagreement . Both parties believe themselves right and are resolved against making any concession . Nevertheless , one of the union delegates declared Saturday : " The railroads " do n't want a strike , we do n't want a " strike , and the public does n't want a " strike . " This is a clear statement of the situation . Before the nineties the usual unit in a railway strike was a company , the largest unit was a railway system , a single class of workers was customarily involved . Since the nineties the workers of various classes ' have combined against the railways at first of a section of the country and later of all the country . There have been a dozen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against many railways within twenty years , but this is the greatest of all . Also it is the most ruthless . The men have no hesitation in saying that they care nothing for anY extremity of distress by anybody , and they will not even arbitrate their demands . Unconditional surrender by the railways , and through them by the country , is their ultimatum . This is syndicalism in effect if not in form . The railways can not stop alone . If the railways stop , all industry must stop . Very soon only the rich could eat . When a railway strike of smaller dimensions occurred in France the Government declared martial law throughout the republic , took over the railways , ordered the strikers into the public service , and broke the strike forthwith . The Ministry in Parliament declared that the necessities of the case made it unimportant whether or not there was law for their action , and public opinion sustained them . Thus what seemed a crisis for the people was turned into a crisis for the strikers , and ended in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public servants must " be required to discharge their duties " regularly and without interruption . " The traction strike has illustrated the need of such a principle locally . The threatened railway strike illustrates the need for it nationally . This is not an original or novel remark . It is a remark which has been made officially , and without receiving the attention it deserved . In the award of the Van Hise Commission respecting the demands of the engineers in 1912 , it is said that there are only two reliances to cure such situations . One is the restraining force of public opinion . The other is thus set forth : A strike in the army or navy Is mutiny and is universally punished as such . The saute principle is applied to seamen because of the public necessity involved . A strike among postal clerks , as among the teachers of our public schools , would be unthinkable . In all these cases the employment , to borrow a legal phrase , is affected with a Public use , and this of necessity qualifies the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ However , if the principle be accepted that there are certain classes of service thus affected with a public interest , and men who enter them are not free concertedly to quit the service , then these men must be guarded in the matter of wages and conditions by public protection . It is to be hoped that the lesson will be learned this time . The public can not help remarking that they are better served by the corporations which they have hobbled and crippled than by the unions which they have spoiled by their sympathy . The corporations work piecework , unlimited hours , under strict regulation of their charges , and without . control of their costs . livery hanld is against them . Arbitrators find against them and . lawmakers unceasingly make laws against them . No wonder the unions presume upon their privileges and put no limit to their demands . They cause to be passed laws requiring railway funds to be squandered which might better be spent in serving the public or even in raising wages above the economic limit . They declare in statutes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when they act like conspirators in restraint of trade , and that the processes used against capitalist malefactors shall not be used against unions when they transgresd the law . Such conduct has led to a climax past all reason . When labor 's spokesmen declare that the unions care first for themselves ; it is necessary for the public to care first for itself . At the limit of the law the unions must stop or be stopped . So long as the traction men and the railway men fulfill their public duties their complaints should be patiently inquired into and full justice done them . But if they venture to strike , sympathy will be , or at least ought to be , transferred to the companies . They will seem to be the servants of the public , and the strikers the public enemy , who must be conquered because they can not be reasoned with . They can hardly appreciate the enormity of their position that they have been discriminated against in previous arbitrations , and that this time they will arbitrate only on their terms , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposal to submit to arbitration of the entire issue , or to the award of the Interstate Commission . The rule of the financial trusts has been brought within the rule of reason , despite unlimited wealth and more intelligence than the unions have , which is not small . The unions , too , hire their law by the year , and have the strength which comes from the massing of millions under a single control . But the people when they are aroused make their own laws , and they have a strength which makes the unions ' seem puny . The crisis which confronts the people and the railways , after all , is more a crisis for the unions . Will they be reasonable ? Only on that basis can they retain that public sympathy which is their sole hope of success .                     