@@684552

txt - The Conference has given the Germans an additional week in which to present their views on the ? treaty ; to this no one will object . It remains to be seen what the Germans will do with their days of Ooze . If the German Cabinet means what it says In its statement to The Associated Press , there is no - use in keeping BaocxeoarF-Rorrzau and his aids in Paris at all . A treaty that will satisfy the German Cabinet , in its present frame of mind will not satisfy any of the peoples whom Germany attacked ; the Conference might as . well turn over the negotiations to Marshal FoCH . But the Conference has not done that ; BlIOCKDORFF-RANTZAU has not gone home , , his delegation is preparing new and ponderous arguments on various Dints , - the treaty . In this fact alone there is firm ground for- believing that despite their bombast the Germans will ' sign , though they may hope to get some modification out Qt argument on detail . Then why this ? ostentatious refusal by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old game , the effort to stir up . America against the Allies . ' The contrast between Mr. LANSING 'S note of Nov. 5 and the " paragraphed song of hate , " as the Germans call the treaty , is too plain to be missed . Germany demands " a peace of right , justice , and reconciliation , " such as she talked of two years ago when her armies were every day giving the lie to the words of her statesmen ; and she expects us to get her what Germans will regard as a peace of justice . This ' is their reasoning : It is not the German people 's business to indicate how its rights shall be realized by the Fourteen Points , or . especially by the note of Secretary LANSING . That , rather , is the task of those who constructed the Fourteen Points and brought them to acceptance , thereby inducing Germany to lay down her weapons . We do not believe that President WILSON , Secretary LANSING , and the American people can take other than this German standpoint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think they can get America to fight for them . They admit that it is none of their business to say how their rights shall be realized by the Fourteen Points ; but they have already said it , by their refusal to consider the interpretation which has been made by the Peace Conference , including the man who proclaimed the Fourteen Points . They have our-answer already ; they de not like it ; and they expect us to adopt theirs . Such men have learned nothing and have forgotten nothing . The treaty , says the Cabinet , means " the economic destruction , political " dishonor , and moral degradation of " the entire German nation . " The people who ravaged Belgium , who per:nitted the slaughter of the Armenians , " who attacked Serbia and France and the world without provocation , who broke their promises to America , who deported the men of Belgium and the girls of Lille , are strangely sensitive to political dishonor and moral degradation . To the Germans dishonor and degradation are not states of one 's soul , certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which can be Imposed only from without . With persons whose terminology is so different there is no possibil*ty of argument , except by the further advance of the armies which really " induced the Germans to lay down their arms . " But it . is ? ardly to be supposed that BnoexPoRET-rtai:Tzau is staying in Paris to await-the decision of America to , change sides . He may be playing for time to strengthen the armies on the-eastern frontier , but it is more probable that he is doing the real busi- ness of negotiation ' which will end iii a treaty of peace . The statement of the Cabinet is merely a piece of tac'tical byplay ; meanwhile , our armies are ready to advance                     