@@681038

txt The Chamber of Commerce respectfully bows to the intimation that the committee of neither house of Congress - wishes to see in Washington the committee of the Chamber upon the pending legislation affecting commerce . But the Chamber is getting its views before the public all the same . It remains for the public to compare the views of the Chamber with the views of the lawmakers , who are preparing the sort of legislation which they assert is good for business . According to the Lformal resolution of the Chamber published yesterday two of the pending bills are even worse than the one whose condemnation led to the invitation to the Chamber 's committee to stay away from Washington . In the words of the Chamber , upon the motion of Mr. CANNON , the President of the Fourth National Bank , these bills would in their present form seriously disrupt and injure legitimate business , without any of the expected compensating benefits , Accordingly the Chamber suggests to Congress the need of so framing its legislation upon these subjects that it shall not unduly burden the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ echoed , with the suggestion that if the legislation shall be so framed as " unduly " to burden honest business the Supreme Court will take care of it . Railway Presidents by some chance have not been invited to stay away from Washington . Mr. LOREE , President of the Delaware &; Hudson Company . therefore went to express the opinions of railway men regarding the bill forbidding interlocking directorates . These sinful combinations have been represented as devices of the money trust . As decribed by President LOREE , they are arrangements whereby borrowers and lenders get together on the basis of first-hand Information regarding the business which both want to do together . To forbid interlocking would make the conditions of credit more hazardous , and would not improve the conditions of those who find credit difficult because they are outside the combination . Preventing A and B from doing business with each other does not put either of them in mood for doing business with C or D. Legislation on that theory might well await proof that credit has been withheld from those worthy of it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The practical working of interlocking is that it cheapens credit by enabling representatives of capital to assure themselves regarding the use of their money . In that manner foreign investors are led to lend at rates I or 2 or more per cent . below hose current in the districts where it is most popular to propose to forbid such representation . If local directorates are insisted upon local I rates of interest may be expected . Such missionary work is not wasted . The effort to educate our lawmakers has resulted already in the progress indicated in two Washington dispatches in yesterday 's TIMES . The President perceives now the difficulty in improving the Sherman anti-trust I law , and Senator OWEN perceives how very easy it is to improve the bill regulating the exchanges by refusing them access to the mails . Even lawmakers have their lucid and reasonable intervals .                     