@@683612

txt The coal situation in the city became ntore.acute yesterday owing to the delay to traffic caused by the storm . A survey of the coal yards of the city , made under- the direction of Reeve Schley . Fuel Administrator for Manhattan . showed that one half of the coal yards of the city had no coal . Thousand of tons intended for New York are said to be either at tide water or in cars snowbound between hero and the mine regions . The Fuel Administrators are bending all their efforts to get this coal in to the city 's bins . Burns Brothers , coal dealers , announced yesterday that they had closed five of their yards because of the shortage . At the Delancey Street yards , where cellar dealers are supplied , thirty-five wagons are idle ; at the Ninety-sixth Street yard of the firm there were only thirty-two tons of coal yesterday morning , and thirty tons of this amount were sent to St. Luke 's Hospital in response to an emergency call . The Fuel Administrators were kept busy all day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coal . There was a constant stream of such persons going to the offices of the Administrators in the various boroughs all day yesterday . Officials of the Stevens Technical Institute at Hoboken announced yesterday that they had barely enough coal to last until February , and that unless additional supplies of fuel were obtained before Jan. 31 , they would have to close a portion of the building . Recently the institute has been conducting , " speeding up classes " for the Government to fit students for immediate service , and extra rooms have been used which increased the coal consumption considerably . Alan Robinson , President of the City and Suburban ' Homes Company , sent notice to the 9,000 tenants in their model tenements ' yesterday that the company could not get coal , and that until it could obtain a supply 10 cents a day would be deducted from bills . The company said that the deduction was made so that a greater amount of gas could be used . " The coal shortage has affected our model tenements , " said Mr. Robinson , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two of .. our great east side , blocks , housing over 9,000 persons . " - trhe.Bronx Was apparently more fortunate than other boroughs , for it was reported by Joseph A. Hall , Assistant . Fuel Administrator yesterday , that 1,600 tons of coal arrived in barges just before the storm . This was distributed yesterday . " A large percentage of the clamor , I think , is due to apprehension rather than to actual necessity , " Mr. Hall said yesterday . " There are some who can not view a single ton with any degree ' of comfort but must go out and clamor for more . There are a number of barges on the Jersey side with coal and there is coal in the railroad yards over there . Just how much I can not say , but I am optimistic , and I believe that within a very short time we will be able to move this supply . " The great difficulty encountered now when coal does arrive is that it is frozen in the cars and has to be " remitted . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it again from the barges . All this takes time , especially with the scarcity of labor . A Brooklyn reader of Tun TIMES protested in a letter yesterday that there was no truth in stories that there was plenty of coal in that borough . From personal knowledge , he said , he knew it was impossible for ordinary persons to buy a ton or a bushel of coal in one of the most central parts of Brooklyn . " Once in a while you will see a coal wagon with a ton of coal going by , " he said . " If you stop the driver and ask if his firm has any coal to sell , he will tell you that the coal was ordered weeks ago , and that what little arrives is used to fill orders that have been on the books for a long time . " The Federal . Fuel Administration has appealed . to the city authorities for aid in obtaining men to break up the frozen coal now . on the New Jersey side awaiting transportation to New York . Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an appeal far labor to the municipal lodging house , the State Employment Bureaus , and the Civic Service- Commission . STORM HALTS SHIPMENTS . Sidings Into Anthracite Collieries Are Buried Under Snowdrifts . . SHAMOKIN , Penn. , Dec. - 14 . ? Fifteen thousand miners in the , Shamoking anthracite district were idle today and not -a pound of coal was shipped as a result of last night 's blizzard . Railroad sidings into ecIllieries are under snow drifts ranging froth three to seven feet in depth , closing in whole trainloads of coal mined Thursday . No freight or coal trains were being moved at noon today . Mining superintendents have called out men to aid in opening colliery sidings in a hope that anthracite production may be resumed tomorrow .                     