@@684477

txt The past week has seen a notable ad7ance of the movement for dehumanizng the humanities and deliberalizing the iberal arts . Princeton , long a strongmold of the classics , has capitulated on erms ; hereafter Greek is necessary ieither for the entrance nor for the exit of a *Princetonian , and an aspirant to he degree of Bachelor of Arts can get t with only a single year 's study of Jatin in his college course . " The action of the Faculty , " say a dispatch from a ' orward-looking . correspondent , " will ' open Princeton to good men who are not able to meet*the former high en ' trance credits . " The good men so ! arnestly desired are apparently not to ) e too good , not good enough to learn the eery modest amount of Greek which is aught in most preparatory schools , and which men who really want some scholastic opening for which this Greek is necessary have often acquired in a few months . Yale , goes even further . Latin is no longer required @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ algebra , solid geometry , and trigonometry for the Sheffield Scientific School. - Even in the centres of ancient humanistic studies the same tendency is seep ; a correspondent of The Evening Post writes from Oxford that " the classics , while . all admit , their " inestimable services to learning in the past , are gradually receding into the " background . " Men coming back from the war have a 1 ; iesire to study something . which , will show concrete results , . preferably in increased earning.Power ; they are flocking to engineering schools and modern language courses . It appears , then , that even Oxonians see a difference- in kind between learning in the past and learning in the future , since that which formerly rendered inestimable service is now discarded . ' At Yale students of literary courses do not need to know Latin , without which they can hardly understand the foundations and structure of their own or the Romance languages , and scientific students can get along without forms of mathematics which are very nearly as essential to science as is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the growth of modern languages and letters , men of science who know no mathematics  --  this is , of course , not what Yale wants , perhaps not what Yale expects , but what Yale is likely to get . A man does not often make more money by studying the Greek and Latin languages and the civilizations of the peoples who spoke them ; he does make more money by learning modern languages and engineering . He will study modern languages for that very reason , though the teachers may be as incompetent in these branches as in the classics ; he will work to overcome the.handicap of bad teaching if his study promises a larger salary . Nevertheless , there are other things in the world than salaries . At an engineering school a man learns engineering ; in a classical course a good student well taught will come nearer to learning what GOD and man are than by any other formal academic study . In the last few years most members of the human race have taken an active personal part in the making of modern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is going and where he wants to go as a civic unit is as badly handicapped without ? knowing something of the origins of his civilization as is a physician ignorant of biology . Civilization did not begin with the Declaration of Independence , nor yet with the Communist Manifesto ; and a man who expects to have something to say about where civilization is going will have a considerably better chance if he knows something of its history and the characteristics of the races that have most strongly influenced it .                     