@@679607

txt The movement to detach Mr. AL- ' DRICHIS name from Mr. ALDRICH 'S plan of monetary reform is not quite so ruthless as it looks . We presume it has the approval and assent of Mr. Armaxos himself . To rob an inventor Of his fame , to put forth the fruits of his labors under a name other than his own , or under no naxne , ould ordinarily be deemed rank injustice . Mr. Annracsr is not in a strict sense the inventor or discoverer of the plan of issuing currency and regulating credits and discounts through a Central Reserve Association . That plan was embodied in Congressman FOWLDR 's illfated measures , but Mr. ALDRICH made it workable and evolved a monetary system which has commanded the approval and the admiration of those most competent to judge of such matters . Moreover , by diligent and arduous labors such as those who are accustomed to speak of him in terms of detraction are entirely Incapable of undertaking , Mr. Amonrest made himself master of the facts and ' principles of banking and finance as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commercial nations , and he reached , adopted , and , proclaimed conclusions very different from those he formerly entertained . The credit of his achievement can never be taken from him , whatever be the name under which the Aldrich plan is ultimately adopted . As the head of the Monetary Commission he took upon himself substantially the whole burden of the ? labors it was to perform . Bankers and students of monetary problems know the great value of the service he has rendered to the country . But Mr. ALnitics would be the last man In the world to let the pride of authorship stand in the way of the adoption of the Central Reserve Association plan . The gentlemen who are now about to undertake the labor of gaining the approval of the people for this reform are convinced that its association with the name of Mr. ALDRICH would be an obstacle . During his years of service in the Senate Mr. ALDRICH was in the popular mind pretty closely identified with the " interests , " particularly in tariff matters . That Is enough to give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the monetary plan set forth in Mr. ALDRICH 'S letter to the Commission are very great , but that would make no difference with the demagogues who in the South and West would try to set the people against the plan . They have always before their eyes , or in their memory , the example of one illustrious person who , without the capacity for that painstaking study WIACh Mr. ALDRICH gave to the monetary problem , without the qualities of a statesman , or the accurate knowledge that comes of business experience , yet attained to the greatest distinctions by dint of fiery zeal in agitation . Such men would arise in the West , they would denounce the monetary plan as a contrivance of the money power designed to put Wall Street in control of the currency and the banking system of the country . Of course , anybody who is capable of understanding the workings or a Central Reserve Association knows that it is a simple and perfectly sure method of taking the control over the money supply and credits and discounts out of Wall Street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the West and South , into whose hands some of our statesmen are simply crazy to commit the direct control of legislation and the choice of Senators , would never see that . They would listen to the voice of the Chautauqua orators and go home believing that the Aldrich plan was the sum-of all monetary vallainies . It is with a view to forestall these compaigners of ignorance and misrepresentation that an association is to be formed which will undertake to tell the people in all parts of the country just what , the Central Reserve plan is . Bankers and financiers have already given it their approval . It is hoped that by a clear exposition of its principles and its workings the people can be brought to understand and to approve , to the end that a measure embodying the proposed reform may be aigt41401:4agaggaWWWWIng with a reasonable hope of securing a majority vote in the Senate and House . The importance of promptly ? giving statutory effect to the suggested reform overshadows all other considerations . Mr. Atoruan , as we have said , will undoubtedly be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name . He sees , as bankers see , that it would be foolish and dangerous , by postponing the establishment of a sound currency system , to leave the country exposed to the . danger of banking panics and the ordinary calculations of its business men to the embarrassment of wildly fluctuating money rates .                     