@@681587

txt There was great rejoicing throughout the navy not long ago when it was announced that a sum approximately $2 , - 000,000 was available from previous appropriations for the purchase of a modern vessel to supplant the hospital ship Solace , which has long been recognized as hopelessly inadequate for the needs a our modern fleet . This rejoicing was short-lived , for it was learned that because of his great solicitude lest America should be suspected of warlike preparations , Secretary Bryan had vetoed the proposal and the plan to provide a properly equipped haven for the sick men in the service was abandoned . According to naval officers familiar with the circumstances , Secretary of the Navy Daniels was talking to Secretary of State Bryan , when he happened to mention that the fleet was about to get a new hospital ship and that it would he paid for and equipped with money that was available from the savings of bureaus in the Navy Department . The Secretary of State frowned upon the proposal , promptly asserting that in his opinion it would be an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so might create the impression that the United States was preparing for trouble some where . New Ship Long Needed . " General Boards of the Navy have advised time and time again , " a naval officer said yesterday , " the construction of a hospital ship worthy of I he service , but up to the present Congress has not seen fit to pass the legislation that would make possible this Much needed addition to the greatest of American fleets . " Immediately following the occupation of Vera - Cruz by the naval forces ' under Admiral Fletcher last April , which cost the fleet nineteen lives and scores of wounded bluejackets and marines , the fact that  --  the naval . iervlee was badly off , so far as fleet hospital equipment was concerned , was brought home forcibly to the authorities in Washington . It was admitted ' on all . sides that the situation demanded immediate attention . " Naval officials thereupon began to look about for a way to give the fleet a fit hospital ship . It was found that upward of $2,000,000 was available @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , could be used to purchase a modern liner , and that enough money would be left over to pay for the transformation of the liner from a passenger ship to a hospital ship . The proposal was submitted to Secretary of the Navy Daniels . and he approved it , and told the officers to go ahead . Surgeon Theodore W. Richards , one of the best known medical officers in the Navy , was selected to superintend the conversion of the liner into a hospital ship . and he came to New York with approved plans in his possession . The ship selected was one of the best vessels of the Ward Line . " Prepare For Fleet Exercises . Now that the navy 's dream of a proper floating hospital has been shattered , the Solace , a ship of only 3,300 tons , tiv  --  mty years old , and very much the worse for wear , is being made ready , so far as it is possible to do so , to accompany the Atlantic Fleet on its annual Winter exercises off Guantanamo . These exercises @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will be the first time in three years that the entire Atlantic Fleet has taken ? part in them . The dreadnought Florida sailed from Brooklyn , , on Friday , anti the Utah . the flagship of the Second Division , sailed yesterday . The New York , Wyoming , and Arkansas are coaling , and will follow within the next two or three days . The torpedo destroyer flotillas , now in the yard , will also get away this week . On the fleet flagship New York carpenters are preparing quarters for President Wilson , Miss Eleanor Wilson , and Secretary of the Navy and Mrs , Daniels . Admiral Fletcher and his staff will have . their Quarters on the dreadnought Wyoming . President Wilson will occupy Admiral Fletcher 's rooms on the New York , miss Wilson will have a room made from the offices of the Flag Secretary and Flag Lieutenant , and Secretary and Mrs. Daniels will have the quarters of Capt . Huse , the fleet Chief of Staff . An office for the President is being arranged in the Admiral 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President and his party will be completed , it is expected , in time for the New York to sail for Guantanamo next Friday . She will take part in the fleet exercises , and then return to Hampton Roads , where the President , Miss I son , and the Secretary and Mrs. Daniels will probably Conic aboard on March : 5 . Immediately afterward the New York will sail for Panama to lead the fleet through the great waterway when it is ? opened officially to the commerce of the world .                     