@@679368

txt The Prostdent to-day sent to Congress a special message , Introducing the text of the Canadian reciprocity agreement , recently signed by Canadian Ministers on the one side and Secretary of State Knox on the other . The message was react in the Senate late In the afternoon , in the presence of fewer than thirty Senators , many of whom were reading newspapers or conversing with each other . This lack of interest has , to a certain extent , been fostered by the Administration , though it is the purpose now to rush through at this session , legislation giving effect to the agreement . It was felt that should Senators , even members of the Finance Committee . be too closely admitted to the negotiations while they were in progress , the State Department would be greatly hampered by appeals on the part of representatives of special interests . The agreement , which is in the form of a note from the two Canadian Ministers who conducted the negotiations here setting forth their understanding of the terms , and a note from Mr. Knox @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not in the nature of a formal treaty . It is merely a pledge q , n the part of the Adinims-u-ation in this country and of the Government in Canada to try to obtain legislation enacting the recommendations .. In both countries the agreement , as affecting tariff legislation already enacted . will have to run the gantlet of both houses instead of , as usual in this country . requiring the ratification only of the Senate . In the case of a treaty , however , it would be necessary in the United States to have the approval of two-thirds of the Senate , but now the way is clear for the Ways and Means Committee of the House and the Finance Committee of the Senate to proceed as with any Tariff bill . The principal purpose of Secretary Knox appears to have been to obtain a reduction of the " high cost of living " by greatly enlarging the free list so far as it relates to foodstuffs coming from Canada . On the other hand , he obtained a. notable abatement of duties on a number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bituminous coal , which is now exported to Canada to the value of several million dollars annually . There is also a much better opening for American farm machinery and implements . More ltudicar Than Was Expected . The agreement , which was simultaneously laid before the Dominion Parliament - to- day , goes much further than was generally expected here . It touches on about GOO items , nearly all of which show ' reductions by both countries from the rates now in force . These items are divided into four schedules . The first two schedules show identical rates to be imposed by both countries , Schedule A including all articles to be put , according to the agreement , on the free list by both countries , and Schedule B embodying the items on which some rate will be levied equally by both countries . The other two schedules set forth items on which different rates will be levied by the two countries , Schedule C setting forth rates to be imposed by the United States and Schedule D rates to he levied by Canada . On the face of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward a lower tariff with Canada , and this action on the part of the Administration is still further accentuated by a comparison of reductions assented to by the United States with favors of a similar sort granted by Canada . Thus , according to official figures , Canada 's reductions of all duties on goods imported from the United States will amount to $2,560,579 . The United States at the same time makes reductions to almost double this amount , or a total surrender of revenue , based on the fiscal year 1910 , of .4,849,933 . A glance at the table prepared for the State Department by its Bureau of Trade Relations shows that this greater step toward free trade on the part of the United States than on the part of Canada in pretty well scattered through the whole of the items touched on . On many items , of course , where one country levies a specific duty and the other an ad valorem rate , it is impossible off hand to compare the differences referred to , but taking the items where the rates are levied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States concedes a greater redubtion than Canada on about 110 items , Canada makes strnilarly greater ' concessions on only- about sixty items . It is ... probable that the same ratio continues through the other items on the list . As has been forecast in these dispatches , the reductions relate generally to animals . foodstuffs , farm products . garden products , fruits , dairy products , fish  --  oysters. salt , mineral waters , lumber , . machinery , minor metal manufactures , coal meats . flour , and meal farming utensils , fruit Lres. , automobiles , and Portland cement . The negotiations as to wood pulp and print paper failed , except that - free trade was agreed to as soon as the Canadian provinces individually remove restrictions on exportation to- a ' Point where the United States on its-side shall consent to admit the Canadian products free . This question , as involving the rights of the provinces , did not come within the sphere of influence of the Canadian Ministers who came here . ' Articles ; on the Free Lint . The chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embodies the free list mutually agreed to . In includes such items as live animals and poultry , grain of various sorts which will be imported into the United States , fruits ( except lemons , oranges , &c.); which will be shipped both ways , dairy products , which Canada will now Send into the Eastern States in great quantities : fish , which , while apparently Canada concedes the greater duty in order to reach a ? frae trade basis , will really he shipped into the United States in great Quantities ; oysters , salt . tin plates . which , as a further favor 10 American tin Witte manufacturers , will now have a free marrei in Canada ; various sorts of wire which the United States will now send to a free market , and typecasting anti setting machines , already unde ? a Canadian duty of - 20 per cent. , going into that country to the annual value of This schedule alone of the articles to go on the free list means an elimination of duties now collected by Canada amounting to 1. - 17t1. ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ curtails its imposts to the extent of 4. : ! 3ri3O00 . It is therefore apparent that tha reductions effected by The agreement come for the most part gn the case of each country from the total elimination of existing . duties . There follows a table of the items treated of in the agreement showing the changes in rates effected by it . In Schedule A the rate is not set down ; as in-every case the articles in that schedule go on the free list . In the- other three schedules the proposed rate is given in the last column . 