@@681949

txt Theodore Roosevelt 's speech at the Plattsburg camp yesterday , in which the ex-President attacked President Wilson and his Administration , brought today from Lindley M. Garrison , the Secretary of War , an official reprimand for Major General Leonard Wood . because he had given Colonel 2zoosevelt the opportunity to make a political address . To emphasize this rebuke . Secretary Garrison , who is the immediate superior of General Wood . gave to the press the telegram of reprimand as follows : Washington , Aug. 26 , 1215 . I have just seen the reports in the newspapers of the speech made by ex-President Roosevelt at the Plattsburg camp . It is difficult to conceive of anything wIfich would have a more detrimental ettect upon the real value of this experiment than such an incident . This camp , held under Government auspices , was successfully demonstrating many things of great momentlts virtue consisted in the fact that it conveyed its own impressive lesson in its practical and successful operation and results . No opportunity should have been furnished to anyone to present to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary training they were there to receive . Anything else could only have the effect of distracting attention from the real nature of the experiment , diverting consideration to issues which excite controversy , antagonism and ill-feeling , and thereby impairing , if not destroying , what otherwise would have been so effective . There must not be any opportunity given at Plattsburg or at any other similar camp tor any such unfortunate consequences . LINDLEY M. GARUISON , Secretary of War . Did Not Consult President Secretary Garrison said that he had taken this action on his own initiative and had not discussed the matter with President Wilson . Whether any further action is to be taken has not been determined . Secretary Garrison was asked whether a copy of the telegram of reprimand would be placed on Major General Wood 's efficiency record . He answered that he had not taken up consideration of thaz phase of the matter . Whether any further action will be taken w.11 depend on the response , if any , made by General Wood , and upon whether President Wilson directs that other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wood was not being reprimanded for what ex-President Roosevelt said , but for having furnished the opportunity to " any one to present to the men any matter excepting that which was essential to the necessary training they were there to receive. - Although White House officials refused to make any comment on the speech delivered by ex-President Roosevelt at the Plattsburg camp , it was apparent that officals and close friends of the Administration were highly displeased over the action of General ' Wood . Early in the war President ' Wilson isstied a warning , through Secretary Garrison , to all army officers . prohibiting them from participating in public discussions of the war in Europe or in discussions of the Government 's military and foreign policies . Friends of the President were said to feel that General Wood should nol have invited Colonel Roosevelt to the Plattsburg camp ; that General Wood must have had a full appreLiation of the latter 's views and his tendency to discuss them on such occasicns . At the opening of the Plattsburg camp . General Wood was quoted in newspapers as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration to adopt a more vigorous policy of national defense . Secretary Garrison was asked today whether official attention would he paid to the remarks then attributed to General Wood . Mr. Garrison said that he had been assured by General Wood . both by telegraph and letter , that lie had delivered no such speech . An extract from a letter from General Wood to Mr. Garrison , under date of Aug. 14 , was made public by the Secretary of War , as follows : You perhaps have seen something of the articles in the various papers . It is needless to state that there was no discussion by me. nor has there been any by any officers here , of international affairs or anything that comes under the President 's prohibition . The talks to the men have been on purely technical subjects , explaining the use of armies , methods of raising them . sanitation , etc . My own talk was absolutely on technical lines , and had to do with the methods of raisin. , and maintaining armies . voluntary systems . etc. , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 think a great many of t ' ' . ese men will go . Effect on General Wood 's Career . Speculation was active today as to the effect of the reprimand of General Wood upon his military future . The impression has been general in Washington that . in the event of war involving this country , General Wood would be placed in command of the Armies of the United States in the field- After the landing of the forces at American Vera Cruz , when it seemed that war with Mexico might result , it was understood in Washington that General Wood would be placed in field command . The Plattsburg affair has raised doubt in Washington whether the - ranking command in the field would be given to General Wood in a hostile emergency . I What aroused friends of the Administration in General Wood 's case was that this was the second time within the last six months that his relationship to the national defense movement , in which Colonel Roosevelt is actively identified . had been the occasion of a letter of warning or reprimand from Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called upon to send an official I letter to General Wood telling him to shun the American Legion , then being formed , and warning him that it was regarded as improper for army officers to mix in such a movement , although the tVar Department approved its alms . At that time General Wood , in letters to the Secretary of War , explained that he had merely told his aid to assist in the preparation of application blanks for the Legion . General Wood has many friends here . He is regarded by them as a splendid example of a competent , up-to-date general officer , and as one who has done remarkable service in reorganizing the army and in seeking to place the nation in a better condition of military preparedness . That Secretary Garrison admired these qualities in him was understood . and as evidence of it attention has been called to the refusal of Air . Garrison , early in the Wilson Administration , to comply with the request of Chairman Hay of the House Military Committee to transfer General Wood from the office of Chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General Wood was relieved of the - General Staff detail it was in compliance with the requirements of the So-called " Manchu law . " providing that noofficer shall serve more than four years in every six on special staff duty or duty away from his command . An EintinirEnising ' Position . General Wood 's friends are understood to feel that he was placed in an embarrassing position in connection with Colonel Roosevelt 's willingness to address the military students of Platteburg . Colonel Roosevelt and General Wood were intimate , friends in Washington when the one was a Civil Service Commissioner and later Assistant Secretary of the Navy and the other was a surgeon in the army. , The Colonelcy of the Rough Riders was offered to Colonel Roosevelt , but he persuaded President and Secretary Alger to give the place to General Wood , then a Captain and Assistant Surgeon . and himself took the post of Lieutenant Colonel . In the bitter fight made to prevent General Wood 's . promotion to Major General , Colonel Roosevelt stood by him staunchly . In addition it ? was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States and as such Commander in Chief of the land and naval forces , and was for that reason deserving ' of Special consideration and honor when he appeared at the Plattsburg camp . As it was put today , once the Colonel was started on his speech at Plattsburg , General Wood could not have stopped-him . The reprimand to General Wood marks a still further tightening of the ban of the Administration against participation by Army and Naval officers in public discussion of the war in Europe , or of national defense , without the express appproval of the War Department . The first prohibition was ' against granting interviews . Later an officer participated in a discussion at a club , but his remarks got into print . This led to the issuance of a second order by Major General Hugh L. Scott , Chief ' - , f the General Staff of the Army , on Feb. 18 last , which . read : The . Secretary of War is convinced that the best interests of the service are prejudiced by the appearance in public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by officers of the Army on the military situation here or abroad , and he , therefore , directs that all officers refrain therefrom until further orders in the premises . The telegram of reprimand to General Wood shows that the War Department now takes the position that it is improper for an Ariny officer to afford the " opportunity " to any one outside the service to make speeches under Army auspices , on any matter excepting that which is essential to the purposes of the Army gatherings .                     