@@683069

txt Sigfried Cederstrom , real estate expert for the Public Service Commission , tendered his resignation yesterday , charging that the commission after receiving from him a preliminary report had refused to permit him to complete appraisals of land values involved in the New York Central 's proposed changes on the west side . Ills preliminary report , Mr. Cederstrom asserted , had shown that the bases for the appraisal already made for the Committee on Port and Terminal Facilities of the Board of Estimate were misleading and grossly disadvantageous to the city . " My own researches convince me that the whole transaction needs ? a public airing , " Mr. Cederstrom wrote to the commission in his letter of resignation . " My investigation leads me to the belief that the city 's interest is in Cringer and that the loss to the city through tile erroneous appraisal bases already discovered will be enormous . " Immediately on logrning of Mr. Cederstrom 's action Commissioners Hayward , Whitney . and Hervey held a confel-ence at the Harvard Club . where they were attending a dinner of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accept . his resignation , but to dismiss him if he failed to make good some of the charges contained in his letter . The following announcement of a public hearing of Mr. Cederstrom 's charges was issued by Commissioner Hayward , Acting Chairman of the commission : " The resignation of Mr. Cederstrom. will not be , apee.Rted , for he haa-tue4.11 , charges -requiritigAmmedlatia proof- ; from him . He will have opportunity on Mop ; , day morning aCitAniblia meetink of commission to 6E6 , or produceanything he has . If he fails to substantiate his statements he will be dismissed from the public service forthwith . " " Startling . " Whitman . Sheya . Cederstrom 's letter , Which was given to the newspapers before it reached the commission , caused general surprise . Governor Whitman heard of it at the St. Regis through Cornmissioner Hayward and characterized it as " startling . " Mayor Mitchel asserted that-he knew nothing of the new controversy beyond the fact that he felt sure the members of the commission ' wanted an honest and an authoritative appraisal of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he accused Mr. Cederstrom of promoting the campaign of William Randolph Hearst . against the west side plan . The commission 's real estate expert merely smiled on hearing of the furore he had created , and asserted lie would be or . hand Monday to make good his charges . His letter of resignation and the - explanation for it follows : " The Public Service Commission was requested by Governor Whitman on Feb. 11 to give him their estimate of the value of the land and rights which , under the proposals , of the New York Central Railroad , the City of New York is to convey and grant to the railroad company and the value of the land and rights which the company is to convey and grant to the city . " The Public Service Commission , having officially approved the Governor 's request , the duty of making such appraisals devolved upon me as real estate expert of the Public Service Commission . . " I was directed to report , first , my opinion as to the bases used in determining the real estate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which had been negotiating with the railroad , and , secondly , my opinion as to the proper method of arriving at such valuation . " My preliminary report , in accordance with those instructions , has already been filed with the commission . This preliminary report clearly indi- ' cated that the actual appraisal to be made later under the authority of the commission.would inevitably prove that the system of determining values followed by the Port and Terminal Committee , and already made public , was wholly erroneous and a grave injustice to ' the city . " My preliminary report further Indicated that . as the bases for the appraisal already made for the board were misleading , it inevitably followed that the whole findings on which the Board of Estimate bases its contract with the New York Central would require radical revision in the city 's interests . Charges Throttling of Truth . " Having completed and filed my preliminary report in accordance with the instructions of the commission , I am now directed 1-y the commission not to proceed with the work of actual appraisal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manner directed by the Governor . From the outset I have felt that , either through misunderstanding of the intent of the Governor  --  though his language is quite plain  --  or through design , my efforts to present a straightforward and truthful report have been thwarted . By limiting my report to a survey of the bases of appraisal and the methods of arriving at those bases full cornpliance with the Governor 's instructions sae made impossible . Upon ' filing my report with the ' statement that it was but preliminary to the actual appraisal , I was assigned to another task having no relation to the pending contract . I am further Informed that the new work must supersede that which Governor Whitman had requested . My conviction is , although I am an employe of the conviction . Service Commission and dependent for my livelihood upon the salary I receive , that a larger duty confronts a public servant in the situation thus created . " The Governor of the State requested a report on city land values involved in a deal of such magnitude that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contract . My own researches convince me that the whole transaction needs a public airing . My investigation leads me to the belief that the city 's interest is in danger , and that the loss to the city through the erroneous appraisal bases already discovered would be enormous . ? " I therefore deem it my duty to sever my connection with the commission . As a private eitieen I may give to the public the true appraisal to which it is entitled , and without which it will be made to suffer ? an unjust burden . " " Therefore this letter is to be construed as my resignation as real estate expert of the Public Service Commission , to t4 , ke effect forthwith . I am constrained to take this step by these additional facts : Other Reasons for Act . " First  --  When a request was made that my services as a real estate expert be placed at the disposal of realty holders whose interests were at stake , it was officially stated for the commission that the services of its expert should not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the time , that the realty interests of abutting property owners constituting a community Of interests amounting to public concern , and in the deal that is pending one of the parties was the municipality and the other a public service corporation . " Second  --  When , by direction of the Governor of the State , such an appraisal was actually ordered , I was officially diverted from that investigation as soon as it was found that my report might be detrimental to the interests of the New York Central and in the interests of the city 's taxpayers . " Third  --  When , at the instance of the New York Real Estate Board , the benefit of my experience , sought in a consulting or advisory capacity , was tabled and any co-operation was not sanctioned . . Yet I have been an active member of the New York Real Estate Board for many years . The city administration requested the services of a committee of the New York Real Estate Beard to co-operate with the Board of Estimate in determining the real estate values in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee would obviously have been in line with the request of the Governor for a report on the values involved . Yet ink hands are tied . " Fourth , I call your attention to the fact that the City Administration , which at first refused to counsel with the Public Service Commission , now co-operates to the extent of naming a sub-committee to meet with a sub-committee from your body This , to my mind . is not in conformity with the request of the Governor . Ile did not seek the City Administration 's views . He did not seek the views of a sub-committee of the Public Service Commission after conferences with city officials . Re asked for an independent appraisal by the Public Service Commissions 's real estate expert , who is not associated In any way with the city officials who are making- the contract with the railroad . Such ** is now , impossible ; br.your body . Mie ? ends that the Governor sought to serve are defeated , so far as anY official action by the Public Service Commission is concerned . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they ' had received a report from Mr. Cederstrom on the value of lands involved in the proposed agreement with the New York Central , but said it had been considered inadequate . It was in no sense a " preliminary report , " they added , but a complete survey of the-subject , so far as the real estate expert was able to make it . " The report . was not understandable , I and when this fact was drawn to Mr. Cederstrom'a attention , he replied it was the best he could do , " a member of the commission explained . " He thereupon was assigned to other work . Mr. Cederstrom was requested some time ago by Mr. Hearst 's attorney , William de Ford , to appraise the lands for the Randolph Realty Company , and I think we will be able to show a motive for Mr. Cederstroms letter at the hearing on Monday . Called Another " Hearst Hove . " Controller Prendergast issued the following statement : . " Cedersztrom 's resignation is only another move in the Hearst campaign against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter by the Hearst people because they knew he would make just the kind of a report on the real estate values they , the Hearst people , wanted . " If Cederstrom has any idea , that his connection with these professional vilifiers is not well known he is very much mistaken . In my opinion , he never should have held the position ? of real estate appraiser for the Public Service Commission , for the reason that he was not qualified for it , and I think the Commission is very fortunate If it will be able to get rid of him . He knew very well that his appraisal in this case would be subjected to search and analysis by impartial men and that he would ultimately be proved both prejudiced and incompetent . " I have had some experience with Cederstrom , and it is because of this that I believe him to be incompetent The real estate interests referred to by Cederstrom in his letter which called upon the Governor to use the facilities of the Public Service Commission in investigating the west side plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is only one of the numerous aliases used by Hearst . The public should know this so that it will be able to adequately appraise the real animus in the opposition to the west side improvement . " Mayor Mitchel said , " I know nothing about Mr. Cederstrom , or what the Ppblie Service Commission is doing to get conclusions as to the land values . I am sure , however , from my knowledge of the gentlemen on the commission that they could have no reason itt the world for obtaining other than an honest , authoritative and accurate report concerning the value of lands . " Attention was last night called to the fact that Mr. Cederstrom , according to testimony by Colonel T. S. Williams , President of the B. R. T. , before the Thonmson Committee , at one time tried to obtain a position with the Brooklyn Traction Company . 