@@679538

txt A plot among the I inmates of the Matteawan State Asylum I ' for the Criminal Insane to assassinate Sept . Lamb of that Institution and the first assistant physician is disclosed in a special report made to Gov . Dix by William Church Osborn , the Governor 's legal advise ; and Mayor George E. Van lien-nen of Ogdensburg , as special Commissioners appointed by the Governor to examine into the affairs and management of the State prisons and reformatories . The plot was hatched by an Italian Who fs confined at Matteawan as a homicidal paranoiac . In common with the Other inmates of the asylum he was examined by Dr. Carlos F. and Dr. Austin Flint , who were engaged by the Commissioners to look into the mental condition of the insane confined at the asylum with a view to ascertaining whether the reports that sane persons were being held prisoners at Matteawan were well founded . Here is what the two alienists have to say with reference to the murder plot : A Sicilian , who is described in our report of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a revolver and a number of cartridges . He also had obtained some strips of iron which he had fashioned into sharp-pointed stilettos and given to certain other inmates . Information of this was given to one of the medical officers by an inmate who refused examination , but was recorded as " showing paranoid delusions , " While not giving absolute credit to this revelation , which included a story of a plot to murder the Superintendent and the first assistant physician , the physician in charge caused several searches of the accused to be made at certain intervals . Finally a general search of the ward was made at an unexpected time , and the weapon was found in a bag belonging to the Sicilian . It had been observed that this man had been friendly with some of the most intelligent and troublesome of the homicidal inmates . lie and the inmate who disclosed the alleged plot were interrogated by us . It has thus far , however , been found impossible to ascertain how the man obtained the weapon . His own declarations as to this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claims that the officials of the hospital are prejudiced against him , that he is sane , and that he should he returned to the courts for trial . He is now clearly insane , cunning , plausible , vindictive . Irritable , and very homicidal . We believe that the spirit of unrest and resistance to discipline Is fostered by popular agitation on the question of management of the hospital ; as patients are well informed on this point , having free access to the newspapers . Urge Stricter Discipline . The two alienists gave the following in- " stance as an illustration of the necessity - of a discipline more rigid at Matteawan than at the average civil hospital where insane patients are being kept . In one instance a vicious assault was made in our presence by a violent paranoiac Upon an attendant . which illustrates the dangers to which attendants , and . Indeed . the officers of the institution , are exposed in the performance of their doties . These dangers are ail the more serious , as there is an eminently proper rule of the hospital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense ; so that they trust rely entirely on their coolness. judgment . and physical strength in cases of ? iolence by these dangerous and Irresponsible persons . A recent murderous at 1,1,1 : upon the Superintendent by an apparently harmless inmate shows that no one in the instittl ! lon , who is broucht in contact with patients . is free front danger to life or limb . /t is to he remembered that nearly 40 per cent , ( 362 ) of the inmates were guilty of crimes against the person , including ST cases of murder in the first degree , in the large majority of cases , these offenses were committed by paranoiacs suffering from delusions of persecution : and all alienists are agreed that the " persecuted paranoiac " is the most dangerous of the ineane . These paranoiac 's usually present no mental deterioration ; and they are cunning enough to deceive the ordinary observer in regard to their mental condition . which may in a measure account for the aid they often receive from lawyers , courts , and the laity , in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is easy to understand that In an institution which contains 262 insane who have committed offenses against the person , Many of these being homicides , a discipline must be maintained much more rigid than Is necessary in a civil hospital , The intelligent paranoiacs especially are in a condition of constant unrest : and even one or two leading spirits of their number may so work upon this dangerous element as to ' render its repression and control extremely difficult . Under the instruction given them by the Commissioners the two alienists so directed their examination of the inmates as to gain light on the two subjects which seem upmost in the minds of the public , namely , whether patients were properly treated and - whether there was any truth in the allegations that a number of sane persons were kept at the hospital without due.warrant . In addition to the examination by the two physicians , the Commissioners engaged the services of Goodwin Brown , who for ten years was a State Commissioner in Lunacy , to make a detailed examination of Matteawan , with particular regard to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commissioner Osborn himself , assisted by Mr. Brown , made a personal examination of the hospital a week ago yesterday , Authority Now Divided . As a result of the reports they have received from the experts , the Commissioners recommend to Gov . Dix that the Matteawan State Hospital be taken out of the jurisdict'on of the State Prison Department and placed exclusively tinder the supervision of the State Commission in Lunacy . At present the authority over the institution is divided between these two departments . This results in a lack of efficient supervision . says the report . Here is what the Commissioners have to say on the subject : Tour Commissioners find that while originally used for the care of the Insane during their term of senieno , ? . the character of the inmates has changed , the bulk of the insane persons under sentence being now maintained at Dannomora Hospital , and the Inmates of Itratteawan being either those known as " court order " eases , that is , . persons accused of crime and found befor ? conviction to be insane , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but , who are detained because of insanity . Oct of a present population of approximately gno , but 4 per cent. , or 2:1 persons , iiow detained in the liatteawan State Hospital arc sit present subject to a prison elm . The population of the hospital is herefore not a population of convicts . A Ludy of the character of the Inmates shows nZ approximately 200 are violently and ngerootly insane ; that approximately too : these are insane persons with homicidal der.cies ; and that the remaining ( 100 are *somewhat quiet and orderly disposition , rionding in their general character ' to eopants of the State hospitals for the e throughout the State . the treatment of inmates the report this ' - to say : . examination of the methods of treat , upon the wards , the discipline of the lawn , and the general character of the is : leads your Commissioners to con , that the original theory of maInteq : . the institution as a hospital for ' convicts should be changed , and who are in such condition of sanity as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determine whether the conditions in each case justify such action . The examination of the experts shows that approximately the usual number of patients are in a condition making them ready for discharge , and when such is the case a discharge follows . Little Restraint ' Used . With reference to the discipline In the wards , It appears that no restraint is used except the restraining sheet . which is In use in State hospitals , and what is known as a camisole or canvas shirt . so arranged that the arms are retained inside of the shirt , although they have Per piry there . The inmates are , however , allowed much less freedom on the wants and In the grounds than is the vase elsewhere . No punishments are used in the hospital and the attendants are not provided with any method of restraint of patients except the Use of such force as is necessary to prevent violence upon the wards and between the patients . Your Commissioners find that the medical care Is somewhat less systematic and less scientific than that in the State hospital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commission In Lunacy , needed reforms in this respect will follow . They find that the estimate system is not followed in detail with tha thoroughness followed in the State hospital system , and hdleve that a closer supervision should be had . They wish to state , however . that they have no reason to believe that any improprieties exist , or have existed , in this regard . PLOTTED TO KILL MATTEAWAN DOCTORS // that It should now be regarded as a State hospital for the insane of n special class requiring specialized attention and treatment , but to be regarded substantially as arc the Insane in other State hospitals . They believe that In following this plan a larger proportion of cures will result . and . that the public attitudeawf question and suspicion of the management of the institution will be relieved . They therefore recommend that the insane persona now subject . to a prison term in the Matteawan State hospital be transferred to Dannernora. proper provision being Outdo . and that the law he so amended that the Matteawan Hospital shall be put under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal inspection . front the reports of Messrs . Brown , and Flint . and front the outcome of the investigation conducted by the District Attorney of Dutchess , County your Commissioners are satisfied that no unusual conditions of violence or depravity exist in this Institution , and that no patients are detained therein When Drs. and Flint began I their examination of the inmates , the latter numbered 793 . Of these they were able to examine without difficulty 761 . Harry K. Thaw , who killed Stanford White , and was declared insane , was one of thirty-two inmates who declined to be examined . But his subsequent conduct made any examination unnecessary . He I delivered himself of a harangue in the rpresence of the alienists. which was taken down by a stenographer and later wrote a letter which they declared would furnish an index of his mental condition . 1 The alienists in their report to the Commissioners make these suggestions : 1 . A certain number of harmless dements , who are able to do some work and do not require the strict discipline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ removed from the building and segregated in a detached building outside of the hospital inclosure . This would , in a measure , relieve the present congestion of the wards . 2 . Under the insanity law , all female convicts becoming insane while undergoing sentence are sent to Matteawan . It would be for the good of this institution if , at the least , female convicts becoming insane while undergoing sentence of more than one year should be sent to the Dannernora State Hospital . the same as male convicts . The mixing of old convicts with those indicted for a misdearneanor or undergoing sentence of one year or less is not desirable . n . A careful review of the personnel of the hospital might result In the transfer of a few inmates to other Institutions or possibly to the care of friends . Such an Investigation we did not attempt ; and , indeed . it was beyond the scope of our instructions . It is hut fair to the hospital to sal ' that in 110 instance did we find an instate wrongfully detained or one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officers or attendants . The report of the alienists is voluminous . It contains a complete record of the examination of each of the inmates . Everything said or done during the examinations was taken down by a stenographer , and this record has been preserved . In nineteen instances the alienists made especial investigations with a crew of determining the fitness of inmates to be discharged or sent to trial as the case might be . Included in this number was LiZzie Halliday , who was confined at the hospital . suffering front homicidal mania , I after being accused of nine homicides. " four of these well authenticated and t five reasonably certain . " This inmate killed a female attendant in the hospital ' who violated a rule forbidding an attendant while alone to release a patient who is in seclusion .                     