@@682840

txt That is an excellent movement on the part of the United States Senate to investigate campaign expenditures-it may make clear to the country these few facts : First , Wall Street puts up the money for both political parties in a national campaign . Second , Wall Street is denounced openly by the Democratic party ; and the Republican party is so " skeered " over the Democratic denunciations that it rejects certain Wall Street contributions and dodges on cdrtatn issues which should be squarely faced . Third , Wall Street is neither a street nor a district . It is the longest street in the world , the investment river of the United States and today a center of world finance . Fourth , Both Wall Street and the railroad interests were divided on the political issues , and it is alleged that certain important western railroad interests were swung for Wilson . Had Harriman been on the scene and spoken openly for Hughes the result in California . might have been different ; how far Judge Lovett had influence in the West by reason of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ character and well-known integrity can not be measured . Fifth , the election has demonstrated that there is no such thing as a labor vote or a Jew vote . Sixth , those very worthy men of Wall Street , Bernard M , Baruch and Thomas L. Chadbourne , had the satisfaction of knowing that the $2,000.000 spent in the Democratic campaign , 15:3. of which they have yet to raise . was literally wasted . All of the slanders that were advertised by the National Democratic Committee against John Wanamaker and others whose advertising for Hughes was clean and impersonal , and based upon the principles and platform of the Republican party , were worse than useless . Seventh , the $3,000,000 spent by the Republicans won the contest in every state contested except Ohio , which the Republicans decided before election would go for Wilson . The contest was decided in California . where the Republicans , a few months before , had shown that they outnumbered both the Democrats and Progressives . Eighth , had the NVional Democratic Committee made a contest in California . the state would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of any national contest or of any education of the voter , the false " peace " and the false " prosperity " of the Democratic party caught the false Pacific Progressives . Ninth . in the campaigns hereafter , it will be more money and not less , and that money will be spent to educate the voters so that they vote on principles , rather than personalities . Tenth , the Republicans demonstrated in this campaign that advertising wins . They needed only to have carried it further and they could have redeemed every western Republican state . Kansas . Nebraska , Utah , Washington , and California . 