@@679830

txt it became known here to-day that a combination of American and Canadian capitalists has been formed to establish in Brazil the largest beef-producing project in the world . The head of this concern is Murdo of Colorado , former President of the National Stockmen 's Association , who has been engaged for a term of ; ; ears by the syndicate at a salary of $50,000 a year . The syndicate has bought from the Brazilian Government 9,4.004100 acres of land . It is for the most part leeel , well watered , with lagoons and streams and with a water . level easily reached by wells of from 15 to 40 feet in depth and with a soil that ranks as one of the moat fertile , in the world . Cattle can graze in , all parts of this great tract through the entire year and be growing every day . The tropic of Capricorn passes through the tract and the tempeiature is such that calves may be born at any time in Jim twelve months without danger from ' freezing or from storms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ? fear and protect against . IIt is the syndicate 's intention to export to Europe , and it has sought to obtain the services of a noted Government expert on meat inspection whose name and executive ability would at once command the confidence of all markets , It is understood thot the salary offered him is : $20,000 a year , which is said to be the ! largest yet attained by any strictly Get ernmental veterinarian . The headquarters of the syndicate in Brazil will be Sao Paulo , the capital of the State of Sao Paulo , which lies at the southern end of the country . The port for Sao Paulo is , Santos , which is 250 miles north from Enenos Aires . The syndicate will eventually run its own line of steamers with every . facility for refrigeration . The aim will be to pro duce chilled beef , as the prospect is that Great Britain and Germany would not make any concession to Brazilian live beef even under the conditions of the best possible American scientific management . The syndicate ** largest number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the project is fixed at 500,000 head . The best lines of Hereford and Durham short-horn blood will be employed to improve the Inferior South American stock which necessarily must be used at the outset . South American live beef has been barred from European markets for ten years because of the prevalence of the foot and mouth disease . The only way South America beef men could get the foreign market was to ship frozen carcasses . It was not until ' American beef men went down there and introduced the more scientific method of chilling beef that the industry began to assume anyItldng like a large business . The chilled beef industry has never been tried in I Brazil and has only recently got under headway in Argentina . The only other country in South America that has a plant is Venezuela . ' All the beef produced for the home marhet is what is known as jerked beef . This ' does not enter into the export business I with which the United States competes . The chilled beef is cooled at the abattoir to near freezing and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delivery in England or Germany . It was many ! years before it was believed that chilled ' beef would stand the long voyage to I Europe , , but trial proved its feasibility , and the industry has grown so that now Argentina ships every year more than 200,000 tons worth $25.000,000 , and the export is constantly increasing , while our own export is falling off front year to year . The syndicate hopes to be able sooner ' or later to open the ports of England to Live beef by introducing modern methods of production and shipment . The demand for Open ports for live beef front South America is strong in England . where the consumer complains of toe oppression of the Meat Trust . A large part of the syndicate 's land will be farmed with traction plows and our modern corn-raising machinery . where the least possible labor and the greatest ! amount of power may be used . The syndicate will go into hog raising as well as beef . The syndicate believes In alfalfa and will get in as large an acreage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best . food known in the care of brood sows and the growin , , of pigs , besides being the most profitable forage known in developing calves and young cattle into size and strength . Large areas of the tract ! will be fenced in with American wire fence so as to hold both cattle and hogs . I Like all the other United States com- ? panies engaged in beef production in South America , the American-Canadian sguunditcravtebwuritll troycilt . t1 ) tsohitpliebeflurtooptein markets . The syndicate will in all j probability work in harmony with all other 1 . American enterprises in South America . They all find prices-better in Europe than , in the United States , and the profits. , which are around 40 per cent. , look goodl enough in that direction .                     