@@679486

txt HalPh Clarke of Brooklyn , who was declared insane to 1000 and shortly afterward escaped from a sanitarium in Riverdale , appeared in the Brooklyn Supreme court today and asked to have the committee on his person and estate removed . He told of the years that had intervened and of the success he had made under an assumed name while supposed to be insane . The court discharged , the committee . Mr. Clarke was committed to a sanitarium . In Amityville. , Long Island , by Justice IDIckeY in the Supreme court In Brooklyn on June 0 , 1006. after a jury had adjudged him incompetent . The application for the commitment was made by Sidney Clarke , a brother , who now lives in San Francisco . Up to that time , according to Mr. Clarke ? s own statement , he had not Wowed much aptitude for business and had been erratic . His brother feared the $30,000 Inherited by Ralph Clarke would be lost or wasted . Starts Life Anew at 44 . The patient was transferred to the Riverdale sanitarium . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matters over and tried to determine his own mental status . He finally decided that daily association with the insane would make him insane if he were not so already and so he escaprol , from the lnatltulion . He had no ready money and pawned his watch . With the proceeds he started in life anew at 44 years of age . He first stopped for a few days In a lodging house in New York with the Idea , he says , of determining finally whether he was able to manage himself and his affairs . The respite convinced him be was sane and he started south . His first job was as a day laborer in railroad bridge construction work near Perry-villa , Md . A few weeks of this and he wont on to Richmond , Va .. , where he got a place as salesman . Then , while acting as southern representative for a Chicago chemical concern , he made up his mind to organize a chemical company of his own . Sure He 's Sane ; Decides to Wed . Clarke possessed the quality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ getting the required capital and starting a chemical supplies company , with himself at its head . He had been using the name " B. R. Benton , " and with the promise of independence his venture gave him he continued using this name and made no effort to regain control of his estate as Ralph A. Clarke . Last January Roland J. Simmer . who had been a frienu of Clarke in the older days , met him . Simms had . known him too well to be deceived , and to Simms Clarke admit-led his identity . lie told him what he had been doing , and that , himself convinced of his sanity , he was about to be married . Mr. Simms advised him to return to Brooklyn and make kinvell known , and Clarke came .                     