@@679046

txt The Executive Committee of the National Tariff Commission Association met yesterday at the Waldorf , and considered the grant of $250,000 made in the Payne bill for the institution of inquiries into the tariff situation . After discussing reports from sections of the country it was decided that this appropriation was entirely inadequate . It was unanimously voted : That while appreciating that much useful information can be gathered with the appropriation of $2.50,005 in the bands of the President , Congress has failed squarely to meet the issue by providing for a permanent independent Tariff Commission . In discussing this matter after the meeting J. C. Cobb of Boston , President of the association , declared that it would now carry the fight into the States , and would try to educate them to the importance of the issue in view of the forthcoming Congressional elections . The National Tariff Commission has a membership of 71 business organizations , from 41 States , of the standing of the Na-4. tional Association of Manufacturers , the ' Chicago Association of Commerce , the Philadelphia Board of Trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Ore . Besides this its resolution in favor of a Tarifl Commission has been indorsed by nearly 200 other bodies , including the New York Chamber of Commerce . John Kirby , Jr. , President of the Nae . tional Association of Manufacturers , member of the Executive Committee of the Tariff Commission Association , said : " We want a commission as free from political bias as the Supreme Court . Its members should be appointed for life or  - -  for long terms . We want it to find out the whole truth about the tariff , so that IC ' may be laid before the Nation . If the publican Party had only set up such a commission it would not now have to assume its position of apology and explana- ? teen . " It could go before the country and declare that it had done the best it could for the tariff , and that if it had medal mistakes it was through lack of proper , information . It would be able to point toil the commission as evidence that it had provided the means of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a manufacturer of Racine , Wis. , declared that some of the large manufacturers of necessities had told him. : they were ashamed of their success in ' obtaining excessive rates in the present Tariff bill on the articles they manufacture . The association , he explained , does not take the stand that the tariff is either ; right or wrong , but that investigation is ' ' , a judicial rather than a legislative function , and that it can only be performed by a semi-judicial commission . There is an objection , according to Mr. Miles . to those who are looking into the situation reporting to the President rather than to Congress . The President has no power of initiative in legislation , and it is to the legislative authority that the information should be given . At the same tune Mr. Miles feels that it is of vital importance that the voters should be advised in sonic authoritative way of then facts of the matter , so that they may know which rates require adjustment Other members of the association ex- ' plained that the objection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that there is no guarantee that it will be continued , and that . its use is a purely personal question for President Taft . They believe that he Is desirous of getting at the truth in the matter , ' out they point out that there is ' no guarantee that his successor may not be a high tariff man , and in this case  --  the appropriation , if continued under the same conditions , would be useless . They believe , moreover , that a permanent independent commission would go far to settle the present unrest . As things are there is a widespread belief that the tarff is too  --  high in a number of its sched- ' ules , but no one would say how much . A commission would determine impartially and scientifically the facts , and would at the same time pave the way for legislation and allay the unrest .                     