@@681324

txt All was quiet along the front today . We are wondering where next the Prussian blow will fall . Reports today go to show that the intrenched enemy is receiving heavy infantry reinforcements in the position he occupies west of Liege . This is an admirable country for defensive tactics , as the German already has found to his cost . Late this afternoon I learned that a considerable force of the enemy 's cavalry had been seen at Beeringen , to the northwest of Diest . Clouds of dust along the roads would appear to indicate the presence of artillery moving to support the raiding cavalry . The Belgian aeroplanes have done magnificent work . ' Whatever else this war may do it certainly , so far as 43elgium.is concerned , has established the utility of aeroplanes for scouting purposes . Cavalry hitherto have been required as the eyes and ears of armies , and no doubt mounted men will still be indispensable for searching out the enemy and bringing him to action . but what chance has an enemy to hide a forward movement from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ altitude of 3,000 feet ? The German offensive movements are always carefully noted by the Belgian aeroplanes . It has been singularly exasperating to the invader , who relied on concealment and a final dash to break through the Belgian defenses . The German airguns have been repeatedly turned on the Belgian air scouts , but not a single one has been hit . The invader displays faulty scouting and poor reconnoissance.work , and the German cavalry lack energy and display little intelligence in the delicate work of looking for hidden forces . The invader seems to blunder forward daily until he falls atop of Belgian bayonets . Swarms of Uhlans are still riding about the country pillaging houses and ill-treating the populace . Vhlans Near Antwerp Forte , Numbers of Uhlans were observed close to the chain of forts defending Antwerp , but they speedily retreated before the body of Belgian cavalry sent forward to engage them if possible , or at any rate to cut them off . This is about the only point of the defensive line which the Germans have not yet attempted to break through . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it mean a battle or simply another reconnols , sauce in force ? The next twenty-four hours will probably furnish the anstver . A number of German prisoners , chiefly cavalry , were brought Into Namur today , some without boots and others were bareheaded . They looked dejected and worn out . All had been without food for two days . The postulation showed itself distinctly hostile , but the military promptly repressed these attempts to jeer at the misfortunes of the fallen foe . The prisoners were interned in the bar ? racks . Ali the civil population of Namur has - been disarmed by order of the Military Governor , and the same step'has been taken with regard to other villages lest any pretext for reprisals against the civil population should-be fttrnished to the enemy . Stories of cruelties perpetrated by the ? Germans are so appalling that without further evidence one must hesitate to ' credit them . 4 censor has , - Out out a pas- , begun a fresh bombardment of the Liege forts , but the damage so far is inconsiderable . The forts on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the German fire , which was directed principally at Fort Pontisse . The Forts Hollogne and Flemille have also been severely bombarded . These two are reported to be closely invested . The Defense at Pontlese . Under cover of darkness the invaders attempted an assault on Fort Pontisse , whose fire throughout has been particularly galling for the Germans . An attacking column , armed with hand grenades and huge wire cutters , reached the outworks . Their presence , was detected by the Belgian garrison , when the artillery opened fire with star shells , which lit up the neighborhood of the fort . Machine guns were then able to bring to bear a deadly and accurate fire , and in a few minutes practically annihilated the attacking columns . The survivors fled pell-mell down the slopes , the German dead lying in piles outside the fort which they so unsuccessfully attempted to take by surprise . Following the device of the Japanese at Port Arthur , the Germans in their attack last night on the Pontisse fort had come provided with steel shields to protect the storrners and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves into cover had they succeeded in obtaining lodgment on the outer works . Fort Pontisse is one of the most important in the belt of works around Liege . It dominates the Maestricht Canal and the railway line and main road running north to Vise and the Dutch frontier . Its capture would be a valuable factor in securing communication for an invading army . The German headquarters have been moved to Cointe , a point on the left bank of the River Meuse . The commander and his staff have fortified themselves in a convent . It is denied that Gen. von Emmich , the German commander , committed suicide through chagrin at his want of success before Liege . Great indignation has been caused by the action of the Uhlans in appropriating 2,000,000 francs from the Hasselt branch of the National Bank of Belgium . Ring Consoles the Wounded . The King of the Belgians has been among his soldiers throughout the day , comforting the wounded and encouraging all ranks by his presence . The King hates display and ostentation , and likes to move quietly and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognized , if possible . He is a sympathetic figure in plain blue uniform , without any insignia whatever to denote the exalted rank of the wearer . He is no featherbed soldier . He passed nights in bivouac among his gallant soldiers who are so bravely defending the fatherland against Germany . He usually travels in a motor car driven by a soldier chauffeur and attended by a single officer . Yesterday and the preivous day during the fighting at Diest and Hallen , he passed along the army 's front , where proximity to the enemy made it advisable for him to abandon his car . The King with his eqtaally plainly clad aide de camp insisted on making his ' way to the place where things were happening . I encountered him several times during the course of the day . In his dust-covered uniform he moved unconcernedly in the midst of his fighting men . Nobody bothered about him because the very simplicity of his attire attracted no attention . In the bustle and confusion of war it is not perhaps to be wondered at if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a certain town , rubbed shoulders with the officers and men of the national army without being recognized . Yesterday during his peregrinations he made his way to a military hospital where there were many wounded Belgians as well as Germans . Sentry Barred Monarch . The King wished to enter , but the sentry , with a puzzled look , unable to decide what was his rank , asked if he had special permission to enter the hospital . " No , " said the royal visitor quietly , " I have no pass , but then I am the King . Perhaps you will permit me to enter . " The sentry smaea Incredulously and it required the energetic intervention of an aide de camp before the soldier would be convinced and allow the King of the Belgians to pass . Now word has got round of the King sharing the dangers and privations of his army and every soldier will be on the lookout for a tall , fair man with heightened complexion and pince nez and in a uniform of no particular rank , much worse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Belgium seated by the side of the road eating sandwiches and drinking water from a soldier 's water bottle . His Spartan-like simplicity is one of his characteristics . He travels without an escort of any kind , and when his automobile is held up in the road by the civil guards or simple peasants , acting as police , he has produced his War Office pass , countersigned by the General of Staff , in which is set out his name in full , the place of his birth , and his profession " King of the Belgians . " Beloved by Army and People . Altogether Albert , King of the Belgians , is a lovable figure , full of enthusiasm and patriotism , determined to resist to the last the incursions of the German Kaiser . The King is beloved by the army . It is known that he has vowed to perish at the head of his soldiers , defending I Belgium 's patrimony , rather than bow the knee to Germany . What scenes of enthusiasm I witneseed at the Belgian front during the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the Invader . The little Belgian soldier , usually so meek , mild , and peace-loving , has been transformed from the " fuzzy wuzz " of Europe into a gallant soldier , who seizes the sword to stem effectively the tide of German Invasion and fling back across the frontier the shattered and disorganized hosts of the German war lord . A great wave of fanatical anti-German feeling is swepeing through Belgium . The soldiers of Belgium go forth in an excess of patriotic fury to conquer or die . Everywhere priests march side by side with soldiers , exhorting them to die bravely for God and their native land . On the way to the front yesterday and today those of the simple country I folk whom age or infirmity precluded from going into the fighting line crowded round the soldiers , embracing them and giving them presents of food and drink . There were simple , pathetic scenes , which revealed how united is Belgium today and how deeply the love of country and national independence is implanted in every -1 ; alnasa heart . At Diest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must surely have been assuaged by the splendid ovation of the populace . Women knelt before ambulances , and if they had not been prevented , would have embraced the blood-stained and wan faces of the plucky soldiers , laid low by Prussian bullets in this desperate and numerically unequal struggle against the ruthless , savage , and mighty empire .                     