@@683035

txt The recent British advance on the Ancre attracted little attention , because it was . not a " big drive . " The significance of it , howei'er , is that it bears testimony to the sincerity of the belief expressed by the British that the war can be ended this year  --  testimony having been already adduced to that effect by the beginning of the German submarine campaign . The advance on the Somme last year was a success , but it began late and was halted by the rains of September , and finally stopped altogether with the November deluge . Until the weather intervened , the Germans were pushed steadily back , the creating and pinching out of salienta went on uninterruptedly , and the German resistance became feebler with each new attack . When the advance finally lost itself in the mud , Field Marshal HAIG was convinced that he and the French could end the war by such an attack if it could be kept up . without interference by the weather . Since the feat of JOSHUA with the sun can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to achieve Thaa 's purpose is to begin the advance earlier than in 1916 , to begin It in Spring instead of Summer . This is the British plan , and the advance on the Ancre so early as February is preliminary . There is no time to be lost , and no intention of losing any . The February weather does not permit a general attack , but , in places where the ground has become such as to warrant it , the attack is being made , so that that much will have been gained When the general advance does begin . It ie noteworthy that the attacks on this small scale bear out HAIG 'S prediction , so far as they go , by being successful ; the Germans give way . Not much territory can be gained in this way , probably , but every attack made in February , if successful , saves that much time and fighting to the general advance . It is observable that wherever possible the Russians are carrying out the same tactics in the east and that in Asia the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Turks at Kut-el-Amara , and are carrying on a- real campaign on the Tigris . The British hope of ending the war this year has two wings ; one the Spring advance oh . the Somme , the other the pressure of the blockade . This does not mean the weakening of the spirit of the Germans at home by " starvation , " but the ? decrease in the army 's power of resistance by cutting down its supplies . HAIG noted the decreasing power of resistance last Fall . The Allies hope by hammering the army in front and diminishing its supplies in the rear to decrease that power so greatly that the advance this Spring will move at a faster rate than the advance last Summer . Germany 's thorough understanding of this situation and this intention Is back of her declaration of ruthless submarine war . She hopes to derange the enemy 's plans by starving England , and believes that it can be done before the Spring advance on the Somme has had time to progress very . far . If the English blockade decreases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decrease , or rather destroy , the attacking power of England and France ; so the German reasoning goes . This is why the Germans speak of the submarine war as their " last card , " and the phrase bears unwitting testimony to the German belief in the sincerity of Ham 's conviction and the probability of its correctness ..                     