@@680308

txt Whatever is be the outcome of the three months ' dynamite conspiracy ' ? trial , in which . , orty labor union officials are accused of cnmplicity in the plots to dastroy property , now rests with the jury . Judge Albert B. Anderson a few minutes after 5 o'clock to-night instructed the . D2 y and ordered it to retire . The court then adjourned until 9:30 A. M. to-morzany , thus precluding the announcement of the verdicts before that time . should tla2y be found . 111 the verdicts , while separate as to each defendant , are to be returned at one time . The defendants who await the outcome include Frank M. Ryan , President of the International Association of Bridge and Structural Ironworkers , of which John J. , the confessed dynamiter , was once secretary ; various executive board members of that union ; Herbert S. Hockin , accused as an accomplice of Orlie , another confessed dynamiter ; Olaf A. Tveitmoe , secretary of the California Building Trades Council ; Eu- , gene A. Clancy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City . The three last named are charged with promoting the Los Angeles explosion . These men are not charged under the Federal laws with personally causing any explosion . They are accused of conspiracy to violate Federal laws and of aiding in the . illegal transportation of d3rna.mte and nitroglycerine on passenger trains . In closing his argument to the jury , District Attorney Charles W. Miller said : " The Los Angeles Times Building explosion was called the crime of the century , but the real crime of the century was this damnable conspiracy . It will be an everlasting disgrace to our cOuntry and to our civilization if these forty con-1 spirators are not convicted . Gentlemen of the jury , a United States Senator , sworn to uphold the laws of his country , has dared to stand before you in defense of those enemies of the republic . You should find these conspirators guilty and put your seal of condemnation upon such conduct by a United States Senator . " Judge Andurso. ais instructions , said : " It was not unlawful for the structural ironworkers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not unlawful for the defendants to be members of that or any other labor organization . Men have the right to use their combined power through such organizations to advance their interests in any lawful way ; but they have no right to use this power in the violation of the law . Organized labor is not on trial here , nor is the right of labor to organize at issue ; but members of labor organizations owe the same obedience to the law and are liable to the same punishment for its violation as persons who are not members of such organizations . The evidence in this case shows that in August , 1905 , there was a controversy between the International Association of Bridge and Structural Ironworkers and the American Bridge Company over the open and closed shop question ; that in said month of August , 1905 , the International declared a general strike against the American Bridge Company ; and that this strike has never been settled . If you find from the evidence that in order to carry out the purposes of the International , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entered into a conspiracy to destroy with dynamite and nitroglycerine the property of the American Bridge Company and other open shop concerns , or the structures which they were erectmg in various States of the Union , and if you find that such conspiracy to destroy such property included as a necessary step in the accomplishment of such destruction the unlawful transportation of dynamite and nitroglycerine upon the vehicles of common carriers engaged at the time in the transportation of passengers , from a place in one State to a place or places in another or other States of the United States , and if you further find that such destruction of property was accomplished by explosions of dynamite and nitroglycerine in various places throughout the United States , and that the dynamite and nitroglycerine with which such explosions were produced were as a matter of fact transported from State to State in suit cases and carrying cases upon the vehicles of common carriers , engaged at the time in the carrying of passengers , as averred , then you will he authorized to find that a conspiracy was formed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indictment . " Calling attention to the charges of illegal transportation , the court stated : " You may find the defendants guilty upon all of the counts of the indictment upon which they are now upon trial , if you are satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt that the proofs justify it . Or , you may find the defendants guilty upon any one or more of the counts of the indictment and not guilty upon the others . You may find any defendant guilty or not guilty , or you may find one or more of them guilty and the others not guilty . Before you can find any of the defendants guilty you must be satisfied of his guilt in manner and form as charged in some one of the counts of the indictment upon which they are on trial , beyond a reasonable doubt. - Of and Edward Clark of Cincinnati , both of whom pleaded guilty and testified for the Government . the court said their testimony " should be received with caution and scrutinized with care , " and added : " The witness William @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a conversation that he had with the defendant HOCRID. in which he made the statements to lio  --  kin about the defendant Tveitmoe ' , laving been in prison and having a prison record . Such statements made by Burns are not to be considered by you In any way in determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant Tveitmoe as to the charges laid in this indictment . "                     