@@681230

txt A score of buildings , several of them in the loop , were set on fire by lightning in a severe storm which swept across the city shortly after 10 o'clock last night . A large section of the city was thrown Into darkness when the feed wires of the sanitary district were affected and 35,000 tights oxtinguislied . One man in South Chicago was killed . A number of persons received shocks . aunt Cars in Dark . Several thousand persons were in Forest Park when the lights went out , Most of them had sought shelter in the grill room . There is no gas in the park , and the management was able to find only six candles . The throngs stood huddled together In the darkness for more than an hour until the downpour let UP , then they groped their way to the cars . Six men were reported injured by a live wire which fell down In the street near Riverview park but the police were unable to obtain their names , The fire department was called and stood guard until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 .. eyer11 , 22 years old , of Anna , III. , was kilted at the plant of the By-Products Coke company at One Hundred and Twelfth street and Torrence avenue when a 500 pound weight from a coal chute was blown down On him . Leyerll was an electrician and had gone out to the chute when lightning extinguished the lights , A 4-11 alarm was turned In when lightning set tire to the Goldenberg furniture store at Archer avenue and South State street The flames had gained considerable headway when the engines arrived , The fire started on the third floor of the five story building and swept through the entire floor , causing a loss of $10,000. jirt. men kept It from spreading to the fourth floor . A quantity of furniture and draperies on the lower floors was damaged by water . A candle which had been placed in the window of the synagogue of Congregation Arishe liravia at 1002 Maxwell street Wee h'own over by the wind and the building caught Are Ten worshipers fled to the street In the rain and families living above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was ( Wingmehed before it spread . Bolt Causes $5,000 Loss . A four story brick building at 178-180 North State street was rocked by lightning and set afire . J. B : Seaver , owner of a 8 cent theater on the first floor , discovered the flames on the second floor occupied by George M. Rohe , theatrical dealer . The flames spread to the third and fourth floors . ' The lost : was estimated at $5,000 . A portion of the roof of the home of Sire 0 . G. Emerson of 4158 West Twenty-fifth street was torn off by a bolt of lightning . The remaining portion caught fire . The lightning ran down the chimney to the kitchen and broke a number of dishes .                     