@@679219

txt Former State Senator Frank J. Gardner , who was arrested on Thursday night in Scranton , Penn. , on a bribery charge connected with the attempt of the race track interests to defeat the anti-racing bills in 130S , was indicted here yesterday . The indictment charges him with having attempted to bribe Senator Otto G. Foelker , whose vote in the special session of the Legislature in 1908 was the decisive one that killed racing in New York State . An attempt to bribe a legislator is a felony . Copies of the indictment are now on their way to Gov . White at Syracuse and Gov . Stewart of Pennsylvania . The New York County authorities desire that Gardner he extradited at once . A bench warrant for his arrest , issued a few minutes after the indictment was handed down , was rushed to Scranton . A guide to the extent of the scandal which the prosecution of Gardner opens up was disclosed yesterday in Scranton when District Attorney ' Whitman , who had hastened there to take personal charge of the work of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at leas : $500.000 which had been subscribed to influence legislation at Albany on the race track and other hills . The arrest and indictment of Gardner Is supposed to be only the beginning of a big exposure in which numerous names well figure . Evidence has been placed.in the hands of the authorities , which indicates that the name of a high city official in New York will soon be mentioned in connection with Gardner 's or some of the people that were supposed to be close to him . All the stir has been started by the Legislative Graft Investigating Commit ' tee , and it is not to stop with trailing the distribution of corruption funds for I the - race track gambling bills . It is said that the eighty-cent gas lobby will have to be exposed if the trail which has been opened by the indictment of Gardner is , followed to its end . For the same set of men whose names have already begun to figure In the race track bills are generally reputed to have played ae important role , in opposing the eighty-cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislative committee and tell what he knows about the bribery or attempted bribery Of legislators during the race track fight , under promise of immunity , the committee 's Way to the secrets of the corruption fund may be made easy . But the committee has still another course of action . The books of one of the large racing associations can be demanded . Behind the story of Gardner 's arrest in Scranton after having ' been trailed by private detectives for weeks is a tale of unguarded admissions and of a row between two law partners , one of whom was Gardner himself . Gardner was nt one time a law part er with Jacob Eilperin of Brooklyn . ey had an office in one of the large buildings in Court Street , not far from the Borough Hall . Gardner and Eilperin were as close as law partners usually become . Nearly a year ago , when Gardner decided to quit New York for awhile , he placed all his household furniture in storage and gave Eilperin the warehouse receipts . He also turned over to Eilperin severe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present year Gardner came back to Brooklyn . His wife had obtained a divorce and he was about to remarry. lie wanted his furniture . He also wanted tile money on those Promissory notes . One day he went to the office of Assistant District Attorney Elder of Brooklyn . and wanted his law partner , Eilperin. indicted for grand larceny . Mr. Elder , who had taken a lot of interest in the race track gambling fight , began to question him about the money that had been paid to legislators . Gardner , wishing to win the good graces of the Assistant District Attorney . told him several things concerning Otto G. Foelker , the men whose vote killed racing in the State , It was learned on good authority yesterday that Gardner asserted that Mr. Foelker received $10,000 to vote against the racing bills . and had a promise of $15,000 more after he had voted against them . Almost every one knows how snarler was carried on a stretcher from Staatsburg to Albany on the morning the vote was to be taken on the race track @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bills . Foelker Deities It Flatly . When Mr. Foelker was asked about this allegation against him last night he said : " At no time and at no place during my four years at Albany did any one ever give me a cent to influence any legislation whatever . " Mr. Foelker was asked to tell just what passed between him and Gardner . He said that it would be divulging secrets ' of the Grand Jury room to do so . Mr. Foelker would not deny that Gardner had approached him twice on the matter . " I welcome this investigation , " he said . After Mr. Elder 's talk with Gardner concerning legislative bribery the Assistant District Attorney drafted a report , and forwarded it to Charles E. Hughes , then Governor . Just what this report contained has never been made public , but the results of it are beginning to appear . The arrest of Gardner was the first derelopm en t . When the Legislative Graft Committee learned of the Gardner-Foelker episode they started detectives on the trail of Gardner . They also ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eilperin had disappeared . It was learned yesterday that he had left the State . Detectives in the employ of the Legislative Comiaittec are looking for him . It was upon Otto G. Foelker 's testimony , and that of Mr. Elder , that Gardner was indicted yesterday . According to the information that has come to the hands of the Legislative Graft Committee , Mr. Foelker , then Senator , was approached on a train between Albany and New York City by Gardner , and the offer of $10,000 and $15,000 was made . The racing interests needed Foelker 's vote to defeat the bills , for a new Senator favorable to the racing bills had been elected between the time the regular session adjourned and the special one convened . M. Linn Bruce , counsel for the Legislative Committee , went personally to Scranton on Thursday upon learning that Gardner had purchased tickets for Montreal and was about to leave the country with his bride . Mr. Bruce tried to persuade Mr. Gardner to return to New York to testify before the committee , but Mr. Gardner said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wish to testify . Mr. Bruce appealed to his State pride as a former Senator , but the appeal was in vain . Gardner Laughs a Defiance . Then Mir . Bruce told Gardner that he I would ? be indicted and brought back , unless he agreed to come voluntarily . Gard , ner laughed at the threat , and Mr. Bruce signaled to Chief of Police Day of Scran ' ton , and the arrest was made . , District Attorney Whitman started for 1 Scranton at 2 o'clock yesterday morning , just as Mr. Bruce boarded a train for i New York , leaving Isadore J. Kresel. in charge at Scranton . Several times yes , terda.y Mr. Whitman was in communication with his office at the Criminal Courts Building over the long-distance telephone . It was feared for a while that Mr. Feelker would not appear before the Grand Jury before it adjourned for the day . In such an event Gardner would have had a good chance for release , for he was held m $10.000 bail in Scranton to appear in twenty-four hours . Had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not have been obtained until next week . Gov . White was preparing to leave Albany for Syracuse , when Mr. Bruce reached him over the long-distance telephone , and the Governor agreed to sign the extradition papers in Syracuse , provided the necessary proofs were placed in his hands . Fearing that Gov , Stuart of Pennsylvania might not be at the Harrisburg Capitol when the copy of the indictment got there , Mr , Bruce , acting with Mr. Whitman , also communicated with Gov . Stuart by telephone , and was assure.d that a messenger with the Indictment would find him in the Capitol this morning . IiInosva as an Albany Lobbyist . Those who know Gardner well say that after his term as State Senator expired he came to be known as the late Senator McC.a.rren 's ward man , that he was commonly known as a lobbyist at Albany . Some business seemed to require his presence at the State Capitol whenever the Legislature was in session . He was seen many ' times with Mr. Foelker while the 1race-track gambling legislation was pending . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deadlock in the Senate in the Spring of 1008 , Gardner and Foelker left the Senate chamber together and were followed by a newspaper man to one of the Albany hotels . They took a seat in the caf ? . The reporter sat at the next table . The reporter was known to Gardner . After a few minutes ' talk Foelker and Gardner left the place . Gardner 's domestic troubles are known to most of his acquaintances . It was not long after the racing bills were passed by the special session that Mrs. Gardner began proceedings for a. divorce . She named Miss May Josephine Yerby , a former show girl in the " Dairymaids , " as co-respondent . At that time Miss Yerby was a stenographer in Gardner 's law office , she having quit the stage . Mrs. Gardner obtained her divorce . Gardner married Miss Yerby last month . She is now in Scranton with her husband .                     