@@683174

txt The question of sending an early detachment of American troops to France now rests definitely on the possibility of procuring shipping to transport them . The French mission has been assured I that their desire for a division to carry the American flag at the front will be granted as soon as the Allies ' need for food and suppliessupplies space to will carry 1:ermit them . This is transpert understood to mean that it will not be long before the detachment goes . In a large sense the Government 's promise to send the American unit places the actual determination of the time in the hands of the British , since the United States is acting in complete co-operation with the British Government in the shipping program . Great Britain has been directing the allied shipping interests , and is best qualified , through her organization and the information at her disposal , to say when and how much tonnage can be spared from transporting food and supplies to carry troops and their baggage . The case as it now shapes up is practically this : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the war in vt hatever ways will best contribute to its quick ending .. The Allies all need food , steel , oil , coal , railway rolling stock , and the ships to carry them in . France , through her Ini.tatoxlik kaatiiti , ' pressed her profound belief that an early detachment of AMerican troops would also greatly strengthOn OW Allidlit strategically far out of proportion to the technical disadvantages of sending them . The United States has now shown its willingness to agree to this arrangement . in spite of the opposition of the General Staff of the army to the policy , chiefly , it is to be assumed , out of deference to the experienced judgment of Marshal Jot ' fre and his associates . The United States has at its disposal . however , only a limited amount of shipping , which can not be materially increased in volume until next Fall , 1 when the wooden ship building program begins to produce results . The American Government therefore now says to its allies in effes:a. : " We are ready to give you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you who know yclur own needs best to say for which our limited amount of tonnage can most advantageously be used . " 200,000 Monnage Necesmary . The difficulties can best be realized when it is recalled that Ott amount of tonnage to be transported with a fully equipped force of 20,000 men would approximate 200,000 tons . The great emphasis which has been placed on the menace to Europe 's food supply caused by submarine ravages , both by American officials and by the members of 1 the visiting missions , makes the transportation of these troops a very serious matter , therefore . Secretary Lansing gave further cause for anxiety over the shipping situation when he announced gravely this afternoon that " we might I as well wake up to the fact that the situation is serious . " One of the suggestions most generally made here is that the troops might be carried over in very small detachments on ships which are engaged in trans , Porting supplies for Europe without disrupting the supply system as much as the plan of taking separate vessels for transporting troops exclusively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficulties some way out of the dilemma will be found to give France the early detachment she wants . The I French mission has made it clear that they believe the presence of the troops on the fighting line will be worth all its ' costs to the Allies ' cause . M. Viviani and M. Hovelacque of the French mission took luncheon with President Wilson today . and it is believed that the troop question came up again for discussion between them . Marshal Joffre , accompanied by Colonel Spencer Cosby , V. S. A. , attached to the mission as aid , who acted as interpreter , later called on r the President after taking luncheon at ' the British Embassy , and remained with him for a nhour . It is thought that both M. Viviani and Marshal Joffre exI pressed again France 's desire that the American division be sent . Roosevelt Believed Out of It . - What troops ' will have the honor of going first remains still a matter of speculation . From what can be learned now there seems little likelihood that Colonel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although it is probable that the question as to who will go has not been formulated with any definiteness . Th .. ? suggestion of the French mission that a small detachment of troops which ha ve had some previous training can be prepared for the fighting line at the front in five weeks gave rise to , day to the thought that some of the National Guard who were at the border might be selected . It Was officially ' denied at the War Department that ' any such determination had been reached . A division of regulars is another possibility . Vice President Marshall has received a letter from Marshal Joffre declaring the passage of the war army bill furnishes eloquent proof of the common will that inspires France and the United States . The letter was written in response to one by Mr. Marshall last Saturday expressing regret that Senators could not attend a reception in honor of the Marshal because the Senate was trying to put through the army bill . The letter said : " Dear Mr. Vice President : I wish to thank you for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ army , which I represent here . I am particularly appreciative of the words you have said in the name of the Senate and which reflect so well the friendship uniting our two countries . The law which you have voted is a most eloquent Proof of the common will that inspires us both . Kindly . I pray you , transmit to your colleagues the expression of my high appreciation for the sympathy with which they have honored me during my sojourn in . Washington and receive the assurances of high appreciation .                     