@@679647

txt The decision of the New York Court of Appeals that . the Wainwright law on accident compensation was contrary to the Constitution was regarded by the friends of-the purpose of the law as a severe blow to their cause . Certain law members of the committee of the National Civio Federation have suggested a way out as to the purpose of the law , and have also submitted arguments for a general Federal law of wider scope and of great importance . They are FRANCIS 1.41ZDE1 STETSON , P. TECUMSEH SHERMAN , and WILLIAM J. MortAiv , gentlemen whose ability and good faith win cordially be recognized . Their views have been submitted to the Congressional Commission now studying the subject , and are published by the Civic Federation . The Court of Appeals condemned the Wainwright law on the ground that It took away or injured property rights of employers " without due process of law . " Th3 committee examines carefully and at length what , in the light of all the decisions , Is due process of law . It comes to the conclusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  that the application of " principles of private right and distributive justice " in measures " held by the prevailing morality to be greatly and immediately necessary to the public welfare . " would be due process of law . The court did not reject this conception of due process of law and did not condemn the Wainwright law as inconsistent with it , but condemned the law because it provided " compensation as a pure measure of social relief for Injured workmen , sup ' plemental to the liabilities existing under our system of tort . " And since the court did not condemn a law of compensation which should be " aarrnplete system of justice to replace the existing law , of tort , " it is reasonable to infer that such a law of compensation would stand . The argument of the committee is full and careful , and we have given but a summary idea of it . In our judgment , It is sound . A bill embodying the principles urged by the committee Is before Congress through the introduction of H. R .. 8654 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " form of compulsory compensation as distinguished from the " arblltrary " form which gives compensation ' in every case and to the exclusion of all other remedies . Practically the bill gives a right of fixed compensation in all cases to the workman unless there has been serious misconduct on his part , when he loges the . right , or unless there has been ? serious misconduct on the part of the employer , when the workman 's full claim at law stands . Such a law would do away with the recognized injustice of the old pleas of contributory negligence , the negligence of fellow-servants and the assumption of accepted risks of the trade . It would treat the risk of accidents for which compensation must be made as inherent risks of the business , and would grade the amount of compensation to meet the fair average of liability , against which the employer could definitely insure himself . In the matter of exceptions  --  misconduct by the workman or the employer  --  practical difficulties would arise which are met by a " presumption of fact that unless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cause that entitles to compensation . " This involves a rearrangement of the burden of proof , and places it upon the party asserting misconduct ; either the master or the workman . The matter has long since passed beyond the tango of the reasoning that was based on the conditions existing between individual masters and workmen . So large a part of our industries is now highly organized and of wide extent that that reasoning no more applies than the old " rule of the road " applies to aeroplanes . To work out a rule that will apply is difficult . naturally , but also it is very needful . The committee of the Civic Federation has made a substantial and valuable contribution to the task                     