@@682344

txt The two outbursts of Republican applause in the house yesterday at casual mentions of the name of Associate Justice CharlesE . Hughes of the Supreme Court was an outward manifestation of a sentiment equally strong on the Republican side of the Senate . This does not ' mean that Mr. Hughes is personally popular with all Republican Senators . To some - Of the old-line members his nomination and election would be extremely distasteful . But from Republicans of all factions have come within the past two days the statement that the lesser members believe Mr-Hughes and . nobody else would get the Republican nomination . This view of the situation ? takes on particular importance from the fact that it was expressed in some instances by supporters of open candidates for the nomination . It was expressed also by at least one Senator who for some time back has been mentioned with increasing prominence as e. possible selection . One regular Republican , whose Conservatism is past dispute , said with a laugh in discussing the situation that Mr. Hughes would undoubtedly make a good President . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Mr. Hughes 's nomination would undoubtedly disappoint a great number of aspirants . Willing to Forgive Progressive Idea . The Republicans are looking earnestly for a man who can be elected . They see no hope except in a man who can unite the conservative and Progressive wings of the party . Mr. Hughes 's strength with the Progressives is well known , while the conservatives believe his progressivism ' would at least run along reasonable lines . A good many conservatives who think that Mr. Hughes has gone too far in the Progressive direction are willing to forgive that for the sake of a winning candidate . This seems to be true of most conservative Senators . Notable exceptions are those who , being the heads of political organizations in their own States , would be less embarrassed by a Democrat in the White House , from whom they could not be expected to get favors for their followers , than by a Republican who would refuse to accept their recommendations . These leaders are deeply disturbed by the growing headway of the movement for Justice Hughes . Geographically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over all the Progressive candidates except Colonel Roosevelt and over all the conservative possibilities except Elihu Root . He was born in New York , and has twice carried the State in his campaigns for the Governorship . Since 1910 he has been on the Supreme bench . He has caused no enmities in the lase six years , and the feeling is that such enmities as he had may have been softened by time . There are so many aspirants for the Republican Presidential nomination ? running all the way from receptive to avowed candidates , not forgetting the army of favorite sons  --  that they can be referred to in groups , divided according to different principles . What might be called the optimistic group is still hoping that before the National Convention meets in Chicago Justice Hughes will definitely take himself out of the race by a statement that in no circumstances would he accept the nomination . Might Seek Hughes 's Reply . It has been suggested that a Senator or Senators , on behalf of various members of this group , might write to Justice Hughes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But it is not believed that anything can be done now to make Mr. Hughes do more than he has done to discourage his supporters . Ever since he mounted . the . Supreme bench - he ' has let it be , , known that he had no political aspire : ' tions , arid that agitation- for him was distasteful and . embarrassing to him . As recently as the present session of Congress he stated that clearly in re gard to what appeared to be an organ- ; ' zed effort in - his behalf in Virginia . He did not assume , however , that his nomination was do certain that it behooved him to declare that he would not accept it , if tendered , and he is not expected to do so now . Republican political leaders appear to be at sea al to how to arrange the preliminaries of the Chicago Convention with due regard for party solidarity . There is sucha multiplicity of candidates for the Presidential nomination , the attitude of the Progressives is so uncertain , the meaning of the movement for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the necessity for complete harmony so obvious , that the leaders realize that extreme care- and caution will be required to avoid making an error that may result in injury to party prospects in the elections next November , Seeking Temporary Chairman . The main problem is to choose a Temporary Chairman who will not be ale extremist , but at the same time will be satisfactory to the radical Republicans and the Progressives . The names that are foremost on the list are those of Senator Lodge of Massachusetts , exSecretary of State Knox of Pennsyl ' vania , and Senator Borah of Idaho . All of these men are regarded as having the ability to deliver the keynote speech , " which is the principal duty of the Temporary Chairman . Great stress is laid on the keynote speech at a national political convention . It is considered the groundwork ' for the party platform , and copies of it are distributed in countless thousands to voters throughout the country . But beyond the importance of having a Temporary Chairman who will be able tomake an address that will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the election of the " key ' noter " is generally the occasion of a test of strength between the factions in the convention ,  --  and the side that elects its candidate Temporary Chairman is given a great advantage , morally as I well as practically . Senator Borah was the candidate for the Rooseveltites in the Republican National Convention of 1912 . His defeat marked the beginning of the Roosevelt revolt , but Mr. Borah remained in the Republican ranks , and was the leading i figure in arranging the reforms in the selection of delegates to national conventions which will be put in effect when the Republicans meet in Chicago in June . He has trained with the progressive element in the Party , but is acceptable to many of the leaders of the Old Guard . He is looked upon as an orator of ability , and his speeches in the Senate are made , as a rule , to full benches . It is believed by a considerable number of Republicans that he would be acceptable as Temporary Chairman to the progressives . Lodge Commands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an influential position in the Senate , ivhere anything he has to say is listened to with close attention . His speeches are considered marvels of clear diction , and his knowledge of public questions is generally acknowledged to be profound . While some of the radical progressives may find fault with Senator Lodge , the fact stands out that he is a close personal friend of Colonel Roosevelt and has been on the best of terms ' with leaders of the progressive movement . To what extent /dr . Knox would be acceptable to the Progressives is not known . Not long ago Colonel Roosevelt was known to have indicated that he would not be opposed to the nomination of Mr. Knox for President on the Republican ticket . but subsequently it was said the Colonel had been examining the record of Mr. Knox in handling the Mexican situation as Secretary of State , and that he had changed his mind about Mr. Knox 's acceptability for the Presidential office . However , Mr. Knox is regarded as hewing. the ability , to make a stirring ' keynote speech , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the face of the Bull Moose . There is talk in Republican circles that . Mr. Lodge and Ur . Borah will probably . be chosen by the National Committee as temporary and permanent Chairmen , but which should be ' temporary and which Permanent - Chairman has not been worked out by those leaders who are giving their attention to , the matter . 