@@681268

txt The entire family of Gen. Huerta left the capital tonight , supposedly for Vera Cruz , although they may switch off at Corboda for Puerto Mexico . The general belief Is , however , that they are going directly to Vera Cruz . The train was taken at the neighboring village of Guadalupe , three miles from the capital , at about 10 o'clock . In the dismally rainy night automobiles began to arrive at the little station of Gaudalupe soon after 9 o'clock . In them were the members of the President 's family and friends . News of their arrival soon spread through the village , and in spite of the rain a considerable crowd gathered to ace the family of the President leave . The party which took the train included Senora Huerta and her children , Col. Luis Fuentes , the President 's son-in-law . and his wife , the family of Gen. Blanquet , the Minister of War ; the family of Gen. Liberio Fuentes , father of Col. Fuentes ; Eugenio Paredes , Treasurer General of the republic : the Aguila @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several close friends . Ahead of the special train went two military trains , carrying SOO men , While another troop train followed . Another Train Held Ready . A train , manned by the Twentyninth Regiment , is waiting at the Interoeeanic Railway station , and it is thought by some that Gen. Huerta . Gen. Blanquet , and others may leave by it . But Col. Luis Fuentes , before the departure of the special train from Guadalupe Station , was heard to request some brother officers to go to Gen. Huerta 's house and keep him company tonight . The prevailing idea , however , is that Gen. Huerta also will leave the capital before daybreak . Gen. Huerta was a conspicuous figtire this afternoon at a kirmesse held by the French colony in Chapultepec Park in connection with the celebration of the fall of the Bastille . ; Many Mexicans joined with the French residents to observe the anniversary . The Government granted a holiday to the employes in most of the Ministerial departments . Formal denial was made today that the presence here of ? the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had anything to do with the plans for Huerta 's departure from the capital Sir Christopher is a guest at the British Legation . Some comment has been caused by the fact that Senor Carbajal , since becoming Minister of Foreign , Relations , has not used the insignia of a General of Brigade , which is the military rank conferred by Huerta on all his Cabinet Ministers . This is taken as a proof of Carbajal 's independent character . The more fact that Senor Querldo Moheno , when Minister , presented himself before Huerta once without wearing these insignia caused Huerta to wave him aside and refuse to speak to Sleety:let says Rebels Wo n't Come . Newspaper men in an interview with Gen. Blanquet , the Minister of War , took up some important and delicate questions . They began by saying : " Mr. Minister , it would be , like Shutting one 's eyes to the daylight to deny that the situation ' of the republic was bad . Here in the capital real alarm prevails , as it is feared that the rebels may ally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entrance . We consider it the duty of patriotism and humanity to lay before the public the truth of the situation , so that it may be known whether it is likely that the rebels will reach the Metropolis . For these reasons we respectfully request you to give us a brief and explicit statement on the Subject . " - Gen : Blanquet answered : " The ' rebelswill not reach the capital , and a favorable solution of the situation will soon be found . " Gen .. Blanquet was also asked about Guadalajara as follows : , " - Every one has now heard about the fall of Guadalajara , and as it is said in official circles that no news has been received , the public , who are . always given to exaggeration in such cases , ascribe excessive importance ' tr. the Guadalajara happenings . " It is said , for example , that almost the entire population of the city aided the rebels , and that when the forces of Gens . Obregon and Lucio Blanco passed through the streets , flowers were showered on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gen. Mier was shot at the station at El Castillo . As it would be harmful to allow such stories to continue to circulate , we hope you will . tell us what news you have in regard to these events . " Gen. Blanquet replied : " All the news received is to the effect that Guadalajara was evacuated by the garrison , which retired in the direction of Celaya . Nothing is known for certain about Gen. Mier , but it Is supposed that he is accompanying the forces of the garrison in their movement " Gen. Blanquet denied that there had been any desertion at Tejeria by Mexican soldiers , who were said to have taken refuge within the American lines . He also denied the evacuation of Guaymas and Cuernavaca . Ex-Minister Querido Moheno has addressed to El Sol a letter , written ' aboard the Espagne at Vera Cruz , and that paper will publish ' it to- , morrow . Senor Moheno says that it is false that he is going to Europe to enjoy a fortune accumulated during the time he was Minister . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his passage to Europe and , therefore . is going to the United States to reside for some time with relatives there . He adds that while in the United States he hopes to prove to the American people that Huerta was not responsible for the death of . President Madero and Vice President Pino Suarez , and will reveal who were the real assassins of the deposed officials . He says he will also set forth to the American people the unfair treatment of which in his opinion ; the American Government has been guilty . toward Mexico and Gen. Huerta . SenorMoheno states that his resignation was demanded by Huerta . The fact that he left the capital in a hurry ought not to be interpreted as flight , but as a case of necessity , as he wanted to catch the Espagne while she was at Puerto Mexico , as he would on no account set foot on any portion of the national territory which was occupied by a foreign invader , as was done by Senores de la Lama , Esteva Ruiz and others . Senor Moheno does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says , but will return within three months to continue his campaign in the press and on the rostrum for agrarian reforms , real justice for all by means of a jury by tem and the most ample liberty for the press . This campaign , he says , he conducted under Diaz , Madero , and Huerta , ? and he will continue it under the probable administration of Villa , Carranza , or Angeles . 