@@679452

txt Ambassador David Jayne Hill yesterday delivered the inaugural lecture of his course under the James S. Carpenter Foundation , in Earl Hall , Columbia University , before an audience which taxed the capacity of the auditorium . He spoke of " The State as , an Embodiment of Law , " a eclarIng in the course of his address that excessive armament is tending " to excite universal suspicion , create unnecessary alarm , and produce a situation which is artificial , unreasonable , and extremely dangerins. ? The speaker , however , said he did not favor complete disarmament , because navies are effectual for the protection of life and property , and for the maintenance of Order in turbulent parts of the world . The world to-day is In a condition of polite international anarchy , lie added . Some fifty or sixty potentates , said Dr. Hill , assert the " right to start a war at their sweet pleasure . " Speaking of the change in sentiment toward Government , Dr. Hill said : " The State can no longer speak or act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or clothe itself in the garb of superhuman attributes or divine supremacy . It was recalled in'this connection last night that Emperor William recently reaffirmed his belief in the divine right of Kings to govern . " We must first of all recognize the . fact. ? continued Dr. Hill . " that over very . much of the earth 's surface. ? on all the continents , and In the greater groups of islands . the State is firmly established : and jural law . with its accessories of physical protection , even now prevails . Not only so , but by the combined efforts of civilized nations piracy has been driven from the seas and the advance of trade and colonization , supported by governmental safeguards , has left only a fey/ geographical areas where it is not safe for civilized man to penetrate . " This achievement has been rendered possible by the effective arming of responsible public powers , and especially by the mobility afforded to the means of exercising their superiority through the development of modern navies . " Regarded from this point of view , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and property and enforce respect for rights and interests in regions where the State has no established authority fully justify a great interest in power upon the sea . When intended as an effectual means for the maintenance of order in turbulent portions of the earth , or as a necessary instrument for the defense of exposed territories , no reasonable man can object to the augmentation of the power of the State in this direction . When needed for these purposes , a power ! ful navy is the most trustworthy auxiliary of law and order . " When , on the other hand , it is con1 sidered what large demands naval armaments are making upon the resources of certain peoples , what a terrific menace to life and property these agents of de- , struction would be if devoted to evil pnr- . Iposes , and how exposed Governments are to the incalculable contingencies of popular impulse in moments of excitement , it is of the highest importance to the welfare of mankind that these vast energies should be employed only in strict accordance with the principles of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they will not be misused. " in order to fulfill its mission as the guardian of human rights and the protagonist of law , the State must be intrusted with sufficient organized force to repress ? wrong-doing and maintain in all emergencies public order : but we must not overlook the fact that we have invested it with powers vastly more enormous than it has ever before possessed . " There is , without doubt . a great danger in the omnipotence of the State . During the greater part of human history government has been arbitrary , and has enehrouded its right to be so in some mysterious halo of sanctity . The helplessness , dependence , and ignorance of men have rendered them powerless to resist its assumptions . Looking up to it as the high- ' est earthly authority , they have been taught to regard it as possessing a divine prerogative . It has usually . and not unnaturally-. intrenched its% pretensions in what was most sacred in their sentiments and consciences , and when it could not dominate them by superior force it has rendered them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The time has gone by when predatory warfare was looked upon as a form of enterprise to which public powers might be rightly applied . There is probably no responsible statesman in any civilized country who would publicly propose a war of conquest and subjugation for the sake of the spoils , either in the form of booty or territory , and there is no civilized nation that would openly avow it . Yet every nation Wishes to be , as a strong man , armed . Every responsible Government is anxious to Incur no blame for delinquency in preparing for the defense of the national Interests wherever they may be endangered . and this is the ground upon which the vast expenditures for military purposes are urged and justified in every parliament . Everywhere the plea for armament is the national defense , " Looking at the subject from the point of view of each narticular nation , it would be difficult to find fault with this attitude : yet , regarded from a more general point of view . it Is evident that the expense for military purposes is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others . " It is not just . however , to argue that the course pursued is absurd . because it would be ridiculous for individuals in a Peaceable community to arm thmselves : for the duty of maintaining the public defense is a specific obligation assumed by the State . and if it failed to make adeauate provision for security , it would be delinquent in the exercise of one of the most important of public functions . " Nor is it fair for one power to accuse . another of evil purposes because it desires to be strong . The peril to peace and to peaceful interests does not lie in the fart that the State is strong . There would be far greater peril if it were notably weak , for then it could not fulfill its obligation , would invite interference . and thereby perhaps endanger its existence . " The ' fundamental inperfection in the existing order of things is not the presence of armaments . even though they may be excessive ; npr is the chief remedy to be found in any scheme of disarmament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of danger . " The condition of the world , from an international point of view , has long been one of polite anarchy . There is an international etiquette , there are forms of , courtesy , there are venerable customs . there are certain limited engagements ur-ler the seal dr solemn conventions and there are recognized principles of international ethics : but none the less . juristically speaking , there exists a condition of anarchy . " Ambassador Hill will give his second lecture in Earl Hall this afternoon . his subject being " The State as a Juristic Person . "                     