@@679302

txt For nothing in his message will the American people be so profoundly grateful to President TAFT as for these concluding words , embodying the policy of moderation and of wisdom to which his Administration is committed : It seems to me that the existing legislation with reference to the regulation of corporations and the restraint of their business has reached a point where we can stop for a while and witness the effect of the vigorous execution of the laws on the statute books in restraining the abuses which certainly did exist and which roused the public to demand reform . If this test develops a need for further legislation , well and good , but until then let us execute what we have . Due to the reform movements of the present decade , there has undoubtedly been a great improvement in business methods and standards . The great body of business men of this country , those who are responsible for its commercial development , now have an earnest desire to obey the law and to square their conduct of business to its requirements and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decisions of the Supreme Court in cases pending before it . I believe it to be in the interest of all the people of the country that for the time being the activities of Government , in addition to enforcing the existing law , be directed toward the economy of administration and the enlargement of opportunities for foreign trade , the conservation and improvement of our agricultural lands , the building up of home industries , and the strengthening of confidence of capital in domestic investments . In these last eight years we have read nothing like that in a Presidential message . Even in his first annual message Mr. TAFT himself was somewhat under the spell : Now he breaks with the past , he looks to the future . While his predecessor remains in retirement and in darkness , President TAFT sees the light . There have been mealy interpretations of the recent elections as a vote for peace . THE TIMES so interpreted them . But Mr. TAFT 'S interpretation in that comforting sense is more important than all the rest , for with him and with Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destructive policy of war upon the country 's business . It is. indeed , time to take thought about " the strengthening of confidence of capital in domestic investments . " In harmony and in logical agreement with this assurance that politics shall cease from troubling private business are the recommendations of Mr. TAFT 'S message that politics shall also cease to disturb the orderly course of the public business . In respect to the tariff , the currency , rivers , harbors , and waterways , and public buildings , Mr. TAFT expresses the hope that ultimately the policy may be adopted of basing legislation upon " impartial scientific study by experts " of these subjects . This is revolutionary . It would manifestly be a revolution in party practice if our policy in respect to revenue and the great items of expenditure were to be guided by scientific principles and determined by business considerations . Such phrases as " log-rolling , " and the " pork barrel . " which in the popular speech have come into use to describe the shameful and scandalous scramble for party advantage and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relating to the tariff , to rivers and harbors , and public buildings , Would become obsolete should the President 's hope be realized . Imagine the dismay of the malefactors of great wealth  --  how odd it seems to find nothing about them in a President 's message  --  who have become wealthy and have become malefactors through tariff crimes , should we really determine to treat the fixing of the Schedule rates as a business question , and less as a political question , to be asctrtained by experts of long training and accurate knowledge . " That reform may be yet some years distant , but the President is hopefuL He is not altogether penitent in respect to the Payne tariff , but there , too , he has seen the light . He is sure that a great deal of the criticism of that act is just , though more of it he believes to be unfounded . It is significant that he feels that the main body of the criticism " has been based on the charge that the attempt to conform to the measure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He makes no tariff recommendations to this Congress . At the ojening of the next Congress , or during its session , he expects to bring to its attention facts in respect to those schedules of the present tariff " that may prove to need amendment . " The report of the Tariff Board ' it is to be inferred , constitute the proof he requires . Of actual recommendations for new Jaws : or amendments of existing laws - there : are not- a few in the - niessEtge , -. but , none of them is of a disturbing nature . Some of the more important are these : To provide funds for a valuation of railroad properties by the Inter-State Commerce Commission ; in respect to the guarantee of bills of lading ; appropriations to fortify the Panama Canal ; to increase from three to five the membership of the Tariff Board and to make it a permanent commission ; subsidy for merchant ships engaged in South American trade , and the establishment of banks to facilitate our foreign commerce ; for two new battleships ; for more officers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and for a readjustment of the second-class rate , to the end that magazines may pay a mere just share of the cost of transmission through the mails ; for the extension of the civil ? service system in the Postal and in the Diplomatic Service ; for the regulation of the issue of injunctions ; for Federal incorporation ; for a Bureau of Health ; to raise the salaries of Judges of Federal courts , the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court to be paid $17,500 a year , the associate Justices $17,000 , Circuit Court of Appeals Judges $10,000 , and District ' Court Judges $9,000 annually ; to re= duce the number of navy yards ; to give Federal courts jurisdiction of cases involving treaty rights ; to limit the franking privilege . Finally , we observe with great satisfaction that President TAFT recommends " fitting recognition by Congress of the great achievement of ROBERT EDWIN Psiirr. "                     