@@679297

txt Few people realize the Important part anonymous letters play in the work of the city 's lavesugatizie bureaus . The average business man and the executive officers of any corporation of irnporo receive every month dozens of unsigned communications complaining of one thing or another . The habit of taking this method of getting even has grown upon the disgruntled employe in the last few years , until an employer usually gives the letter little attention , and most of them find their way into the waste basket after little more than a glance . This flow of anonymous correspondence to all the important officials in the City Government is very great , but more attention is paid to these letters here . Of course , a great many of them are discarded with scant notice , but practically all of them receive some attention . If all of them were traced down the Inspectors of the investigating bureaus would have time for no other work , but the heads of these bureaus , from long experience , have become able to recognize a complaint of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When such letters are found they are very seriously handled and have resulted , since the Gaynor administration came in , in some of the most important exposes that his men have made . A few of the more recent important investigations , which have developed Into scandals of some proportion , which were started through anonymOus letters , are the irregularities in the office of Borough President Grosser of Queens , which has resulted in the removal of over half a dozen important subordinates and the handing down of nearly fourscore indictments by the . Queens County Grand Jury for crimes ranging from petty larceny to forgery ; the discovery of a wholesale system of theft of meat from the Manhattan State Hospital for the Insane on Ward 's Island , and the unearthing Commissioner of Accounts Fosdick of a large traffic In this city in rotten eggs for food purposes . Moreover , practically all the many policemen who have got into trouble in the last few months for loiter-ling off post have anonymous letters to the Mayor to blame for their difficulties . The Queens scandal started @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commissioner Fosdick received an uhsigned postcard which informed him that in a certain yard in Ureenpoizt , supposedly , a storage place for the Bureau of , .... ethways of Queens , there were no tools , wagons , or stores , but two watchmen were kept on guard day and night and several laborers reported there once a month for their pay . Moreover , a foreman was as ' signed to every two of these laborers , the postcard asserted . The whole matter seemed so ridiculous that at first the Commissioner was inclined to pay i attention whatever to it He decided , however , it would do no harm to send an inspector to Greenpoint to I find out if such a peculiar institution did really exist . The result was the scandal , with which the borough is still seething . In the case of the Ward 's Island meat scandal , au anonymous communication came to Mr. Fosdick stating that a man in the Bronx who hauled swill and refuse from Ward 's Island was in the habit of bringing back several barrels of good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get It ? " the letter asked . The treater was investigated at once , and Simon liatzenstein , who was indicted by the Grand Jury last Thursday on the charge of grand larceny in the second degree was W arrested on returning from Ward 's Island to the Bronx with 1,300 pounds of good meat in his refuse barrels . The State Board off Lunacy has taken up the case and is hdlding daily sessions at the Manhattan Hospital in an inquiry into the entire steward 's department . The rotten egg scandal was the subject of several anonymous letters written at about the same time to various city officials . The matter was also called to the attention of a newspaper in the same way . Its investigation was being carried on at the same time that Commissioner Fosdick 's men were on the case , and was made public prematurely , through the reporters meeting the city officials on the work . Had this not happened the results might have been more serious than they are now likely to be . The letters to the Mayor complaining of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numbers as soon as he announced his firm stand on police affairs soon after he came into office . Many of the letters were discarded without notice , and it was physically Impossible to run down all of them , but the result has already been the disciplining of about a snore of policemen . One of the most flagrant Instances was the discovery of half a dozen firemen and nearly a score of policemen in a drinking room reserved for them in a Harlem brewery . It . was later shown , however , that must of the men were not supposed to he on duty . Large numbers of these letters are also received by the officers of the criminal law . Some of these are examples of nothing more than grisly humor , such as the anonymous letter to Judge Foster . which announced that the close of Albert W. Wolter 's trial for murder on the charge of killing and burning Ruth Wheeler , would be Interrupted by the arrival at ti-e courtroom of the intact body of the girl . Some of them bring results , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coroner which led to the exhumation in Pennsylvania of the body of Rhoda Lustig. the discovery of traces of poison , and the subsequent conviction and sentence to death of her husband . The case Is now under appeal .                     