@@680009

txt With President Taft and Col. Theodore Roosevelt both actively on the stump contending for control of the delegates from the President 's own State to the Republican National Convention ; with Gov . Judson Harmon touring the State and militantly combating the assertion made by William Jennings Bryan in his ' Ohio speeches that the man who during two administrations has given Ohio more progressive legislation than all of his predecessors Is a reactionary ; with scores of speakers of lesser note but almost nation-wide reputation supporting the principals in their fights , and with minor canaldates in primary contests gunning for rivals , the Buckeye State is in the throes of the bitterest struggle in its stormy political historn It was not until Cot Roosevelt Invaded the President 's State to-day that the conflict began to assume its present proportions . As both the President and the Colonel are scheduled to remain on the scene of political warfare until the eve of the primary election next Tuesday , and as there is an indication that the factional strife within the Republican ranks will grow more bitter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic fight will attract comparatively little attention . Gov . Harmon is exceedingly popular - Tw'sfrat.1- 17 rank and file of his party , and his record as Governor utterly belies the charge made by Mr. Bryan . For that reason his friends declare that he will come out winner from the primary struggle , especially as Gov . Wilson and Speaker Clark , his strongest opponents for the nomination , have declined point blank to enter the Governor 's State for the purposes of making a fight for the delegation to the Baltimore convention . Republican Fight Muddled . The situation on the Republican side of the conflict is so muddled , and so many factors enter into it , that it is impossible at the present time to venture anything like a reliable forecast . The supporters of Col. Roosevelt ; after his reception in the President 's State today , display what In some quarters is characterized as overconfidence . On the other hand , the friends of President Taft declare that the Colonel has already fired all his big guns , while they have an abundant supply of reserve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also assert , with apparent confidence , that the soundness of the arguments advanced by Mr. Taft and the loyalty Ohioans naturally must feel for a son of Ohio when an outsider disputes him in his own State must give him the victory . To-day the itinerary of the two rival candidates covered very much the same ground , thus affording in some degree an opportunity for comparison between the reception accorded each in identical localities . The most important speeches by President Taft and Col. Roosevelt in the same communities were made at Steubenville , where the President spoke last night and the Colonel this forenoon , and in this city , where Col. Roosevelt spoke this afternoon and President Taft wound up his day of speechmaking at a meeting held in the Park Theatre . The Rivals at Youngstown , President Taft was more than an hour and a half overdue when he reached Youngstown this evening . A crowd in numbers far exceeding the audience which earlier in the day had greeted Col. Roosevelt when he spoke at the Park Theatre bad been sitting patiently and putting up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President . When he arrived the audience gave him a reception fully as cordial , if not more so , than the welcome accorded his rival for the Presidential nomination . The crowds which greeted Col. Roosevelt in the streets where he rode preceded by a brass band through a living lane of people eager to get a look at him in the sunlight of this afternoon , may have been a trifle more noisy than those who greeted President Taft when , long overdue , he arrived in a drizzle to-night . There was one incident at the meeting , prior to the arrival of President Taft which caused concern to his friends . S. D. L. Jackson , a prominent lawyer of this ' city , had been pressed into service for an address while the audience was waiting . He made several references to I-resioent Taft , mentioning his name . The audience remainee passive . Then at one point in his speech he said . " That man , Theodore Roosevelt . " Immediately he was interrupted by a storm of applause and cheering that lasted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every time he alluded to the Colonel in the course of his speeoh for President Taft But when the President , who had been rushed from his special train to the theatre in a big automobile , appeared on the stage he was roundly cheered . And when in speaking he hurled the name of Col. Roosevelt with an almost scornful ring in his voice at the huge audience , there was the faintest ripple of applause merely . and nothing like the storm that had greeted earlier references to his name . The President appeared to make a very strong impression on his audience to-night by the earnestness with which he spoke . The meeting came after a day of very hard work , but the President was in splendid form . He spoke with great feeling , and punctuated his salient utterances throughout with emphatic : gestures . " I have not come as a son of Ohio to salt favors . I have come to ask simple justice and a square deal , " said President Taft . " Four years ago I became a candidate for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ am here to ask you whether in my Administration of the last four years there has been anything in the way of broken platform pledges to warrant Cot Roosevelt in changing his attitude toward me . " Again there was applause . Then President Taft reviewed what had been accomplished during his Administration , dwelling at length on the tariff revision . In connection with this he referred to the Colonel 's plan of having tariff legislation which will regulate the relations as regards a division of the earnings produced by the protective tariff between employer and workmen . " When he priposes that he knows it to be a sham , " exclaimed the President No such tariff law can be framed . I want to prick some bubbles of pretense in front of the American people . " Again the audience applauded in sympathy with the President . The Colonel 's meeting in Steubenville this morning could not compare in point of attendance with the Taft meeting last night either . This , of course . was scarcely to be expected where the Colonel spoke in daytime and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employment prevented them from attending a noon event could be present . Prior to his speech here this afternoon Col. Roosevelt in his special train had followed closely the trail blazed by his rival yesterday and during the forenoon hours to-day . This took him through a territory on the Eastern border of the President 's State along the Ohio River , where the green hills of West Virginia on the other shore were in plain sight during most of the trip . The towns are civen over largely to the iron , steel , and pottery industry , and have a large labor element in their populations . In this section are the big plants of the Carnegie and the Republic Steel Companies , each employing thousands of workingmen . Their Trains in Same Station . Both started from Steubenville , where President Taft spoke last night . When the train to which the Colonel 's special car , Oceanic , was attached rolled into the Pennsylvania Station at Steubenville a little before 6 o'clock this morning the President was soundly asleep on board his car , Colonial , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not the exchange of amenities which under ordinary circumstances might have been expected between the present and the former President of the United States , both of the same party and only a short time ago the best of friends . Col. Roosevelt with his party got under way early . The special train , after making stops at Bellaire , Bridgeport , and Martin 's Ferry , returned to Steubenville a little after 10 o'clock for the Colonel 's open air meeting in front of the Opera House . President Taft , who had addressed a. meeting in the Opera House last night and an overflow meeting in the open air , where the Colonel spoke to-day , was later in starting . His itinerary included East Liverpool , Alliance , Canton , Massillon , Akron , Kent , Ravenna , Warren , Niles , and Youngstown . Most of these communities were visited by the Colonel some hours later . He wound up his work for the day with a mass meeting at Canton , the home of the late President . At most of the places @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by large , attentive audiences , less boisterous than those that greeted the Colonel later . Those who listened to the President 's speeches became most demonstrative and responsive when he went after the Colonel and managed to get a punch in on his warlike rival . The correspondent for THE NEW YORK Trims accompanied Col. Roosevelt on his trip from Steubenville to this city . En route stops were made at Wellsville , East Liverpool , and Rochester . When his special reached Rochester , which Is'just across the Pennsylvania border , the Coldnel was at . luncheon in his private car with Gov . Reginald Post of Porto Rico , Chairman Walter P. Brown of the Republican Central Committee of Ohio , his private secretary , and other members of his party . Learning that Ohio had been left behind for the time being the Colonel just left his luncheon long enough to acknowledge the cheers of a small crowd which had gathered at the station and to shake a few outstretched hands . In nearly all the other places where stops were made the Colonel was most effusively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visit cam , midway between two . rival attractions , the visit of President Taft and the at noon performance of a circus . The putn.s of the public schools had been dismissed in honor of the occasion , and a goodly proportion of the crowd that filled every available inch of room about the Colonel 's train was made up of boys and girls accompanied by their mothers . The proportion of women in the Colonel 's audiences everywhere was a notable feature . Softens His Blows at Taft . While President Taft cut loose and said some harsh things about the colonel , Mr. Roosevelt , in deference to tr.e advice of his campaign managers , who warned him that hitter criticism of Mr. *raft in the President 's home State would be very much amiss , did not engage anything like the attacks that have chat acterized some of his earlier speeches ut other States . At the afternoon nieeting here the local politicians who sat on cies stage when the Colonel spoke spent halt an hour of anxiety , fearing that he might attack the President , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wn . Mr. Roosevelt did , however , repeat his charge that President Taft was allied with the bosses . He spoke with considerable feeling at Steubenville , where he started out to refute the charge made oy President Taft that he was stirring ' up class hatred through his appeals . . ' I preach hatred toward no class , " cried the Colonel , " except the class of crooks  --  political crooks or financial crooks , big crooks or little crooks . le.a .. n then I do not preach hatred of the crook himself , but of his crookedness . " In that I have not altered from the Position I took four years ago . The bosses have not ' chaneed ; we have not changed , it is.Mr . Taft has change &; He ran four years ago on my record , and he is estopped from assailing me for anything done by me or my Administration while he . was a member of my Cabinet . " I stand by all that my Administration did . If I am again elected I snail try @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  the plain people  --  of the country just as I did in my Administration before . I hope I shall be more successful , for I have learned a great deal . The Presidency is a big some ' and I know whom to trust and whom not to trust " there is considerable tariff sentiment in the suction which the President and the Colonel passed through to-day . In some of his speeches Mr. Roosevelt preached protection . I stand for the protective tariff , " he said at Steubenville . " But I want to see part of it go into the pay envelope . I want to see only a fair proportion for dividends . I want to see it made the duty of some Administration official or bureau to investigate the protected industries and see if the wage earners have the benefit which the tariff is supposed to bring to the working man and that it actually gets to him . " President Taft also put In a good word for the tariff . In his speech at East Liverpool , ? which is one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As for your pottery business the Payne Tariff law made certain provisions to prevent frauds in the introduction of pottery into the country by undervaluation so as to secure to you the opportunity of having such protection as you needed , and it meant to you the prosperity of all - our potteries in this neighborhood . " One of the President 's declarations which . never failed to bring forth applause was : " I am opposed by Theodore Roosevelt for the Presidency and I am opposed to Theodore Roosevelt for the Presidency . " 