@@678846

txt Much in regard to the Just the mental peculiarities of the Man anti-vivisectionists is refor Them . vealed by the fact that they deem It expedient to take along with them to Albany , where they are going this week to solicit favorable action on their bill , that fine flower of their cult , the Hon. STEPHEN COLERIDGE . Utterly indifferent to the frequency and completeness with which this curious person has been exposed as a man who makes false and reckless statements , who is a convicted slanderer , and who has again and again been caught in deliberate Misrepresentation and deception , the New York anti-vivisectionists confidently expect to impress the legislators with his name  --  with the illusion that a son of the Lord Chief Justice of England speaks with judicial calmness and authority on any subject to which he devotes his attention ! Yet Mr. COLERIDGE 'S record since he took up this " cause " has been so widely published in the United States as well as abroad that nobody who reads the newspapers is at all likely to hear him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people his assistance would be much more feared than his antagonism . He is , however , a very fit associate for those who are trying to stop all experiments with living animals and thereby to bring the advancement of medicine to an end . He has the skill , acquired from long practice , that is needed for giving plausibility to such pretenses as that the anti-vivisectionists are only asking for the " open door " and for the protection of animals from investigation by any except " properly qualified " scientists . As the door of every laboratory is already open to everybody who can reasonably expect to enter it , the demand for further inspection is much as if the Christian Scientists were to ask for the right to accompany every doctor on his rounds and to prevent the administration of any medicine the necessity for which they did not admit . And since the antivivisectionists have recently been attacking the men working in the Rockefeller Institute , it is hard indeed to imagine whose qualifications they would be likely to recognize as " proper . " Certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ FLEXNER and his associates could not te found , and yet the anti-vivisectionists are quite willing to believe anything a discharged scrubwoman chooses to say against them ! Every American Washington knows where GEORGE Had a WASHINGTON lived and Birthplace ! died , and no small fraction of us have taken the pious pains to visit Mount Vernon , but one is likely to question a considerable number of our citizens , no matter how intelligent ? well-educated , and patriotic , before finding anybody who can remember ? If he ever knew  --  just where the Father of his Country was born . As for coming across a man or woman who ever visited the place , that is next to impossible . Yet there is an expensive monument in the little village of Wakefield , Va. , erected by order of Congress , and people do go there to see it ? sometimes as many as four or five in a single year , the official guardian of it reports . They have to be determined and deeply interested pilgrims , for the nearest railway station is twenty-five miles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down the river by boat is landed at a broken wharf whence he will have to walk four miles unless he can hire a farmer to " hitch up " and carry him to his destination . Somebody on The Boston Transcript 's staff seems to have made the pilgrimage lately , for an editorial article in that paper tells all about it and about the wilderness of Tidewater Vir ? ginia and its big counties of King George , Westmorelarri , Northumberland , Richmond . and Lancaster , in not one of which is there a single railway , steam , or electric . Four other counties south of the Rappahannock , on the peninsula between it and the York River , are np better provided with transportation facilities , and even the sailboats of other days have mostly disappeared . WASHINGTON passed only his ' first four years in Wakefield , and naturally his associations with it are of the slightest . Besides that , nobody thinks of him as ever having been a baby  --  or as in , any other way distinctly human , for that matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , through the mists of legend and myth , and perhaps it is just as well that his birthplace should be forgotten . The old house at Mount Vernon is a more fitting shrine , for there WASHINGTON was himself and as much like the WASHINGTON we know as a real man could be . Laborious modern historians try in vain to make him actual , and they dig up letters that show him the possessor of a temper and otherwise human , but he remains in the popular mind always in heroic pose , ready to have his portrait painted for the ' inspection of posterity . Wakefield interferes with that , and therefore , probably is the existence of Wakefield ignored , NICHOLAS TsCECAIII0VConfronted inn- is soon to have by a what in Russia is called . a trial , and , the many Dilemma . Americans whom ? he deeply impressed during his recent visit to this country as a man sure to be respeeted as. ( ' ) . good . citizen in any civilized land will await the result of the pp --  ceedings With keen interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heard the old man talk doubts that for years and years he has been working to the full extent of his large ability to effect such changes In the Russian Government as would amount to its practical overthrow . He will be able to prove , easily enough , or would be able were he to have a real trial , that he has not been a part of the revolution 's fighting force and is innocent of the particular offenses now charged against him , but where his sympathies and assistance have gone is no secret , and from ? the standpoint of official Russia he is unquestionably a public enemy . Yet official Russia in this , as in so many cases , is confronted with the difficulty , as respects its public enemies , that they have grievances which in the eyes of the world fully explain and come near to fully justifying their most desperate deeds . The . Government has been forced to try him on false charges because the only true ones it could bring against him would have made an indictment strange indeed  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devoted his life to the service of his people . It will be equally dangerous to acquit him and to convict him . Such chance of safety as Tscnancovsxv has in the circumstances lies in the fact that he is well known out of his own country , and any action taken against him will have to be explained and defended .                     