@@684187

txt The viev. - that the Austrian peace note was issued under Urgent pressure of conditions within the Central Empires is supported by all Information that leaks across the frontiers . Responsible opinion in this country has always protested against any undue hopes befng feondA on the economical stress in Germany end Austria , and the British public has been urged to remember the extriterdinary power of the German race . to adapt themselves to a much lower seels ? of living , and the hopelessness of an attempt at revolution by old men , women , and children in these days of machine guns . . But in the last few days , rumors have taken on a new complexion . They are Unconfirmed , but they point to some sensational happening behind the scenes in Germany . The Kaiser 's recent speech to the Krupp workmen proves how overwrought he is , and certain passages in it censored as they were , as the German press has complained , hardly read like the utterances of a sane man . There May consequently be some ground for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Another rumor has it that the Kaiser . foreseeing the utter ruin of his house , is contemplating , one of those dramatic proves so characteristic of his temperament . One of his most renowned predecessors . it is remembered . Charles V. , in the sixteenth century , left the world for a monastery ; and if he really may be thinking of some spectacular act of renunciation , it is remarked here , the Allies would easily provide a suilible place of retreat which the Lutheran Church might find it difficult to offer . : letting aside these reports , however , another view of the Austrian note , widely accepted in London , is that it was , issued t .. ) prepare the German people for a great retreat . ' Chia would make it out to be inspired by the military chiefs . They , it is contended , see that they must relinquish Belgium in order to shorten the line on account of-their destroyed divisions ; and they wish to prepare the German people for this practical acknowledgment of military failure . Dope to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychology of their enemies , the Germans still believe they could detach France from her allies by the return of the occupied French territory and some concessions about AlsaceLorraine ; and for this reason they would like to see the Entente inveigled into informal secret conversations . The proper reply to that , many - here believe , would be a brief definite joint statement of the Entente 's war aims . A year or two ago it might have been difficult to draft that ; but now the Allies have reached quite a close enough agreement among themselves to make it simple to draw up such a pronouncement . President Wilson 's statement , issued through Secretary Lansing , of the attitude of the American Government is taken in conjunction with Balfour 's skeptical analysis , to foreshadow the unmistakable ultimate rejection of the proposals for a conference embodied in the AustroIlungarian note . One section of the British opinion , and that probably by far the numerically greatest and certainly most vociferous , hails the Sate Department 's announcement as an example that should be followed by the Entente Powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they say , and it deserves only the briefest of answers . The Evening Standard says : " The ordinary plain man 's position is that of President Wilson . Such a Yuan naturally argues that if it takes 4,000 words or so to reply to -a proposition , there must be something to reply to . Therefore Balfour 's brilliant impromptu effort was a mistake in tactics , anl the honors are with Wilson 's short and sharp rejection . Perhaps it would he less invidious to say that Balfour ieprerents the old diplomacy , Wilson the new , and that both utterances are perfect In their kind . " In opposition to that section of opinion which wants to see the Austrian proposals reje ? : ed out of hand , there is a growing insist ' nee on the necessity of issuing a reply which will give the G-rman War Lords no opportunity of rallying their people . The Westminster Gazette , in particular , points nut that whereas President Wilson has in a series of admirable speeches and official addresses laid down in principle the essew. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong position when he simply refers back to ins own utterances , the Governments of the Entente have not yet spoken with the same clearness and fullness , and that there is everything to gain by a united joint declaration . The basis of that declaration . according to The Gazette , would be disarmanent . Wants Disarmament Pledge . " The only fruitful question which can be put to the Prussian militarists is , Will they disarm . ' That and nothing else is the test of the extermination of Prussian militarism . That alone , with the necessary safeguards , is its own guarantee ; and there is no other foundation in which a League of Nations can be built . " The Manchester Guardian and London Star argue strongly for the view that the Allies can so present the case to Austria that her desire to quit the war will be greatly increased , her antagonism to Germany stiffened , her reluctance to send farther reinforcements to the French front deepened . " Or , " says The Guardian , " they may make such an answer as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " This point of view is dismissed as " the fear of a small and timid minority " by the Northcliffe papers ? which declare that a flat rejection of the Austrian proposals " such as has just been given by President Wilson " can not drive Austria back Into the arms of Germany because she is already in them and there is no reason to suppose she has any intention of leaving them . Though nothing can yet be predicted with certainty , it is the opinion of the best judges whom THE NEW YORK TiMes correspondent has been able to consult , that the Entente Governments will agree to the policy of a united reply which , while refusing to enter a conference on the lines suggested by the Austrian note . will leave the door open for further proposals based on the acceptance of certain essential principles necessary to a stable peace .                     