@@683965

txt Upon the basis that the war profits and incomes shall furnish 80 per cent . of the taxes to be derived from the new revenue law , the Ways and Means Committee of the House will begin hearings on Thursday . The purpose now is to report and pass a bill in the House by Aug. 1 which will double the returns from the present law . Before the comBlittee starts upon the construction of the biggest revenue bill ever written by my nation a preliminary move will be staged in the Senate to obtain . from the Secretary of the Treasuryinformation upon profiteering . Sen .. ator Borah tomorrow will press for the ' adoption of his resolution which requests this information , which the Idaho Senator believes is necessary in framing a just and equitable revenue bill . Despite the fact that business will feel from be to 85 per cent , of the burdens of taxation to be imposed by the new revenue law , there is not so much interest manifested by the industrial world as had been expected . Fewer than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Ways and Means Committee , and these represent chiefly industries that might be classed nonessential to war activities . Among those who have sought hearings Is the Chamber of Commerce of the automobile manufacturers . Chance for All to be Heard . I The hearings will be open for two or three weeks , during which time all those who wish to present arguments will have an opportunity to do so . Represent7tive Kitcirin , Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee , announced last week that those who might fall under the head of profiteers would be called to explain their vast earnings when the committee took up the war profit schedule and the income taxes . Broadly speaking , the bill will be written along the lines suggested by President Wilson in his speech to Congress . While at least SO per cent . of the taxes will be levied upon war profits and incomes , it is estimated that about 5 per cent . more will be obtained from increasing the rates on inheritances , Luxuries , such as automobiles , jewelry , and musical Instruments , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate it is the intention of the Republicans to attempt to place a consumption tax In the bill . Republicans say that , with wages increased , it is no more than just that there should be a tax upon tea , coffee , and sugar . If a real fight Is made for a consumption tax there will be some delay in passing the bill , and it is doubtful whether Congress will be able to complete the bill before the November election , which la desired by all sides , irrespective of party . . 73 Per Cent . on War Profits . Sentiment is becoming more pronounced for a more substantial tax upon war profits . The Senate will insist upon a tax approximating 73 per cent . of war profits . If not more , according to the belief of leaders . Senators who last year found themselves almost alone in the fight for a huge tax on war profits now find a tendency on both sides of the Chamber for a heavy toll on corporations . Senator Borah and other advocates of a high tax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next bill that will aggregate at least 70 per cent . of the entire tax yielded by the measure . Under the existing measure the excess profits tax embraces approximately 30 per cent . of the total yield . " The United States ought to follow the example of Great Britain and fix a tax on war profits of 70 per cent , if not more , " said Senator Borah tonight . " The Government ought to help itself to the enormous profit made by corporations out of the war . The people will not be satisfied unless that is done . " Senator Borah insists that Congress proceed to the limit with an investiga-1 tion to ferret out profiteering , such as referred to by the President in his speech . Senator Simmons , Chairman of the Finance Committee , asked Senator Borah if he would refrain from calling up his resolution until Mr. Simmons Could coal , - with Secretary to ascertain what evidence the Treasury Department might have . Mr. Borah promised he would not do anything to emhr , rrass the Secretary of the Treasury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the resolutions Without much delay . Senator Simmons said tonight that . lie had not been able to reach Mr. , the Secretary being out of town . He expects to confer with him tomorrow morning . " ' It may be that whatever erldenan the Secrc , tary of the Treasury or some other official has might be of such nature that it ought not to be revealed , " paid Senator Simmons . " If feels that it is , I shall ? I-muse the resolutions end hope they will net be Ltdoptcd. "                     