@@679986

txt The Olympic to-day abandoned her scheduled trip to New York owing to the desertion of her seamen when the officials of the line attempted to put non-union men in the places of the striking firemen . The steamship , which has been delayed in the Solent since Wednesday , returned this evening to Southampton , where the passengers were disembarked about 8 o'clock . The trouble on the Olympic began Wednesday , when some firemen alleged that the collapsible boats obtained to supplement the former lifesaving apparatus were unseaworthy and refused to sail , leaving the ship . The company hastily recruited 100 men in Portsmouth and brought about 150 more by a special train from Liverpool and Sheffield . These Men reached the Olympic by tug late last night , but the seamen aboard made objection to the newcomers on the ground that they were non-unionists and not fit for the work . The seamen then began to climb from the Olympic into the tug which had brought the strikebreakers . Capt . Haddock of the Olympic ordered them to return , but without effect . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose Captain came aboard and warned the Men that they were guilty of mutinous behavior and liable to heavy punishment . The men refused to return . This morning the tug returned to Southampton with the deserters , and fifty-three seamen were arrested as they stepped ashore . They were brought before a magistrate on the charge of mutiny and were remanded till Tuesday . Seventy-two of the passengers volunteered to work in the stokehold. but their offer was refused . The Duke of Sutherland tried to raise a crew of volunteer yachtsmen ; ' hilt ' it was impossible to fill the places of all the deserters . H. Rawitson of New York presided at a meeting of the first-olass passengers held in the Olympic 's smoking room . " We were all on the side of the company , " he said , " but we thought we were net getting sufficient information about what was happening . The feeling among the passengers was that we ought to know right there Ivhethdr the ship was going to sail or not . We called in the chief purser and put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were still waiting for instructions and would let us know as soon as possible . " Ralph A. Sweet was one of the seventeen first-class passengers who volunteered to act as stokers . " Our idea , " he said , " was that we should stoke the boat to Queenstown , where the Captain would have been able to get fresh men . About a hundred passengers volunteered altogether , and we would have been able to work in short watches . Capt . Haddock thanked us very nicely , and I thought he was going to put us to work right away , but he told us afterward that he would not call on our services . " i The Duke of Sutherland expressed his complete satisfaction with everything that Capt . Haddock had done . " I think all the passengers , " he said , " will be sorry that they are not sailing under Capt . Haddock 's care . As for the complaint that he did not give the ' passengers sufficient information , I do not know what more he could have given them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He got the firemen , and I have no doubt that if he had had more time he would have got the rest of the crew together . " As for the boat which the firemen said was leaky , I should say there was about a teacupful of water in it after a long trial . " I intend to sail Sunday from South , ampton in the North German Lloyd liner Prinz Friedrich Wilhelm . " The Olympic will be laid up until May 15 , the passage money being refunded . Some of the passengers are making efforts to catch the Lusitania at Liverpool to-morrow . Others are taking German liners at Havre or Southampton . Passengers awaiting the Olympic at Queenstown have been given the opportunity of sailing on the Baltic , and over 100 will leave aboard of her .                     