@@680989

txt It is to be regretted that Senator O'GoluipeN has taken a position upon the tolls exemption question that is misrepresentative of public opinion in the State which sends him to the Senate . Nor is it easy to understand by What arguments Mr. O'GORMAN can in his own mind justify an attitude so directly contrary not only to the views and wishes of the people Of his own State , but to the prevailing view and wish of the people of the country . Men who know the truth no longer listen with patience to the argument that the terms of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty Permit us to exempt our coastwise ships from the payment of tolls . That contention has been torn to shreds , and in fact it never had any basis whatever . At the end of the negotiation we let the other party to the contract go away with the treaty in his pocket believing that it meant what it said  --  that the ships of all nations were to use the canal on equal terms without any discrimination for or against any of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the treaty , too  --  there can be no doubt of it . But years afterward Congress enacted a law providing for discrimination in tolls , for unequal treatment of nations using the canal . With all the documents in the ease on the counsel table and with a year for preparation , Senator O'GonmAN could not convince a just arbitral tribunal that the tolls act was not a violation of the treaty . It is exceedingly hard to believe that Senator O'GORMAN , who has filled a judicial office , now opposes Pesident WILSON 'S desire to secure a repeal of the exemption act because he really believes that the act is in conformity with the treaty . The most powerful of all the influences that secured the passage of the canal act was the coastwise shipping interest . It wanted tolls exemption as a virtual subsidy . But the Democratic Party is the traditional foe of ship subsidies , and Senator O'GORMAN is a Democrat . Another influence , a covert influence , was the populistic desire to strike a blow at the transcontinental railroads . Senator O'GORmAN is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he has never sought to make political capital by unreasonable assaults upon corporations . Resolutions have now and then been introduced in Congress decrying the proposed celebration of a century of peace between the United States and Great Britain . The motive that prompts these protests underlies also some of the opposition to the repeal of the tolls exemption art . But we hope that Senator O'Gotimax is above such pettiness . Taking all the facts and the arguments into consideration . conjecture is baffled in the attempt to divine the grounds of his opposition . As a member of the Foreign Relations Committee of the Senate he must have special knowledge and a peculiar sense of the profound importance of maintaining our reputation as a nation that respects the obligation of treaties . That reputation would be damaged , our national honor would be hurt , should we refuse to retrace this false step . Even to let the matter go to an arbitral tribunal , where we should certainly be beaten , would . as has been pointed out abroad , " impair international " confidence in the value @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ honorable American would be humiliated if we should in that way be convicted of broken faith . It will be wisest and best and safest for Senator O'GORMAN and for other Democratic Senators to accept in this matter the leadership of President WILSON . He has attentively and soberly studied the Question , he is convinced that the exemption act should be repealed . Of the President 's wisdom , of his clear insight , of his loftiness of mind and purpose the country is every day becoming more convinced . It is unusual , it is not a light thing , for an Administration to reverse the policies of its predecessors , especially in matters involving our relations with other Powers . Mr. WILSON has taken this step , and we may . be assured that he has ' taken it for reasons of weight and moment . Tho plank of the Baltimore platform is unworthy to be considered . It now appears that that plank was inserted In the platform by a sort of subterfuge , and was not duly considered by the responsible authors of the declaration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a good party man has paid due respect to the doctrines of the platform , is able to regard that plank as unorthodox , we do not see why the conscience of Senator O'GoaliAlc or any other Senator should be troubled about it . The country demands repeal . The President is with the country , and the country with him . If there are any considerations worthy to be put above consideration of country , of the country 's wish and of the country 's honor , we do not know what they are                     