@@679887

txt Our foreignforeign friends who are taking our gold . and we are glad to oblige them , are unable to understand how they get it on the basis of the state of the exchanges . They know that they are our debtors on the balance of the I merchandise movement , and on the credit situation as well , and they figure that we are losing money by sending them gold . There is no doubt that we choose to do both domestic and international business in a way as cumbersome and expensive as possible , but it does not follow that we are deliberately throwing away money because we let gold go at less than other nations ask for it . We get all that it is worth to us. and relieve ourselves of an oppressive weight upon the domestic money market. - The Treasury statement issued yesterday disclosed that during January we added 18,694,318 to the money in circulation . We did this at a time when the surplus bank reserve , according to the statement of Saturday , was the largest at this season @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and when there is no large demand either for currency or credit . Naturally this excess of cur , rency seeks a use . Since there is no real service which it can perform it tempts those who have it in their possession against their will to put it to speculative use , in the hope that it may earn its cost . And when , as the markets show , even speculation is not thus goaded into activity , the redundancy of paper automatically releases or even expels gold to serve those who know how to put it to work . The Treasury statement discloses that at this time of quiet trade we have the largest total of currency in our history . This happens in two ways , and both of them discreditable to our common sense . We organize our fins.nces in such a way that when we are prosperous the Treasury absorbs the currency which is needed by trade . When trade is quiet , and the Treasury collections run below its expenditures , then currency is disgorged upon a money market which is disorganized by its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ currency is the banknote circulation . The comparisons for last week , last month , and last year , all stibw larger figures , the first of the present month being a maximum record . But if there should be a demand to-morrow for a large increase of currency this precious system would not be able to supply it , since our banknote circulation is independent of business conditions . It expands at its own sweet will , and it never contracts . There is neither rhyme nor reason in such arrangements . The only suitable comment is " such a foolishness . " Yet Washington dispatches tell us that the pursuers of the money trust have resolved to confine the hunt to the imperfections of the Aldrich plan . The strength of the Aldrich plan lies less in its perfections than in the imperfections of the present plan , as disclosed not theoretically but practically by the ' facts of the existing situation . The Al . drich plan puts an end to the issue of currency based upon bonds , and provides a place and use for gold as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assets , the promissory notes of the ordinary business man , indorsed by the bank which knows him , and by the association of banks which knows the discounting bank . The idea is novel , it is said , but it is only novel for the United States . It is said to be intricate , but it only seems so because it takes many words to express an idea of such importance and scope , but simplicity itself in its conception . The details may be criticised , but whatever its defects , its virtues shine in comparison with the system which forbids making bank credits convertible into currency or checks at will , and whiqh gives gold a place now denied it in our banking system .                     