@@680376

txt Perhaps the most Wonderful remarkable t li i n g It Is n't about the colossal 5olte Oftener . O played on the GerDone scan Army at Strasburg this week was not its lack of precedent , but that analogous tricks are not succcessfully executed every day wherever there are malicious or humorous people desirous of exposing other people to derisive laughter . And that means everywhere , for everybody knows that it can be done , and how . The man who sent to the Military Governor of Strasburg , announcing that the Emperor was to reach the city within a few hours and directing him to prepare a suitably martial reception for the great War Lord , merely utilized the familiar fact that telegraph messages , as received , are signed by telegraph operators , not by the senders . , That , with his knowledge of the other familiar fact that only in the rarest instances is the authenticity of such signatures questioned , was all he had to work with . It was quite enough for his purpose , however , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a like purpose any day with half the inhabitants of any town , large or small , where telegraph messages are delivered . That advantage of these opportunities to make trouble or embarrassment is so rarely taken that everybody acts upon the assumption that it never will be is not due to care taken by the telegraph companies to prevent the sending of un- . authorized and falsely signed - messages , for ' the care taken is not much , and in the very nature of things can not be very effective against a desire to deceive . The explanation must be the same as that which accounts for the fact that a sheet of glass keeps out thieves almost as well as a brick wall . The vast majority of us , perhaps from an underlying sense of our own defenselessness from such attacks , have entered into a tacit contract with humanity not to commit them . We assume that other people will not break our windows or send us false telegraph messages , and the assumption stands the pragmatic test ? it works , and we go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will violate the agreement as negligible . We have to do so , in these and a thousand similar cases , or life would be intolerable . If we had to test every bridge before we crossed it we 'd never get far from home . Our recent remarks Farming about the vast amount East of arable land that is . Westlying idle close to this and city , in spite of the fact that New York is one of the best markets in the world for the crops , enormous in the aggregate , that could be raised on these innumerable acres , were fully justified and strongly emphasized by the communication from MILTON WHITNEY , Chief of the State Bureau of Soils . He said that , with proper cultivation , practically any crops of the temperate zone could be profitably produced in the area immediately around us , and he might have added that not only is this land as good as any in the country , but much of it is cheaper than that in the Middle West and on the Pacific Coast about the fertility of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be sure , have , or had , in them more plant food of an immediately available nature than the long-exploited soils of New York State and New England now contain , but the , scientific farmer judges land in quite another way than by what he can get out of it without putting anything back . That , he thinks , is mining , not farming , and he is entirely content with any land which will serve him as a site on which to conduct the business of turning fertilizers , chiefly of the kind called commercial or artificial , into food . Of course some lands are better than others , even for that , but they are not so much better as is commonly assumed , and what is meant by natural fertility is nothing like as . important to the real farmer as are good markets , short freight hauls , and a chance to share the conveniences and amenities of civilized life . The talk about " exhausted Eastern land " is all nonsense to any farmer with intelligence enough to understand that while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land was to be had for the taking , they are all wrpng now , and that the agriculturist , to be successful , needs exactly the sort of teaching that a doctor or a lawyer receives  --  a scientific education . that is , most conveniently obtained from a college . Farmers of the old school , scorn " book farming , " and declare it unpractical . That is why we hear about " abandoned farms " in New England , and it is also why so many of those abandoned farms are passing , at absurdly low prices , into the hands of new owners who proceed to prove that the abandoning was done by men who did n't know and would n't learn their own business .                     