@@681897

txt As a result of representations made today by a delegation of Chicago beef Packers , the State Department this evening sent a telegram to Waiter H. Page , the American Ambassador at London , directing him to represent to the British Government that the packers felt that they had not been treated fairly by Great Britain in the matter of the detention of their meat products by the British authorities . The representatives of the packers had two conferences at the State Department today with Chandler P. Anderson of the Counselor 's office , and Robert F. ' Rose , one of the foreign trade advisers of the department . A further conference will be held tomorrow at which the packers ' representatives will submit a draft embodying the specific representations which they believe should be sent to the British Government . It became known tonight that these representations would form the basis for a diplomatic note to be sent by the Government of the United States to the Government of Great Britain , The cases of detention of five ships , containing meat products exported by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tomorrow . The cases before the prize court have been postponed from time to time and the packers have been unable to obtain action in connection with their effort to secure the release of meat products amounting to about $14,000,000 destined for neutral ports in Europe . It was said tonight in behalf of the packers that in View of past experience they had no confidence that any relief would be granted to them at tomorrow 's meeting of the prize court . One opinion , however , is that there is a bare possibility that in view of the representations to be made by Ambassador Page in accordance with the instructions telegraphed him tonight , the British Government may be induced to take some action through the prize court at its meeting tomorrow . Palled To Get Settlement . The complaint of the packers followed the receipt of a report from their representative at London , Alfred R. Urion , of inability to get a satisfactory agreement from the British authorities as to the release of detained meat-laden vessels or action from the British prize court on claims for damages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the packers ' here are Arthur Meeker , G. F. Swift , Jr. , Thomas E. Wilson , Charles J. I Faulkner , Jr. ; James Jacobson . Edward S. Roberts and M. Rosenbach . After a short conference with Secretary Lansing , they were sent to Mr. Anderson and Robert F. Rose , foreign trade adviser of the State Department . The case of the packers was presented by Mr. Meeker , who headed the packers here some weeks ago , when it was expected that their troubles had been adjusted satisfactorily through the ' efforts of Sir Richard Crawford . It was understood then that their claims would be expedited before the British prize court and a settlement reached at a price to be agreed on for meats confiscated or spoiled . It now appears that it has been impossible to agree on terms . The packers ' agents abroad are unable to get the prize court to come to terms , and they complain that the British censorship prevents them from getting necessary documents in support of their claims . Mr. Urion , who was sent to Londln @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States in May , having failed to get action by the prize court . He met the packers in Washington , where they obtained from Sir Cecil Spring-Rice and Sir Richard Crawford an agreement , accepted by the British authorities , to expedite proceedings before the Prize Court , which was to meet June 8 . The delay in reaching a settlement of these cases has interfered seriously , it is asserted , with the export business of the packers and with shipments of meat products from this country . There is no threat by the packers of a meat war against the British , but they are anxious to obtain a settlement of their claims and effect an agreement between this Government and Great Britain under which shipments may be made in neutral vessels to neutral countries without danger of seizure by Great Britain . Allege International Delay . The packers , in the statement outlining their case to be laid before the Department , declare that the British Government purposely delays settlement of their claims for seized cargoes and that they are not inclined to reopen trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their shipments to ports designated . The statement gives the history of the detention of consignments for Scandinavian countries . shipped before the British , order in Council was issued in some instances , and in others before it was known to the packers . As reported to the packers by their representative in England , Alfred R. Urion , " says the statement , " the latest terms for the release of the cargoes as laid down by Great Britain are held to be so onerouS as to be unacceptable . Attorney tirion went to England . arriving there the latter part of January , in response to a request made by Sir Edward Grey through the British Embassy at Washington , to discuss the seizure of the shipments with a view of arriving at some conclusion in the matter . Until a week ago the packers were assured by their representative in England the situation would be amicably adjusted , practically all differences having been agreed upon , when the new set of unreasonable terms was suggested by the authorities and immediately rejected by the packers . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Great Britain against claims arising out of the detention of ships . That the packers guarantee Great Britain against claims of buyers who bought and paid for largo quantities of products seized . " The packers assert that this latest move by Great Britain is only another step to delay a settlement of the problem and that there appears to be absent the sincere desire to settle the controversy . With the . $14,000,000 of packers ' products held up in the prize courts and with the settlement of the controversy as remote as it was months ago , the packers are not inclined to take further chances in reopening trade with neutral countries unless they are able to receive assurances that their products will be allowed to arrive at the ports designated . " In their conferences with Mr. Anderson , the packers were insistent that the American Government should take firm action .                     