@@684594

txt A production of more than 60,000 barrels of crude oil a day has been developed in Wydming up to date . The amount marketed is in excess of 40,000 barrels , which is being produced by approximately 1,000 wells , an average of 40 barrels of oil a ma each day , the highest daily average in the country . The 20,000 barrels of oil a day are not being marketed , because of lack of pipe lines and refining capacity . Considerable pipe line mileage is now being built by the Illinois Pipe Line Co. in Wyoming , from the fields to the refining centers , where much new refining capacity is being constructed . Additional refinery capacity is being supplied almost entirely by Midwest Refining Co. , which has a natural monopoly of the oil industry in Wyoming . In the last several years it has built lip one of the leading gasoline manufacturing organizations in the country , and its progress in the last two years in this respect has been remarkable . This more recent rapid growth coincides with what has been termed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Midwest Refining as a Standard Oil property is due largely to the fact that prominent Canadian interests , identified with the Imperial Oil Co. , a subsidiary of the Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey , acquired a substahtial interest in Midwest Refining , about two years ago . This connection has proved a valuable one for Midwest Refining . The recent consolidation of producing properties in the Salt Creek field into the Salt Creek Producers ' Associaion , is a matter of great value to the Midwest Refining Co . That transaction put the Salt Creek field , regarded as one of the greatest oil fields in this country , under Midwest control . The only reason why the Salt Creek field has not developed faster is because of litigation between some of the operators there and the United States Government . This situation will be corrected if the Leasing Bill , which already has been introduced in Congress , is pas:ed . The Midwest Refining Co. is also in control of the greater part of the Lance Creek field . which was recently aCquired through the ptirchase ? of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Midwest Refining Co. bought 51% , or 51,000 shares , of this company at approximately S6 a share . Subsequently the stock sold up to about 5100 a share . Western States Co. was lecapitallied , stockholders being allowed to subscribe to nine new shares at par , $1 , for each one owned ; and the new stock is quoted around $8 . Through its ownerAip of the Merritt Oil Corporation , Midwest Refining has control of the Big Muddy field . the second largest field in . Wyoming . Control of these fields , together with its big interest in other prominent Wyoming fields , gives the Midwest Refining Co. a supply of crude oil which is not exceeded in promise by any other oil refining company in the United States .                     