@@682410

txt The detailed plans of what has been called the west side improvement fulfill the forecast benefits , and make more clear that the result will be the betterment of the port , not merely of a part of Manhattan borough . The popular strength of the plan lies in the carrying of the parks to the water 's edge , the raMway being , invisible . All tracks will be either completely underground for the northerly parts , or completely elevated for the southerly parts . There will be nu grade crossings . Below Thirtieth rtrcet the elevated route will run through private property , not through north and south streets . There will be an increase of facilities of commerce , an addition to street capacity in the improved area , and all at the monetary cost of the railway . There advantages are obvious , and are not , disputed by critics of the plan . They are entitled to be heard , and it is ' well that hearings begin May 1 . It is known what they will say . for they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are to be more elevated railways on Manhattan island , and it is to be regretted that the terminals of all railways serving the Port of New York are not on one side cf the Hudson . There is no need to dodge these points , first , because they are not of controlling importance , and secondly . because they have been considered and provided against . The elevated road required is an improvement over existing conditions , and is on the grade of the railway which runs to Chicago and has connections across the continent . An elevated road facilitates communication with adjacent warehouses and piers in a manner impossible with a tunnel route . The only reason for substituting a tunnel for an elevated road would be to make connections with the transriver railways in New Jersey . It is a desirable thing to do , but there can be no compulsion about it . The plan provides for doing it whenever the opportunity serves , and no more can be done now . The city reserves space for two tracks as part of a future west side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the structure runs , and for a marginal way giving access to all piers south of the structure . Nothing more can be done until it is decided on which side of the Hudson the main terminal shall be . New York can not decide that alone . New Jersey is as much entitled to be heard on that as the critics of the plan in the interest ' of New Jersey . They have a difficult client , who is clear as to what he wants , and is not in the least hackward in expressing it . They are so unreasonable that their proposals have been rejected by Interstate Commissioner CLARK , because " they are be " yond the power of our commission " to regtilate . " In their application they said " the permanent cure for " port congestion at New York is to " attract ships , terminals , and fac " tortes to New Jersey and away from " New York . " That is to say , New York should give up what it has in order that New Jersey may have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , what would be the result ? In the words of J. SPENCER SMITH , President of theNew Jersey , Board ofCornmerce , and Navigation , " if ' the port were properly organtzed:the railroads and ; " steamship piers would be located " * * ? where there could the an " interchange between the trucking " concerns operating on the land and " the lighterage concerns operating " on the water , and this would save " long drayag-es . " That is to say , New Jersey is willing to do anything to help itself . even to the extent of con ' the use of lighters and drays instead of a tunnel bringing the railways to the ship side and making both lighters and drays unnecessary . It is true that the ferrying of freight across the Hudson is an obstacle . to the best port development . That is an argument for a tunnel , not an argument against the development of Manhattan 's facilities in a manner harmonious with the Interests loth of Manhattan in the present and of New Jersey in the future when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well abandon hope of putting pressure upon New York try getting lower rates from the ' West to the New Jersey side of the IIudson . Commissioner CLAnnc has said that the Port of New York is an indivisible rate point . Were it otherwise , New Jersey could only get lower rates for itself over the New Jersey railways at the cost of conceding lower rates for Manhattan ' over the railway this side the river . New York goes ' to the limit of good neighborhood practice when it makes ' , this improvement and offers New Jersey its use at the - cost of reaching it . If New York provides this terminal , why should not New Jersey provide the tunnel for itself ?                     