@@684820

txt The production of coal is a question of economics which can not be settled by winning a lawsuit . Also , the bringing together of the parties in collective bargaining who are now at odds is a matter of conciliation and courtesy which is not advanced by charges of broken agreements . The better way is to take it for granted that there is a ? misunderstanding between disputants who are all in the service of the community , and bring public  --  opinion to bear on the party which puts itself in the wrong . The Attorney General 's statement is that the memorandum for settlement of the coal strike was drawn up by him on the railway train in which he was riding in company with representatives of the miners . The operators neither saw nor signed it . The basis for charging . them with repudiation of their duty under it . is an argument that its terms are identical with another document to which they committed themselves , and which they reaffirm . That was the only document in. existence before the Attorney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administrator , and was said to have the approval of the Cabinet . It is true that the miners had rejected it , and probably would reject it again . Yet , if the memorandum and the Garfield proposal are identical , there is equal reason for , blaming rejection ' of it by either party . If one accepts and the other rejects the memorandum , the suggestion is that ' there is a difference between the documents which would be removed better by agreement than by success in any legalistic procedure which would leave the production of coal in doubt . Presumably some court proceeding could be taken against the operators with better prospect of success than the injunction against the miners . The operators could be relied upon to bow to judicial mandate with even greater patriotism than that which won praise for the miners , but which produced no coal until millions of dollars of wages and many more millions of tons of coal had been lost to productive industry , besides the loss of profit to the operators . The estimate of $126 , - 100,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not , struck . While it can not be supposed that the operators would resist the court , it is not to be imagined that the court Would order the production of coal at a loss , or that coal would be produced more cheaply or efficiently than by them , if the . mines were taken over for operation by the Government , the court , or the miners , or anybody else . The operators are as necessary to the . production of coal as the miners , and they are as much entitled to be satisfied with the terms of reference to What the miners call arbitration as are the miners . This is a rich country , but it can not stand addition : of losses in coal production like the losses in ' Government operation of the railways And shipbuilding . It Is not exactly clear where the responsibility rests for the President 's appointment of a commission of three , with the public in a minority . There is no personal criticism of . the three commissioners in saying that no three men can carry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important and contentious that their decision in sixty days is hardly ' possible : The anthracite ? commission . included seven men of ria. : tional reputation , and their deliberations lasted as many months , although it was not composed in a manner to create antagonisms . All the Seven members represented the public , and the dispute was ? referred to them as citizens , not as miners- or op ? . erators . The proposal that the present commission of three must reach a I unanimous decision is " not a preferable manner , for there are points in the dispute on which unanimity is as difficult to get as a jury decision , and on which the points of difference are entitled to consideration and submission to public opinion . ; The operators suggest a middle course , a commission of nine , including five representatives of the public and two each for the miners and the operators . That would . give the public a majority in any event , unless the case were so ' clear . as to carry the majority of the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not for a finding conclusive on the parties , but for a commission whose report " could be used as a basis for negotiations for a wage agreement . " The explanation of that presumably is that previously the miners had formally and /publicly condemned the ' Presidents statement as " invasion of Con- ; " stitutional and inalienable rights of " American citizens . It ' is the climax " of a long series of attempted usur. " pations- of Executive power. ! ' If these is not here another variance between the President 's proposal and the Attorney General 's memorandum It would seem that Mr. PALMER has conceded more to the reiners than to the operators , and yet that he blames the operators for inconsistency , although they reaffirm their position of compliance " with all proposals up to the time when the memorandum proposed a binding award by a commission with the public in a minority of one .                     