@@680490

txt J. P. Morgan 's career , so far as its greatest influence and leadership in American financing and constructive work are concerned , began shortly after the close of the Civil War and was really terminated with the organization of the United States Steel Corporation . Shortly after the close of the Civil War railroad construction was undertaken upon an enormous scale . The railroads of the West . wets being carried over almost unbroken land across the prairies . In addition , it was of vital consequence that the railroads of the South should be rebuilt . expanded and extended , all this requiring large amounts of capital . Our own country had little spare capital at that time . In 1884 it was discovered that we had expanded railroad construction too rapidly and too greatly . The prevailing estimate in 1884 of the amount of money the United States owed Europe was about $3,090,000,000 , or practically the same amount as that which was represented by the national debt created to meet the expenses of the Civil War . In the financing of these railroads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a work of reconstruction . Mr. Morgan first revealed to the bankers of Europe and of the United States his masterly knowledge of the difficult science of foreign exchange and the even more difficult science , and art as well , of persuading bankers to undertake proposition involving millions , when he sold for William H. Vanderbilt in the early eighties in London New York Central stock of the par value of $25,000,000 . He ?  - -  - 1 that so easily , so secretively , that had it not been " . e a semi-official announcement . the public would not have known of this stupendous transaction . After 1884 Mr. Morgan , in co-operation with other bankers , undertook to restore to healthful conditions many of the broken down railroad systems of the United States . This was a work of reconstruction and - reorganization , the value of which has been recognized by the greatest financial tweers of Europe . and to a le. , extcrt by the people of the United States With the reorganization of railway systems and the rehalcilitation of ecrta'n industrials , the country was well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the last decade of the nineteenth century . Mr. Morgan learned it very important lesson when he endertook to purchase for the Vanderbilt , the West Shore noilroad property . The West Shore Ras built . as allezcd , for the purpose of creating competitive conditions with the New York Central . The chartering and construction of the West Shore were welcomed because if the relief which it was believed this railroad ... mild furnish from abet many alleged to believe extensive charges for undue favoritism . Experience showed , however , that the coinpettier , was deadly for both lines and that it did not serve in any great degree to benefit shippers . At that time Mr Morgan became persuaded that the confidence of the people in the efficacy of paralleling and competing railroads to prevent the charging of excessive rates , undue favoritism , or other evils . was a misplaced confidence . These crib. in Mr. Morgan 's views , should he met and overcome in other ways . It was Mr. Morgan 's experience with the West Shore that led him later to regard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would provide very efficacious service , tend to reduce rates and serve to build up great communities , as the southern states had been aided through the reorganization of the southern railway systems In the Presidential election of 1880 the so-called greenback issue was eliminated , and for that reason Mr. Morgan found that the financing needed for the reorganization of railway systems was more easy to perfect than would have been the case had capital feared that the greenback would be adopted as our national currency . So , also , in 1896 , when the result of the Presidential election established the fact that the majority of the American people were in favor of the single gold standard , Mr. Morgan 's work as a reorganizer was freed from any difficulties and embarrassments with which it would have been beset had there remained any doubt about the establishment of the single gold standard . He recognized in 1898 or 1899 that we were about to enter upon a new economic era . He knew that invention had perfected marvelous things . He believed heartily , not in the establishment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Morgan . therefore , turned his attention to the consideration of the gigantic co-operative plan which culminated in the United Sates Steel Corporation . He was then , however , approaching the youth of old age . The new era was , in his view , to differ greatly from the reconstructive and recuperative era with which he had been identified . - It was for this reason in part Chet he associated with himself several men of the younger generation . nearly all of whom were in their apprentice days when Mr. Morgan was perfecting the new.organizations between 1884 and 1894 . These he regarded as the new instrumentalities upon whom would he placed the responsibilities which the coming of the new era , the era-of co-operation , of vast increases in our foreign commerce , and of the advent of the United States as a world power , would illustrate .                     