@@679654

txt James It Nugent was deposed as Chairman of the State Democratic Committee here this afternoon amid riotous scenes . Fourteen r  --  embers of the committee voted unaniintassly to declare the chair vacant after I Mr. Nugent and Charles H. Gallagher of Mercer , his lieutenant , had left . the Imeeting and Nugent 's " strong-arm " men had twice forced James E. Craft of Camden , who had a proxy for William H. Davis of the same county , from the meeting in order to prevent a quorum vote . Mr. Craft was just shoved from the meeting room the first time . The second time he was pummeled and thrown out of the room and to the Coleman House piazza , where he was handled roughly until he escaped . Twenty of the Nugent men crowded on the piazza , awaiting the word of their chief to rush into the meeting room and break up the session . . They became so boisterous and threatening that appeal was made to Chief of Police William H. Smith for a squad of patrolmen . When the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but Senator Low of Ocean County had arrived to make a quorum and the Chairman had been deposed . A successor to Mr. Nugent was not named because of the fear of a further disturbance . Vice Chairman Wills abruptly announced that he would entertain a motion for adjournment and the motion was quickly made . The committee will meet two weeks from to-day at the Hotel Sterling in Trenton to elect a Chairman . Edward E. Grosscup of Gloucester County probably will- succeed Mr. Nugent . Mr. Nugent arrived at the Coleman House a few minutes before the meeting was scheduled to open . He was greeted coldly . With him came a score of political heelers and followers , who took up a belligerent station on the piazza , near the entrance to the meeting room . Newspaper men and spectators had already crowded the meeting room . Nugent had been told that Mr. Craft was proxy for Mr. Davis , but the Chairman refused to recognize him . Nugent insisted he had a letter from Mr. Davis in which the latter declared he had deputized no one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arm and shoved him roughly through the doors , and then the TOOM was cleared of all save the committeemen . Including the Chairman , there were fifteen members present , one more than a quorum . Following the roll call , Dan Fellows Platt of Bergen jumped to his feet and moved that the office of Chairman be declared vacant . " Mr. Nugent has been given every opportunity to square himself , " shouted Mr. Platt , " and he has n't done it . " Before the motion could be seconded : Senator Johnston Cornish was on his feet pleading for harmony and a careful consideration of the motion . Realizing that by evicting Mr. Craft Mr. Nugent had , with the aid of Mr. Gallagher , controlled the quorum , Judge Carrow of Camden moved for the recognition of Mr. Davis 's proxy . Secretary W. K. Devereaux presented a telegram from Mr. Davis authorizing the proxy . Mr. Nugent refused to entertain the motion , and , surrendering the chair to Judge Wills , addressed the committee . " I ask no favors of this committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have referred to was a personal affair and had no political significance whatever . If I had wanted to insult Gov . Wilson , I would have done it to his teeth . I take back nothing . " Mr. Nugent then went on to tell of the committee 's work under his supervision . He claimed the credit for the investigation of the Camden election frauds , which he said had resulted in the reduction of a normal Republican majority of 7,000 to 1,500 . Mr. Nugent 's address was brief , and as he concluded he beckoned to Gallagher . The two then stalked out of the room . As the Chairman was passing through the doors to the piazza , Judge Wills put the motion on the Craft credentials , and Mr. Craft was ordered seated . ? Out on the piazza Nugent was looking for Craft . " Where is that man Craft ? ' he shouted , cursIg- and livid with rage . His lieutenants surrounded him . " Find him ? " shouted the Chairman . Then Nugent spied Mr. Craft in a corner of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Newspaper men interfered . Craft , pale and trembling , rushed toward the committee room doors , and , throwing his weight against them , burst into the meeting . Charles Bell , " Billy " Murphy , and Ambrose Ball of Newark , Nugent followers , followed Craft into the meeting room , and yanking the Camden representative from his chair , dragged and hauled him with knee butts and elbow thrusts out to the porch . During this hubbub Senator George C. Low of Ocean arrived , unknown to the Nugent lieutenants . He passed through the crowd on the porch unchallenged , and entered the meeting room just as the ' Nugent strong-arm men were dragging Craft out . Judge Carrow , seeing Senator Low enter , was quick to realize the advantage , and moved that the office of Chairman he declared vacant . ? Forgetting his insult to the Governor , the fact that Nugent brought his strongarm men here to-day shows . his absolute unfitness to continue in office . " said Judge Carrow hotly . " No gentleman can stand by a Chairman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judgment ; it was deliberate . Nugent came her with his thugs and he called the meeting to order . He has disgraced himself . There must be no postponement on this motion . No respectable Democrat can stand for such disgraceful scenes . " In seconding the motion Judge ' Dungan declared that Nugent 's tactics had removed any consideration the committeemen might have had for the Chairman . Judge Wills put the motion , and the vote was unanimous . On the roll call the following voted to oust Mr. Nugent : Judge Howard Carrow of Camden , Dan Fellows Platt of Bergen , Benijah P. Wills of Burlington , Michael Kearns of Cape May , Mayor George Hampton of Bridgeton . Edward E. Grosscup of Gloucester , William D. Bloom of Huntordon . David S. Crater of Monmouth , ex-Judge Willard W. Cutler of Morris . Judge Nelson Y. Dungan of Somerset , Louis S. Iliffe of Sussex , Brig . Gen. Dennis F. Collins of Union , Senator Johnston Cornish of Warren , and Senator George C. Low of Ocean . Mr. Nugent did not tarry after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hotel at Avon where the insult to Gov . Wilson was delivered . His attitude woe defiant . He was bitter over his - defeat . He declared that he would yet defeat Gov . Wilson . He intimated that Wills , Johnson , and Cor nich , although they voted against him , might yet reconsider their action .. He declared he controls Essex and Hudson-Counties ; that Katzenbach controls Mar-eel*. and the Republicans rule - Union , and Middlesex Counties ; , and that. , without these pivotal counties Mr. Wilson can do nothing .                     