@@680864

txt We suspect that in the accounts which have come from St. Louis of the investigation which the Interstate Commerce Commission is making into the St. Louis &; San Francisco Railroad receivership discounts on securities sold have been confused with commissions alleged to have been paid to bankers and brokers , but the facts regarding the profits which certain officers and Directors of the company made in dealing with their own concern seem to he clouded by no such confusion of figures . The profits are apparently admitted by at least some of those who made them . Possibly restitution has been or may be made , but as the record stands certain Directors of this railroad which has now come upon evil days in effect voted themselves large personal profits out of the treasury of the company whose management was intrust-1 ed to them by the stockholders . These facts brought out in the testimony , so long as they stand undisputed , if indeed they can be disputed , carry their own condemnation . ft may be said that if the managers of the road or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these feeder lines they would never have been built at all . The point might be made that the company would have been better off without some of these feeders , but that would be altogether apart from the main question . Perhaps the Directors personally interested In these sales did not vote at the board meetings which ratified the purchases , but even in that event their influence must have been felt unless the Directors . apart from those who made these profits , were less exposed than most to human frailties . The only safe course is for Directors not to seek any personal profit whatever in trading with their Own company . In no other way can they avoid the suspicion of wrong even if they succeed in avoiding wrong itself . It is incumbent upon them to avoid both . It would be easy in the early days of railroad financing in this country to find many parallels for the sort cot transaction which the Commerce Commission inquiry in the affairs of the Frisco system has brought into clear relief , but will any one care @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disrepute upon our railroad securities abroad and at home ? The management of the Frisco system , so far as it was involved in the transactions which are now under censure , has done a visible and great injury to all the railroad interests of the country . Nobody but a reckless enemy of all corporations would say that the acts disclosed in this case are typical of railroad management generally . But that is the very point . The railroad corporations have enemies , and some of them are reckless . Many politicians thrive or hope to thrive by assailing the railroads , hoping in that way to win popular applause and following . The Directors and officers of this one railroad corporation by their dealings now laid bare , in which they stood upon both sides of the transaction , have played directly into the hands of the demagogic assailants of corporations . They have added very largely to their stuck in trade , and at a time when , as every reasonable man knows , railroad managers as a whole are most desirous of winning and holding the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and by faithful compliance with law . The disclosure of these censurable transactions comes , too . at a moment when the railroads of the Eastern territory are called upon to defend before the interstate Commerce Commission their proposed increase in freight rates . To say that the revelations are untimely and unfortunate does not meet the needs of the case . There should have been no revelations , because there ought to have been no trans- gressions of this nature . The farmers of the West and of the South , too , have been told that they should cooperate with the railroads , that they should give them their confidence , and should stay the hands of their political assailants . But how can the farmers be expected to give their confidence to the railroads in the face of this evidence that a railroad system has been exploited for private gain ? The effect upon Investors . especially foreign investors , to whom the railroad corporations must for years make large appeals in the effort to market their securities , will of course be most damaging . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official representatiPes of the public , but from the chief men of the honestly managed railroads that the sternest censure of these practices should come                     