@@681588

txt WIth the reoccupation of Steinbach , which ws lost on the eve of the general advance started on Dec. 17 , I am able to record satisfactory progress on the Alsatian frontier since I visited it two months ago . Both sides laid great stress on the possession of the town for sentimental as well as strategic reasons . With this village in their hands , Thann , where the French have set up their first judicial tribunal in " New France , " was practically safe from bombardment . With it in the hands of the Germans the French might be made to look ridiculous by setting up an administrative Government in an ineffectively occupied ? area . The battle for its recovery has been one of the most desperate in the war . Although the column operating from Thann was intrusted with the task of recapture , two other columns , advancing respectively on Burnhaupt and Altklrch , have materially assisted the enterprise , if only by keeping the Germans employed over a wide area . It was Christmas Eve when the real offensive began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the next day , Most of the civilian inhabitants had a very sorry Christmas . They were ordered to leave their homes , and were shepherded in thousands by the Germans in the direction a Millhausen. r The - French also cleared as many- nee " - combatants as possible oat of the threatened regions . It would be difficult to imagine a more horrifying experience than that which befit a German woman who left Pietterhausen on Christmas morning . She had been allowed to remain there . during the French occupation to manage her absent husband 's business , and was told on Christmas morning that . as there might be some firing , and the town might be hit . she would do well to spend the day in the country . Having relatives over the frontier , she decided to pay them a Stir:Wise visit . Hardly had she quitted Prietterhausen when the boom of cannon announced that the battle had begun . The French batteries there were engaging tile Germans at Moos and Moornach , to divert their attention from the mare serious work in the neighborhood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tracks toward the frontier when , without the slightest warning  --  she says she did not hear a rifle shot  --  she found herself the involuntary witness of a ruthless bayonet fight She had walked straight out of a wood right into it . In her fright she did not notice which side had been driven from the trench , and was being bayonetted in the open field : but she will never forget the sound of the clashing of steel and the cries of the men as they fell . Beyond those impressions she has no recollection except that of standing still , helpless , watching these groups of men butchering one another . In the week following Christmas the most notable apparent progress was made by the column advancing toward Altkireh , where the French artillery obtained a footing on the heights COManding the railway approaches and bombarded a supply train standing in the station . The French have also succeeded in destroying a stretch of railway tracks . The centre in front of Barnhaupt , was inactive , but by steady pressure the column operating to the north @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only tile recapture of Steinbach. but the serious menacing of the town of Cernay . The fate of tile Germans in Steinbach was sealed by a brilliant feat of arms performed by the French on the night of Dec. 29 . So long as the heights of Herrenhobe remained in the hands of the enemy , to ocupy Steinbach would be only inviting disaster . It was determined . therefore , to clear thest , The River Thur runs between the village and the coveted position . In the dead of night the army marched out from Thann and the engineers threw a bridge across the river ; but the watchful Germans , although they lay low for the time being , were perfectly well aware of what was going on . Suddenly their searchlights flashed over the scene , and a well posted battery of " seventysevens - shot away the bridge in a twinkling . Then the Germans began to pepper the French troops with sbapnel. compelling them to retreat ; but though the bridge was floating down stream the rope that the engineers had got across the river @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it to get to the other side and reconnoiter the enemy 's position . The scouts were fortunate in making two German stragglers prisoners . These were brought back and said that the heights were only lightly held by infantry . with the support of a battery of artillery , but that Steinbach itself was full of Landsturm troops . The column moved back to Thann , rePulsed by the Germans ' vililance , but Still determined to get a foothold on the other bank of the Thur . A second attempt was made ? about four miles from the spot where the first bridge had been destroyed . It was successful . The column was safely across when , 10 and behold ! that indefatigable German battery opened fire at 2,000 yards ; the second bridge was shattered to fragments and the soldiers who had been left to guard it were killed to man . Here was the column stranded with its retreat cut off . In vain did a French battery of " seventy-fives " come into action ; the Germans were already on the tortuous path through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French troops reach the heights before those busy German guns came into action at a spot that would render them untenable ? It was decided to make the effort . Part of the French battery was told off to hurry to a point from which it might worry , if not intercept , the German battery . It succeeded in accomplishing the latter feat , catching the enemy 's guns in the open and mowing down artillerymen and horses . Nothing now could stop the infantry advance , though it was met by stubborn resistance in the wood . The " Piou-pious " dashed over the earthworks , forced a way across the trenches , and were rewarded by gaining a position which meant the recapture of Steinbach . The following afternoon it was officially announced in Paris that the French troops had entered Steinbach and had retaken half the village , house by house , but it was not until four days later , as the result of - desperate hand-to-hand fighting . that the last German was driven out of the village and the enemy fell back on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terribly fierce was the ceaseless battle that raged in Steinbach during these long days and nights , Houses were captured and recaptured time after time . and I have heard of Cases where holes were knocked through the walls of contiguous buildings so that the defenders could pass from one house to another and make regular forts of blocks of houses . The losses on both sides in the village itself were very severe , though scarcely more heavy than those that have resulted from the counter-attacks on the dominating position acquired in the vicinity of Steinbach . For the last few days rain . snow , and mist have hampered operations except those of such a character as have been in progress at Steinbach. where the hostile forces were within a bayonet 's length of each other .                     