@@678875

txt The Republican Senate caucus , called to elect a successor to Senator Jotham P. Allds of Chenango as President pro tern . and majority leader of the upper house , was deadlocked at an early hour this morning , Forty-five ballots had been taken up to 1 o'clock . On these George H. Cobb of refferson , candidate of the bosses , had fourteen of the thirty-three votes each time , while Harvey D. Hinman of Broome , who has the support of United States Senator Root and Gov . Hughes , and Senator George A. C. - Davis of Erie divided the others almost evenly . A recess was declared at 1:15 A. It to aloes the three candidates to confer . - Several motions to adjourn have been Put , the last one being defeated by a vote of 19 to 13. g Senator Cobb had refrained from- voting on any of the ballots taken up to one o'clock . It was said also that Senator George H. Witter of Genesee had pledged himself to the Cobb adherents in case it should be shown that Cobb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work trying to win over Senator James P. of Niagara , but he was receiving frantic telephone messages from his leader , John A. Merritt of Lockport , Collector of the Port , and as a . Federal office holder presumably in favor of the Administration policy . With won over , Cobb would carry the caucus , 17 votes being required ? for the purpoile. - State Leaders Get Bulletins . , Seldom has a caucus held at night . attracted such a. crowd to the Capitol . Nearly every leader of any consequence in the State had some representative present , and these kept up a constant bulletin service by telephone and telegraph . The caucus met about 9 o'clock . The , first ballot taken was on the question " of adjourning without choosing a successor ' to Senator Allds . The motion . was . ' Made by Senator Brackett , and was defeatedlii : - a vote of II to 16. - 77.  - -  Then an informal ballot was . taken , . - which gave 14 votes-Ifor Cobh. who ' .  - -  reframed from voting : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ succeeding bal. - lots the Cobb vote remained stationary , while the votes for the two other candidates fluctuated . Hinman at one time received as many as 11 votes , to 7 for Davis . Repeated efforts were made by the Hinman men to swing the Davis forces into line , but they were futile . The line broke at every new effort , and the best the Hinman men could do was to keep the caucus deadlocked . Senator James P. of Niagara placed Senator Davis in nomination . Senator Cobb was nominated by Senator Alexander IBrough of New York , while Senator victor M. Allen of Rensselaer became sponsor for Senator Hinman . About midnight Senator Charles J. Hewitt of Cayuga , one of the Hinman Senators , was compelled by illness to leave the caucus . He left his proxy with Senator James W. Griffith , successor of the late Senator Raines , with the understanding that if there was a break in the deadlock both votes should be cast for Cobb . The caucus followed a day of great acttivity on behalf of the various candidates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far into the evening the wires were kept hot with messages to the Republican Senators . In the ' lobbies the members of the Upper House gathered in excited groups and discussed the situation . Most active were the supporters of Senator Cobb . They pulled every wire to bring votes to their candidate . Finally , as the forenoon session of the Allds investigation gave them an hour 's respite , the men who were pledged to the man from Jefferson held a conference , at which they bound themselves to insist that a successor to Senator Ands be elected at the night 's caucus , and that there be no further delay . They had heard that the followers of Senator Hinman were to enter the caucus with the purpose of fighting for further delay . The men who attended this conference and bound themselves to abide by the decision reached were Messrs . Alt , Brough , Burlingame , Coats , Cobb , Emerson , Gledhill , Grattan . Heacoek , Holden , Kissel ' , Mead , Platt , Schlosser , Wainwright . White , and Witter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said to have announced that he would not commit himself to Senator Cobb or any other candidate in advance . Hughes Comes Out for Root . Gov . Hughes , however , decided to make his position plain , and late in the afternoon he issued a statement from the Executive Chamber indorsing the . action of Senator Root , saying : I des:re no misunderstanding of my position . This is a critical time for the Republican Party in this State . The question is more important than one of personalities . The situation . has developed beyond that . The people know the course of events during the past three years ; they know what have been the alms and purposes of this Administration , and they knew the antagonisms . that have existed and still exist . The question now Is : " What does the Republican Party stand for in this State ? " I have no personal interest at stake , but I sincerely trust that the representatives of the party in any action that is taken win appreciate the heavy responsibility that rests upon them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the wishes of the Republican voters and show , without ' leaving room for misconstruction or conjecture , that they propose to respond to the fair demands of the people . I am glad that Senator Root , after careful reflection and inquiry , has sent his telegram givin. - his advice : and I entirely agree with him . His advice . disinterested , Publicly given . and wholly in the Interest of the party , should be heartily welcomed . Thu representatives of the party , if they desire , - can show unmistakably that they propose . to be just and thorough-going , and to meet squarely the issues that are now before the people . If they do this there is no need for anxiety as to the future . This came like a new bomshell , and many of the Senators from up State went about with grave faces when they.learned of the unequivocal terms . in which it was couched . The influence of the Governor in the rural sections of the State is far too potent to be trifled with by men who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this Fall . - Chairman Woodruff was said to be still at the capital , ' despite the announcement the night before that he ? had left for New York . if so he did not show himself in any of the places wherelegislators and politicians gatnered . It was said that he remained in seclusion at the home of William Barnes . Jr . Washington was heard from by long distance telephone and by telegraph . It was evident that the leaders there followed with the closest interest the developments of the day . Messages came from Congressmen , to their Senators mostly . - but Vice President Sherman also was active all day . He sent messages to leaders in various sections of the State as the spokesman of Senator Root , and as a result messages came over hot wires to the capital . Mr. Sherman ' is said to have urged George W. Aldridge of Rochester to get his two men in line for Hinman without result . Mr. Aldrich- was a candidate for Sur-1 veyor of the Port of New York , and is said to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go to him . It has not , and as a result Mr. Sherman , according to report . met with a blunt rebuff from the Monroe leader . When the Senators went into caucus about 3 o'clock in the evening the followers of Cobb fortunes claimed 16 votes , with : -3 men in the caucus . Thus there was one less than the required majority . The followers of Senator Davis of Erie had decided that lie must remain in the field as a candidate , though he expressed a preference for withdrawing . The Hinman-Davis forces claimed these 13 Senators : Hamilton . Davis . Travis , Agnew , Allen , Newcomb , Rose . Cordts , Hill , Brackett , Hewitt . Griffith , Hinman , with Hubbs and doubtful . William Barnes , Jr. , the Albany leader , said during the day : The selection of Senator Hinman at this time , after lie bolted the Republican caucus in January , would be an unheard of-and-regrettable thing . It can hardly lie conceived that the Republican members of the Senate would choose for their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violated the first principle of leadership and party solidarity . There is no question involved in this matter of support of President Taft or of Senator Root as leader , or of Gov . Hughes 's attitude toward public affairs , or of the most of his recommendations . Cobb Issues a . Protest . Senator Cobb issued a formal statement as follows : I was induced by friends in the Senate to declare ray candidacy for the Presidency pro tem. as soon as Senator Allds 's resignation was received . No outside influences have operated to induce this action on my part , or es far as . I know have really influenced the action of any particular-Senator who now supports me . Down to Tuesday night Senator Davis and I were the only two candidates for the position , and in that conference there was a majority of Senators who favored my election . After the : receipt of Senator Root 's telegram it ' was ' deemed wiser to adjozrn the conference until to-night , the vote of sohne of many ' ends determining the action . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions entined me to the confidence of my associates in the Senate and strould be sufficient evidence to the I people of the State that my efforts would be to lead the majority along progressive ' lines and in accordance with the beet ! sentiment of the State . I have the highest regard for Senator Root ! - au a great statesman and one of those whose views on all political questions is entitled to the gravest consideration . and believe I am entirely in accord with - what Senator Root , iesires to ao , ? otrrnlish in the way of elevating the tone of legislative and poiltical life . question , however . the propriety of his making what amounts to nominations for these offices . Conscious as I am of the sentiments of the State toward legislation and what should be the policy of the party , I feel that as far as my desires are concerned . I am as competent to lead along corre  --  t lines as Is Senator Hinman. and that I shall be able " under . ; existing circumstances . " to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State In the true light . " and to ' correctly exhibit the real relation of the party as a whole to the principles and policies for which Goy . Hughes stande .. - It is my intention , if elected . to the best of nay endeavor to lead the majority of the Senate along these lines . Senator Brackett , who recently went over the New York State political situation with President Taft and Senator Root at Washington . said : The cry of outside interference here comes with very poor grace . It seems to make a great difference with some men whether such interference comes from a selfish . shallow-pate. who for years has tolerated conditions that have existed or from a man like Senator Root . It is time such hypocrisy is recognized .                     