@@680681

txt The right of the Frawley Committee to investigate the Sulzer campaign fund is upheld in an opinion rendered by Attorney General Carmody and made public here to-day . In another opinion the Attorney General holds that the extraordinary session of the Legislature is not as Gov . Sulzer contends , a thing of the past . The opinions were rendered by the Attorney General in response to a series of questions submitted by Gov . Sulzer on the day the Attorney General started on his honeymoon . Mr. Carmody spent some days , with one of his deputies , working on the opinion at the Adirondack camp where he was with his bride . The two opinions were brought to the capital by a messenger this morning and were - filed in the Executive Chamber before being made public . The Attorney General holds that the extraordinary session of the Legislature had a legal right to vest the Frawley Committee with the supplementary powers under which that body is now investigating the Sulzer campaign fund . The opinion also sustains the contention of the legislative leaders that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no quorum was present in either house when that action was taken . ' Under the opinion a witness who fails to answer pertinent and legal questions propounded by the Frawley Committee may - be committed to jail for contempt by any Judge of record . In all these matters the opinion of the Attorney General runs counter to the views expressed by Gov . Sulzer and by Louis Marshall . the New York lawyer . Mr. Carmody cites as a precedent for his opinion relating to the power to compel witnesses to testify the Court of Appeals decision in the ! lcton begun against Republican State Chairman William Barnes , Jr. , on behalf of the Bayne Committee , which " Les:owed " Albany . Questions Must be Germane . The Attorney General 's opinion . however . makes one point in which there may be a crumb of comfort for the Governor . It is pointed out that the Court of Appeals in the Barnes case held that the questions asked Mr. Barnes were not germane to the investiga political bailiwick . These quatiOna  --  had reference to the bank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the books of that concern , which he declined to produce before the Bayne committee . This decision may leave an opening for the friends of Gov . Sulzer to contest the right of the Frawley committee to probe into the various bank accounts in which , it is alleged , campaign contributions not accounted for in Mr. Sulzer 's sworn statement to the Secretary of State where deposited . It may also have an important bearing on whether Louis A. Sarecky , Mr. Sulzer 's former confidential clerk , who had much to do with the administration of the Sulzer campaign fund , was within his right when he refused to answer questions relating to receipts and expenditures in connection with the Sulzer campaign at the hearing of the committee last Friday . In his opinion Attorney General Carmody pointedly declares that it would be an unfortunate thing for the State And a blow at honest administration should the courts countenance any- attempt to block , on purely technical grounds , such an inquiry as that in which the Frawley committee is en-gaged The two opinions are voluminous . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 10,00o words . An abstract was made public at the Attorney General 's office , giving the salient features . In this . after summarizing the questions put to him by the Governor . the Attorney General reviewed the purposes for which the extraordinary session of the Legislature was called . and the bills introduced to fulfill those purposes , and con-tinued : Broad Inquiry Proper .. I consider that it was well within the power of the Legislature at the extraordinary session in order to act intelligently upon legislation so stringent in its nature , to make a careful examination into the ' orking of the present election law , all the safeguards of which were proposed to be extended to primary elections , among which . safeguards was the requirement that candidates should file statements under oath of their campaign expenses . it had power . in rorard to investigations as to the proper amount to be expended for campaign purposes , to determine how the present law In that regard applicable to elections was working out and as to what methods had been taken , if any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether such violation. if existing , had become so serious that the grade of the crime should be Increased from mislemeanor to that of felony , as suggested by the Governor The Legislature and its committee might very properly consider that the light of experience would be a substantial aid In determining the propriety of the additional legislation and the form such legislation should take if determined upon . The scope of inquiry , so long as it continues germane to this subject , is largely within the discretion of the committee , and the motives of Its members . whether proper or improper . can in no degree limit or in any manner affect its powers . I am , therefore , of the opinion that the activities of the Investigating Committee under consideration in its efforts to obtain the facts as to the working of the present laws , are entirely within its legal Province when it had been recommended by the Governor that the Legislature , from which it derived its powers . extend the provision of that law to primary elections and increase the penalties for violations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act unadvisedly or hurriedly upon questions submitted . The inveiJigatIon , therefore . undertaken by the committee , which should be welcomed by every right thinking citizen anxious for the purity of the ballot and its protection from excessive use of money . is , In my opinion , within its legal powers . There can be no proper objection to the committee , or its counsel , requesting preliminary Information as to matters concernMg which testimony is proposed to be taken . Power of Adjournment . Taking up the Governor 's contention that the extraordinary session of the Legislature adjourned sine die on July 2a . Mr. Carmody refers to the variety of subjects recommended to the special session by the Governor . Including seventeen nominations , many of which were for important positions in the State service . " The adjournment of the Legislature , " said Mr. Carmody , " was stated in the resolution to be for the purpose of permitting the investigating committee to have further time to pursue its labors . In view of the importance e the question involved , the adjournment to permit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ AGAINST SULZF , R // legislationreferred to them would not appear to be unreasonable . " I have considered that in an extraordinary session the houses of the Legislature have power to adjourn to a day certain , and that such action is not a procedure which requires the assent or recommendation of the Executive . In case such adjournment is for more than two days , the concurrent action of both houses is necessary . That legislation of this importance should receive further consideration is wholly within the Province of the Legislature to deter .. mine , and , as much-of the work is done in committee , it is necessary to save the expense of daily sessions by the entire bodies , which during consideration by the committees must necessarily be largely in a state of inactivity . " Mr. Carmody then refers to the socalled Panchor case in 1572 , when the Court of Appeals held that the extraordinary session of the Legislature was not in session , and that therefore the Governor might appoint to the office or . Justice of the Supreme Court without its concurrence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for which it was called in special session to consider , and had taken a recess of two months and ten days . for the purpose of preventing the Governor from making the judicial appointment without the consent of the Senate . " There was , however , " says Mr. Carmody , in discussing the opinion of the Court of Appeals in this case , " no suggestion made that the Senate would not have the power to reconvene at the expiration of the specified time , and , in fact , such power to reconvene was expressly recognized by the court . " Must Take Journals for Quorum . In discussing the question raised by the Governor that less than a quorum of both houses was present - when the Legislature ordered its recess , Mr. Carmody points out that the official icurnals of the respective houses show a quorum was present and voted . No question as to the absence of a quorum was raised , the Attorney General says , and therefore he holds that the journals are conclusive evidence . " There can be no better established @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than that the journals of a Legislature are conclusive evidence of their contents . These journals are required by the Constitution to be kept . It would be Intolerable to permit the validity of all legislative action to depend upon a decision of a controverted question of fact as to whether or not a certain number of legislators were present . lie journal must stand as a. statement of the facts therein stated until corrected by the . body itself . This well-recognized principle of law wooau ... bweed Lo - by-  the Governor when , although ' Wag , advtaat that the journals were ' Incorrect ter:an extent which would have invalidated the passage of laws at the session in Question if the Journals could be contradicted by extrinsic evidence . he signed three of the laws then passed . which became respectively Chapters 79e , 797 , and 71 ) 8 of the laws of 1913 . " The Attorney General cites a number of decisions to support his contention , opinions rendered by the United States Supreme Court and by the courts of at least seventeen States . Neither @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was at the Capitol to-day . It is thought that , with the opinion of the Attorney General sustaining the committee , the arrest of Louis A. Sarecky for contempt will be asked when the committee meets in New York next Wednesday . It is not considered likely that the opinion will change the Governor 's course . It is said that Mr. Sulzer is determined to have the courts pass upon the question of the committee 's legal right to investigate his personal conduct prior to taking office . It is. however , thought that Mr. Sarecky maybe requested by the Governor to explain certain motives in connection with his administration of the campaign fund . " There is absolutely nothing in these charges that there was something wrong in connection with the administration of the campaign fund or with the return that was made to the Secretary of State , " said Mr. Sarecky to TIM Nnw YORK TIMES correspondent to-day . " I would have explained everything before the committee if I had been permitted to have counsel present , unless , of course , he had directed @ @ @ @ @ @ 