@@684344

txt About 21,000,000 persons had an opportunity to take part in the general election , which for the first time in British history , practically gives every adult male the vote , admits every ; woman over 30 to the franchise , makes each vote of equal value , gives no elector more than one vote in any one constituency , and no more than two in any case , restricts election expenses to the amount paid by the State , and will return members of Parliament paid feor ? their serYieeS . The Women'a eagerness to vote Was the most striking feature of the polling day , which meteorologically has been of the vilest description . During the forenoon ' in ' many London constituencies the women voters outnumbered the men ten to one . Reports from Ireland say the Sinn Fein is believed to have swept the country . In Ireland also the keenness of the women voters was noteworthy . What proportion of the electorate voted today will not be known definitely till after Christmas , as the votes will not be counted for two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soldier vote abroad . Lloyd George yesterday said the very calmness and lack of interest of the election was a sign that there was no party that stood for turning out the Government . A Vote of Confidence . The sweeping reforms in the electoral system which marked the present election were carried out by the Coalition Government , headed by Lloyd George and Bonar Law , which calls for the expression of the people 's confidence in its ability to obtain a . good peace and tackle the problems of reconstruction after the war . To these two main planks in the Lloyd George program have been added other points of detail , such . as punishment for those responsible for enemy atrocities , the fullest indemnities from Germany , and Britain for the British , socially and industrially . There are other election cries , such as " A Happier Country for All , " but these are common to all parties . " Politicians say they want to make a new England , " THE NEw - TOM TIMES correspondent beard a war-battered soldier say in a bus yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? " On.e hundred and seven members of the new Parliament were nominated without opposition and 699 seats . were contested today by 1,497 candidates . That the Lloyd George-Law Coalition will win is regarded as certain . It is also certain that the Coalition will be faced by an Opposition , about whose strength predictions are divergent , but about whose bitter hostility there can be little doubt- .... Denounced Labor Extremists . Friday 's developments were sensational . Lloyd George at a meeting in the Old Kent Road , made famous by a vaudeville song , denounced the present Labor Party as being in the hands of the extreme group of pacifists and Bolshevists . The so-called Labor Party , he said , represents only a section of labor , and until labor , by which he meant every man and woman who by work of brains , nerves , or muscle contributes to the prosperity of the country , is strong enough to overthrow the domination of the pacifist-Bolshevist clique it would not be safe to intrust the destinies c .. the empire to their charge . Lloyd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denying their claim to represent Liberalism . The Chairman of the meeting described Lloyd George as " a real spark of radium , " and the audience gave the Premier a rousing reception . Reporters who have attended meetings throughout the country agree that the only evidences of popular interest in ? the election have been shown at the Lloyd George gatherings , first , and at the labor reunionnext . The Asquithian Liberal candidates , as a rule , have been having a cool reception . Deep and sincere as is the esteem of most Liberals for their old leader , there is a widespread belief that Asquith has " deserved well of his country , " a phrase often applied to those whose work is done , and that a new man is necessary . That Lloyd George gave the Labor Party the greatest attention in his Old Kent Road speech is a significant indication that it is from that quarter that pe apprehends the most serious opposition . In fact , all signs of the times point to a battle royal between the Coalition Government and the Labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the contest . The Premier 's jibes at the labor leaders as pacifists and Bolshevists are regarded in some quarters as clever electioneering . Arthur Henderson , in reply , declares that ' the Labor Party sought as earnestly as Lloyd George did for the triumph of democraticprinciples and that it was the Labor Party alone which made Possible the formation of the Lloyd George Government . The Georgian chickens say that the Labor men will come home to roost speedily . The Labor Party , they add , is the only one which has a settled program for the Peace Conference . Some of the Premier 's strongest partisans express doubts as to the wisdom of his Old Kent Road outburst against the Labor leaders and consider it en impulsive . counterpart to his famous Limehouse denunciation of Dukes . Reform of House of Lords . LONDON , Dec. 14 , ( Associated Press . ) ? The general election today proved to be one of the quietest Great Britain had witnessed in years . There was no great domestic issue before the electors , as was the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exception of the small pacifist group , the campaign appeared to indicate that there was no sharp division of opinion as to the country 's attitude toward the Peace Conference . Much interest attached to the vote which the women would cast in this , the first general election in which they have had an opportunity to participate . In some districts , particularly those inhabited by the working class , the women were at the polls before the men , and in larger numbers . In one district in the East End of London there were ten women voters to every man . The rain , however , kept the women from the polls during the morning in the more aristocratic sections . Polling in the greater part of Ireland passed quietly , except for minor collisions between Sinn Feiners and Nationalists . A close analysis of the voting shows that the Nationalists have been hopelessly beaten by the Sinn Fein , even in places supposed to be Nationalist strongholds . Reform of the House of Lords will he one of the tasks undertaken by the Coalition Ministry if returned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Exchequer , declared in a speech at Glasgow yesterday . He . said the Coalition Government believed that a second chamber with adequate strength was necessary in any democratic country , but it was not intended that it should be a hereditary chamber . The Government , the Chancellor continued , intended to give the new upper house the strength that could alone come from direct contact with the people . The Chancellor reiterated his statement that the Government would see that the empire 's naval safety was not imperilled at the Peace Conference . H was not afraid of Bolshevism in the United Kingdom . Walter Hume Long , Secretary for the Colonies , in a speech at Holloway , said he would advise the Government to prohibit the sale of liquor in the ' United Kingdom , although it would mean the loss of millions of pounds in revenue . Premier Lloyd George wound - up his speehmaking campaign at Camberwell by attacking the name " Labor Party " because it did not represent all the labor of the United Kingdom . The party , he said , represented only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declared , would very largely be cast for the Government . The Labor Party , the Premier continued , was not being run by real laboring men , but by pacifists and pure and simple Bolshevists . It would not be safe to trust the destinies of a great empire to the Labor Party until it was able to overthrow this clique . The Premier 's challenge to the Labor Party ' was taken up promptly by the Laborites , John R. Clynes , former Food Minister , speaking at Nottingham , declared that the Labor Party was the same party which had decided two years ago to support Mr. Lloyd George . The only difference was that it was larger . He admitted that it was true in some cases that some members of the party took extreme views , which , however , he did not share . The extremists , he said , had only local influence . Arthur Henderson , the Labor leader ; declared in an interview that nobody knew better than Premier Lloyd George that the Labor Party , in conjunction with the Trades Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There was no evidence , he said , in proof of the Premier 's assertion that the Labor Party was Bolshevist . On the contrary , Mr. Henderson said , he could produce ample evidence that the Labor Party sought as earnestly as he for the triumph of democratic principles . John , the Russian Bolshevist Consul in Glasgow , who was ' imprisoned at Edinburgh last Spring for speeches hindering recruiting , made his first election campaign appearance in Glasgow yesterday , and in en impassioned speech claimed to be the standard bearer of his class in the " great fight against capitalism . " Ex-Premier Asquith addressed eight meetings in East Fife and was heckled at all of them . He received vote of confidence , however , at all places , except Ladybank , where the votes were equal .                     