@@681012

txt A Committee to Do So . WASHINGTON , Feb. ** Chamber of Commerce of the United States has appointed a special committee to consider the bill for the formation of an Interstate Trade Commission and the proposed statutes to supplement the Sherman Anti-Trust act . The committee will convene here on Tuesday . The National Chamber has had e. standing committee which has been studying the problem for some months . The special committee is expected to crystallize this work and will prepare a. report of the views of the business organizations in the country , some 520 in number , embraced In the membership of the Chamber . Tie Chamber has also provided for the appointment of a committee to consider legislation permitting the maintenance of resale prices , and this committee will be announced within a few days . NEW YORK 'S 300TH YEAR . Celebration Arranged Will Extend Over Several Months . A committee headed by Cornelius Vanderbilt announced yesterday its plans for the celebration this year of the three hundredth anniversary of New York as a port of commerce . The celebration will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the granting of the first general charter for regular commerce with what is now New York by the United Netherlands . In April and May the celebration will be confined to exercises in the public schools and other institutions of learning . The committee hopes to establish scholarships by which pupils may be exchanged between American and European schools of business . In June , July , and August the committee plans to hold exhibitions of the material resources of the various States of the union . There will also be parades and pageants in the latter part of September . The committee is arranging to have the celebration extended to the other cities and larger towns of the State . Herman Ridder is First Vice President of the committee , which Includes more than 100 prominent citizens , and Edward R. Hall is its Secretary . 11,523 SEE MORGAN ART . Metropolitan Kept Open an Hour Later Than Usual for Great Throng . The opening of the exhibition of the J Pierpont Morgan Art Collection in the new wing of the Metropolitan Museum of Art last Wednesday , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some 11,523 persons were present yesterday . The museum was opened as usual on Sundays at 1 o'clock , but when it became apparent that the number of visitors was likely to double that of the preceding Sunday , arrangements were made to hold the museum open an hour later , or until 7 o'clock . The number of visitors at the museum on Sunday , Feb. 15 , was 6,256 . On Saturday the museum was opened at 10 o'crock in the morning , and . closed at 10 o'clock In the evening . The attendance was 5,400 . According to the record of the museum , only 40 visitors were registered after 6 o'clock on that day . To-day the museum will be open from 10 o'clock in the morning to 6 o'clock in the evening . WOMAN SUFFRAGE FETE . It Will Be Held in the 71st Regiment Armory in March . A great " Cosmopolitan Fete , " with all kinds of fun , entertainments and dancing will be held under the auspices of the Woman Suffrage Party in the Seventy-first Regiment Armory , Park Avenue and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from March 25 to 28 , inclusive . All nations are to be represented and a cosmopolitan village will inclose the dancing floor in the centre of the hall . There will be a free entertainment each day . On the 25th the Seventy-first Regiment , will give a military show , and there will be a dancing , a musical and a vaudeville day . A theatre with moving pictures and a theatrical performance will be running afternoon and evening . There will be a tea room where luncheon and dinner can be had . DR . R. P. FALKNER 'S NEW JOB To Head National Survey of Social and industrial Progress . Dr. Roland P. Falkner , who was Assistant Director of the 1910 census , it was announced yesterday , has been made Director of the National Survey of Social and Industrial Progress , under the auspices of the National Civic Federation . An attempt will ' be made to learn whether recent social and industrial changes have worked for or against the welfare of the people . The official announcement of the completion of the Organization to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Upon the answer to this vital question must depend the trend and form of our future public policies . " Dr. Falkner conducted , as statistician , the investigation of prices made by the Congressional Committee on Finance in 182L ACCIDENT ON THE CHAPIN . Quartermaster Knocked Unconscious When Steering Gear Breaks . As the ? steamship Chester W. Chapin of the New London Line was passing through Hell Gate on her way to her Pier , at the foot of Houston Street , North River , yesterday morning , a section of her steering gear snapped and caused the wheel to spin around with great force . One of the spokes hit Quartermaster William Hogan , knocking him to the deck unconscious . Hogan was not injured seriously and had recovered by the time the steamer arrivbd at her pier . The damage to the steering gear was sligh : . , and wag rePaired  --  candng up the river .                     