@@680257

txt Security Markets Inclined to Discount Tariff Revision and European ** Business is moving in large volume despite tariff uncertainties . Protected industries are getting ready to weather any possible storm , but sentiment is generally hopeful . In the security markets , however , pessimism is at times evidenced and pains are taken to discount any possible future adverse industrial developments far in advance . There is perhaps no brighter spot in business than the steel industry . It is estimated that the unfilled orders of the Steel Corporation for November will show an increase over the tremendous tonnage of 7,594,381 tons registered on October 31 . Earnings of the Republic Iron &; Steel Co. are running larger than at any time since the improvement in the steel industry began . It is a significant fact that representatives of six large steel companies when asked for their opinion as to calling of an extra session of Congress to act on the tariff were of one opinion , that thesooner a readjustment was brought about the better it would be for commerce and industry in general . Textile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mills of New England are booked on the average three months ahead and coarse goods and yarn mills particularly , are making good profits . The shoe industry , likewise , is enjoying unusually good business , and while prices of leather are at record figures , consumption is apparently unchecked . A favorable feature in the business and industrial outlook is the fact that money rates have probably reached their highest peak . The engagement of gold imports from London seems to give reasonable assurance of this . Gold imports are of course the natural outcome of our heavy exports to Europe . The crop movement is at its height and before long the money which has financed it should begin to return to the financial centers . It will take more than tariff revision , provided it is undertaken with moderation . to nullify the effect of record harvests .                     