@@679995

txt With one exception . The Daily Socialist , this city was without newspaper to-day until late in the afternoon . Business men fretted as the time passed for the issuance of the regular editions of the afternoon papers containing market reports as well as the general news of the-I:lay , and finally Dad to resort to the ticker as the sole source of information as to what was going on in the outside world . The public stormed the news stands , only to be informed that no newspapers were on sale because of a strike of pressmen affecting every newspaper office in Chicago printing papers in the English language . Each of the morning papers decided to get out one edition to-morrow , which will be jointly delivered in the city . A conflict between the Chicago newspaper Web Pressmen 's Union No. 7 and the Chicago local of the American Newspaper Publishers ' Association , which includes in its membership the four morning and four afternoon papers printed in Chicago , precipitated the trouble which rendered the city newspaperless . The trouble between the newspapers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In fact , it is said , that the Chicago publishers a year ago engaged Henry N. Cary , formerly of New York and recently of St. Louis , to take charge of their association with the possibility in view of a conflict with labor employed in the newspaper offices of Chicago . For years the Chicago newspaper proprietors declare they have been victimized by the newspaper trade unions in the matter not alone of the quality but also of the quantity of labor which should be employed In each office , to say nothing of the question of wages . Not a Question of Wages . In the present dispute there is no question of wages . The whole fight rests on the question as to whether the Pressmen 's Union shall dictate to the publisher the number of men to be employed on each press in excess of the number called for by an agreement existing hitherto between the publishers and the union . The matter Is fully explained in a statement to-us.y by toe .... hicago Local of the American Newspaper Publishers ' Astociation and which reads as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the management of The Chicago Examiner and The Chicago American posted in its press rooms the announcement that the contract between those papers and Chicago NewspaperWeb Pressmen 's Union No. 7 , having expired , the ms.nagem ? nt elected to come under the provisions of the contract between the Chicago local of the American Newspaper Publishers ' Association of which The Chicago Examiner and The Chicago American are members , and the pressmen 's union , and would assume all the obligations and exercise all tht rights of other members of the Chicago local under the contract , adding that the management would refer to arbitration , as provided in the contract , any differences that might arise . After the announcement had been read , the men , acting under the order of the President of the union , resumed work without protest , and thus acknowledged their acceptance of the contract . On May 1 the management announced that it would exercise its right under the contract to determine the number of men employed on each press , and ordered each press to be manned with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local employ on presses of similar size and product . The members of the union refused to work under this order . The management then offered to permit the men thus proposed to be laid off to report as usual for work daily , but not to work on the presses , and to submit the question at issue to arbitration , and In the event of a decision sustaining the position of the union to pay these men full wages from the time they were laid off up to the date of the decision of the arbitrator . The members of the union refused to work under this offer . The management then notified the men that their continued refusal to work would constitute a strike , and that in so striking the union would be breaking the contract between the Publishers ' Association and the union . The members of the union continued to refuse to work and walked out of the office . Under the circumstance the Chicago local of the American Newspaper Publishers ' Assocla-len now declares the contract between it and Chicago Newspaper Web Pressmen 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The pressrooms of all the members of the Chicago local of the American Newspaper Publishers ' Association will therefore hereafter be continued without recognition of the jurisdiction of Chicago Newspar : tr Web Pressmen 's Union No. 7 . It is the purpose not to disturb the working conditions and wages of the fromer contract , and to this end the continued cooperation of all employes without discrimination is invited . By order of the Chicago local of the American Newspaper Publishers ' Association . VICTOR F. LAWSON . President . . HENRY N. CARY . Secretary . Later in the day the Publishers ' Association made this addition to its statement : It should be noted that this strike was called by the officials of the Pressmen 's Union in one of the morning newspapers last night and in all of the evening newspapers to-day in suite of the offer of the publishers to arbitrate the claim of the union in accordance with the contract heretofore existing between the union and the Publishers ' Association and now broken by the union . In a conference held this morning the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thou of their employes who desired lo contmue in the service of the newspapers would bc retained on the same wage basis as heretofore , without discrimination ani without reference to their membership or non-membership in the union , the sole requirement being the faithful discharge of their duties as employes . By ord it of the Chicago Local of the American Newspaper Publishers ' Association(Signed) VICTOR P. LAWSON , President . Trouble in Hearst Office . It appears that William Randolph Hearst , owner of The Chicago Examiner and The Chicago American , has for some time employed more men on the presses used for the publication of his newspapers in Chicago than is required by the agreement existing between the Chicago local of the American Newspaper Publishers ' Association , and the Pressmen 's Union , Number 7 . Mr. Hearst is a member of the Chicago local of the American Newspaper Publishers ' Association , but up to May I had a separate contract with his pressmen wriereby the additional men were employed in the working of the presses . In a spirit of economy Mr. Hearst decided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he would not renew it , but would seek refuge in the agreement existing between the Publishers ' Association and the Pressmens ' Union . Mr. Hearst 's pressmen held a conference and decided that it was a bitter deal for a professed champion of labor to give to them , and at 10:30 o'clock on the evening . of May 1 , just as Mr. Hearst 's morning newspaper was preparing to go to press , they walked out . In anticipation of the strike , however , the members of the Publishers ' Association held a meeting and decided that they would stand together independent of political or other affiliations and would fight the union to a standstill . even if it meant that no newspapers , morning or evening , should be printed in Chicago for a month . Mr. Hearst being a member of the association was entitled to Its *-11 ) - port , and it was cheerfully aeborded . Pressmen were loaned to the two Hearst papers from The Inter-Ocean and other , newspapers , and the The Examiner was issued this morning . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in declaring a strike in , the Hearst office abrogated the agreement between it and the Publishers ' Assoidation : that the publishers of Chicago were united in an agreement whereby a fight precipitated in the office of one member must necessarily be regarded as ' an onslaught on the peaceful and orderly conduct of business In each of the others , and that the newspaper publishers were prepared to stand shoulder to shoulder to fight this issue to a finish . When the pressmen on the four afternoon papers appeared for work at their respective offices , The Daily News , The Evening Post , The Evening Journal , and The American they found themselves locked out . The publishers , however . had been prepared for emergencies , and in each of the offices non-union pressmen were on hand , but not in sufficient number to get the papers out on schedule time . In fact no afternoon paper was published until nearly ( 3 o'clock this evening . and then only in abbreviated form . All day long there had been conferences between a. committee of the pressmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avail . Late in the afternoon Ellsworth George Haight , President of Web Pressmens ' Union 7 , issued a bulletin , which read : Lockout by the publishers all over the city . All negotiations are broken off by the publishers . With the breaking off of negotiations looking to a. settlement of the dispute the publishers immediately made arrangements to issue belated editions of the afternoon papers . With the appearance of the first copy of The American and The Evening Journal shortly before 6 o'clock the drivers of the delivery wagons went on strike . This strike spread to all the newspaper offices . The managers of the morning newspapers have arranged for a combination delivery of their papers In the morning . The sympathy strike of the wagon drivers , however , completely crippled the delivery of afternoon papers save in the loop district where they could be obtained by , the corner dealers in small lots . With the appearance of the condensed and belated afternoon sheets , homewardhound Chicagoans precipitated a small riot in their eagerness to obtain copies , which the newsdealers had in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Clark and Madison and State and Van Buren Streets and other busy corners to get copies , in marry instances ' payin- from II ) to 25 cents each for the paper . In less than five minutes the newsdealer 's stand would be bare , with no further copies forthcoming . The Daily Socialist , a labor newspaper , had a field day , although many newsdealers refused absolutely to handle it , and the more . conservative of the rending public was chary about making purchases . It devoted most of Rs first nag , ' to lurid accounts of the manner lit " Chicago 's great newspaper trust is completely tied up by Its failure to reach ; el agreement with the union press ! .71 " M " and the organ of labor was particularly vieWaive in its attitude toward IN Rhein Randolph Hearst . In big black letters It printed " Hearst 's anti-labor record " as follows ? Newsboys struck against Hearst papers in Boston . Hearst employed thugs to bent them up . Had May , r talcs licenses feel ) Placed on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to arbitrate if his name teas removed . After tins was 4lone he refused to live up to his promise to arbitrate. ected a building in New York with scab labor . Made miners employed in Itomestake mine at Lead , a D. , owned by Hearst estate , sign an agreement that they would not Join the union before they were allowed to work . Two thousand miners driven from Hornestake by Hearst through use of the lockout . In Los Angeles Hearst allied himself with Harrison Grey Otis , one of the greatest enemies of organized labor in the country . Otis and Hearst each published the same articles in their respective papers . Denminced in resolutions passel by t he Chicago Federation of Labor , the Los Angeles Central Trades and Labor Council , and other labor organizations thr , ughout the country . In 1903 the workers sought out Hearst in N:ew York for assistance in fighting Th.t Los Angeles Times . Hearst agreed to start a Los Angeles Examiner if he could be guaranteed from 40,1100 to 10,000 subscribers for six months . Every union man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , furthermore , to aid The Examiner at its opening night the union men gave an immense parade , with music and fireworks . Hearst soon forgot this , anti before many months he was siding with the Merchants ' and Manufacturers ' Association , headed by Otis , and fighting those WhO had made his paper all that it was . While all this interested Chicagoans to a certain degree , they clamored for their favorite afternoon papers w thout avail . Even when the papers made their I.elnied appearance tile quantity was so Melanincant that hardly one in WO could be served . Chicago went to bed to-night with grave doubts as to whether there would be a sufficient supply of morning papers , even In abbreviated form , to gather- a fair impress'on of the events of the outside world . The publishers of the morning newspapers are confident that they will be able to turn out a sufficient number of papers to meet the demand in the morning . While a strong force of policemen is on guard at each newspaper office In the city , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The authorities are taking every precaution to prevent disorder . The situation so far has oat called for the miportation of newspapers from other cities , but it is recalled that in the last great struggle between the newspaper publishers and their employes In the early nineties , the ' Chicago newspapers were printed in Milwaukee , ninety miles away , and brought to Chicago by train . The publishers are confident they will not have to adopt this course during the present trouble . J. C. Orr , Secretary of the International Pressmen 's Union , who , with other labor leaders , arrived here to-day , said the pressmen had no statement to make at this time . " We would like the public to remember that this is not a strike , but a lockout , " he said . " Aside from that , we have nothing to say apw. "                     