@@681120

txt Even yet it Is not sure that the Mexican hostilities can not end without a condition of acknowledged war . The distinction is legal , while the effects are economic . and are the same in either case . Happily the situation each that the first and chief effect should be to cure the sickness of our markets of every description . The chief blemish upon the financial outlook recently has been lack of buying power . This was odd . Never before was the country so rich , either in wealth or in capacity for the production of wealth . And yet there has been a deadlock in the markets , arising through want of disposition to buy . although the range of prices was not unattractive , and the banks were refusing the money thrust upon them . Th. ? e : : planation was the suppression of the spirit of enterprise through the cruel war upon business by perfectionists and reformers reckless of the cost of their bent:vol.:ince-5 . For the war upon business now will he substituted . hostilities of another sort . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convenient season , but the foreground will be occupied by the practicalities ' instead of the moralities . The first consideration is the entry into the markets for both capital and goods of every sort of a buyer to whom costs and profits are of no consideration . The scale of preparations for the army.is commonly of the same convincing nature as for the navy . That is to say there will be overprovision , and there will be no haggling about the price , such as has discouraged recent sellers . Unemployment will be cured as by the wav-. ing of " a Magician 's wand . Every good year Chicago sends out for the railways more than enough construction hands to capture Mexico City . This is one of the worst years ever known , and those hands are available should they be wanted . A third of the steel workers are idle , and if the " war " becomes real they will be set to work supplying material for both peace and war . Military operations are only a sort of business , and a sort at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clothing are organizing their resources , and the railway shuttles of prosperity win be flying back and forth across the country as well as toward Mexico . There is not an avenue of trade which will not feel the stimulus , however remote the apparent relation to the " war . " The Government must be a seller of securities in order to be a buyer of goods and employer of men . What the Government sells is the world 's best , and there always are buyers of the best . The Government will sell on the best terms it can , but it will haggle no more about selling than about buying . There will be no lack of bidders among those who are judges of bargains . Bankers have the courage of experience , and they will bid in multiples of millions for whatever the Treasury offers . ' There are more idle dollars than there are idle men , and they will rejoice at the jobs on offer . For long or short terms there is no superior to United States paper . There may be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Government , but the hankers will have no more objection about a profit in financing the Government than in financing the railways or the trusts . There is some talk about $100,000,000 of one-year notes , but there is an option to issue Panama bonds to recoup the expenditures from income in previous years . It is difficult to say how small a burden the sum named will be to the Government . It is only half of the year 's deficit which France is trying to fund at the moment . The comparison is useful for another reason . All the world covets our unused gold , and is discounting in goods to pay a premium , on. - bullion .. The world ' will have to bid higher for our gold in proportion that our Treasury may find it necessary to sell its credit cheaply . There is no question of 2 per cents. , hardly a fair question of 3 per cents . As national credit moves toward 4 per cent. , although at some distance from it , all other credit must suffer a relative deterioration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ta.he competition for domestic credit is the same as the international demand for gold . In order to get dollars the bid in iniarest must be raised , or it the bid is in dollars more must be promised in order to yield the interest demanded by the market for capital . In other words we face a rising market to supply the demands for compulsory consumption regardless of cost . It seems contradictory to suggest that an increase of costs is a remedy for the excess of costs which has brought all exchanges to a stand- I still . The explanation is simple . Only those processes were stopped which were checked by deficiency of profits . The circulation is restored by throwing the largest taxing power into the scale , and enabling all to pay the , higher costs by receiving higher prices . This is the first effect of all wars . The sequel is less agreeable , but it is not a part of the story of to-day . Financial pick-me-ups are like other tonics  --  they serve an emergency , but are poor as a steady @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in St. Petersburg this week . Russian industries have been stimulated by the demand for war consumption , and they are prostrated by the return of peace . The arms fax ' tories are idle . and their workmen are hungry . War times are good times , because they are times of lavish expenditure and rising prices . They are an economic horror , and the abnormal rise has its ensuing depression . For the present it will comfort Many that it affords an escape from other ills of a real sort , however unnecessary .                     