@@681345

txt The Boston News Bureau says : New York bankers are busy making up statistics and co-operating with the Treasury Department for the resumption of international business . It is estimated in New York that we owe abroad about 130 millions . uhieh England would like us to pay in gold immediately . The bankers make answer that the situation is unusual , in that England IL.s taisezi wheat shipments destined for channel port ; , together with confidential mails and documents , and thereby held up European gold which would naturally go to London in settlement . of American exchanges . American bankers also say that they hate millions of gold in European centers , drafts on which would ordinarily be good in London , but which , of course , are not now available . One New Yolk bank president says : " We are not at all influenced by the talk that our credit will be ruined by our not at the present , time making prompt payment in gold to London . Who is going to question our credit ? London and the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suspense of payments . Should the United States be the only one to pay in gold when it can not collect in gold promptly in any quarter of the world outside of China ? " England is overflowing with . American foodstuffs . Her warehouses and dock-yards are filled with what she has imported and what she has taken from captured ships . " The war and England 's sweep of the seas has cut off some of our resources of payment , but in a short timj Englond will need our cheat and other foodstuffs and with these we can settle our balances . " We must do what every other nation is doing today , make gold payments slowly and securely . " My bank has 5 millions of gold , or gold credit , in European cities . We think ii will lie all right in the end . Our travelers ' credits have been promptly cashed right up to date in Germany . In fact , Germans seem to he making special appeal to American interest , , but neither in Germany nor in France will our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full payment in gold . They are paying there gradually and carefully . We here in New York must adopt the same policy  --  pay gradually and carefully . Every day presents its pew problem in finance and every day we are moving teadily forward in financial readjustment . ' The field will be clear just as soon as Europe takes our food products in settlement of balances . To pay our gold too quickly would put us at the mercy of Europe . Europe would then dominate not only the gold situation Out the prices she would pay for American food supplies . " 