@@681443

txt The following matter has been given to the press from official sources : " The number of Belgian soldiers who entered Holland , it Is now stated , was 30,000 . " The Daily Mail of London reports that the Anglo-Belgians were defeated east of Ghent . Reports from The Hague are that the revolt of Boers in South Africa is taking on larger proportions and many arrests are being made . " Twenty-two German universities have addressed to foreign universities a declaration protesting against the aspersions cast upon the German Army and setting forth that the Germans destroyed property only when forced to do so by treacherous assaults on the part of a hostile civilian population . " Former King Manuel of Portugal has been received by the British Foreign Secretary , Sir Edward Grey , in pursuance to a plan to restore the monarchy in Portugal . The Germans have lodged a strong protest at Lisbon . against the hostile attitude of the Portuguese Government . The latter still hesitates to openly participate in the war . " The'Rech , a Russian paper . states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Siberia . Anglo-Indian troops have brought the plague to Cairo . Already fifty deaths have occurred . Fighting Before Belfort . " According to a telegram from Zurich received by the semi-official Cologne Gazette , heavy German mortars have been placed east of the fortress of Belfort , where the fighting already has begun . The Germans so far are gaining ground , though slowly . The same paper publishes a telegram from Berlin denying the assertion of the Paris Temps , under date of Sept. 29 , to the effect that the German Government inspired President Wilson to take up the matter of mediation . The telegram says that the alleged stimulus in that direction came by no means from the German side . " The Government , convinced of the President 's good intentions , had expressed thanks for his endeavors , but referred to the fact repeatedly declared by Great Britain that she would wage war to the last . Germany , however , will permit no one to doubt that her people have made such sacrifices as will not allow her to accept a peace that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future . The telegram continues : " ' The German conditions as quoted from the Temps are merely an invention originating in a desire for selfdeception . ' " It is officially admitted that the submarine which sank the Russian cruiser Pallada was the German U-26 . The crew received Iron Crosses . " Reports that the manuscript of the third volume of Bismarck 's ' Thoughts and Reminiscences ' is preserved in the vaults of the Bank of England is incorrect . The German publisher , Gottascher Verlag , claims possession of the Iron Chancellor 's manuscripts . Situation in the East . " Great distress is raging in European Poland . A deputation asked assistance of the Petrograd Government . which intends the introduction of an income tax . " The Berliner Tageblatt learns from reliable sources that the Russians at Radom hanged three Jews , despite the fact that their Innocence was proclaimed by others . " The German Agricultural Council has issued the declaration that this Year 's crops will be sufficient to supPort the country until next year 's harvest . " The Austrians have taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and since the reopening by them of offensive operations in Galicia have taken MOOD Russian prisoners . " The confiscation and sale of the exhibits in the German and Austrian pavilions at the International Municipal Exhibition at Lyons is criticised by the German press . Participation in the exhibition was decided upon only at the suggestion of the City of Lyons , and therefore the confiscation was a violation of the rights of hospitality and contrary to the action at , the Leipsic exhibition , where all the exhibits of hostile countries were left untouched . " The African explorer , Dr. Karl Peters , describes his own observations of the revolting treatment accorded 20 , - 000 German and Austrian residents of England who are now detained in concentration camps . The sanitary conditions are so wretched that already 300 persons have died , he says . " According to The Franfurter Zeitung , Antwerp is bound to pay a war contribution of 30,000,000 francs , ( 86,000 , - 000 . ) " Crown Princess Cecilie went to Danzig for the special purpose of decorating the crew of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The vessel 's commander , Baron Berckhelm , is now a famous figure among Captains . "                     