@@682022

txt Excitementd was created at the Navy Yard today when Commander Thierfelder of the Kronprinz Wilhelm , one of the interned German cruisers , announced to t Ad- ' miral Beatty , Commander of the Norfolk Navy Yard , that six young officers of his ship , who obtained twenty-four hours ' leave of absence last Saturday , were missing , and that with them a ' small sailing yacht , the Eclipse , recently ' purchased by them , had disappeared . The announcement was made public only after a thorough search had failed to locate the men . The only news thus far received is an unconfirmed report tonight from Cape Hatteras that the Eclipse passed there on Monday shortly after noon , bound south . All sails were up at , . the time and the auxiliary engine was . ' in service , according to this report . It seems that some time ago the young officers of the Kronprinz Wilhelm , with permission , bought the Eclipse from Norfolk owners for the alleged purpose of pleasure sails about the harhor and bay . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . and with an auxiliary engine capable of pushing her along at the maximum rate of five miles an hour . The Germans paid 31,600 for the craft . While seaworthy , she is an old boat and little used rot several years . Ac'cording to reports tonight she was jointly owned by a Norfolk lawyer and a commander  --  retired ? in the navy . She is said to have been sold by the lawyer . The German officers took the yacht to the navy yard , alongside of their cruiser , and had been tinkering aboard her for several weeks . On Saturday they asked and obtained permission to take a sailing ' junket in the bay . Nothing was thought of it when they failed to return on time , but when three or four days elapsed without any report , Captain Thierfelder became suspicious , and today notified Admiral Beatty . This entire , section has been scoured in an effort to locate the young men . There are those who believe that they are marooned somewhere in the bay and will turn up in a day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to join some German ship out at sea . It is even thought possible that they are trying to cross the Atlantic in the little boat . Experienced watermen declare that such an attempt would be foolhardy , as only a limited amount of fuel oil could be stored aboard . The Eclipse is a pleasure boat , with no accommodation for lengthy cruises or for storing provisions . If the Cape Hatteras report is true , the Germans ' mission in the South is yet to be explained . Local observers at Cape Henry have no record of the Eclipse passing to sea . A general alarm tonight was sent up and down the Atlantic coast to revenue and other navy vessels to be on the lookout for the Eclipse , and to place her ' and all on board under arrest . The search of the bay and tributaries is also being continued . In some quarters tonight there is criticism of the laxity of the regulations governing the interned German officers and sailors . It is declared that not only are they allowed to come and go at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leave the ships In civilian clothes . Thus attired , it is alleged , it is easy for them to evade detection and leave the jurisdiction of the yard . Admiral Beatty tonight declined to give the names of the missing men , referring all inquiries to the Navy Department . He confirms the report , however , of the disappearance of the six men . All are officers , between the ages of 22 and 30.                     