@@680416

txt More Cabinet talk was heard among Democratic leaders in Congress to-day , and while it was not based on information as direct and authentic as that which brought out the news yesterday that Gov , Wilson had received acceptances from four men who had been invited into his official family , it was regarded as reliable . The information received to-day was that Representative William E. Wilson of Pennsylvania would get the new post of Secretary of Labor , and that it seemed to have been definitely arranged that Louis Brandeis of Massachusetts would be Secretary of Commerce , despite the opposition of certain politicians of the Bay State , including Gov . Foss and Mayor Fitzgerald of Boston , who do n't want Mr. Brandeis in the Cabinet . Another bit of Cabinet news was that GOV . E. L. Norris of Montana would not be Secretary of the Interior under Mr. Wilson . Democratic leaders were told also that Jerry B. Sullivan of Iowa was likely to be in the Cabinet , but in what office they were not informed . In connection with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Interior and probably would not be a member of the Wilson Cabinet at . all , the statement was made by Democratic leaderP lv sp PrOfOPPed know that Gov . Wilson had selected for the Interior portfolio a prominent progrossivo Democrat WhohadStrorite  --  Seiiti meets on the subject of conservation and who was , in fact , well known throughout the country as a conservationist . These leaders indicated that this embraced the . sum ? of their knowledge of the subject and they did not know the name of the man said to have been chosen to take charge of the Interior Department . It developed also that Representative A. Mitchell Palmer of Pennsylvania had been - offered and had declined the War portfolio , assigning as the grounds for his declination that he was a Quaker , whose antecedents did not comport with the direction of the war establishment . . Another definite offer of a Cabinet portfolio disclosed was that to Mayor Baker of , Iieveland. which was also declined because of public interests Mr. Baker has at Cleveland . It was further reported that James C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Orleans . former President of the America : . Bar Association , were being considered connection with the Attorney Genera . Ai ip . Men high in Democratic councils say that Mr. and Mr. Farrar had been under consideration for some time , but that late developments seemed to point to the selection of the former , who was Assistant Attorney General in 1903-7 and has long been specially retained by the United States in trust prosecutions . Though a Democrat , Mr. was Engaged to prosecute the Government 's suit against the Tobacco Trust and had direct charge of that case from the beginning until the dissolution of the American Tobacco Company . He also had charge of the prosecution of the Government 's suit against the Hard Coal Trust and carried the case through the Supreme Court . Aside from these , the developments of ? the day were largely negative , showing how the field had been narrowed by the exclusion of all hold-over possibilities from the present Cabinet . It will be a new Cabinet from top to bottom . ? The known personnel of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Secretary of State  --  WILLIAM J. BRYAN of NebraSka . Secretary of the Treasury  --  WILLIAM G. MeADOO of New Fork . Secretary of the Navy  --  JOSEPHUS DANIELS of North Carolina . Postmaster General ? ALBERT SIDNEY BURLESON of Texas . Some published reports , including the name of Chancellor B. R. Walker of New Jersey as Attorney General , were not confirmed . Representative Wilson . who is believed to be slated for the new labor portfolio , is the author of the bill creating that department which was passed by the Senate to-day , and which is practically certain of becoming a law before the expiration of President Taft 's term on March 4 . Mr. Wilson is Chairman of the House Committee on Labor . Before he was 9 years old he began working in coal mines in Pennsylvania . and has taken an active part in trades uniop affairs since his early manhood .                     