@@682297

txt It is truly lamenA Quarrel table that what Seemingly should be , and in Unnecessary . essential substance is , a comparison of the faults and merits marking two methods of caring for the city 's dependent and delinquent children , should have been turned into bitter attacks on the characters and motives of the men who favor one or the other of the methods in question . For , really , the only thing the general public *wants to know , the only thing in which it is interested , is not whether religious antagonisms are involved in the  --  controversy that has arisen between certain State and municipal officials , but whether unfortunate children can be better reared and trained in what are called " institutions " or by " placing out " in the charge of persons who will bear , to them in some sense and degree the relation of parents . That is a serious and important question . and one that could be argued with calmness . That it should ' have been qwq of a. ? . " conspiracy " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few , of those directly concerned , suspicions of a " conspiracy " do not exist , and , the charges of one are heard with something more . than incredulity . As for the main issue , , there is no question at all that the tendency of modern , scientific philanthropy is away from the institutional plan and toward that of providing for each child a. place of residence that shall be as much like a real home as possible . The controversy would be vastly simplified  --  and sweetened ? if those engaging in it would start , as they well might in the present state of common knowledge , with the admission that life in any " institution , ' , ' no matter how well managed ; is far from ideal for children . This admission would make needless any exciting attacks on , and defenses of , particular asylunis . Even the best of them are and must be bad , according to almost indisputable authority , and there is no reason in the world why the now embroiled factions should not get amicably together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience to be full of promise . There would be nothing irreligious in doing so ; on the contrary , it would enable us all the more easily to believe that the members of the now divided armies care exponents of the charity and good-will which all religions strive to inculcate . On such a day as lie 's Noble , yesterday was , and as But a today will be , every . observer of our street Nuisance traffic must have been filled with compassion for most of the horses still used in it . For that reason first , but not alone , everybody must also have felt an impatient longing for the good time to come when all urban transportation shall be done in mechanically propelled vehicles . This is a period of transition . The automobile in its various forms has come , and its ultimate victory , in cities , over its animate rivals is assured , but the horses still linger , and , unfortunately for them and for the other inhabitants of cities , they linger , for the most part , not in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them most wisely and , therefore , most kindly , but in the hands of owners of financial resources so small that their first , if not one , thought is the avoidance of immediate expenditure . Frequent shoeing is an expense from which such owners recoil , as they also do from the employment of skilled and experienced drivers . As a result , something like a majority of the remaining horses are driven by boys , and driven with their feet utterly unprepared except for the best . conditions that city pavements ever offer . Those conditions are always trying enough for horses , but when a horse has to travel smooth pavements that are covered with snow or ice , his progression is in a state of constant pain and danger . Not only that , urban commerce . To him most of our blockades and delays are due , and he is a nuisance for everybody as well as an object of pity for the decently tender-hearted . Probably the time is not yet come for a peremptory and complete banishment by law of horses from our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the attainment of that much-to-be-desired end . Admittedly the horse . is a noble animal , and the debt of the human race to him is simply incalculable . It is the poorest sort of payment , however , to keep nim where he does not belong , now that a substitute servitor has been found . superior in many and very important respects . In determining to Illuminating change legal reTests quirements as to gas , Antiquated . the Public Service Commission h a s made wise recognition of the fact that what nowadays the public want and pay for in buying is heating capacity , not " candle power . " This is true not only as regards the various uses of gas for the direct and single purpose of raising temperature , but also when illumination is the object sought , as it still is not infrequently , in spite of the very general employment of electricity . Of those who use-gas for light , hardly anybody is satisfied with Its unassisted brilliancy , and none should be . The " mantle " made of refractory earths @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and its utility depends alone on heat . With it the light-producing elements in gas are wasted , and worse than wasted , for they tend to clog the minute reticulations of the mantle and to reduce its " life . " It is to be regretted that . with the law as it is , the - commission has been obliged to add heat qualifications to candle power instead of substituting them for it . In the interests of economy the direct lighting quality should be ignored altogether , for then it would promptly be omitted , as it costs a lot of money .                     