@@681441

txt 0stend 's fate hangs in the balance . The Government has left , King Albert and the main military headquarters left Tuesday , and 60,000 panic-stricken people await the action of the Germans , who are known to have a ' large force within twenty miles of the city . The inhabitants are fleeing as fast as ships can be provided to carry them to England . Hospitals were emptied today and the docks were lined with injured soldiers . Hundreds were carried on litters. while those less severely wounded hobbled on canes and crutches. supported by Red Cross nurses , doctors . nuns , and priests : The wounded had preference on the transports provided for the beleagured city while 25,000 struggling persons were massed upon the docks and terminal : ; in an effort to find a place on the refugee ships . A German Taupe flew over the harbor and struck terror to these belor .. many of whom had made their way here from Antwerp . They feared that aeroplanes might attempt to drop bombs on the docks and the great glass sheds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Belgian solaters guarding the docks opened fire on the aeroplane , and continued the fusillade for ten minutes . This created - still greater consternation among the thousands of women and children . many of whom had sat for three days ? on the cement floor of the great terminal . sheds , their nerves at the breaking point . Escape by Land Cut Off . Escape is cut off from all sides by land , and thousands were still gathered miserably on the docks-when the last relief ship left late tills afternoon . No steamers leave Ostend at night because of the danger from mines . Still the crowds remained on the piers , where they will pass another anxious night awaiting the dawn and mere ships . Even the refugees who managed to find deck space on the crowded transports were not all relieved of the terrible strain under which they have been laboring for the watchful Taube flew over the steamers carefully observing their movements as they sailed out of the harbor . The aeroplane did not drop bombs . however , as one of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were so narrowly missed by exploding shells that the Belgians charged that the Germans were aiming at the hospitals . Last night was a horrible nightmare to the residents of Ostend and the thousands of refugees fleeing before the German invasion . - Wounded soldiers were brought here by the score from Ghent . It is reported that they were engaged on Monday near Ghent in a serious battle with the Germans . The Allies are said to have had a small force against a large German force and were obliged to withdraw toward the west . Consequently there is virtually no obstacle to the German advance on Ostend . Firing in the direction of Ghent was neard plainly in Ostend on Monday and Tuesday . The terrified refugees who were at the siege of Atwerp blanched as they listened to the bombardment and inerea.sed the fear among the residents of Ostend by describing the horrors of that fallen fortress . Most of the business houses in Ostend closed yesterday , and professional men . merchants and hotelkeepers joined the throng which dared not leave the water front for fear of losing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and children clamoring for a chance to L escape . All taxicabs and cab horses in Osi tend were taken by the army long ago , so there was little means of transport tation . The tram cars were commandeered by the hospitals , and civilians bad little chance to ride . The hotels near the quay , which remained open , were crowded with refugees who had money and begged for the opporI tunity to rent even a chair . Expected ' Germans Yesterday . Tuesday night brought insistent repo  --  ts that the Germans would enter Ostend on Wednesday at dawn , with the result that few persons in the city slept . Before daybreak every street . of Ostend was alive with Belgians making their way to the , water front . Hundreds of fishermen took their families and friends away in their small boats . which sailed out of the shipping basin in a , steady stream loaded down with frightened women and children carrying their personal effects wrapped in tablecloths and blankets . The failure of the Germans to arrive at daybreak afforded only a slight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German cavalry was less than twenty miles away and the appearance of the Taube in the sky was taken as an indication . that the Germans were perfecting their plan for i entering the city . Practically no goVeriml  --  tirof .. any sort remains ' at Ostend . : The , Tdgpslattifre:Of Wlataltiertiand : : 4bc , tinilitart AlepAqtpi ? ; : ters left only the civil guard and policemen . who are attempting to preserve order , but there is lack of direction . as the Burgomaster , head of the municipal government , has left also . The crowds mass about the gangways of the vessels , making the work of embarking the refugees more difficult . Women and children are trampled in the stampede , as of frightened animals , at every rumor . Bundles of clothing , trunks , and bags are stacked everywhere In confusion , preventing the free movements of the crowds . " Women and children first " is the an- 1 nouncement the ship officers make in Flemish and French as the gangways are lowered . This rule has been enforced for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ o their husbands and other male . de .. 1 fiantly blocking the gangways . All attempts to persuade the refugees to drop their bundles and hasten aboard the boats are unavailing . " It is all we have left " was the pitiful reply of an aged and infirm woman staggering under heavy luggage . Ostend today is amazingly unlike the gay Atlantic City of Belgium , which formerly attracted most of the fashionable pleasure seekers of the world . The shutters are closed on the great hotels facing the splendid bathing beach . Rich and poor alike , residents of Ostend and refugees of all classes from the interior 1 of Belgium are huddled . together . But there are cars which afford comparative comfort to many of the wonien and children whose only food for days has been bread and coffee provided by the committees which are attempting to keep down the hunger of the people in spite of the fact that all the ordinary activities have been suspended . Now even bread is becoming very scarce . The relief boats to Folkestone are so crowded and hurried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meals , and frequently they are unable to offer even a cold lunch to the refugees crowded into every available inch of deck space . Belgian . Snglish and French soldiers alike have endured such hardships during the recent campaign that the uniforms of the wounded soldiers are in tatters . This is especially true of the Belgians , whose once bright red and blue uniforms are now faded and in shreds  --  as unkempt in appearance as their unshaven faces . " My poor Belgian boys have such disreputable-looking uniforms when they come to me , " a Red Cross surgeon remarked , " that I try to get some sort of civilian clothes for then , so as to tone them up . Of course , we can not get new uniforms now , but the poor chaps are disheartened enough by their injuries without having to hobble about In rags . " The same surgeon said that in his opinion the entire Belgian Army should have six weeks ' respite to recover from the shock of its constant service under unprecedented hardships . The American Consul , Henry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under his care , and is on the docks day and night assisting his charges . Americans are not numerous at Ostend , but a few have been Coming in daily from Antwerp , Ghent and Bruges . The British Consul left Ostend several days ago , the Consuls representing the other Allies acco npanying him . Because of the dense fog which pre ' veiled last night and cast furthergloom over the dimly lighted piers lined with refugees trying to sleep , the fog guns were kept firing to warn the fishing boats off the reefs . Every report started the fugitives who were ready to believe that the expected raid of the Germans had begun . A lied Cross doctor , provided with a motor ambulance and assisted by Boy ilcouts has been working without cessation on the docks caring for the sick and exhausted . Several children have broken their arms by falling over the scattered luggage . Constant calls are made for attendance upon women who faint through sheer exhaustion or fright . Frequently hysteria seizes some woman and at once spreads , especially among the older @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would mean the end of themselves and their families .                     