@@678844

txt Very sensible conclusions have been reached by the Commission appointed by the last Legislature to inquire into the working of the direct primary laws in other States . They are convinced by their investigation that the will of the people in this State will be better expressed through the representative or convention system than by direct primaries . They find that the direct primary , where . it has been tried , grievously disappoints its advocates . Under that system candidates for public office spend more money than under the convention system . They procure their nominations by methods which demonstrate the weakness and failure of the direct primary . In Boston one candidate for Mayor had 5,000 signatures to his petition , but he received less than 700 votes at the election . Boston 's " best citizens have concluded that it is vicious in its results , and by legislative enactment and vote of the people have abolished the direct primary for municipal officers . " The direct primary does not strip the bosses of their power , it does not secure a true expression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , therefore , that " such ' primary reform should be I enacted as will make the representative system more nearly representative , as will enable every citizen to secure the benefits of participation in political affairs , and as will , also , secure the lbest men for public service . " Accordingly the Commission submits recommendations and a bill for a joint pil1 mary election for all parties , to be held in September , except in Presidential years , when It shall be in April ; for an enrollment of party voters throughout the State , and for an official primary ballot to be printed for each party at public expense , upon which there shall be placed the names of delegates to all conventions , so arranged as to give the party vpter freedom of choice between groups of delegates . Party , county , town , and ward committeemen are to be elected by direct vote at the primaries , and the procedures In political conventions are to be governed by law , voting by ballot to be abolished , and each delegate upon the calling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ openly his individual choice in the making of nominations , This plan may be , and probably is , an qwq mental truth should not be overlooked - that , under a reformed dr an unreformed primary . system , the people always have it in their power to execute their will , to make their own choice of candidates , and to select the best men for public service if they know who the best men are , arid really want them elected . It was not the fault of the bosses or of the machine , it was the fault of the people of his district , that Senator JOHN RAINES was supposed to have a hold that could not be broken upon his Senatorship . It is the fault of the people that many Democrats and Republicans at Albany who have long been suspected of corruption have been returned year after year .. The direct primary would not remedy this deplorable ' condition . Probably a reformed primary continuing the representative system will not remedy it . The trouble is that , while the interest of the bosses in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is perennial and intense , while they work day and night at the business of politics , the average good citizen upon whose virtue and judgment the advocates of direct primaries so much rely , takes very . little interest in public affairs , really knows very little about them , and is quits too indifferent , save when under the promptings of indignation over some unusually flagrant scandal , to take the trouble to make his influence felt , his voice heard                     