@@681934

txt @Tenants of the apartment house at 1,446 Fifth Avenue , near 117th Street , were aroused shortly after 10 o'clock last night by the screams of Miss Sophie Hildebrandt , daugnter of John Hildebrandt , a retired real estate dealer and the owner of the house in - which he occupied one of the top floor flats . The girl , who had ascended the stairs with her mother , returning from a walk I through the neighborhood , raced down the stairs crying that her father had I been murdered . In the street Policeman Sullivan of I the West 123d Street Station heard her cries , learned of the murder and ran back with her . He found Hildebrandt lying on his back in the private hallway of his home between the dining room and the parlor . He was clothed except for his coat and vest There was blood around him and he had been shot through the heart There were bruises on his forehead , and the teeth in the upper left jaw bad been knocked li out by a heavy blow . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was blood on Mr. Hildebrandt 's bed and there were the marks there as well of a pair of muddy shoes . Apparently the house owner had been attacked by a burglar who had thrownhimself on his victim as Mr. Hildebrandt lay asleep . A neighbor in the flat below told the police that he had heard the muffled report of a revolver shot about 8:30 o'clock and had heard also a faint cry for help but he said he had paid no attention to these as he did n't want to get into trouble . Apparently no one else in the house had heard the struggle or the report of the Weapon . The flat adjoining that of the Hildebrandts on the same floor is vacant The police found that a window opening on a fire escape in this apartment had been cut out , and marks in the dust showed that some one had entered there . How they got into the Hindebrandt flat puzzles the police . They might believe that Mr. Hildebrandt had admitted his assailant were it not for the marks of shoes on the bed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ended with Mr. Hildebrandt 's death began when he was in a nap on his bed . Mrs. Hildebrandt said that when she and her daughter decided to take a walk shortly after 8 o'clock they had invited Mr. Hildebrandt to accompany them , but he had declined , saying he was tired and would take a nap until they returned . Apparently he did so . and was surprised asleep . Mrs. Hildebrandt said that a gold watch and chain and some small change , all the money that her husband had had in his pockets , were missing . Nothing else , however , seemed to have been touched in the house . The daughter , who was the first to come on her father 's body , was so overcome by shock that she ran from the house after returning with Policeman Sullivan and did not return . Dr. Brasted was called from Harlem Hospital , but though the girl had told Policeman Sullivan that her father was breathing when she had found him , Dr. Brasted found him dead . Occupants of flat at 5 West 117th @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open the door to their flat , and the police were inclined to believe that the same man might have committed the murder . Finger print experts hurried from Police Headquarters and went over both flats thoroughly searching for marks that might identify the murderer . Captain Cooper , in charge of the Fourth Branch Detective Bureau , had a dozen men on the crime a few moments after he learned of it , but none of them found a clue to the burglar . Mr. Hildebrandt was fifty-three years old and was born in Germany . He had acquired a great deal of Harlem property and was well known for his real estate activities . He was the organizer of the Fifth Avenue Property Business Men's/ Association and an active mover in slat plans for the betterment of Harlem .                     