@@684475

txt The League of Nations is not a government , is not a conspiracy - of all the other nations against the United States . The Republican Senators sometimes represent it to be one of these , sometimes the other , sometimes both . If it were to be a government , it would be paramount , a super-nation , with control over the acts and affairs of member nations with or without their consent . If it were a conspiracy against the - United States , it would be necessary to assume that the other nations , Great Britain , France , Italy , and . Japan , had wickedly and secretly put their heads together to ruin this country ; that they had determined , for . their own ends , to curtail our power , arrest our growth , and bring us into subjection to their will . Much of the criticism of the League plan is based upon this strange and owlish misrepresentation of its nature and purpose . This theory of the League might take its rise in the extreme unreason , actually it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is- not that the nations are plotting against us , but that the Republican Senators and leaders , in their alarm , are casting about for some means to diminish Mr. WILSON , to destroy his national leadership . We may best understand the League of Nations if we fix , ur attention upon its foundation purpose . That has been well set forth by that eminent jurist , Sir FREDERICK POLLOCK , as the renunciation by every member of the League " of the right to be judge in one 's own cause . " Austria was the judge of its own cause when it sent the ultimatum to Serbia , when it went to war with Serbia . Sir EDWARD GREY , as he was then called , urged that Austria take counsel with- the other European Powers , that it permit the cause of quarrel to be examined . Germany and Austria refused , although the other Powers consented . Russia was the judge of its own cause when it went to war with Turkey in 1878 , the war which led to the Congress of Berlin , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principles of Mr. WILSON 'S fourteen points or of the Paris League of Nations plan  --  out of which grew the world war . The Balkan States were judges of their own causes in their two wars a few years ago . To go further back , FRANCIS I. was very much in the habit of judging his own cause in his wars with CHARLES V. , and in his strifes with Italian princes for the possession of territory . In the centuries during which nations have been judges of their own causes , the world has almost never been everywhere at peace . For the right to individual judgment in private controversy , civilized nations ha. -e substituted courts of law ; settlement by street brawls , assassinations , poisonings , duels has given place to the decisions of judges and findings of juries . It would be impossibe to obtain the signatures of Senators to a proposal for a return to the earlier savage method in these private differences . Yet thirty-nine Senators have actually pledged themselves not to approve and ratify the Constitution of the League of Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wish that the right of nations to be judges in their own causes and to go to war when it pleases them be preserved . That is what opprIsition to the League of Nations means , for the League plan is going to he a part of the Treaty , and the Senate can not reject one without rejecting the other . The people are coming to a good understanding , not only of the meaning and purpose of the League , but of the attitude and the motives of the opponents of it in this country . Critics of the plan are now divided into two camps , and the division is becoming wider every day . The passionate party , reckless , irresponsible , violent , are now but a remnant . They are represented by Senator BORAH , who inquired the other day if this nation would consent to surrender to GEORGE V. what . it won from GEORGE III. , an.inquiry which gives us a : tolerably accurate measure of the reasonableness of this faction , of its respect for the intelligence of the American people . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from mere mindless railing ; they follow the examples of Senators LODGE and KNOX , declaring their adherence to the principle of the League of Nations but finding it difficult or impossible to accept what they seem to feel is Mr. WILSON 'S League . Discussion is now on the right track . It proceeds by analysis and exposition , points out defects , indicates changes , suggestions , and betterments . Knowledge and authority are enlisted for the League , against the League as now planned . That is the road to public enlightenment . The public is becoming enlightened . Already it has formed a conception of the League far truer and clearer than . that of most of the critics who have been tearing the plan to pieces before nightly audiences . The public has seized upon the central , alI-important principle , that the nations , in the common interest of peace and justice , renounce the right to judge their own causes of war , agree to submit them to examination , agree not to go to war until they have been examined , and agree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Save where partisanship has been an impediment to right understanding , the people have for much the greater part rejected the false interpretation of the League as a super-nation or as a conspiracy . The League of Nations must be created , it will be created , for without it the world will be exposed to the monstrous evils of war , of which there is no other preventive .                     