@@683587

txt Strong Austro-Ger= man attacks on the northern mountain front , between the Brenta , and Piave Rivers , were repulsed yesterday , it is announced officially . The War Office statement follows : . Iesterdiy enemy by heavy artillery , again attempted toattack our positions between the Brenta and Piave Rivers . On our left wing the enemy 's efforts were directed against the Monte Pertica area . They were crushed promptly , and a deadly and well-executed counterattack on our part was made in answer to every fresh attempt by the enemy . At Tasson the Monte Rosa battalion of Alpini annihilated its assailants . At our centre , where the enemy 's pressure was strongest , the Fiftysixth Division lived up to its enviable reputation . Enemy columns which with stubborn fury attacked from the northwest and north in the direction of Monte Casonet , Col dell'Orso . Monte San Larolo , and Monte Spinoncia , were mowed down by our fire , repeatedly met by furious counterattacks and definitely repulsed , leaving more than 200 prisoners in our hands . On our right the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The assaulting waves were first checked by our artillery fire and afterward counterattacked several times and repulsed by our gallant Alpini . A few score of prisoners were taken . BERLIN , Nov. 26 , ( via London . ) ? Only local engagements on the Italian front are reported in today 's afternoon statement from Army Headquarters . The Germans are said to have achieved successes in these operations . The text of the afternoon announceme nt follows : In local mountain fighting we achieved successes and maintained them against Italian counterattacks . Anglo-French Forces Near the Front . ITALIAN ARMY HEADQUARTERS IN NORTHERN ITALY , Nov. 25 , ( Delayed ) ? ( Associated Press . ) ? Solid ranks of Franco-British infantry , with artillery and supply trains , were seen by The Associated Press correspondent today within sound of the battle on the Italian northern line . They had been on an eight-day march . The correspondent was on a tour or the northern fighting front , where the great battle is continuing with unexampled violence . Major General di Giorgio was found commanding the extreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fighting was heaviest . Throughout yesterday and today the battle in the mountains has-developed in a steady succession of heavy attacks and counterattacks , with occasional brief intervals for reforming the lines and reorganizing new positions . Twelve different enemy assaults had been made within a few hours preceding the correspondent 's visit to headquarters on the field , but the Italian lines had not yielded a foot of ground , and General di Giorgio , while grave because of the terrific struggle his men were making against tremendous odds , was calm and confident that the defensive line would hold until reinforcements were swung into the fighting line . Staff officers from headquarters were taking the trip along the line , and the route lay straight north into the fighting zone . Soon there were evidences of a bitter struggle just ahead , for along the route long lines of Italian infantry , decimated in the last few ' days , were reforming to return to the fight . They showed the fearful strain they had been under , but there was no trace of wavering , and the long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sight which- stirred the blood was that of solid ranks of allied ' reinforcements crowding the , roads . Already they were within sound of the rumble of the guns , and the " Boom ! Boom ! " from the battle in the distance could be heard above the gallop of the cavalry , the tramp of the infantry , and the clamor of the batteries and supply trains . It was a dark day , with a gray sky , but the whole scene seemed to lighten up as the color of the Italian gray was tinted everywhere with British khaki and French blue . The allied troops had been on the march eight days , making more than fifteen miles a day . Allied Troops " in the Pink . " The French reinforcements were first seen in force . They ' were splendid rookins young men . One of their officers with whom the correspondent talked and who wore stripes earned by gallantry , said that they had just arrived after a hard forced ? march , with others following . Soon these others came in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endless lines of French . There were squadrons of cavalry In the road and in the nearby fields , and long lines of troops with artillery trains and supplies . Field kitchens had been set up at one point , and the midday meal was being served . The men looked in the best of condition , and did not show a trace of fatigue from their long march . Just beyond here the color turned from blue to khaki , as long lines of the British came into sight . Jn the lead were cyclists , and then came engineer trains . Following were long ranks of infantry . cavalry , and artillery . At one point headquarters had been temporarily established along the road , and guards were at the gate as the officers went and came . Further on a British General and his staff , all finely mounted , were cantering , forward . The artillery horses were especially Marked for their sleek , well-fed condition , and the observers nNed how all the brass work of the guns and equipment glinted with the thorough care it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rear with huge pontoons on camions , as it had been found these - were not needed , but all the rest of the force was moving forward . ' The Caen looked as hard as nails despite their steady marches . Both officers and men were eager to hear how the fight was going and were anxious to get forward . Talks with these men along the road gave an idea of what they had been doing . They had been marching steadily for several days . The start was made every day at 3 A. M. , with an early breakfast , and with rations subsequently served at 11 A. M. and 3 o'clock in the afternoon . Along the route their headquarters were in village : chools , houses , barns , and public buildings . The men carried loads of about seventy pounds , including rifles , blankets , kits , and the day 's rations . This looked like a heavy load as the long ranks ranged along the roads , but the men did not mind it , although they said the long marches had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line , and Italy may hear music again if things go right . All the Italian bands have disappeared in the fierce carnage of recent days , and the bandsmen are charging with bayonets . The whole appearance of the British and French gave a feeling of great power because of the perfect organization and ardor of all ranks , accentuated by the timeliness with which they were arriving in the vicinity of the battle front .                     