@@682600

txt In spite of bad weather , which has hampered operations so that no great advance has been possible , we made some progress today in the direction of poziercs . Some of our troops stormed a double line of trenches from . Bazentin-le-Petit to southeast of Pozieres , a distance of 1,500 yards . They are strewn from one end to the other with German dead and wounded . Oviliers is ours after a Gernp.n post which had been bravely defeYiding it surrendered with two officers and about 140 men early this morning . There is no other news of importance today on the line of attack , but it is good enough , and the general position of our force is improved . What is the German point of view about our attack and on the prospects of the war ? That is the question I have put to some of the prisoners in bad German or fair English . It is difficult to get any clear answer or an answer of any real value , yet by putting together answers from separate groups of men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the general idea prevailing among these German troops against us . Quite a number of them told me they and their people were sure the war would be over in August or September . They had been promised that , but could not give any reason for their belief except the promise . There seems to me to be no doubt that they were perfectly confident in the strength of their lines . They did not believe such defenses as those at Fricourt and Montauban could lever be broken . The new power of our artillery amazed them . They speak of it always with terror , and officers , especially , admit they had never imagined that " amateur gunners , " as they call our men , could achieve such results . For the courage of our infantry they always had great respect , but they count the strength of armies by the strength of guns , and until recent days they knew they had the greater power . The foundations of their belief are shaken , but only to the extent that they admit the possibility . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of defense . I have not found one man who speaks of defeat . They are still convinced the German Army will never be beaten to the point of surrender . As a German doctor whom I have previously quoted said to me a few days ago : ? You are strong and we are strong . Neither side can crush the other . If the war goes on it will be the suicide of Europe . ' These German soldiers do not want it to go on . That idea in their heads is pleat enough . They are weary of war and have a great craving for peace . They want to see their wives and children again . One strain of thought creeps out in their talk . It is the suggestion that they fight not as free men desiring to fight , but as men compelled to fight by higher powers against whom they can not rebel . " It is our discipline , " said one of them today . " We can not help ourselves . " I was told by one of the officers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war between Germany and England ten years from now . They have been taught to believe , he says , that we thrust this war upon them , that all through we have been the aggressors , and that Germany will seek her revenge . Personally I have not heard such words spoken , but rather from several of these prisoners a frank hatred of war as the cause of horrors and suffering beyond the strength of man to bear . The enemy has suffered-great losses during our attack by their own admission . and it is reckoned , on what seems to me a fair estimate , that in killed , wounded , and prisoners the number of their casualties muet be - somewhat near 150,000 men , including hose inflicted ' by the French on our                     