@@683695

txt President WILSON can sharply reprove Senator CHAMBERLAIN for saying that the war service of the Administration has " fallen down , " but he can not reprove the people of the United States , who are very much of Senator CHAMBERLAIN 'S opinion . The people are saying what Senator CHAMBERLAIN said , not in his words , but in words of like import . No President can tell the people that they ! have been guilty of " an astonishing " and absolutely unjustifiable distor " tion of the truth . " Does the President know what the people are thinking and saying ? It is always a matter of doubt whether a President of the United States can really know what is in the minds of the people ; so few of those about him are willing to tell him the , whole truth , ? ' , f it be unpleasant , r.nd so rarely do his unofficial V1sit , rs put aside commonplace courtesies and venture to acquaint him ' sr-1th unfavorable opinion . If Mr. WILSON knows , if he is permitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will understand why his rebuke to Senator CHAMBERLAIN has been received with faint public approval . We do not believe the President will Impute to THE TIMES any unfriendly or partisan motive , certainly not the ' motive of " opposition to the Administration 's whole policy , " if we point out to him that his attitude of resentment toward Senator CHAMBERLAIN 'S Criticisms and toward " the investiga " tions which have been in progress " since the Congress assembled , " in. vestigations which he believes have " contributed a great deal to such de " lay arid confusion as had inevitably " arisen , " is one which he can not wisely or prudently assume and maintain . We may remind him that this id not , after all , the Administration 's war ; it is the people 's war , supported by their blood and treasure . They have the right to be critical of the , Government 's war service , since they pay the cost and their criticism can not , with safety , be disregarded . That " huge multitude " of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of the truths of their religion is available for condemnation of much of the War Department 's work . It comes from qualified witnesses , observers of the actual facts , it is convincing to the people , it is known to have good rant and sufficient ground by thousands of persons who have attempted to be of service to the Government in preparing for war . It would be wiser for the Administration to give attention to it now than by dismissing it as a distortion of the truth to prer  --  afor itself disagreeable experiences later . Personal friendship , the President 's confidence in officials with whom he is in " association and constant conference , " may not be the best test of efficiency and of the successful performance of duty . President CHANT had a way of standing by his friends , an admirable quality in some of the relations of life , but one that has its obvious risks for the head of the Government charged with responsibility for the lives of thousands of his fellow-citizens and billions of their money . The responsibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military preparation , Its slowness , may determine against us and against the Allies the great issue of the war . A rough , hairy , unsocial savage who knows how to get things done , and gets them done , is a better servant of the President and of the country than one who , without that qualification , happens to be an intellectually congenial companion . The War Cabinet bill , we are convinced , was honestly and sincely Intended to help the President , to serve the interests of the country by establishing an efficient control and coordination of the preparations for war . It contemplates no interference with his prerogatives , it strips him of no vested power , for the ultimate power and responsibility are his and can not be taken away , yet the President resents the introduction of the measure , opposes it , it isteported that he will " fight " its enactment . The bill had its origin in the widespread dissatisfaction of the people with the cumbersome , confused methods of the War Department and with its achievements and current rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " extraordinary promptness and efficiency have been shown , " fall far short of the country 's expectation and need . Mr. WILSON brusquely waves away the hand that would help him . That is not the right attitude , and the people regret to see him take it . His opposition may defeat the War Cabinet measure ; it can hardly be expected that at this moment Congress would enact a bill he so strenuously opposes . But at least Mr. Wasox will not be so unwise , so unshakable in a belief not shared by the people of the country , that he will let the lesson go unheeded , pay no attention to the rapidly growing public dissatisfaction of which this bill is the outcome . He contends that defects of the Administration are curable and being cured with the staff he now directs . They must be cured if he would escape a sterner calling to account later on . It would be far better and wiser , and safer for him to make the War Cabinet superfluous by reorganization of his present Cabinet , by calling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " who would bring order and system out of the present confusion and swiftly advance our war preparations . The country 's attitude of doubt , misgiving , and disappointment would change to confidence and rejoicing if the President , instead of closing his eyes to the revelations of incapacity that have been made , would call to his side men competent for the big tasks of the Administration . That is what Mr. WILSON ought to do .                     