@@684044

txt Ten thousand war workers having struck at Bridgeport , and , their demands having been referred to the War Labor Board for adjustment , the employers of more than 50,000 workers who had not struck have asked that the award shall include them also , and have filed a written agreement to abide by the result . This is a new departure in the adjustment of the troubles between labor and capital , and one that possesses the seed , perhaps , of continental settlements of labor disputes . The reason why fifty-three employers submit to an award while there are no troubles in their shops is plain . The award is sure to raise wages , for no report is known to have reduced wages . The increase of wages is sure to cause unrest among other industries in which there are no strikes , and thereby to make trouble where none exists . If no secondary strikes are caused , there is sure to follow a shortage of labor , and thus a prejudicial effect upon war production . The only way to prevent such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wholesale , either for an entire locality , as at Bridgeport , or for entire trades , so that there may not be oversupply in some trades and undersupply for others . The questions at issue are so thorny with details that it is futile to expect settlement of all disputes without more friction . The question at once arises who shall classify the work and the workers , and who ' shall decide to what class individuals belong , with the wage rate corresponding to the class . Necessarily there must be settlement on these points by some authority to which employers and workers can appeal . Nevertheless , ' the new method would be better than the old in important respects , one of which is best illustrated by present conditions in the anthracite industry . Its workers have been reduced from 177,000 to 144,000 , and it is threatened with further reduction by the draft and the competition of other industries . In the words of the Anthracite Committee of the Fuel Administration on Wednesday : Thus has the labor power of the industry been reduced 19 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force now threatened with further reduction by the draft and offers being made for labor by industries working on a costplus basis with which the anthracite industry , although paying the highest wages ever known , is unable to compete with the prices for its product fixed by the Government . That places the responsibility for the undermanning of the anthracite industry on the Government rather than on the men or the unions . First , the Government makes wage rates which attract the miners into other trades . Then , the Government con- , trols the price of coal . so that the miners ' wages can not be raised . Thirdly , the Government takes miners for soldiers , regardless either of wages or of the supply of coal . Finally , the remaining miners are made so prosperous that their efficiency is reduced . The old miners will not work full time , and the new miners are not equally productive . The anthracite industry is not alone in this respect . The overbidding of the Government for labor is conspicuous in several trades , and was early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understand and even to excuse the procedure taken to hasten the production of ships at any cost . There are returns for the price in money , but the cost in disturbance of other trades is excessive . The competition between shipbuilders set up by Mr. SCHWAB is admirable , because it is different . He does not steal labor from one yard to strengthen another . He increases production by stimulating energy and efficiency , not by over paying workers who are reluctant to do their fair stint , , and who wander about the country both underbidding and . overbidding in the manner in which the Allies overbid one another in our markets until a stop was put to " it by the limitation of profits by . price-fixing and taxation . The time has come when it is necessary to establish standards of wage profits as well as of price profits . The laborer is worthy of his hire , generously estimated , and with additions for reasons of the urgent demands of war . But labor should not profiteer at the expense of other labor and of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follow the Bridgeport precedent and act together as unionists do . The allowance of fair pay , fixed by impartial award acting alike upon those who pay and those who receive wages , is not grinding the faces of the poor , for the wage-earners are not those most impoverished by war conditions . It is a pity that the unions have allowed the employers to set the example at Bridgeport . They have lost a rare opportunity to take the initiative in showing that the unions care for *Something more than mersiy and forever raising wages . If the unions would safeguard the standards of what is given for wages as well as the standards of what must be paid for labor , they would raise themselves in public esteem , and would do much for their country as well as for themselves .                     