@@682619

txt The most important fact on the German side of the southeast front is the tremendous personality of General von Linsingen , which I found animating the whole gingery , scrappy staff and permeating to the farthest mud outposts , chiefly accounting for the exuberant morale and terrific optimism of the V olhynian front and helping to explain the Volhynian campeignHis is the most compelling , powerful personality I have so far encountered among the Teuton Generals afield , yet the Hindenburg of the south is as diametrically different from the grim lion of the north as is imaginable , having none of that Titanic grandeur and uncanny calm that make you liken Hindenburg , as I saw him beside his Kaiser before burning Novo Georgievsk , to a chiselled ivory Oriental idol . It was characteristic that on arriving late at night at great headetiarterti 1 ran into a great celebration and " family blowout , " with von Linsingen in the bosom of his staff gathered about a twenty-foot-long table decorated with flowers and clinking bric-a-brac in the junior officers ' mess . The occasion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a small anteroom where ... was politely segregated I could hear the effervescent morale of von Linsingen and his youngsters pouring out in oratory and song ; could hear the old General ' himself call for three rousing hurrahs for the Kaiser and lead in singing " Deutschland uber alles " with a lone , deep roar that sounded aliove the rest , and again and again the sound of the " Jaeger " cheer and huntsman 's crya-triple " horrido " which the whole pack gave with a lusty will that was far from confidence-inspiring to neutrals ? with money on the Russians at this part of the front . Young staff officers , and old staff officers who looked young , kept taking turns at relieving one another in the thankless task of entertaining the American interloper in his chambre separee , and I felt almost sorry for Brusiloff and his Cossacks as I studied this Linsingen brood of lean , keen-eyed , determined-jawed , saturnine , ruthless fighters , flushed as with victory , still showing the effects of their anti-fat cure in the Carpathians and supremely confident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German arms . That Single Supply Road . When finally General von Linsingen received me in his council room , and I got him to talk about the situation on this section of his 250-mile battle front , he reverted to the fact that , as.I cabled yesterday . in this whole region there is only one , highway on which the army could depend for bringing up reserves , ammunition , provisions , and supplies . " But , " he went on , " the Russians are in te same boat . Our autos , o course , tied to this highway in the represf - ent bad weather . I myself rode out to the front this morning , and my horse was up to his knees in mud and water . An auto gets Stuck . without more ado the moment it leaves the one chaussee ; The Commander in Chief referred with gratitude and not without humor to certain " useful " strategy for which he had to thank the Russians . " The railroad from Kovel to Lemberg , via Vladimir-Volynski , was built by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the time that such a rail-1 way line was coming into existence , and marked it in on our maps , and were quite happy to find it there , too , when a year ago I drove the Russians back with my army . This railroad was naturally further built out by us for our nachschub . Naturally the whole roadbed ( because built by Russians ) is n't adapted to heavy trains . My saloon train had to travel mighty slowly when I went . over a stretch to visit one of my armies recently . The Kovel-Lutsk line Is also a good railroad to have . " Next to von Linsingen 's quiet , unboasting confidence in himself and his staff is his keen personal solicitude for the welfare of his troops , and it was characteristic of him that he asked me many more questions about the front than I could get in even edgewise at him . It was n't an interview , but a genial cross-examination , with an American correspondent for once in the- role ' of the under dog . Thus von @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and promptly asked how it was in the first trenches since the deluge started . Cheerful Amphibians in the Trenches . I was able to report finding the first fighting line held by bearded amphibians in field-gray bathing suits , kneedeep in mud and water , cheerily sniping rash Russians . Others were trying to bail out the trenches with tin cans . Still otherswere resting . outstretched on wet straw in holes , scooped in the side of rude provisional trenches in swampy ground , their heavy cowhide feet projecting into the water-filled miscalled trenches ; but these resting amphibians were either smoking long German pipes , reading , extracting quaint folk melodies from mouth harmonicas , singing , or joshing their less fortunate comrades engaged in piling up mud and molding it into something that might pass for Russian breastworks. , the Russians the while peppering them with shrapnel and intermittent rifle fire . Yet all were in the most astonishingly waterproof high spirits I had found on any front . They 're always like that , always in good spirits , even when it 's made hard for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visibly proud of his troops ; and then he again revealed his Paternal solicitude for his men . The weather was worrying him far more than the Russians . If the rains continue there is danger that intestinal sicknesses will appear . Particularly new . when the new potatoes are coming into use , is the danger of sickness heightened . We experienced the same thing a year ago . Although we have warned the troops against these sanitary dangers the men , particularly after undergoing heavy hardships , like to root around in abandoned potato fields and cook potatoes in their trenches . " A. staff officer told me this solicitude for his men was a dominant trait of the Commander in Chief 's ; that he did not leave the welfare of his men to his subordinates , but very often himself had gone into the front trenches , frequently under heavy shell and shrapnel fire , to ask his men what they were getting to eat , whether it was sufficient and tasted good , and also to give good sanitary advice and warnings . As a result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a degree which I have found exceeded only by the affection and feeling of his corps for the late General Emmeich , the conquerer of Liege . Kindly to War Correspondents . He showed also a very human solicitude for the welfare of correspondents , and of the many German Generals I have been privileged to meet in nearly two years of war was the first to show real enthusiasm and unlimited willingness to let me see anything at his front and as much of it as I wanted .. a It 's too bad the weather was so bad , otherwise you could have seen so much more , " he remarked almost aPolegetically , intimating that I must not hold , him responsible for bad road conditions . He radiated good nature , however , when a staff officer who had piloted me along the front reported that we could have been sauntering down the Stokhod yet If THE NEW YORE TIMES correspondent had n't given the signal for retreat on the ground of " cold feet . " " You 've been able to convince yourself on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he remarked . Then he again brought up the subject Pf Volhynia. weather as a strategic and tactical factor , saying : " Everything is under water . I myself was recentlyat the front before the rain groundnd saw our patrols advance over that is now imnalisable . Where meadows are indicated on my maps there are now swamps . " Our talk turning to Russian reports , and particularly to their enthusiastic claims about prisoners taken , von Linsingen expressed himself moderately , but with dry humor , and let it be seen that he takes no more stock in Russian victory reports than do the German people . How thoroughly von Linsingen is posted on even slight and insignificant details was indicated by the fact that he knew I had visited the Pinsk sector of his front in February , and the very regiments I had been with . which led him to mention the recent Russian reports that Pinsk had fallen . The report of the capture of Pinsk was possibly a Russian typographical - error. be =Zed. " 4. out know Jaw . ? else to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in many weeks , and a battle at Pinsk is quite impossible . If it is n't a typographical error , this Russian report is quite worth an important dispatch . " Von Linsingen 's face slowly lost its expression of good-natured kindliness . I 'm sorry . but I must say good-bye , for work calls me , " he said , with a businesslike , courtly air . It was the first time he had ever been exposed to an American war corres.pondental offensive , and he was somewhat taken aback by the final flash of an autog  --  aph album , as if wondering what sort of a new confidence game it was sought to put over on him , but when his adjutant whispered to him : " Excellency , the Crown Prince of Bavaria and other army leaders have inscribed their names , ' von Linsingen capitulated gracefully , and signed in big characters that required no handwriting expert to read out of them super-Rooseveltian vitality , a ruthless offensive spirit , and inflexible iron will power . ; As the audience ended , the faint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an adjoining building , where later I was permitted to watch how von Linsingen is kept in closest touch with the rest of the world war . According to neaty labelled signs over each instrument , which looked like the keyboard of a , miniature piano , each key marked with a letter or number or code sign there was instant communication with about every worth-while point on the world war map , with direct wires to German Great Headquarters , Austrian Great Headquarters , and even a direct wire to Constantinople . Personal Details About the Chief . From Captain P ? , the brilliant young intelligence officer of von Linsingen 's armies , and other officers I obtained the following symposium of intimate personal details about the big His guiding military principle is a chief : ruthless offensive  --  to gain his purpose at any price . He is the incarnation of the German field manual and shows no consideration for anything under any circumstances . " Attack , and then attack again is the essence of his strategy . In pursuit " let everything lie wounded and dead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " His offensive spirit manifests itself even in defense , as at present in Volhynia , where he is outnumbered four to one by the Russians . " In defense let not a moment pass when you can attack " is a maximum he lives up to . ? He is full of healthy optimism , and wo n't have a pessimist around him . A tireless worker , he gives no rest to his staff , and takes none himself , except occasionally , between 2 and 4 in the afternoon , when , it is whispered , he sometimes nods while reading papers on a chaise longue . He is a typical Prussian , kindly , but outwardly harsh , and purely military . Nothing exists for him except things military . His colossal vitality makes the deepest impression on those associated with him . He is an unassuming gentleman for whom " shy " is too small , and reserved " too big a word , but the fact remains that he loves to be alone . He eats with his small intimate staff , but on special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a basis of absolute friendliness , and always finds time for the little family affairs and domestic news of his younger men in particular . His Three Sons All in the Field . All three of his sons are in the field , one as a brigade adjutant in his own army , the ethers as a flier Lieutenant and cuirassier Captain . One has a feeling that if von Linsingen could follow his personal inclinations he would be fighting in the first line , bayonet in hand , at the head of his troops . In the trenches he is physically tireless , and on front inspections exhausts the youngest staff officers , examining most minutely every detail where the welfare of his troops are concerned , and he can become very energetic and scold hard in a flow of uncensored language , calling spade a spade , if he finds any officer has been neglectful or that his troops are not well cared for and fed . As a rule von Linsingen takes no rest . He works almost the night long . He receives his staff officers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sometimes longer , and has been known to am out twq More bones , The refit of the morning is spent in his office , re . ceiving reports and dispatches . In general there is nothing exciting about being Commander in Chief of the southeast front , and von Linsingen leads the gentle life of a Vordsworthian village curate in rural Volhynia , going for e.a alk after luncheon in his old-fashioned garden . When quartered in the country he likes the life of a country gentle-man , and one might almost mistake ' hint for the owner of the Russian chateau . Before supper he receives more reports , principally from his chief of staff , with whom he consults in the evening only on most important and pressing matters . His colossal energy and will power arc such that his officers say it obviously pains him when he has to go back , even one step . He takes even a strategic retreat hard . He labors under the constraint and stress to go forward . Be has taken only five weeks off since the beginning of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Like Hindenburg and Ludendorff , lie makes his plans only in collaboration with his chief of staff . No large conferences ' for Linsingen . But on the other hand , he never mixes into little details , but implicitly trusts his staff officers and subordinate leaders , to whom he leaves the practical working out of details , devoting himself exclusively to the large problems of strategy . He is too reticent to break into print and wants to be let alone and wo n't see anyone , Prince or no Prince , when at work . His favorite rest and relaxation is hunting . At present he is too busily engaged otherwise to indulge his passion for the chnse , but in quieter times , between offensives , has frequently hunted wild boar on the other Russian front all day long . Idolized by Hungarians , Too . His popularity is not confined to his armies . The Hungarians , too , idolize him , and already consider von Linsingen as a national hero for driving the Itussians out of Hungary . At von Linsingen 's suggestion one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the fighting at Volhynia , comparing and contrasting it with the fighting on the west front and copiously illustrating with the largest scale staff maps : " In the west strong German forces face.the massed armies of the French and English , the numerical ratio being much greater for us in the west than here in the east , where we are accustomed to fight outnumbered three and even four to one . The western theatre of war shows the highest cultural development. , stately cities , populous country districts , many splendid ehausaees and innumerable other roads that can all be used by the heaviest motors and transports and guns , an extensive canal system and a fabulous mesh of telegraph , telephone , and high tension electric wires . Consequently every foot of this valuable ground is defended step by step , as in the Somme battle , where a highly developed network of lines of communication makes possible lightning troop movements , and renders easy the provisioning , ammunitioning , and sanitation of the greatest masses of troops . " Quite otherwise is it in the east @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wood . wretched highways , miserable footpaths and sparse , mostly one-track railways . On the roads in travel . our region onlyvery and motor wagons can break through the weak roadbed . Numerous rivers and swamps are turned during the present rain period into insuperable wildernesses , but quickly become passable again during a hot spell . It is impossible , accordingly , to make war here along the same lines season rivers and uarsinign the rainy rtt west . sny. swamps can be defended with very few men . Quite otherwise is it when the landscape suddenly dries out , and the attacker finds himself able to throw great masses against formerly impassable and therefore only lightly held lines of defense . Explanation of Recent Retreats . " Since good roads and railroads are lacking , it is obvious that , in view of the peculiar character of the terrain in Volhynia , not every foot of ground can be defended step by step , as in the west , and since troop movements can not be executed as rapidly as in the west it often more necessary and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to hold it and give battle and suffer heavy losses under unfavorable circumstances . " For the initiated there is nothing unusual in the fact that in recent weeks the Austro-German line has been somewhat drawn back on the west . What the Russians did last year to a depth of five to six hundred kilometers we are allowing ourselves to do now to a depth of from ten to twenty kilometers . Naturally another unfavorable factor was that Austrian forces had been withdrawn for the Italian campaign , so that the line was thinner than formerly . You must regard our line in the east as an elastic rubber hand , which one can stretch or draw together , or draw forward or backward , according to need , - and which alters nothing in the fact that the line in general is maintained , for whether it is laid a little further east or west has , under the physical conditions prevailing here and in view of the scant cultural development of Volhynia , not the same importance as on the west front . " In such a titanic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ / few dozen kilometers more or less in the east makes no difference to us . Ground ? gain and loss play here no decisive role . The Russians are further favored by ? their railroads , because they have great railroad junctions in their hands . Rozanovitchi we took from them last year , but the Russians have helped themselves there , too , by building a new branch line that enables them to cling to the railway network east of Baranovitehi . Strength of the Russians . " The Russians have learned much about strategic railroading , let us admit this quite openly . We have no intention of underrating our enemies , for by recognizing their strength we are placed in the right light . That the Russians are working with great masses tit so well known as to require no further emphasis , but numbers alone are not decisive , but rather quality , and ilia quality of great masses can not be the same as the quality of a numerically weaker army such as ours , " Russian mass attacks also account for Russian mass losses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attacks , which the Russians have repeatedly attempted here in Volhynia , too , and which they have executed with several cavalry divisions in succession . The Russian artillery has been improved and increased in both quality and quantity . Recently large numbers of Russian captive balloons . have made their appearance on our front , and they are indispensable for artillery work in Volhynia . " Behind the front the Russians are bringing up their transports of reserves to fill up corps that have suffered heavy losses . America and Japan are furnishing ammunition , fortunately , however , made up of many blind damger ' shells that fail to explode . Our ammunition , thank God , is better . " Friends of the Russians , and particularly their French military instructors . are trying to improve their mass tactics and bring about the same attacking conditions and auxiliary means and methods prevailing on the west front . Thus on the occasion of the recent Russian attack and storming of trenches they sought to eliminate heavy mass losses by bringing the attackers nearer their goal under cover . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system of trenches fourteen days ago was , however , beaten back with the bloodiest losses . " The Russians expected to have easy going in Volhynia . They did not find here the hoped-for demoralized enemy . however , but machine guns , watchful outposts , wire entanglements , deep trenches and . unwelcome fighting aeroplane squadrons which daily threw two cons of bombs on profitable targets . 