@@683271

txt It is confidently expected that the Food Administration bill will pass the House of Representatives today or Monday , and that the Senate will accept it , with a few amendments , next week . In the House a drastic anticonspiracy amendment was adopted last night , and the present prospect is that such amendments as are made in the Senate will not cripple the bill or needlessly restrict the authority of the Food Administrator . It is essential that the law when it is enacted shall enable the Federal Government to prohibit speculation in food and hoarding for speculative purposes , to restrict exports of food so that our allies may get their fair share . and we shall have enough left to feed ourselves , to conserve food production . A readjustment of market prices will naturally follow . Senators and Representatives in Congress alike are getting over their repugnance to the bill as legislation which bestows large power on the Executive . They must agree to emergency measures in a period of war . Mr. FESS of Ohio expressed on Thursday the present attitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill unfavorably at first : With all my opposition to the drift toward centralization , with all my opposition toward giving too much power to the Executive . I shall vote for this bill as an emergeftey measure . I am not very much afraid of the statement that we are giving dangerous power to the President , and I have been one of the critics of the President in extending the Executive function over this branch . We have plenty of food here , but that does not solve the problem , unless we get food to the forces fighting our enemies . How can we prevent embarrassment of the armies through a campaign of starvation ? If a nation is starved , its enemy has the most effective weapon there is , more effective than the weapons of modern warfare . There is still some strong opposition to the bill , especially in the Senate , and not all of it is founded on honest objections to the centralization of power . But the advocates of the measure have been gaining strength every day . They have common sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the measure is strong throughout the country . The people realize that the production and distribution of food must be regulated and that the power to do so must be vested in the nation 's Executive . In fact , the emergency is so great that the bill must be accepted , and time spent in opposing it , for whatever reason , will be time wasted . Congress can not afford to waste a day this session . The Revenue bill must be taken up , and that will require careful consideration . The Aviation bill must not be much longerdelayed . The Food bill should have the President 's signature by the 1st of July . That will give the irreconcilable Senators , like Mr. REED of Missouri and Mr. SFIF:RMAN of Illinois , all the time they can fairly ask for to denounce it in choice IanKuage , and much more than is necessary .                     