@@682470

txt American residents of the City of Tampico . Mexico . have sent a telegram to Colonel Theodore Roosevelt , through the Roosevelt Non-Partisan League . expressing the hope that he will be elected Preeldent , and offering financial aid to help along the pre-convention campaign . Colonel Roosevelt . in some of his addresses , has charged that President Wilson refused the appeal of the American ' citizens in Tampico for protection during the riots incident to the occupation of Vera Cruz by American forces on April 20 , 1914 , and even withdrew United States warships , thus forcing Americans to obtain protection at the hands of ' British and German vessels . The triessage he received , therefore , gave him pleasure . Here is the telegram : Tampico , Mexico , via Laredo Junction . Guy Emerson , Roosevelt Non-Partisan League , 12 Vanderbilt Avenue , New York City . Two hundred American citizens , resident Temple ? , cordially support sentiments Roosevelt Non-Partisan League . Names and funds follow by mail . WILLIAM STUBBS . ANDREW HUGHES . Colonel Roosevelt 's mail has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stencgraphers have been put on the Job to help Secretary . Among this vast assortment of mall there was a letter from Vincent Woodbury . District Manager of the BritishAmerican Oil Company of Ontario . which dealt with the statement Colonel Roosevelt made In his recent . address before the Methodist Council in New York In which he said that during his term as President not an American citizen had been killed by the representative of any foreign Government . Senator Stone was among those who attacked this statement by Roosevelt and he cited the fact that Americans were killed by Mexicans at Cananea in the Roosevelt term Mr. Woodbury upheld Roosevelt 's assertion . He wrote : Senator Stone was not in Cananea when these riots took place . I was , and wish to record myself as follows : The trouble started as a Mexican strike for higher wages against the Cananea Copper Company . The Mexicans formed , dropped in at the mines concentrator and blast furnaces , and called out the men ; they were in good humor and , I believe . Intended nu mischief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Copper Company . ' phoned and instructed the Metcalfe  --  two brothers who ran the lumber yard  --  not to interfere with the Mexicans , who were at that time on their Way to the lumber yard to , call out the laborers working there . The Metcalfe were defiant ; they disobeyed instructions and turned the fire hose , with a mighty force , of water , upon the Mexicans . The Maticans gave . ground ; they were wet , hurt . and angered . They charged the Metcalfe and stabbed them to death with miners ' candlesticks . In this fight the Metcalfe were killed , and they had in turn succeeded in firing upon and killing three Mexicans . This fight brought about promiscuous fighting , and many shots were exchanged between Americans and Mexicans . The Mexicans. who certainly numbered over 5,000 , fled to the town , broke into the saloons , and started drinking . The women in the camp along with the chicken-hearted men , were rushed out of Cananea by special train . They were frightened , and upon reaching Naco and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trouble . By that time , or in less than twenty-four hours after the trouble started , you had the situation In hand . The serious breach of an armed force crossing the line into Mexico without sanction or permission of either the American or Mexican Government you healed by never allowing them to leave the train in which this force had arrived . You bad already communicated with President Diaz , who had a body of soldiers come from Bisbee to Cananea until this time you held the armed force which had come from Bisbee in Cassava until this Mexican force from President Diaz had arrived . This took less than twelve hours . The two Metcalfe and a Swede had been killed , and that totals the American casualties . A bridge fight had taken place between some adventurous Americans and Mexicans. but no particular damage was done . The entire affair was over in three days . The Bisbee force returned , the laborers got back on the job , and relations were restored between employer and employe . These facts you know of . Your relations with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your people  --  and it was protection . Riot happened , bloodshed and death , and then order reigned , all in the space of three days . Something happened . Something was done . We in Cananea did not do it . You never gave us a chance . We wanted to take a few potshots , but you sidestepped our argument by subtracting our difficulties , and no more disturbances happened . Let . Mr. Stone contrast this with the present situation , and in humiliation draw his belt a notch tighter . Colonel Roosevelt spent a quiet day and tried to get away from politics for a few hours . He will go to New York probably on Wednesday and hold some conferences at the Metropolitan Magazine offices . On Thursday afternoon he will leave for Detroit , where he will deliver an address on Friday morning .                     