@@680221

txt In case President Taft should be re-elezted. it is the impression among those who have been directing his campaign . or who have been earnestly hoping for his success , that he would make few , if any change : , in his cabinet . He would not permit the Secretary of State . Philander C. Knox , to retire without urging him-very strongly to stay . In the Wall Street district the impression now prevail : that President Taft might be disposed to name a new Secretary of the Treasury  --  not for any personal reason , but for one of political expediency . Should any change be made . it is not unlikely that President Taft v  --  ould again imite George G. Reynolds of Chicago , the creator of the second largest national bank in the United States , to accept the Treasury portfolio . Mr. Reynolds was President Tuft 's first choice for the Treasury Department when he was perfecting his cabinet a few days before his inauguration , in 1909 . Among the friends of the Attorney-General . George G. Wickersham , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of President Taft 's re-election . insist upon returning to private life But the gossip and chatter which have centered about President Taft 's possible course , in case he were to triumph on election day , are-trifling in comparison with much that has been heard in the way of conjecture about tze composition of the cabinet of Colonel Roosevelt , in case he be elected ; or of Governor Woodrow Wilson , in the event that he is triumphant . It would astonish no one in the financial district if Colonel Roosevelt , were he to be elected . acre to ask some one who has gained great prominence as a financier to enter the cabinet as Secretary of the Treasury . Roosevelt did not share . when he was President , the opinion which was commonly held among politicians that under no circumstances should the President select any one identified with the financial district of New York . nr any one of large wealth , to become Secretary of the Treasury . Even Grover Cleveland recognized the feeling of antipathy to the selection of a so-called Wall Street man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ near to Wall Street when he elor-e Daniel ' Manning , a national hank president of Albany , ii his first Secretary of the Treasury . It has always been the belief in the financial center here that if Colonel Roosevelt could have had his way , 11Ienry Clay Frick would have been appointed Secretary of the Treasury , to succeed Lyman J. Gage . Colonel noosevelt was not ignorant of the reputation which Mr Frick had gained as a leader , and upon a very great scale , in the securities market . Yet Colonel Roosevelt M  --  ecognized Mr. Frick 's constructive ability , and had great confidence in ali , Frick 's judgment respecting business conditions , and his information upon all matters respecting the material prosperity of the United States . Roosevelt believed that if Mr. Frick were to become Secretary of the Treasury , he would bring to the administration of that department the sole purpose of directing it to the best interests-of the entire American people . It is the recollection of the desire of Colonel Roosevelt to call Mr. Frick to his cabinet in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are active in the financial center to believe that if Colonel Roosevelt ba elected President he will invite some one who. in intellect , temperament , and achievement resembles Henry C. Frick , to take the Treasury Department portfolio . This impression undoubtedly explains much of the attitude of those in the financial district who have been giving their support to exPresident Roosevelt 's election , or who do not view his election with any sense of apprehension . So far as the State Department is concerned , it is the im ? pression here that Roosevelt , if he becomes President next March , will practically be his own Secretary of State None of those who have been closely associated with Colonel Roosevelt in this campaign has any idea whether or not Roosevelt , if elected , will summon Congress into extra session in the spring . If the Progressive party were to obtain a majority in the Lower House , Roosevelt would probably be disposed to tall Congress into extraordinary session . But he knows better than any men in public life , except , possibly , President Taft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon summoning Congress into extra session at the beginning of a new administration . IF WU ... SD:4 BE ELECTED . Some of Governor Wilson 's friends in this city are - inclined to the opinion that he has already vaguely formulated in his mind the construction of at least a part of his cabinet . In . his administration , if he have one , the State , Department , the Treasury Depart.oent , and , in a lesser degree , the Attorney-General 's office , are to be more important than any of the other cabinet departments . Governor Wilson has been very warmly supported by some men of wealth who have been associated more or less with Wall Street activities , always in an honorable - way . He could not have secured his nomination for Governor of New Jersey , had it not been for the financial aid given to him by a few men who are of considerable authority in the Wall Street district . For this reason it is presumed that Governor Wilson will make choice of a Secretary of the Treasury , if he be elected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directing , in a considerable manner , the great financial and industrial undertakings of the United States . The informal discussions and exehange of views which recently have overshadowed the guessing as to the result of the election , and which have attempted to forecast some features of the cabinet making of the President who is inaugurated in March , furnishes one of the best of explanations for the prevalence of the wide feeling , not of indifference or of apathy , but , instead , of confidence that whatever be the result of the election , the great business interests of the United States will have no cause for apprehension . For this reason business will go on after election with increased impulses , and with the promise that the year len will be one of abundant prosperity .                     