@@682356

txt The different conclusions arrived at for publication by political leaders in various parts of the country after hearing of the Roosevelt-Root-Lodge reconciliation luncheon at the home of Robert Bacon in New York on Friday were read with , the greatest interest here today . To clarify the situation these statements may be made : 1 . Colonel Roosevelt has not ' entered into any agreement with Root and Lodge and does not at this time contemplate entering any agreement which would bind him to aid in a movement to advance the efforts of some Republican leaders to nominate Supreme Court Justice Charles Evans Hughes as the Republican standard bearer . 2 . Ex-Senator Elihu Root did not seek the support of Colonel Roosevelt in an effort to obtain the nomination for himself , ( Root , ) and , in fact , has , according to a thoroughly reliable source , made it known definitely that lie is not seriously in the race for the nomination . 3 . Colonel Roosevelt , if convinced that the country was roused to the frame of mind lie has termed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accept a nomination at the Republican Convention , and , with the Progressive Party behind him , seek to overthrow the Wilson Administration , which he , as xvellaas Root and ' Lodge , has charged " ceraabat , 4 : # , Verility of placing this COrttet14bap j noble position in Its trelation-With ! oth a nations . 4 . Colonel Rdosevelt , as well as some of the Republican leaders who are ready to support him , it is said , is now convinced that Mr. Hughes is not the man . to unite the Ftepubli.can and ProgreSsive Parties and con , duct the catmidign for these parties Wilsonl.On the lines outlined , Mr : " Root-. in " his bellicose , Reeseaveltian'aiddress before the Republican : , ; tate Com  --  ontion in New York , an r address which was generally accepted at the time as the keynote of the Republican campaign . 5 . A number of the Republican leaders . including Root and Lodge , it is reported , have decided that the best interests of the country demand that there shall be no more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people , , and have come to the conclusion that Mr. Hughes will stand by his determination not to enter into any such campaign or appear as a candidate in any sense of the word , at least before the national conventions of the Republican and Progressive Parties , to meet on June 7 . Colonel Will Not Back HugheN . Summed up , the conclusions reached by the Roosevelt adherents amount to this : They are convinced absolutely that Colonel Roosevelt is not working in the interests of Root or Hughes , and that Root , Lodge , and Bacon knew this when they met the Colonel at luncheon , knowing that the reconciliation Would he reported all over the country and could not but act in favor of any ambitions the Colonel may have had to get back to the White House and guide the policies of this nation in the period of reconstruction which will follow the end of the European war . Furthermore , the conclusion has been reached that the political leaders who arc bitterly opposed to Roosevelt and refused to accept the luncheon as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least hold off , pending further developments . had , in their statements from Washington , D. C. , and other i points , attempted in their confusion and amazement to place upon it an interpretation which would soften any favorable effect so far as the Colonel was concerned and at the same time make the luncheon appear as a boost for the nomination of Hughes or Root , and especially for the former . These leaders , it is held , were running around in circles , their minds in a whirl for hours after they first heard of the luncheon . endeavoring to discover sonic way in'which they could steal th 's new bolt of the Colonel 's thunder and turn it to their own advantage by making it advance the interests of the candidate they favored . These views are given added weight by the fact that visitors who have Journeyed to Saga-more Hill are for the most part convinced on coming away that the Colonel will appear openly as a most formidable candidate for the Republican nomination when the conventions meet in Chicago , if not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom the Colonel has seen fit to talk frankly has felt that he was ready to back Hughes . The fact that ex-Senator Root has appeared as one of the most prominent , if not the dominant , figure of the Republican Party of the nation of late has added to the importance of the situation which his reconciliation with Roosevelt created , Root has taken the front of the platform , overshadowing National Chairman Idles , Governor Whitman , Senator Penrose , Murray Crane , or ? any other person high in the party councils whose name may be mentioned . Barnett Ire Not Feared . Barnes of New York , who apparently failed , even in an effort to crush Governor Whitman , is counted practically a power of the past , with no chance of coming back seriously as a dominant figure in the happenings at the Republican National Convention . Republican leaders from all parts of the country have seen fit to consult Root as the ( leader of his party , and Root 's speech at the New York State Convention was spread broadcast over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been hinted , and apparently with excellent basis , that several promanent Republican ' leaders , Including some United . States . Senators ' and National CoMmitteemen , * will -. follow the lead of Root and enter into a reConciliation , with the Colonel . It a surprise if some of . them : went : as - fat as to visit Sagamore ' Hill to talk things ' over . That may . not necessarily . mean that they will openlY .. tbrow support to . the Colonel ; but ' it will , to alt intents and . purposes , that . effecf . ? ' An announcement-. by . Mr. Hughes . of his candidacy and a statement ' of be- : . liefs along ' tha lines . adopted by Root and Roosevelt in their recent , . utterances ls . apparently the only - :thing which could at this ' time ' seriously criPPie the redoubled effort- to : =obtain the Colonel 's nomination ; which has been ? the outgrowth of the luncheon at Bacon 's battle , . and which- promises , not checked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they saw fit , would find themselves- sorely taxed to ? kill , it off. - The Roosevelt . advisers are confident that Hughes will I take no such step , and on that reasoning they see nothing ahead , as a result of the latest developments , but the nomination of Roosevelt . Effect or Bacon Luncheon . . There has been much talk of late that many of the Republican Old Guard leaders are not at heart favor able to the selection of Hughes as ' the standardbearer , . and that they got behind the movement to name him for the Presidency simply to head off Roosevelt . If they find that ' Root . Lodge , . and others are with the Colonel it is possible , it ' is said , that they may come to the conclusion that it would be better , for their interests to get Roosevelt back in power than to have later to deal - with Hughes as the leader of the party . For a few days Colonel Roosevelt . and the Republican leaders probably will wait for reports on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further steps . The situations in Massachusetts and Pennsylvania , where factional fights were staged over the election of delegates ' to the Republican National Convention , for and against Roosevelt , will be taken up , as the luncheon will have an Important effect undoubtedly on the primaries there , and may even result in ironing out all the disputes and bringing about complete harmony . The Colonel expressed the hope that he would be permitted to remain in seclusion today , after his strenuous week . As far as is known he had no visitors , and he spent the time preparing for the busy week which is ahead of him                     