@@679127

txt The White City . as the Belgians have called their 1910 exposition or World 's Fair , is to-night a mass of flames and smouldering fuins The loss is estimated to-night at $100,000:1 000 . A spark caused a short circuit falling into some inflammable material in the Telegraph Building burst ? up in flames , which , driven by a high Wind . swept rapidly in all directions . Soon the Belgian , English , and French sections were destroyed . The firemen and detachments oe soldiers called quickly to the scene , found themselves baffled by the veritable gale , which carried the burning embers to all parts of the e ; leounds . To the left of the main building arose the picturesque roofs and spires cf - Bruxelles 's Kermesse , " a Belgian Coney Island , with water chutes , ' toboggan slides , and scores of side shows . This place was alive with Sunday crowds , and before they could be gotten out with any semblance of order the Kermesse was afire . The crowds became panic-stricken , and men , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exits became choked with the struggling masses , and men used their fists to clear the pathway . Many were trampled under foot and badly injure . An Engine Corps from Antwerp attempt .. ed to blow up the bridge of the French section . in the hope of checking the fire . but the flames leaped across and engulfed the Italian , Russian , Austrian , JapaneSe . Chinese . and Norwegian buildings . Forty houses on the Avenue Selbosch , adjoining the exposition , were destroyed . At the time of the outbreak not less than 100,000 persons were circulating- in the grounds and the Kermesse . Troops were ordered out , and came at double quick to aid the police in clearing the great grounds . Within the limits of the Kermesse , where the vast crowds became entangled in an almost inextricable mass. fighting desperately to find an escape from the flames which swept viciously through the tinder-like structures . In addition to the panic that - prevailed in the Kermesse there were several minor panics at other points within the ground% and women and children were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animals escaped from their cages and added terror to the scene . It is believed that several of them are still at large . Soon the enormous fagade tumbled in ruins . Considering the rapidity of the conflagration , the small loss of life is marvelous . So far as Is known up to a late hour to-night only two are dead . The injured , as officially announced , number thirty , but probably many hundreds received minor hurts . As the flames reached the menagerie , it was decided to shoot the beasts , but the heat drove back the soldiers , and the animals were left to their fate . The multitude of people were driven back to a safe distance , and watched the thrilling spectacle of the destruction of the White City . Tongues of fire mounted high into the heavens , and flaming embers were carried off by the wind and fell upon the residences beyond , setting them on fire . The fire was finally gotten under control . The Belgian and English sections are in ruins , while all the other sections , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thieves engaged in pillage , and a soldier was stabbed while attempting to arrest three men whom he found rifling a jewelry exhibit . Many jewel exhibitors were uninsured and will suffer heavily . In the French art section the priceless Gobelins , paintings . and sculpture were ruined , as were the rich treasures in the English , Belgian , Persian , and Turkish section . All the archives were burned , and it will therefore be impossible to confer medals and diplomas . Belgium 's White City stood near the end of the Avenue Louise , the fashionable park drive which on the west side of Brussels leads out to the beautiful Bois de le , Cambre . The National Building , that of the Belgian section , rose majestically on a slight elevation facing the main entrance . To the left of the main building was the Kermesse . A magnificent quadrilateral of gardens was surrounded by the four concessions of Prance . Germany , Holland , and Italy . The Italian pavilion was built after the Renaissance style of the fourteenth century . The German section was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devoted to eithibits of railroad companies , agricultural machines . art , and education . The Netherlands section included an elevated roadbed . One of the most striking features of the French section was the Palace of Agriculture and Horticulture , special pavilions being devoted to Tunis , Madagascar , Algeria , Western Africa- , and Indo-China . The Spanish pavilion offered a remarkable reproduction of the Alhambra Palace at Grenada . The Court of Lions and sevleral of the ruins of state were represented , in which the Spanish Government exhibited some of its national treasures , such as tapestries , paintings , armors , arid jewels of the former royal families . An interesting feature . of the fair was the House of Rubens . which was the official pavilion of Antwerp . Besides representative exhibits of all branches of local activity , the pavilion contained a retrospective exhibition of Flemish art of the Rubens period . It was announced some time before the opening of the exhibition that many of the leading museums* of the world would contribute masterpieces in their possession . King Albert inaugurated the Colonial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States Congress failed to grant an appropriation for the purpose of an American exhibit at the exposition , but a section of 25,000 square feet was set aside for Americans on the assurance Of the National Association of Manufacturers that the space would be filled . A number of private exhibitors united in the construction of a small American section . The space occupied by the entire exposition was about 200 acres , forty acres ? of which was occupied by buildings .                     