@@683533

txt of a conference held today the automo- I bile manufacturing interests of the country have succeeded in partly straightening out a situation that promised considerable embarrassment in the conduct of their business . The foundation was laid at the conference for arrangements that will result in almost the entire industry being diverted to the uses of the Government for war purposes . Munitions , engines , and aircraft are to be ' manufactured hereafter by the automobile manufacturing plants , in some cases to the almost entire excnision of pleasure cars and even a large proporion of commercial trucks necessary to carry on the increased private business that has come to the United States in consequence of war activity . The conference was attended by members of the War Industries Board of the Council of National Defense and representatives of the Automobile Chamber of Commerce and large automobile manufacturing concerns . About one hundred men were present . The meeting was the outcome of an order issued by Judge Robert S. Lovett as Chairman of the Priorities Board , a section of the War Industries Board , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Government . It was contended that the automobile interests were not consulted or notified in advance of this order and , as a result , thei found their business in danger of paralysis . Protests by the automobile makers caused the suspension of the execution of he order and it was arranged to hold today 's conference With a view to ascertaining the situation from the standpoint of the motor car manufacturers . The basic complaint was that the automobile manufacturing interests should have been consulted before the , order was issued so they could have readjusted their business to meet the condition . The conference showed that the makers of automobiles were entirely willing to assist the Government in every way to Win the war , and all that they asked was consideration sufficient to permit them to readjust their affairs to meet the new situation . Mast Take Up War Work . It was evident from what was said that automobile factories would De transformed into plants for the production of munitions , engines , flying machines and other devices urgently needed for the war . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be made by the War Industries Board to formulate a scheme for governmental use of the automobile factories and to work out a plan for the proportion of work to be done for the Government and for private purposes . That the making of pleasure cars would be curtailed at least 75 per cent . was evident , and factories engaged in making such cars will devote their activities to the production of articles which the War Industries Board deems more essential . The Governmen. was said to be satisfied with the present arrangements for the production of motor trucks for war purposes , so that few of the factories that will hereafter devote their work to Government uses will increase their capacity for turning out trucks or undertake truck construction if they have not already been engaged in that branch of the business . Everything will be done to prevent a paralysis of the auto . mobile industry , which employs about 1,000,000 persons . The Government will probably be able to take care of this class of skilled labor , which is urgently needed in other branches of industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2t11 , , 00t ) men are likely to be provided for . Howard E. Coffin , Cpairinan of the Aircrafts Production Section of the Defense Council , said that . while the motor makers had done what was asked of them , more effort was needed . He aszerted that the industry would not be disturbed hastily , and that while its conversion to other uses must be rapid , it must be undertaken so as not to injure an industry which was paying such heavy taxes and giving employment to so many men . He suggested that a committee be appointed to study the situation and ascertain what each factory could do best . Has Vast Potentialities . In the opinion of Mr. Coffin the . automobile factories can do from 75 to 00 per cent more than they are doing toward meeting Government needs without injuring their business . He said that 5 per cent . of the people in the United States were now living on the automobile industry in all its branches . It was explained that there was no disposition to commandeer the automobile industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their power to aid the Government . That the automobile concerns of the United States are rapidly feeling the effect of the war was reported by some of those present today . Pleasure cars are not . being bought rapidly , and there is difficulty in obtaining steel and nickel . The congestion of the railroads is preventing the shipment of cars , and It was agreed that it would be better for the motor concerns to devote themselves largely to other work until the war ended . It was reported that about 40 per cent . of the work now being done by motor cor terns was for the Government , and that within another three mon ha this would be increased to 75 per cent. , and even more , if necessary . Officers and leading membe:s of the Automobile Chamber of Commerce attewled the conference . Others preset were H. L. Horning . Brig . Gen. Chauncey B. Baker , in charge of land and water transportation for the Quartermaster 's Department ; C. W .. Stiger , President of . he Motor Accessories Association ; F. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and H. R. Sutphen of the National Associa , ion of Engine and Boat Manufacturers                     