@@679209

txt Banking among the Important best of the many good Work in appointments marking ' the administration of Good Hands ' Gov . Humittg is , in the opinion of those qualified " to judge it , that rf liaise Frtexeris A. Kreeon tcs the position of Chief Investigator itt the Department of Labor , just made by Commissioner WILLIAMS . Miss Itzeton is already well known for her interests in the - welfare of newly arrived immigrants , for her appreciation of the need that they should be guarded and guided into efficient Citizenship , and for the skill and success with which she has already conducted several inquiries into the dangers encotilitered by them on and after landing . Her reports have emphasized the fact that it is as injurious to - the State as to the Immigrants when they are left in their helplessness to be robbed by the many kinds of land pirates who lie in wait for them , and ? that it is to the public welfare as well as to their own that they be scattered to parts of the country where their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they naturally do , at the port of their landing or near it , to enter into a fierce and demoralizing competition with each other for starvation wages . The Immigration Commission is little concerned with the question of eligibility for admission ; its attention is chiefly turned to the immigrants who have passed the tests and come ashore in the new land . They have been the victims of much bare-faced robbery and of muon cold-blooded extortion and exploitation . So well-informed on all these subjects has Miss KELLOH already made herself that she is peculiarly competent to direct further investigation of the several abuses , and to suggest and institute the many reforms still needed . The appropriation for this work is a small one , and it fa said that to supplement the amount available for expenditure Miss Keeton purposes to contribute her whole salary . That ought not to be necessary , and we doubt ft it Is judicious . The State can afford to pay for work done for it and should do so . Indeed , it does , when the value of the work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and not an unimportant part , of Miss Iieeeon 's task . " The public " should not bo pauperized by gifts any more than the immigrants , A most serious situaHarshness tlon has developed at Well Cornell . With a carelessness wholly inexplicDeserved : ? able the members of the faculty there have allowed the scheduled boars of study and recitation so to infringe upon the time needed for football practice that the coaches , half in rage and half in despair , have been forced to issue an ultimatum . Unless the members of the teams are set free every day at 3 o'clock all attempts to train them for coming battles will cease r and the coaches will resign their post : Lions . It is a matter of conscience with them ; they scorn to waste their energies on boys who are allowed on the field only 1 two or three afternoons in the week , for in such conditions nothing worth while can be done , even with the most prom ! sing of " material . " No wonder the coaches are discouraged . What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anyhow ? Apparently they imagine that football and athletics in general are incident , secondary , subordinate ! in what a. strange , sequestered , dreamy , unpractical world they must live , to have preserved stieh Ideas till this late day . Now that they have been sternly dragged out of their academic holes and forced to confront important facts of course they will wake up and rearrange their silly if chedules . Life is real , life is earnest , and education Is not Latin . Greek . and mathematics .                     