@@680873

txt Gen. Jose Santos Zelaya , the deposed President of Nicaragua , for whom agents of the Department of Justice and Deputy United States Marshals have been searching since Monday on a warrant charging him with murder in Nicaragua , was arrested at midnight last night while asleep in bed in the apartment of Washington S. Valentine on the sixth floor of an apartment house at 645 West End Avenue . The arrest of Zelaya followed the search by Government officials of two other apartments in which it was suspected he would be found . The first search was made on Monday at the Waldorf-Astoria . It was found that Zelaya had been warned and had fled . On Tuesday he was traced to the Hotel Hargrave , at Seventy-second Street and Columbus Avenue . Two of his sons were found at this hotel , to which the exPresident 's baggage had been traced . It was said at the hotel that he had gone away a short time before and had taken with him a large envelope full of money which he had kept in the hotel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Department of Justice , went to Mr. Valentine 's apartment Just before midnight last night . I have a warrant for the arrest of Jose Santos Zelaya , " ne said after Mr. Valentine had answered Ms ring at the door bell . " I do not wish to put you to any inconvenience , but I am positive he is here and will have to search the apartment if you do not surrender him . " " Yes , he is here , " Mr. Valentine said , " and he will not try to escape . " The agent of the Department of Justice was taken to a bedroom . He struck a match and by its glow made out the form of Gen. Zelaya asleep in bed . He held the match close to Gen. Zelaya 's face , whereupon Gen. Zelaya awoke and was informed that he was under arrest . Gen. Zelaya dressed quickly and asked Permission to telephone to his lawyer , Luis F. Correa . Correa had been the Nicaraguan Minister to the United States when Zelaya was Nicaragua 's ' President . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from his pocket the envelope filled with money that he had brought from the Hotel Hargrave . He handed this en , velope to Mr. Valentine , and said he was ready to accompany the officc.r . Deputy United States Marshals were waiting outside . They conducted Gen. Zelaya to the West 100th Street police station , and later to the Greenwich Street police station , where he was locked up for the night . Mr. Valentine accompanied Gen. Zelaya to the police station . It was said that he was a friend of Gen. Zelaya and had ? become acquainted with him while engaged in business in Honduras and Nicaragua . The warrant on which Gen. Zelaya I was arrested was signed by Assistant United States District Attorney Roger D. Wood and was taken out before United States Commissioner Shields . Et was prepared under orders received from Attorney General upon the request of the State Department . The arrest is made under a clause in the treaty with Nicaragua providing that this Government shall provisionally detain " any person suspected of a crime in Nicaragua . Extradition papers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1801 are said to be on their way from Nicaragua . At first it was supposed that the execution of two American citizens , Cannon and Grove , caught with a rebel army in Nicaragua , was responsible for Zelaya 's arrest , but this was denied . Gen. Zelaya 's grandson , Robert Lee Zelaya , who is 5 years old , pointed out to reporters yesterday , while in a department store with his mother , some detectives who were lurking near by . The boy 's mother , who is an American and a grand niece of Gen. Robert E. Lee , pointed out the detectives also . " They have followed us all day , " she said . " Wher- ' ever we go , I look around for them , and in three different stores in which I have been shopping I have found them . And this is the ' land of the free , ' to which our forefathers came merely in order that they might be free . Because my father-in-law happened to prefer the welfare of his own people and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was driven from power , and now all the sinister influences of these concession hunters and public officials whom they have bribed is used to force all who are of his family to live in an atmosphere of terror and of momentary expectance of serious harm . " I am proud of my American ancestry , but my experience as a member of the household of a man hunted down by American exploiters has made me wish time and again that the people of our country could only know enough of Central American conditions to be immuneto the skillful efforts of those with a big money stake to discolor all the facts of Central American conditions and so Justify the use of marines and bluejackets to destroy all forces that stand In the way of cruel commercial exploitation of the Central American people . " Mr. C. Alfonso Zelaya , who joined his wife while the interview was in progress , gave this explanation of the State Department 's attitude toward his father : " The Emery lumber claim , " he said . " was worked under a concession permitting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms were complied with . For one thing the Company was required to plant a small tree each time it sawed down a matured one and for another It was required to pay the Government a percentage of all profits . The investigators my father sent reported that the young trees had not been planted as required and that they had been offered bribes to report that everything was all right . My father canceled the concession . One of the two Americans my father is said to have killed was no American at all . He had taken out citizenship papers in a Central American state and has children there to-day surviving him . " 