@@684522

txt EFFICIENCY IN THE POST OFFICE While this association has no desire to enter into a newspaper controversy over the discussion that is now going on between the Postmaster General and Charles Johnson Post , yet as this body was formed and incorporated in 1002 to seek the wisest and fairest solutions of questions pertaining to postal affairs , it seems that attention should be called to two misstatements made in this controversy that are published In your issue of this date  --  the first by the Postmaster General and the second by Charles Johnson Post  --  misstatements that are not necessarily to be construed as intentional , but that are still misleading and do not give the full knowledge that should be conveyed on this subject . This is not a factional , political , personal , or trade class matter . It is a question of efficiency to the whole of the country , a vital question which touches their social , economic , and business life . The Postal Commission Congress , Jan. 28 , 1907 , stated " upon the postal service more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the social and political development of the country depend . " The Postmaster General insists that the issue now is , Shall these certain selfish publishers who have been bloodsucking the postal establishment for years to the extent of $72,000,000 annually be restored to this privilege , having been choked off by Congressional action of only one-third of their paper ? " This seriously beclouds the true Issue , which affects us all . That the postal system as now administered is at the lowest ebb of efficiency is without question , and therefore its immediate resuscitation is much more grave than any internal question now before the country . The ' transmission of thought alone , promptly and efficiently , was the sole use of this great department for many years ; but today it has saddled upon itself the additional duties of freightage , thought by wire , spoken and written , and has assumed other forms of activities that should have been 11. ft to the care of those who had not only built up but were trained for those lines . Therefore , its original work has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " Jack-of-all trades " quotation would alone aptly describe it . . As Mr. Burleson has chosen to view this only as a factional fight with the publishers , I trust that he will not take it amiss if he is asked how he can reconcile the rates charged second class matter as quoted below : PRICES ON SECOND CLASS MATTER Pds . Zone . Prices Parcel Post . Prices 2d Class Matter . Gov . Cost as Shown by Its Own Figures . Only the first five zones are here computed . Taking New York City as the basic zone , over 95 per cent . of a publication will be delivered within this area , as it takes us to Kansas City on the west , south of Tampa , Fla. , in the south , and to the Canadian border , even as far north as the State of Minnesota , practically covering all New England , most of the South , and the most widely settled of the Central Western States . As a matter of fact , you could probably eliminate the fifth zone and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publications issued . Multiply these twenty and fifty Pounds by hundreds of thousands of pounds , and the cost to the Government lowers very materially . These computations are based on the Government figures compiled by a board , by order of Postmaster General Burleson , and are dated Nov. 20 , 1913 . It was on the strength of this report that Postmaster General Burleson lowered the prices on the first , second , and third zones . As the parcel post stamp was in use during the whole period covered by their investigation as to cost of said service , the cost should be approximately right . An official copy of the chart showing these figures is on record in this office . Charles Johnson Post states : " Among these is your contemptuous overturn of the sound postal principles established by President Lincoln , " &c.; This statement conveys the idea that the present Postmaster General is responsible for the zone system . That is not so . The zone system was fathered by Jonathan Bourne , United States Senator ; approved and recommended by ex-Postmaster General Hltohcock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As a matter of fact President Wilson , when Governor of New Jersey , did not believe in a zone system , and the records are in this office to that effect . That the zone system which had , been aboliFihed by Abraham Lincoln in 1863 was not desired by the country at the time of its passage was evidenced by the editorials on this subject at the time . Even China , then just emerging from a condition of semi-savagery , ( 1887 , ) conceded that the true principle , the flat rate only , should be considered . The five big catalogue houses of America , sending out nearly 80,000,000 of catalogues semi-annually , and of ttimes quarterly with this immense distribution , are not compelled by law to pay postage from point of publication , but from point of distribution , and therefore have nearly two hundred distributing points to which they send their publications by fast freight and then put them in the mails , thereby paying only for the local and first zones . They as well as the publishers print at regular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be difficult to find a satisfactory reason for the difference in the price of transporting a thousand pounds of newspapers and letters and a thousand pounds of merchandise in the same cars , between the same places and at the same time . Yet more than from two to eight times as much is demanded in one case as in the other . Congress should call together a board representing every industry in the country  --  appoint to such ' board an equal number of its own body , those who best understand this question , eliminate all the political aspects , and determine . upon an equitable rate for all classifications . The conditions of the postal service of this country have been brought close to each and every one of us  --  and no comment thereon could either add to or take from , but personal attack and vituperation will not amend or bring about aught save bitter feeling . There must be a change , and intelligent , concentrated effort will effect it . If the commercial bodies of the country will each send a written protest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and demand that a rectification of all the ills so apparent be attempted , even though it costs the official head of any official connected therewith , you will at once find a prompt consideration will be accorded . The time is now , the hour is here . Let us take advantage of it . THEODORE GLOVER FTLLETTE , Executive Vice President and Secretary Postal Progress League . 