@@680610

txt The party in power is construing its mandate on the tariff into a mandate for enacting the sort of finance with which it is connected historically , and which the country has rejected even oftener than it has voted for the revision of the tariff . It is necessary to admit that the bill contains some good things , and that it is better than the Democratic platforms of the last several campaigns . But , not for that reason should the banking of the country be submitted to the strain through which its business interests are passing . Politics makes strange hedfellows. and fairness of discussion makes it necessary to admit the necessity which com-a pelled the President to allow his partners to make the experiment of the proposal of Government  --  that is of political  --  finance . The result is a welcome demonstration that the country will have none of it . not even to secure at that price much that it wants . The country never had a sounder or stronger appreciation of the fact that banking and business both require less Governmental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in case of banking . but the unclarlYaing.principles are stronger and broader " than banking alone . The tariff is under revision because of the excess of paternalism . and it is at the time that the evils of paternalism are under demonstration and illustration in the case of general business that the party which represents opposition to paternalism proposes to set it up . in exaggerated form for banking . The party of opposition to centralization of government ? and which is offended by the name " central bank , " proposes to establish a form of banking which is more centralized than even the Aldrich proposal , and which leaves the United States Bank " tied to the post " as an illustration of speed in getting away from ancient party traditions . The country is in no mood for such mockery . It has repudiated the Republicans ' preposterous proposal to guarantee profits by the tariff . and it knows exactly what to do with a Democratic proposal to give the Government " absolute control " of the national banking system with a view to " promote a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is going to give absolute control to anybody else . A bank is not a helpless public utility like a railroad , and there is no necessity that any national hank should remain in the system . Those who appreciate the situation are already plainly declaring that their capital will not participate in the plan . Nor is the proposal to regulate prices any happier . The regulation of prices is no more a suitable function of Government than the regulation of Profits or of wages . Every man has a right to profits or wages as high as he can make in compliance with the customs imposed by that universal conscience called the common law . Limitation of profits or wages is handicapping of efficiency at unendurable loss to the total welfare . The regulation of prices is artificial disturbance of prices . At what level Shall prices be stabilized ? Shall " a rate of discount he made mandatory " to keep prices up . or down , and how is it that this simple expedient has not been discovered before ? How shall ' , discount be made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shall the mandate be applied to the banks alone , and if so - to what purpose ? What is the use of a mandate to regulate discount by the banks unless there is also a mandate that borrowers shall pay the mandate rate ? These questions are asked in the hope that they will suggest the broader principles which are of as specific application to banaing as to other ' business . Power and responsibility should never be separated , because all action should be with regard to the consequences of the acts done . The idea that tha banking . of the nation should be at ? the mercy of politicians of second or third class calibre rather than in the care of bankers whose interests are inextricably bound up with the prudence of their management is foolish beyond expression . Not less absurd is the idea that good banking is the product of statutes . The world 's best banking is where banking is most free from interference except by laws applying to all trade . In China there is a custom that when a bank fails the officers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If the Government 's appointees as bank managers should submit themselves to a similar requirement they would act under a sense of responsibility which might make them as careful as the men representing those who own the capital they administer . We are seeing the railways administered with indifference to the woes of their owners , and we are seeing the trusts disintegrated with especial severity against the largest and best of them . To expect the owners of banking capital to allow themselves to be subjected to the experiences testified to by Mr. GARY and Mr. PERKINS is to expect the impossible . The proposal carries with it the possibilities of greater embarrassments than are being experienced with such disillusionment in the industrial world Stop it , gentlemen , before you suffer through the country 's suffering                     