@@679133

txt An automobile at high speed shot past James Dean of 947 Amsterdam Avenue shortly before 9 o'clock ' last night as Dean - was driving his car slowly along Pelham Parkway . A few hundred feet further on Dean came upon the wreck I of a light buggy in the road . Near by lay two girls and a man . The horse which had drawn them had disappeared . I Discovering that one of the girls was dead and that the other and the man were unconscious , Dean swung his car laround and set off in pursuit of the flying automobile . The tail light of the Ispeeding car was visible far up the road I and Dean put on full power and started after it . For three miles he continued the chase , but at City Island Avenue he abandoned ' it , realizing his ear was not 11 speed , enough . On his way back to the wreck , Dean picked up Policeman Coster of the Westchester Station . He told the policeman of the flying car and of the dead girl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ road . Soon he dropped Coster beside the wreck . Neither the man nor the girl had revived , and Coster pressed Dean 's car into service again to carry him to a telephone , where he sent in a call for an ambulance to Foralham Hospital . When Dean and Coster returned they found several automobiles had stopped and their occupants were endeavoring to resuscitate the man and girl . There were several women among the volunteer rescuers , and they did what they could in the hour that Intervened before the Fordham ambulance eould arrive from the hospital . When Dr. Hoy arrived he said the dead girl had died instantly . Her neck was broken and her skull fractured . The other girl and the man , ' he said , had internal injuries and both were badly cut and bruised . The positions in which Dean found them showed that the dead girl had been thrown more than twenty feet out into the middle of the road . The others had shorter falls on the inside of the . roadway . Dr. Hoy hurried the two to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his arrival , the man regained consciousness . He said he was George Vedder 01 2,282 Bathgate Avenue , the Bronx . The dead girl was Miss Grace Hough of 175tH Street and Bathgate Avenue , and the other girl is Miss Anna McCabe of 437 East 173d Street . ' edder. who owned the smashed rig , said he had taken the two girls for a ride when the automobile came upon them from behind . and Smashed Into the rear of their carriage with terrific force . After that Vedder knew nothing of what had happened . Coroner Sehwannecke hurried to the hospital , but arrived too late to hear thestory from Vedder , who had lapsed again into unconsciousness . The condition of both him and Miss McCabe is critical . The Coroner learned from Dean . however , that while he had been unable to overtake the fleeing automobile he had caught its number . The Coroner communicated with Inspector Flood , and half a dozen motorcycle men were sent out to patrol the Parkway . Several bids of highly polished wood and particles of glas4. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Coroner preserved , believing they came from the auto which caused the accident . The police stated later that License li ) 0,472 , New York . was held by J. T. Rosenheimer of Wolff Lane . Pelham . Over the telephone , they said , a woman 's voice told them that Mr. Rosenheimer was out in his automobile and had not returned . Coroner Schwanneeke then ordered the police to communicate with the police of Pelham and have them also take up the search for the missing auto , If it were found , the Coroner ordered that every one in it should be arrested . Vedder 's horse was found several hours after the accident half a mile away from the ' scene of the crash . He was unhurt . although he showed signs of a violent fall and of being dragged over the ground .                     