@@681678

txt further information is received from the British and French Governments in regard to the manner in which they propose to carry out their intention to cut off trade to and from Germany . the Administration will not enter any protest against the contemplated restriction of American trade , or even determine what course it will pursue with reference to the very serious and complex situation created by the attitude of the Allies . This position of the United States was disclosed by President Wilson today , and Secretary Bryan made toe statement that the Anglo-French note was still under discussion by the Government , and the character of the answer to be returned had not Leen determined . As the situation was explained by the President . France and England notified this Government of the declaration of a policy with reference to reprisals against Germany as a response to the Germa nnaval war zone order , with its submarine warfare against merchant shipping , but did not indicate in what manner the AngloFrench restrictions would be carried out . This Government feels that until it has more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do with reference to the manner In which trade with Germany is to be cut off , the proper course to pursue is to formulate no policy . In the meanwhile , inquiries may be made to ascertain the plan arranged by Great Britain and France to live up to the letter and spirit of the announcement made yesterday . From what was said by President Wilson to callers at the White House today , it is evident that , in spite of the fact that in the Anglo-French note the words " blockade " and " embargo " were carefully avoided , this Government regards the restrictions intended to be carried out by the allied Governments as a virtual blockade . The President said , however , that while the new arrangement provided for what was apparently a blockade , he had not yet arrived at the precise meaning , and further correspondence might be necessary to make clear Just wnat was intended by England and France . President Wilson 's View . An inkling of the probable course of the United States Government was afforded by a response made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a caller today . lie said that no nation had the right to change the rules of war , and added that the conditions of war had radically changed , but the rules had not . This seemed to point clearly to the idea that the President was not disposed to concede that Great Britain and France were privileged to restrict American trade to or from Germany by the methods indicated in their note . The position of the United States appears to be , judged from what was caid by the President and other offiiate , that to carry out the intentions expressed in the Anglo-French note , the two allies must endeavor to enforce a blockade of the kind heretofore recognized  --  that is a. blockade administered through a cordon of warships drawn closely around German ports . The restrictions described in the AngloFrench note contemplate the seizure of neutral vessels on evidence or suspicion that they are proceeding to or from German ports , and it was made evident that these seizures would take place in most cases at a considerable distance from the German coast . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here as a " long distance blockade . " It is the position of the President tl , at while the Anglo-French note outilined a policy , the outline was given in very general terms and did not inform this and other interested Governments of ' he means to be employed in carrying It Into effect . In these circumstances the . officials of the Administration will give careful study to the language of the note - and will obtain some more definite explanation of what is intended to be done . Discussed by Cabinet . ' MU matter was considered at today 's meeting of the Cabinet , but without further result than a general agreement that no action should be taken until more explicit information had been received . It is admitted that action by thi4 . Government may be precipitated through specific occurrences , such as the seizure of an American ship with a cargo of non-contraband goods intended for Holland or a neutral country adjacent to German territory , or to Germany itself . In such an event this Government would probably find it necessary to define the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Danish minister . called at the State Department during the day for information on the situation . He said he thought shipping to and from his country would not be interfered with by the latest decree . and that the commerce of neutral countries would go on practically as it had since the outbreak of the war .. He pointed out that Denmark already had embargoed re-exportation of all the articles declared to be contraband by the Allies . and that little or no commerce coming out of Denmark originated in Germany , Swedish Minister Ekengren also sought information at the Department concerning the Allies ' decree . While officials are reticent as to their views concerning the Anglo- French plan .. it is apparent that they are not disposed to concede that Great Britain and France have the right to change the rules of international warfare by the adoption of a policy which interferes with the rights heretofore conceded to neutrals . It was pointed out today that the Only course open to the United States In the event that the Allies failed to establish a real blockade of German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other course was possible , it was asserted , if the United States Government intended to remain true to its consistent attitude since the days of Thomas Jefferson . Jefferson 's Policy . When Jefferson was Secretary of State in 1793 , he laid down the principle from which the Government has never departed . At that time he declared " Great Britain might , indeed , feel a desire to starve an enemy nation ; but she can have no right to do so at our loss , nor make us an Instrument of it . " This doctrine was affirmed as recently as 1904. when John Hay , then Secretary of State , stated that " provisions which , though ordinarily innocent , are capable of warlike use , are not subject to capture and confiscation unless shown by evidence to be actually destined for the military or naval forces of belligerents . " What was said by Jefferson and Hay applies directly to the present situation , according to students of international law , and no doubt is felt here that the President and Secretary of State will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinguished American diplomatists . It was said today that any response made by the United States to the Allies in the form of a protest would find great strength in the fact that the Jeffersonian doctrine had also been an established principle of British international law since the beginning of the nineteenth century , and in very recent years Lord Salisbury and Lord Lansdowne had affirmed this doctrine . In the Boer war Lord Salisbury declared that " foodstuffs , with a hostile destination , could be considered contraband of war only if they were supplies for the enemy 's forces . " To this he added : " It Is not sufficient that they are capable of being so used ; it must be shown that this was in fact their destination at the time of the seizure . " Great Britain and France have announced to this and other neutral Governments the intention of stopping all supplies intended for Germany , whether going direct to German ports or through neutral adjacent countries . and it has been made plain by both Governments that the restriction is intended to apply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population . Some hope is felt here that an embarrassing diplomatic situation will not be produced between the United States and the government of the Allies through the contemplated restrictions announced yesterday . This hope is based mainly on the fact that the German Govern- , ment has indicated to the United States thatit will accept the proposals of . the Unita-States with certain inodifictitions for lessening the severity of the naval war zone order and submarine warfare on merchant shipping if Great Britain " rill , in turn , modify its declaration of intention to cut off food supplies from German Reply Delayed . Germany 's reply to the American note seeking a possible limitation of the use of German submarines and mines against British merchant shipping if an arrangement could be effected with England to admit food to Germany has not been received in Washington . The German reply was handed to Ambassador Gerard at Berlin on Sunday , according to unofficial advices , and was to Le made public by the German Government this afternoon . Secretary Bryan said late this afternoon that the German reply had not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would probably be made public with the texts of the American note to Germany and England The State Department telegraph office and cipher clerks were on duty tonight , ready to receive and decipher the German reply , but up to a late hour it bad not arrived . Sometimes there is a short preliminary message sent by the Ambassador , saying the note is about to be started . But this intimation bad not been received either . However , it was not surprising to officials of the State Department . that the note had not arrived . Experience has shown that communications of this character take about two days to come from Berlin . The reply was handed to Ambassador Gerard in the German language . The American Embassy at Berlin had to translate it into English and then put the translation into cipher . The message can not he cabled direct from Berlin , but must be relayed via Rome . Until the German reply has been received the State Department will withhold the publication of the text notes sent by this country to England and Germany . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tonight the fact that the note sent to England was identical with the one sent to the Germans and which is now being answered by Germany . Sir Cecil Spring-Rice , the British ambassador , delivered to Secretary Bryan yesterday a partial response to the American note saying that it had been received and was being taken Into careful consideration by the British Government in consultation with its allies . The hope is entertained here that there can yet be an agreement reached between Germany and England . and if this can be accomplished it will be possible for Great Britain to call off the embargo it has laid against the shipment of goods in and oat of Germany .                     