@@684597

txt RATIFY THE TREATY FORTHWITH . It Confers Great Benefits on the World and Provides for Its Own Perfecting . The treaty which the Peace Conference at Paris has prepared with conscientious labor , patient discussion , and many inevitable compromises will soon be before the American people in its final form . It aims at justice , liberty , and peace for Europe and America , and at the promotion of all national and international righteousness and well-being . It is by far the most promising agreement among the freer and more progressive nations that has ever been worked out . In intention or purpose its merits are manifold and extraordinary . It rights great wrongs committed by autocratic European governments in the pa : - 4. suggests and will promote the organization of several new republics . These will make free and secure populations that have suffered for generations severe oppression from alien autocratic governments , accustomed to compel submission by cruel use of military ano Police forces . It provides for the creation of the first international legislative body , the first executive council with adequate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behind its decrees . This unprecedented treaty also makes the first international provision for the reduction of competitive national armaments , a remarkable provision considering the continuing dread of armed aggression under which France and Italy labor . The treaty contains many provisions for the gradual improvement of the various institutions it establishes , and is in important respects elastic rather than rigid . The League of Nations which the treaty will establish is indispensable to the gradual bringing into execution of the new policies the treaty embodies . It is the League which must procure , through its assembly , council , and legal tribunal , order and peace throughout the civilized world , while the new republics set up in Europe and Asia are becoming stable and orderly , and are gaining experience in self-government . It is the League which is gradually to'provide an intelligent and righteous way of giving aid to the backward peoples of the earth , and of protecting them from exploitation by any stronger power . It is the League which is to determine when Germany , Austria , Bulgaria , and Turkey have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which offers the only available means of getting put into execution the ideals for which the American people went to war . Without it the sacrifices America made for the war will be in vain . With it the treasure spent and the young lives sacrificed will have earned an immense gain for mankind . It is the League which will find the way to the suppression of militarism among the civilized nations ; that is , to the annihilation of a military class of professional soldiers who have no occupation except war and preparation for war , ould who are always at the service of any despotic government ? purporting to represent the divine right of Icings , or to be the socialistic superstate  --  ambitious of territorial or commercial extension . The treaty in its present form is by no means perfect from the American point of view ; but it contains within itself the means of its own perfecting . A minority of the American Senate is threatening to prevent or delay the ratification of this invaluable treaty . Some of the reasons given for such delay or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They represent the American people as tired of their disinterested crusade for justice and liberty throughout the world , and desirous of returning to their former belief in their own prosperity and safety through isolation . Let the American people make known to the Senate that they hold firmly to the ideals with which they went to war in April , 1017 , and that they are not so stupid as to believe that the United States can avoid sharing in any political and industrial calamities which may afflict tile rest of the world . Other arguments used against the treaty suggest that the American people should be careful about assuming new responsibilities for the welfare of other nations , and should keep its breath to cool its own hot porridge . These , too , are arguments which appeal to the less generous and idealistic side of the American character . Hence , they will be unsuccessful . One great lesson of the war is that the American people will support their Government in doing everything possible to promote public liberty , health , and happiness not only at home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influence can extend , and will pledge to that cause " their lives , their fortunes , and their sacred honor , " as the signers of the Declaration of Independence said to each other on July 4 , 1770 . The covenant and treaty  --  they are inseparable  --  will go down in history as the most memorable international agreement ever made . It will probably be many years before the details of the struggle at Paris will become known to the world ; but one thing is now known ? America contributed a great hope and a noble inspiration . CHARLES W. ELIOT . Asticou , Maine , June 28 , 1919.                     