@@683887

txt Why the German Government should be seeking to get the Reichstag- to rescind its resolution of July 19 , 1917 . Is a question which presents another insoluble mystery to students of the German mind . The resolution was accepted by the Government and immediately violated . it committed Germany to the policy of " no annexations " ; and as soon as possible after ? accepting it the German Government proceeded to partition Russia . and at-tempted to partition Rumania . Now . having violated the resolution in the face of all the world . it is asking the Reichstag to rescind it . Why , in the name of all wildly unnecessary things ? If it did not find the resolution in the . way of its swallowing Russia . what in the world is it in the way of ? The wording of the resolution is worth attention . After reciting the Kaiser 's historic Pecksniffism of 1914 , " We are driven by no lust of conquest ? . " and declaring for a peace of reconciliation , it said : Forced acquisitions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violations are incompatible with such a peace . The Imperial Government. , through its Chaneellor. speaking openly for the Kaiser . accepted this resolution , and then proceeded to do all these " incompatible " things on a scale Taster than had ever . been dreamed of when the resolution was passed . It carved up Russia and tried to tear Rumania limb from limb . Its " polit " teal , economic , and financial viola " tions " since that July day are without number , the most atrocious being the throwing of the Caucasus to the Turkish wolves , in direct contradiction not only to the Reichstag resolution but to the subsequent treaty of Brest-Litovsk , while the most disgusting is the " financial violation " by which it is attempted to strip Rumania of everything she has . Having torn up the resolution , trampled on it . ppat upon it , the Imperial Government now asks tile Reichstag to rescind it , it as to give a free hand for further " forced acquisitions of territory and " political . economic , and financial vio " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand with the resolution rescinded than it has had with the resolution in full force and glory ? In accepting the resolution on behalf of the Kaiser , Chancellor MICHAELIS said that a peace must be had which would " guarantee conditions of the " existence of the German Empire " upon the Continent and overseas , " and added : These aims may be attained within the limits of your resolution , as I interpret it . The Reichstag cheered this sentence , apparently believing that it committed the Government to the policy of " no annexations . " Looking back now , after Brest-Litovsk , it is plain that whoever chose MICHAELIS 'S words for him chose them with care . Unsuspected meanings crop up . The resolution declared for " no forcible acquisitions of territory . " The Kaiser , speaking through ? Arc HAELIs , accepted this resolution " as I interpret it . " And how did he interpret it ? Why , as meaning that there should be " no forcible acquisitions of territory " except such as might be necessary to guarantee the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the " continent and overseas . " That was a door wide enough to drive any horse through . As soon as Russia fell by the Wayside , it became apparent that " the existence of the German Empire " could not be satisfactorily guaranteed unless a big slice of the Russian carcass was taken . The fall of Russia left Rumania helpless , and it instantly became obvious that " the existence of the German Empire " could only be guaranteed by cutting up Rumania and handing the fragments over to Germany 's allies , Austria and Bui-Armenia , and it was obviously not compatible with the safety of the German Empire to leave Turkey unsatisfied ; so Armenia was thrown to the wolves . There , for the moment , the exceptions to the Reichstag 's resolutions end ; but they end there only because the list of helpless nations is for the moment exhausted . Let Germany succeed in her western drive , and it will immediately become evident that the " conditions of the existence of the German Empire " require the annexation of Belgium and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is difficult to see how the " conditions of existence " can be completely guaranteed short of the annexation of South America and Siberia and the disruption of the British Empire . Calculating perhaps on some such grandiose " guarantees of existence , " the German Government prudently bethinks it to ask the Reichstag for a free hand . Why , we repeat , in the name of all that is needless and nonsensical , why ? l )                     