@@682083

txt Joseph Hillstrom will he shot at 6 o'clock tomorrow morning at the State prison for the murder of J. G. Morrison and his son , Governor Spry having declined to heed President Wilson 's re nest to reconsider the action of the Board of Pardons . In a telegram sent to President Wilson this afternoon Governor Spry criticised the Chief Executive for his second intervention in the case , and told him that the sentence of the court would be carried out to meet the ends of justice . Hillstrom , who is generally known as Joe Hill , the Hobo Poet , was an active . member of the 1 .. W. W. and the author of the hobo marching song , " Hallelujah , I 'm a Bum . " Ever since his arrest it basbeen alleged by his 1 . W. W. brethren and by many Socialists that Hillstrom was being made a victim of class prejudice because of his revolutionary activities , and they have carried c.n an energetic campaign in his behalf , enlisting the aid of President Wilson , the Swedish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other prominent persons . This week the American Federation of Labor , in convention in San Francisco , asked for clemency for Hillstrom . Although protesting his Innocence . Hillstrom has refused to tell his whereabouts at the Unrt of the shooting or to explain how he received the wound which led to his arrest , asserting that to do so would stain the good name of a leading Salt Lake woman . Resolutions demanding a retrial or pardon for Hillstrom have been adopted by hundreds of labor organizations in the United States and in several foreign countries . Many of them showed ignorance of the crime charged against Hillstrom and indicated a belief that he was accused of some political offense . The Governor 's office has received thousands of communications on the subject . As the day set for his execution approached the number of communica- ' Cons sometimes reached 400 a day . Many of these contained threats of death to the Governor and members of his family . who were placed under guard . Other threats were to destroy buildings and other property , and many believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work of Hillstrom sympathizers . The Governor 's Telegram , Reviewing the history of the case and particularly the President 's action in connection with it , the Governor says in his telegram . " Sept. 30 you requested a stay of execution of the sentence to give the Swedish Minister an opportunity to present his view of the case . Upon the same day , at your request only , on the assumption that you were in possession of facts not presented to the board , I granted a respite until Oct. 16 , especially requesting that the Swedish Minister personally investigate the case and appear before the board . Under date of Oct. 1 you advised me that your only reason for interceding was the request of the representative of a foreign government . Oct. 16 , at the regular board meeting , an open hearing was had in further consideration of the case . Hillstrom 's attorney advised the board that there was nothing further to present and that Hillstrom declined to appear before the board again . " The only representation in the convict 's behalf was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sentence , not by reason of ; any new thing in relation to the case , but , as he expressed it , ' for the sake of humanity and comity usually practiced between friendly nations . ' Because of the absence of any showing , the board terminated the respite and again denied the commutation . The convict thereupon was on the eighteenth day , of October resentenced by the court to be shot Nov. 19 . " Forty-six days after the granting of the respite and at the eleventh hour , you , as the President , without stating any reasons therefor . again wired , urging a thorough reconsideration of the case because of its importance and the justice and advisability of such a course . " Your interference in the case may have elevated it to an undue importance , and the receipt of thousands of threatening letters demanding the release of Hillstrom , regardless of his guilt or innocence , may attach a peculiar importance to It , but the case is important in Utah only as establishing , ' fffter a fair and impartial trial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the most , atrocious murders ever committed in this State . It is also important by reason of the fact that this case has had more careful and painstaking consideration ' ' of the hands of the proper officials of Utah than any other like case in the history of the State . Spry Insists Justice Was Done . " As to your suggestion that justice requires further consideration of the case , I earnestly submit that the imputation contained , not only in your message to me , but also in your message to the President of the American Federation of Labor , that this convict has not I had justice in the courts of this State is not justified . Three groups of attorneys have represented Hillstrom in the . proceedings before the District Court , the I Supreme Court , and the Board of Par1 dons . " The first group was employed by Hillstrom to conduct his defense . The second group was engaged during the progress of the trial , participated in the defense , represented him before the Supreme Court and before the Board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was employed in Hillstrom 's behalf by the Swedish Minister . " No fair-minded person acquainted , with the record has any doubt of Hillstrom 's guilt . The Board of Pardons with most painstaking care has investigated every rumor , every suggestion , and every clue that might tend to establish the innocence of this man , and has most earnestly pleaded with him to shed any light on his movements and whereabouts on the night of the homicide . During every day of the twentythree months since he Was charged with the crime the board has stood , and even now stands , ready to make further Investigation and give due consideration to any tangible fact or circumstance that would tend to establish Hillstrom 's innocence . It is a significant fact that those only are appealed to who have no knowledge of the facts and those only demand clemency who are either prejudiced in Hillstrom 's favor or who demand his release regard , less of his guilt . I am fully convinced that your request must be based on a misconception of the facts , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you have not disclosed . " With a full knowledge of all the facts and circumstances submitted , I feel that a further postponement at this time would be an unwarranted interference with the course of Justice . Mindful of the obligations of my oath of office to see that the laws are enforced , I can not and will not lend myself or my office to such interference . Tangible facts must be presented before I will further interfere in this case . " Name " Morrison " in Coat . Hillstrom today asked that he be allowed to wear a blue. ; serge suit he had on when arrested , to the execution . Before giving him the suit it was thoroughly examined and on the lining of both coat and trousers was found the name " Morrison . " Mrs. Morrison and also an employe of the Morrison grocery store , near the corner of West Temple and Eighth South Street , where the hold up and murder took place , Jan. 10 , 1914 , said that the printing In , the coat sleeve looked like Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigated by Sheriff John S. Corless and the Sheriff hopes to be able to obtain positive information that the suit formerly belonged to Mr. Morrison , who , together with his son , J. Arlin Morrison . 17 years old , met their death at the hands of Hillstrom and an accomplice . said to be Otto Applequist . Sheriff Corless said today that the coat is much too large for Hillstrom . The Sheriff visited Hillstrom this morning , but the marks on the coat and trousers were not referred to in the conversation . Hillstrom asked Sheriff Corless this morning if Ed Rowan and a man named Ridder and the " third member of the Defense Committee , " could see him before he died . These men are said to be members of the I. W. W. Hillstrom wrote the request on a scrap of paper , and this was delivered by the Sheriff to Governor William Spry . The Governor granted Hillstrom'a request . The local I. W. W. 's held a meeting in their hall this afternoon . Prominent Salt Lake Democrats , including S. R. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ W. H. King , M. Thomas , R. B. Thurman and Harold B. Stephens . today informed Governor Spry that they regretted the action of President Wilson in urging a second respite in the case . They also pledged him and the Board of Pardons their support in whatever action they should take in the matter today . When news of Governor Spry 's action was conveyed to Hillstrom , he indicated by his manner that it did not surprise him . " This is my busy day , " he told reporters . " I am not afraid to die , because I have nothing to fear . I wanted a new trial to prove my innocence , but I am not going down on my knees to beg for my life . It wo n't do me any to make a statement . They- will call me a Liar , anyway . ' "                     