@@680898

txt There will be no cause for war between the United States and any other country in the world during the present Administration in Washington . This was the statement of Secretary of State William Jennings Bryan in a speech at the annual dinner of the Canadian Society of New York at Delmonico 's last night . The Secretary of State impressively declared that it was the sincere desire of the Government to do all in its power to end wars everywhere , and he cited as an earnest of this desire the fact that eight months ago he called to the State Department the representatives of forty Governments and submitted to them , by direction of President Wilson , a plan that if adopted would at least greatly lessen the chances of strife between nations . The remarks of the Secretary were cheered , for it was the impression that he meant to let the country know that no matter ' now black the cloud that hung over Mexico , the United States would never give the people of that land a cause to fight us , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the troubles there . The dinner was the largest in point of attendance ever given by the Canadians of New York , and the guests in addition to Mr. Bryan included Sir John Willison , editor of The Toronto News ; William T. White , Minister of Finance of Canada ; William Lyon Mackenzie , former Canadian Minister of Labor ; Viscount Campden of the British Embassy in Washington , who was the personal representative of Sir Cecil Spring ' Rice , the British Ambassador , and Justice William Renwick Riddell of the I Canadian Supreme Court . The toastmaster was the Rev. Dr. Charles A. Eaton , the President of the society , who started the speeches with a toast to President Wilson , then another to King George , atter which he intro ' duced Sir John Willison , referring to him as one of the foremost of Canadian journalists . Sir John responded to the sentiment " The British Empire , " and brought the diners cheering to their feet when he declared that if ever the United States got into any real , genuine trouble that made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ render them aid within her power . What . Canada Thinks of Us . " I did not come here to-night , " said Sir John , " to ' hold an . inquest on re -- ciprocity . During the last two years that seems to ' have been the chief pastime of Canadian statesmen who have visited the United States and of American ' statesmen will have visited Canada , But there was never any doubt as to the actual cause of death , nor any sound reason to disinter the remains . " In rejecting reciprocity , Sir John pointed out that Canada had acted as has acted the United States in every crisis in American hibtory , namely , " With a single regard to Canadian interests and in simple loyalty to a settled national policy . " " The attitude , " said Sir John , " of many . Canadians toward the United States provides a curious study in human emotions . We have a certain placid enjoyment when American policy excites the resentment of other nations . But if this great neighbor should ever be in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands for any service that we could render . We gaze at " Old Glory " when it flies with too great complacency over Summer cottages in Canada , but we feel the , thrill of a common pride and a common kinship when it is carried along our streets in those fraternal celebrations so common to the two countries . We cherish certain inherited prejudices against Americans collectively , and yet overwhelm Americans individually with attention and regard . In short , on both sides of the boundary . we have all the foolishness and all the fondness for each other which give interest and variety to family relationships . " Sir John then proceeded to tell what in his opinion would have been the result had the thirteen original American colonies remained loyal to the British crown . If We Had Not Split Off . " If the thirteen colonies , " said he , " had not separated from Great Britain , where now would be the centre of the British Empire ? It would be at Washington and not at London ! The British subject in these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bestowed upon any man since time began . The British Empire would hold the world 's peace in the hollow of its hand . You may tell me that no such mighty combination could hold together , or that its power would have been threatened and destroyed the freedom and the individuality of all other nations . " But look through all the pages of history from the birth of this Republic to this hour , and tell me if Great Britian or the United States has threatened the integrity of any nation . has waged any war of aggression against a great people or has sought from sheer lust of conquest to possess the territory or extinguish the ideals of any organized community . It do not suggest there is nothing we would have otherwise . I know there have been border conflicts , petty annexations , and perhaps doubtful political enterprises . But in the main these two countries have protected and guarded weaker nations ; have held turbulent powers in check ; and have kept aloof from the great conflicts that could not be averted and in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sanction than pride of dynasty and greed of territory . " So I say that a British Empire unbroken by the great separation of 177G would have been a source of security and not danger to other nations , and a biessmg and not a bane to mankind . I say further that in race of such an Empirethe human chances are that long ago the mad competition in fleets and armies which shames the nations and dishonors civilization would have ceased , and multitudes of men trained to the service of destruction , and other multitudes who bear these upon their backs , would go to their toil in the morning with shining faces and to their home at nightfall with song on their lips and joy in their hearts . the birthright of us all . If the uncounted millions of the East should ever unite to establish a supremacy in human affairs , these countries separated so long ago must unite Ito preserve the ideals , moralities , and sanctities of our civilization " Between the British Empire on one side , concluded Sir John , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decreed that there must be ' understanding , sympathy , and co-operation , " and the only conquests that these two nations can now desire , he added , " are conquests over immoral commercial practices , and evil industrial conditions , and desperate social diseases and international jealousies and hatreds . " Bryan Gives Wilson 's Greeting . " It is one of the duties of the high offices with which President Wilson has honored me , " said Mr. Bryan , who was called on next , " to speak on behalf of the President a word of welcome to those who come to us from other lands . To-night that duty calls me to speak that welcome to men who are of a people who are very near and also very dear to us , and for that reason I highly appreciate the honor of being a messengers of good-will and friendship to the representatives of the Dominion of Canada who honor us with their presence to-night . " We in the United States feel the same sense of kinship that you feel . Yours is our mother @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of the ideals that are common to both of us , and I refer both to Great Britain across the seas and Great Britain on this hemisphere . " Mr. Bryan then referred to the fact that he had visited Canada during the campaign in that country that resulted in the defeat of Sir Wilfrid Laurier and of reciprocity between the United States and Canada . " When I got to Canada , " he said , " I found two parties seeking the Government , and I want to say to you that I never felt more at home anywhere than I did in Canada . The papers were just like ours . Both parties were endeavoring to prove that the defeat of either of them meant the ruin of Canada . just as they do in this country during Presidential campaigns . I read in one paper that at a meeting a candidate had been greeted by an audience that packed the meeting hall to the doors , and then taking up an opposition paper I read that at that same meeting there were just seventeen people present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and children . " After more pleaeantries of this sort agr . Bryan became serious and talked of peace among the nations , a peace that he said he was sure was coming some day , probably not in this generation , but within the course of the next few generations . There shall be no cause of war , " said the Secretary , " between the United States and any nation in the world so far as this Government is concerned . I believe that there is a day coming , not lin our time perhaps , when the disputes between nations will be settled by reason and by argument and not by an appeal to physical force , and I say to you that I am proud to be connected with an Administration that desires to end wars . " ? Mr. Bryan referred to the fact that soon a ' eci.tury would have passed since the English-speaking people had engaged in a war . If Canada and the United States can live side by side for 100 years in peace and good will , ? there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strife , and if Canada and the United States can do this I see no reason why nil the nations of the world can not live as neighbors at peace with themselves . " Mr. White , the Canadian Minister of Finance , followed Secretary Bryan . " I am happy . " he said , " to say that the relationship between Canada and the United States was never more cordial , neighborly , and friendly than at present . Like all neighbors , we have had our differences in the past , but the causes which gave them birth have passed away . Nations , like individuals , must cultivate the art of forgetting . To-day there is mutual understanding , respect , and regard along all the 4,000 miles of border which separate our respective countries . No such other border exists ill all the world . Not a fortress , not a rampart save those of nature from coast to coast across a continent . " Next year we celebrate a hundred years of peace . That celebration will usher in a thousand more , a millennium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Why should it not be so ? Neither seeks further territory ; the bounds of our physical dominions are set . Both nations are profoundly interested in the peace of the world . No two peoples understand each other better than Americans and Canadians . For a thousand years and more our history flowed in the same channel . We speak the same language , worship in the same faith , have inherited the same political traditions . Freedom is to both the breath of our national life . More , on this continent we have been confronted with similar conditions , have encountered the same dangers and difficulties ? have achieved similar triumphs in subduing a wilderness to the purposes and ends of a great and advancing civilization . " The other speakers spoke along lines just as optimistic as those who preceded them . Among those present at the dinner were Courtenay ' Walter Bennett . the British Consul General in New York ; Darwin P. Kingsley , Gov . Leon R. Taylor of New Jersey . Henry W. J. Bucknail , Bishop Frederick Courtney , the Rev. Arthur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Jr. , John Joyce Broderick , Dr. Alexander C. Humphreys , Charles Griswold Bourne , Dr. J. Bion Bogart , and the Rev. Dr. C. H. Parkhurst . Miss Schenck Sends for Father . A telegram was sent to Dr. Powhattan S. Schenck , father of Florence Schenck , who is dying at Miss Aiston 's private hospital , 20 West Sixty-first Street , last night telling him that his daughter has but a short time to live , and that she wants him to come to her bedside . Dr. Schenck is a surgeon in the United States Army , stationed at Norfolk . She has been estranged from her father for a long time , and the doctors asked her if she would like to see him . She nodded and the message was ' ent                     