@@684809

txt It may be suggested that the ' British railwaymen  --  or ours  --  might soon grow tired of seats on the boards of directors , because ttey would find how technical such duties are , and how much there is in them which has nothing whatever to do with the welfare of the workers . As we know in America , a board of directors continually interfering between the operating officers and the employes of the road would make endless trouble without helping anybody . If , in fact , as would ' happen in the natural course of things , some workman developed into a competent director , he would incur the suspicion and distrust of his fellow workmen . It is true that the prize is dangled before the men by J. H. Thomas , their leader , who , like all other labor leaders , must be continually offering fresh prizes to retain his job . Anything like the Plumb flan , with its proposal for taking over all railroad profits with a guaranty of deficits paid out of the National Treasury , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to think tnat it would be treated seriously . A BROADMINDED OFFICIAL Sir George Beharrell , one of Sir Eric Geddes ' principal assistants in the newly created Ministry of Transport , pointed out to me how public opinion had recognized the rights and usefulness of labor unions here to a far greater extent than America has done . He was formerly on the staff of the Northeastern Railway , the one road in England which has kept its statistical records up to the standards required in America , recognizing particularly the unit value of operating calculations based upon ton-mile cost . The general application of a method so scientific and so sound to English railway operation would attain great results in economy and efficiency . Sir George pointed out also how canals had been given undue importance These were taken over on rental guarantees by the railways , which could not have secured their charters without so disposing of this opposition . But it was not economical to work them , and it is forgotten that the transportation of coal , for instance , from the north of England or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the manufacturing districts , is not a matter of canals , but of coastwise traffic . Some of the canals are useful and pay dividends , and when they and the dock facilities are unified , working in harmony with the entire railway system , a composite whole can be obtained from which good results may not unfairly be expected . ONE LESSON ENorGis But one development in the great ferment brought about by the war seems as humanly certain as anything can well be . It is that there will never be another general railway strike in Great Britain . The men will receive their increased wages , which are by no means unreasonable as they stand . The British workman is not a fool in any sense , and is indeed often so much more intelligent than his leaders that they are driven into extreme positions in a frantic effort to demonstrate they are leading and are not merely forced out in front of the mob . It can not be said as a general thing that labor and politics here have mixed to any useful purpose . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who even when he is a labor member of Parliament , has frequently never been a workman , postulates an ideal workman of his own , full of altruism and untested opinions masquerading as " ideals " , who simply does not exist . The British workman is certainly devoted to his leisure , sometimes to his garden , and always to his sport , more so than the corresponding class in America . Our worker is an enthusiast for baseball ; but the British workman is not only an enthusiast for football and cricket ; he expects to have leisure to play those games himself . His interest in sport , in other words , is direct , and not vicarious . All too many of them bet their half-crowns on the races . But they attend the races in a way our workers do not . It is indeed amusing and rather exasperating in a time of semi-famine for fuel , to hear horse racing and athletic events in the North advanced and even accepted as sufficient reason for a day 's idleness among the miners . THE PERSONAL @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was Sir Henry Thornton who introduced the excellent American practice of personal relationship between the manager of the road and his men . This would be true , for instance , of President Underwood of the Erie and many others , and with us would be taken as a matter of course . The former superintendent of the Long Island , now Sir Henry Thornton , a major-general in the British army and a naturalized Englishman , says that he thinks he knows most of his men by name , and never in his trips over the road omits to extend his acquaintance . This is not mere policy , but sincere liking , and it is impossible to talk to him or to travel over the eastern counties of England without realizing this beneficent fact . This is the better worthy of notice at a time when the railway porters are , as the traveler knows to his cost , by no means so helpful and courteous as they formerly were . In this they leave much to be desired , and their newly aroused class consciousness does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is certainly not a good augury for the future , but there are technical men better qualified than the writer , who believe that the phase is temporary and only part of the general readjustment which will right itself in time . Let us hope so . " PLEASURES " OF TRAVEL Traveling for pleasure in England and Europe ( which are not quite the same thing ) is no longer possible , due to these and other reasons arising out of the war . There will be little pleasure in travel for a long time to come , although the passport and police identification nuisances are appreciably abating . In this further discussion of the worker . something may be said about the official idler , making unnecessary trouble for the public as an excuse for holding his job . In a trip of barely two months , including fifteen days at sea , the writer 's passport was vise , as the rubber stamps upon it show , no less than twenty-two times . The vexation and delay in securing these necessary endorsements are beyond expression . Each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day . For the most part they must be secured personally , especially as concerns police identification for any stay of more than twenty-four hours in any city of Holland or Germany . And this is a year after the armistice , when in the case of passports so thoroughly authenticated and self-ex. planatory as this police supervision is utterly unnecessary , while consular visas should have been the merest formality for purpose of record . FARCICAL . GERMAN loOLICE SIETHooS But the minor officials for this time-wasting and money-wasting practice , now rendered largely unnecessary , were recruited during the war , and apparently nothing but thorough cleaning in dry dock will remove the limpets from the Ship of State . Germany is even wasting money on a secret police , for the vexation of travelers . The writer 's modest baggage was repeatedly searched in Hanover , Hamburg and Berlin . He even left his bag unlocked , so that the maid 's skeleton key should not put the lock permanently out of order , of course carrying all documents of consequence about his person . There was no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind of report the police spies made to their superiors , whoever they may be . If you are watched , it is sound practice not to show that you notice it . Such notice would argue that you were an experienced criminal , and would only make needless trouble for you with the suspicious police . One of these police spies , after a clumsy effort to penetrate his room in Hamburg , followed the writer to Berlin . He must have had access to telegrams , as he reached the hotel on the Unter den Linden in advance of the American suspect . He even , at seven o'clock on a snowy morning , tried to follow a fast Cadillac car in one of Berlin 's wheezy taxicabs , and presumably made his last report , an imaginative composition unfortunately lost to the world , from somewhere on the Perlin side of Potsdam . THE BUREAUCRATIC PARASITE There is in every country of Europe , England not excepted , an endless supply of lessons on the mischievous persistence of government bureaus once created which may be . commended earnestly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cut down depart , . mental waste . These bureaus are full of plausible excuses for perpetuation . Pertinent questions before them are never settled , because keeping these questions open justifies interminable correspondence , most of it between departments and officials all having the same time-wasting I object in view . It is only fair to say of our own consular officials ,                     