@@681846

txt Jennings Bryan , in an appeal " to the American people , " put on the wires tonight eleven minutes after President Wilson 's note to Germany , asks them to hear him before they pass sentence upon his laying down the portfolio of Secretary of State n the midst of international stress . Interpreting the new Amercan note to Germany , which he refused to sign , as conforming to the " old system " of firmness based on potential force , and characterizing himself as a champion of the new system of persuasion instead of force , and as " an humble follower of the Prince of Peace , " he pleads for the United States to lead the world " out of the black night of war . " Mr. Bryan tomorrow win issue another statement , an appeal , he says , to " German-Americans . " With that he says he will rest his case . Mr. Bryan 's statement , beaded " The Real Issue , " follows : An Appeal for Judgment To the American people : You now have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the note which it would have been rey. official . dutY to also Lusa I -- sgagana-ecedie. ; Lary of State . I ask you to sit in judgment upon my decision to resign rather than to share responsibility for it . I am sure you will credit me with honorable motives , but that is not enough . Good intentions could not atone for a Mistake at such a time , on such a subject , and under such circumstances . If your verdict is against me , I ask no mercy ; I desire none , if I have acted unwisely . A man in public life must act according to his conscience , but , however conscientiously he acts , he must be prepared to accept without complaint any condemnation which his Own errors may bring upon him ; he must be willing to bear any deserved punishment , from ostracism to execution . But bear me before you pass sentence . The President . and I agree In purpose ; we desire a peaceful solution of the dispute which has arisen between the United States and Germany . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we pray for it ; but we differ irreconcilably as to the means of securing it . If it were merely a personal difference , it would be a matter of little moment , for . all , the presumptions are 9a Iili aidq-tizto pKolgirootiono-thiitqgq with power and authority . He Is your President , I am a private citizen without office or title  --  but one of the one hundred million of inhabitants . But the real issue , is not between persons , it is between systems , and rely for vindication wholly upon the strength of the position taken . Force ' Versus Persuasion . Among the influences which Governments employ in dealing with each other there are two which are preeminent and antagonistic-reorce and Persuasion . Force speaks with firmness and acts through the ultimatum ; persuasion employs argument , courts investigation , and depends upon negotiation . Force represents the old system  --  the system that must pass away ; persuasion represents the new system  --  the system that has been growing , all too slowly , it is true , but growing for 1,900 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cornerstone ? war , which at its best is little better than war at its worst ; the new system contemplates an universal brotherhood established through the uplifting power of example . If I correctly interpret the note to Germany , it conforms to the standards of the old system rather than to the rules of the new , and I cheerfully 1161mit that 11:12 abundantlyspuppor:ted , by precedents  --  precedents written in characters of blood upon almost every Page of human history . Austria furnishes the most recent precedent ; it was Austria 's firmness that dictated the ultimatum against Serbia , which set the world at war . Every ruler now participating in this unparalleled conflict has proclaimed his desire for peace and denied responsibility for the war , and it is only charitable that we should credit all of them with good faith . They desired Peace , but they sought It according to the rules of the old system . They believed that firmness would give the best assurance of the maintenance of peace , and , faithfully following precedent , they went so near the fire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the contest . Never So Frightful as Now . Never before have the frightful follies of this fatal system been so clearly revealed as now . The most civilized and enlightened  --  aye , the most Christian ? of the nations of Europe are grappling with each other as it in a death struggle . They are sacrificing the best and bravest of their sons on the battlefield ; they are converting their gardens into cemeteries and their homes into houses of mourning ; they are taxing the wealth of today and laying a burden of debt on the toil of the future ; they have filled the air with thunderbolts more deadly than those of Jove , and they have multiplied the perils of the deep , Adding fresh fuel to the flame , of bate , they have daily devised new horrors , until one side is endeavoring to drown noncombatant men , women , and children at sea , while the other side seeks to starve noncombatant men , women , and children on land . And they are so absorbed in alternate retaliations and in competitive cruelties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the rights of neutrals and deaf to the appeals of humanity . A tree is known by its fruit . The war in Europe is the ripened fruit of the old system . This is what firmness , supported by force , has done in the Old World , shall we invite it to cross the Atlantic ? Already the jingoes of our own country have caught the rabies from the dogs of war ; shall the opponents of the disease slaughter be silent while h isease spreads ? Would Prolong Negotiations . As an humble follower of the Prince of Peace , as a devoted believer kn-the prophecy . tit " they thattaka the sword shall perish with the sword , " I beg to be counted among those who earnestly urge the adoption of a course in this matter which will leave no doubt of our Government 's willingness to continue negotiations with Germany until an amicable understanding is reached , or at least until , the stress of war over , we can appeal from Philip drunk with carnage to Philip sobered by the memories of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of kinship that bind the Fatherland to the United States . Some nation must lead the world out of the black night of war Into the light of that day when " swords shall be beaten into plowshares . " Why not make that honor ours ? Some day ? why not now ?  --  the nations will learn that enduring peace can not be built upon fear  --  that good-will does not grow upon the stalk of violence . Some day the nations will place their trust in love , the weapon for which there is no shield ; in love , that suffereth long and Is kind ; in love , that is not easily provoked , - that beareth all things , belleveth all things , hopeth all things , endureth all things ; in love , which , though despised as weakness by the worshippers of Mars , abideth when all else fails .                     