@@680088

txt Great Britain has taken the extraordinary step of asking that the pending bill for the opera . Lion of the Panama Canal be held up unthe British Ambassador may present to this Government a note on the queslion . It is rare that any foreign Government undertakes to forward any matter of International business by a request that may be regarded as interfering with the internal affairs of the United States . The gravity of the situation as viewed by Great Britain may be imagined from the manner and method ' taken to bring her attitude on the operation of the canal . to the attention of this Government It is not known just what the communication may be that is to be presented by the British Ambassador . It is not sup . posed that there is any intention or desire on the part of Great Britain to de . lay action by Congress on the canal , but yet the proposal for diplomatic consideration of the questions involved implies that there may be such a protracted die . ' cussion of the use of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another session . The notification from the British Bin ? bassy that there was a desire to have the matter considered diplomatically was received this afternoon by mail frotn . Mitchell limes , the Charge or the . F.iie bassy , who is spending the Summer at Klneo , Me . Huntington Wilson , the Acting Secretary of State . promptly sent note to Senator Brandegee , Chairman of the Senate Committee on Inter-Oenania Canals , informing him of ' ilia new turn M. Panama Canal affairs and submitting to him precisely as he had received it the request of the British Government . The Canal bill is now before Mr. Briancit ? gee 's committee , and bee the prospect of prompt consideration and a favorable re-. port within a very few days . Request Is None Too Soon . The British request came probably jitet In the nick of time if it is to have the effect of delaying consideration of the measure in the Senate . But this is not at ' all likely to be the case . There is at both . ends of the capital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ session if the organization of the permanent operating force of the canal is to be made in time for the opening of the project as proposed . Many of the expert employes of the canal are being relieved from day to day . and from their number Col. Goethali desires to organize the permanent force . But without authority of law for proceeding with this oreanlzation he is powerless , and it apparently will not be long before he will encounter great difficulty in finding the 2,000 or more skilled operatives who will be required for the permanent force . There is no detinite information in any official quarter here as to the precise grounds of Great Britain 's protest against the pending bill which provides that the President may in his discretion authorize free tolls or reduced tolls for American ships . But it is clear to all who are familiar with the long history of diplomacy in regard to the Panama Canal that . it is the latter feature of the pending legislation about which Great Britain desires to parley with this Government . Under the treaty of 1903 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the canal shall be free and open to the vessels of commerce and war of all nations observing ; these rules on terms of entire equality so that there shall be no discrimination against any nation or its citizens or subjects in respect of the conditions or charges of traffic or otherwise .. Such charges shall be just and equitable . " . The Question of Tolls . The principle ( .. f equal tolls or no tolls hag been affirmed in many treaties between this Government and Great Britain , and American and foreign vessels entering the harbors of New York , San Francisco , New Orleans , and other ports of the country and , Great Britain will undoubtedlyassert that the article as to tolls must be construed as meaning that there are no free tolls for American vessels passing through the Panama Canal unless all foreign vessels shall likewise pass through free , and that whatever rate of toll be fixed as chargeable to vessels of foreign countries , the same and no other rate shall be applied to American vessels The issue of free tolls is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the nature of a substitute for subsidy legislation . That Congress will tamely recede from the position that the authority shall be placed in the President of the United States to lower tolls or grant free tolls to American ships passing through the canal is not at all to be expected . There is great surprise at the position that Great Britain has taken la asking a sue . pension of the consideration of the pending Canal The proper time for any protest would naturally be after Congress had acted , and in the ' operation of the law in the administration of the canal some actual discrimination had actually occurred against the vessels of a foreign country . Great Britain is alone of all the powers In taking the seemingly premature step of making a protest at this time . if after the passage of the bill and the establishment of free toils by an executive order a protest had come from Great Britain or any other power the matter would in due course have been taken to The Hague for tstment . It is a fair guess that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British diplomats that the ca se is not a foregone conclusion for the British contention , and the best way to hold ground is to take it early in the game by a protest even at risk of the charge of interfering in our Internal affairs . Members of the inter-Oceanic Commission were frank to say . lo-nlglit that tile consideration of the oil would not Pm moment be delayed by reason of the rtquest . Practically all the committee r.l  --  mbership is in favor of passing the bill this session , and regard it as im:ierative that it should 134eome law if the proper administration of the canal on completion is to he provided for . How long low , - it will take for Great Britain to present her note and get the international debatr ? on the toll question under headway can only be conjectured . Senaters en the committee and many ; who are now members of it declare that with the usual progrers of diplomatic negotiat:ons if Congress were to acquiesce in the request that hos been made , the bill could not possibly be @ @ @ @ @ 