@@681975

txt Indignation ' that was felt in official eleseee today over statements that the Government had agreed to arbitrate the differences wih Germany on the , Arabic sinking was responsible for a denial , authoritative , although not offletal , Which left ' no doubt that President Wilson was opposed at the present stage of the negotiations to concede that there was any ' question for arbitration . There is no ' disposition to submit to an arbitral tribunal any matter involving the loss of ' American lives , and it is denied that , the arbitration proposal of Germany has I formed any part of the discussion now in progress between the two Governments . The present efforts of the United States are directed toward convincing Germany that she was wrong in sustaining the commander of the submarine which attacked the Arabic . What this Government desires before details of the Arable case are taken up for adjustment is a disavowal from Berlin of responsibility for the act of the submarine Captain . There is a possibility that the German Government may furnish this , and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here that the serious issue may be adjusted ln , an amicable manner . No definite development is expected for a week or ten days . and Count von Bernstorff. the German Ambassador , who came here Sunday to discuss the Arabic case with Secretary Lansing , will leave for Cedarhurst tomorrow and remain away until he hears from his Government with respect to the representations of the United States , made known to him in an informal way yesterday by the Secretary of State . Secretary Lansing also Is to take a needed rest . After attending the Mexican Peace Conference in New York on Saturday , he will probably not return to Washington : but will go to a cool place to recuperate from the mental and physical ' strain to which be has been subjected ever since the took the office . Even to those who are inclined to take a gloomy View , It is apparent that there . is no immediate danger of a clash . But among the best-informed the feeling Is optimistic . The fact that negotiations over the Arabic are not to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two trained diplomats  --  the German Ambassador and the Secretary of State  --  gives assurances to those concerned in the situation that a favorable adjustment is likely . Went Text of InntructIons . ? This Government hopes to find in the settlement of the issue ? arising out of the-Efinking of the Arable , a definite adjustment of the whole submarine controversy . The one thing needed Is a determination whether after the pledge of Sept . I. given through Count von Bernstorff , the German Government still intends to allow to submarine commanders a broad discretion as to the circumstances that may lead them ' to torpedo passenger vessels . A clearer definition of the German position is desired , and it is believed that the suggestion has beet , made to Berlin that the best evicience of its good faith in the matter of sinking passenger ships can be furnished by the production of the instructions to submarine commanders modifying their original orders to make war on merchant shipping . For the present this Government is aiming to obtain from Germany a disavowal of responsibility ut the act of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The evidence , collected by the United States cot , cerning the circumstances of the Arabic incident , has been telegraphed to Berlin . It is regarded as so convincing that the German Government is being urged to modify its assertion that the submarine commander was justified in attacking the White Star liner . If Germany should change her view after examining this evidence , the form in which her disavowal would be made would be a matter to be arranged by informal exchanges between the two Governments . Although the impression is given in some quarters here that the situation is critical , it is undeniable that more generally a hopeful feeling prevails that there will be a favorable outcome of the Arabic incident . This optimism is marked enough to justify repetition of the state , merit made in a Washington dispatch . printed in Thu NEW Yon ! : TIMES today . 1 that there is a possibility that Germany will furnish a disavowal.                     