@@681932

txt The Eastland. is to be confiscated , " scrapped , " and the resulting Junk sold for the benefit of the survivors and sufferers of the disaster if legal authority can be obtained sufficient to sustain such action . Aldermen Robert . M. Buck and Ellis Geiger each announced last night they will do everything possible to obtain a legal order which will permit the city custodian to seize the boat and destroy it in the same way that he would seize and destroy any other deadly weapon . In the meantime the steamer Is In the custody of the federal court , and United States District Attorney Clyne and his assistants are looking into every angle bearMg on the ease , thus giving rise to the surmise that some drastic action may be taken by the federal government before the craft is released from custody . Officials Back Theory . This theory was supported - by state ' ments of federal officials In the evening ' ' aftar the boat had beerifullyrisibied and ' pumped out , ? and the meichinery , valves , sea cocks and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discover why the vessel roiled over like a tog , drowning 810 light hearted excursionists , it was learned that the government 's meehancial and naval experts in a preliminary report to Hinton C. Clabaugh , head of the local bureau of investigation of the department of Justice , and District Attorney Clyne , fully corroborated previous evidence that the boat was unsafe and unseaworthy . They will submit their findings to the federal grand Jury next Tuesday and indictments of those responsible for the condition are expected to follow . In the opinion of federal officials , three factors entered into the fixing of the responsibility . These are the construction of the boat , its operation , and a load too big for its type . Called Deadly Weapon . Upon this basis , Aid . Geiger and Aid . Buck intend to submit to the corporation counsel that the Eastland by nature of its construction is a deadly weapon which has caused the loss of life and ask for authority for Its seizure by the city unless the federal government orders its destruc.4 , , firm , . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the oictEnglish common law were applied to the Eastland. the boat , having caused the loss of human life , would be forfeited to the state . It was this legal expert who first suggested that the boat be cut up and sold for the benefit of the relief fund , and it le along these lines the aldermen will direct their efforts . " There are no two opinions In the minds of sensible people as to what should be done with the Eastland , " said Ald. Buck . " It is outrageous to consider , even a possibility that the boat might be used again even to haul garbage , for its use would entail the hazarding of the lives of those in charge of it , and in addition would be ar . insult to the memories of those who died in that horrid hulk . Will Push Project . " I shall ask the corporation counsel for an Investigation of the law along . the lines suggested by Air . Hallam , and if there be any legal way by which tebe boat can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the action . " " There Is just one thing to do with the Eastland  --  chop it up , " was the statement of Ald. Geiger . " 1 shalt seek the best legal advice and ' do my utmost in my official capacity to have the vessel destroyed , ' As for the proceeds from the sale of the lank , 0i Course the Eastland fund Efhould get every penny of It . " . The question , " Will the Eastland be permitted to sail again ? ' was carried to William C. Redfield. secretary of the department of commerce and labor , when ho was in Chicago . " Why not ? " he demanded . " Can a vessel be charged with a defect because of negligence in operating It ? " A. L. Acherson , naval ' architect and federal expert , said : " I would n't fear to cross the wean In the Eastland if . the boat was properly ballasted . " Acherson 's and Redfield 's voices were the only ones raised In behalf of the vessel . Autopsy Is Lengthy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at night . None of the government officials would permit themselves to be quoted on the causes of the disaster : From another source , however , It was learned the technical inspection of the vessel has corroborated the testimony of witnesses before the coroner 's and the state grand juries . It Is said the technical experts are of the opinion that criminal negligence exists on the part of some of the owners and some of the boat 's officers . Because of the inadequacy of the steamboat Inspection service , no blame is directed at the inspectors involved , but rather at the system . Among the discoveries of the experts Is reported to be the fact that certain of the ballast tanks did not work properly and that they were not efficiently manipulated . AT-Mbier discovery , made in part by theoretical computations , is said to be that the metacentrie height of the vessel Is much shorter than it should be to Insure safety . Know Boat 's Condition . " All that I can say , " commented Mr. Clabaugh , as he stepped from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " is that we are now in posses-Rion of facts which show us exactly what the condition of the boat was when it tipped over . The data of the divers and the experts will be the best kind of evidence in checking up on the testimony of witnesses before the grand jury or In court " We have practically completed our investigation . I want , however , to have other engineers inspect the boat tomorrow and Monday . I expect we will be able to turn it over to the owners on Tuesday . " No one but a score of firemen and policemen at work In cleaning up the boat , the federal investigators , and Assistant State 's Attorney Michael F. Sullivan and John F. Higgins was allowed aboard the vessel during the day . The assistants of State 's Attorney Boyne made a tour of Inspection in order to gather general information of use In the trial of the six men indicted by the state grand jury . No Bodies Found . No bodies were found on the Enstland ' when policemen went through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This announcement from Thomas Mahan. county morgue keener. who headed the searching party , fixes the death list at not more than persons . A total of Sri bodies have been recovered and eight others have been reported missing . There is some question as to whether they were on board the iii fated excursion steamer . Raising Takes Three Weeks . Early In tile day , nearly three weeks to the hour after the vessel rolled leisurely on Its side with the merry crowd of Western Electric employes , the grimy , battered hulk was raised to an angle of SO degrees , and the hawsers which had pulled It upright were cast off from the wrecking tugs . The boat floated , but not upright , for there were tons of water logged coal in the ? bunkers , fallen to the port side . Mere were Immediately put to work shifting a part of the coal , and the vessel soon stood with only the weight of tons of river slime to list it . Dripping mud piles , sonic of them three and four feet deep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the river bottom . Through the dirt ' and mud were seen the trace of relies of the joyful picnic crowd . Lunch baskets , jewelry , pennants  --  one of them bearing the sorrowing inscription , " I 'll do anything once " ? clothing and hats were piled in contusion , brown with mud . ? In the main saloon and at the bottom of the grand staircase , where most of the bodies were found by the divers , dozens of baskets and wraps end persoral property were recovered . On the ceiling of the saloon were found nearly a dozen pieces of currency and several bills . They stuck there in the mud as the ship lay on its side . A one and a two dollar bill were found crossed at right angles ws If plastered by human hands .                     