@@681521

txt In a statement ! salted tonight by George W. Perkins , Gifford Pinchot , and other leaders of the Progressive Party , following an allday conference of ninety-seven members of the National Executive Committee , representing thirty-seven States , the people of the United States were solemnly assured that Progressive principles were permanent and that the party was in the fight to stay . The keynote of the conference was the determination of the party leaders to continue their organization with the expectation of being a factor in the Presidential campaign of Arrangements were made for a meeting of the National Committee a year hence to agree upon the details of a convention of the party in the Summer of 1916 . Speakers in the conference Urged the selection of Theodore Roosevelt and Hiram W. Johnson to be the standard-bearers again in the 1916 campaign . Outside of the conference room , however , some of the leaders suggested that it was possible the 1916 convention might indorse the candidates of one it the other parties provided such candidates measured up to the ideals of the party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicans nominated a reactionary as a Presidential candidate . As a mater of fact there is a strong undercurrent of opinion among many of the National Committeemen that the Progressive Party is practically a " dead cock in the pit , " in view of the result ' of the November election , and that there is small chance of its survival as a separate political party . The . pro-Wilson sentiment was Strong and Col. Roosevelt 's non-participation in today 's counsels led many of the conferees to believe that he fully realized the situation and could not ag tin be induced to become the standard bearer of a , forlorn hope . However , in the actual course of the conferences not a sneaker made any suggestion of abandoning the party and the subject of amalgamation with either of the older parties was not brought up . " The product of a rumor factory , " Was the characterization given by George W. Perkins to reports of possible disintegration or amalgamation . No Return to the Fold . It was significant that throughout today 's discussion no one urged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Progressives unanimously seemed of the opinion that the Republican Party did not offer fertile ground for their principles . George W. Perkins of New York , Chairman of the Executive Committee , presided both at an open conference , which was attended by all the State leaders at the Progressive Club , and later at a meeting of the Executive Committee at the Blackstone Hotel . Partiepating in the executive meeting were Mr. Perkins , William Flinn of Petrasylvania , Walter 3rown of Ohio . Meyer Lissner of California , Medill McCormick , and Miss Jane Addams of Illinois . The conference at the Progressive Club was I addressed in turn by representatives of the various States . After hearing these addresses throughout the morning and afternoon the conference was continued until the evening in order to give all an ' opportunity to talk . The Progressive Party is going right ahead with the fight without a pause . " said Mr. Perkins . - The headquarters will remain in New York , and there is no foundation for reports- of changes of any importance . " Gifford Pinchot was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moved to Chicago , but it failed adoption . The statement issued after the meeting was as follows : It was the unanimous judgment of the Executive Committee that the Progressive organization and campaign of education should be continued on the lines heretofore followed . To that end the committee provided that the Progressive National Committee shall be called to meet not later than Jan. 15 , 1916 , w fix the time and place for holding the National Convention of the Progressive Party and to transact such other business as may at that time come before it incidental to the Presidential election of Ma . The industrial depression and the consequent reaction against the Democratic tariff was undoubtedly the Issue which primarily determined the reactionary results of the recent election . Both the Republican and the Democratic Parties have passed tariffs by the old method of log-rolling , and the people have now successively repudiated them both . So long as the tariff is made in politics and log-rolling there can be no stability of industrial conditions and business can have no peace . The way to provide stable industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protection as a fixed national policy and to take the tariff out of politics . We called attention to the necessity of prompt action on the Murdock Tariff Commission bill , introduced in May . 11113 . Progressive principles are permanent , and it is now more than ever evident that the Progressive Party today is the necessary organ for their realization - The question of moving the party headquarters from New York was not dealt with by the Executive Committee , though In the conference Gifford Pinchot suggested that a more westerly location would bring the party headquarters nearer to the great body of Progressive voters . Point to November Vote . In opening the conference Mr. Perkins called attention to the vote of Progressives in the November election and said that : when analyzed it showed a condition far from tallying with the idea of d ; sintegrarion . Victor Murdock . Gifford Pinchot . Senator Clapp , and James R. Barfield were among those who reported on political conditions in their States . Each of them was firm in his declaration that the party organization should be contiued. 0 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the party in the November election showing a total of 1,746,123 , divided as follows : New England States , 70,171 ; Middle Atlantic States . 311,290 ; South Atlantic States , 7:3.730 ; Middle West States , 623,722 , and Western States , 007,199 . Only three Southern States  --  Alabama , Georgia , and Louisiana  --  were included in the total . Speaking for the Executive Committee , 0 . K. Davis answered a question concerning the possibility of a message from Col. Roosevelt by saying : " Col. Roosevelt never had been a member of the Executive Committee : he never has been asked to attend a meeting of the committee : he never has sent a message to the committee , and he is not expected to send one now . "                     