@@681460

txt With a view to stabilizing the security market in New York until the Stock Exchange is reopened and guaranteeing the solvency of many brokerage houses and a large number of individuals , the Controller of the Currency has adopted the policy of recognizing the closing prices of the New York Stock Exchange in deterafting the values of stocks offered as seeurity for loans from national banks . In accordance with this policy , National Bank Examiners have received informal instructions to pass all loans secured by listed stocks at the value of those stocks at the close of the New York Exchange on July 30 , minus the usual 20 per cent . margin . The effect of the Controller 's action is a practical repudiation of the Curb market prices that have prevailed since the closing of the New York Stock Exchange , nearly three months ago . In some cases the Curb prices have been from 20 to 30 per cent below the official quotations on the Exchange when it closed . The Government will lend the weight of its influence to maintaining the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by recognizing that stocks held by national banks as security are perfectly good collateral at the values attached to them when the Exchange was last in operation . It was said today that one of the ' Governors of the New York Stock Exchange , in conversation with Controller John Skelton Williams . remarked that there were indications that some national banks were disposed to call certain loans secured by stock collateral on the ground that the values of the collateral had deteriorated , or to demand additional security to represent the supPositions falling off in the values of these stocks as shown by Curb quotations . As the Treasury Department views the situation , a call of , the loans so secured or a demand for additional margins would bring heavy losses'to the brokerage houses . Some of them , it was said , would be.forced to suspend . And in addition countless individuals would be hard hit . Wants Names of Banks . The attitude of the Controller of the Currency in the matter has been , or is to be , emphasized by instructions to national bank examiners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that adopts the policy of calling loans on the basis of the lower quotations of collateral securities on the Curb markets . This course indicates that the Controller 's office will make every effort to prevent the unloading of collateral stocks on the Curb . What is desired above all things is to guarantee the solvency of brokerage houses and individuals at this uncertain time in finance and business . No formal statement concerning the policy of Controller Williams was made today , but it is understood that an announcement of the action may be expected very soon . The action of the Controller of the Currency will apply to national banks in Chicago , St. Louis , and all the other big financial centres . Stock Exchange members expressed various opinions last night about Controller Williams 's effort to stabilize bank loans secured by stocks and bonds . Some *said that the official notice taken by the Treasury Department of the unsettlement of banking sentiment caused by outside trading in securities would make easier the position both of borrowers and lending banks . The tendency displayed recently in some banking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in New Street it was asserted , would now be . checked and loans existing since the Exchange was.closeo could remain undisturbed until the security markets were again in a normal condition Others said the banks had taken an entirely reasonable attitude toward loans all along , and that few if any - efforts had been made to call in loans while requests for additional margin had always been purely requests and not demands . By these brokers Mr. Williams 's orders to national bank examiners to pass loans on the basis of security prices on July 30 were considered unnecessary . " The banks have acted very handsomely all along , " said William C. Van Antwerp , a Governor of the Exchange . " No complaints about delay on the part of brokers in voluntarily increasing the margin of their collateral have been made that I am aware of , and demands for additional security have been In the way of suggestions . The banks have been well within their rights in asking for more margin in some cases . I have no doubt . . but it is certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 