@@681051

txt It was openly charged to-day by a member of the Van Tuyl Commission that private bankers in New York City and elsewhere had been asked to contribute to a S170,000 " defense fund " to defeat the provisions in the Van Tuyl bills to revise the banking laws of the State which aimed to transfer from the State Controller to the State Superintendent of Banks and render more rigid the supervision of that class of private banks which dealt largely with the immigrant population of New York City . Ostensibly the fund was being collected , according to reports which reached members of the Van Tuyl Commission , for the purpose of defraying the expense of " counsel service " at the hearing on the bill winch was held this week before the Banking Committees of Senate and Assembly . The advocates of the measure for that reason had expected to find the opposition represented by a formidable array of lawyers . To their surprise they found the small private bankers represented by a cOmpara , tively obscure lawyer ? from New York City , who made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but contented himself with introducing a number of . speakers who appeared in opposition . After the hearing the lawyer , James Sheldon , presented a brief written statement , in which reasons were given wily the provisions for the regulation of private banks should not become a law . The Van Tuyl Commission , shortly ? after it organized , appointed a sub-committee to investigate the practices of Private bankers of the class the Van Tuyl bill now is seeking to place under proper supervision . Charles L. Bernheimer was Chairman of this subcommittee . The other members were Louis ' Goldstein , Joseph French Johnson , tierbert H. Lehman , and Leopold Stern . Of these , Mr. Johnson is a professor at the New York University , Mr. Lehman is a member of the banking firm of Lehman Brothers , and Mr. Goldstein is an ex-member of the Assembly , and at present an Assistant District Attorney in Kings County . " We have Deei , investigating the business of- private bankers dealing with the immigrant population ever since last June , " said Mr. . Goldstein to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " A number of " the private bankers were before our committee as witnesses . They promised faithfully to co-operate with us with a view of bringing about a supervision of their class of banking concerns that would be fair both to me depositors and to the banks . Up to the time the bill was introduced we had no inkling that there would be any serious opposition from this source . Opposition a Surprise . " Since the introduction of the bill we have been surprised and shocked to find in operation here a formidable lobby representing a majority of the private bankers of the class exempt from any supervision by the State authorities . It has been reported to use that a large fund ? $150.000 ? has been collected , mainly from private bankers in New York , who are in the exempt class , for ' counsel services . ' The amount mentioned is far out of proportion to the services openly rendered by these lawyers . Chief Counsel Sheldon presented a written statement to the committee and aside from that contended himself with introducing the speakers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are two bills before the Legislature which seek to curb private bankers of the class that handle without effective supervision deposits of immigrants and generally of persons in humble wanes of life , mostly of foreign birtj1 . One is the Van Tuyl Commission bill , which provides for regulation only in the large cities . The other is the Pollock bill , presented by the Senate Committee on Banks after its investigation of the failure which caused such havoc among the 15,000 depositors or the Henry Siegel banking enterprises . This latter bill provides for State-wide supervision . It is reported at the Capitol that the opposition froth the private bankers in New York City whom the bills were designed to bring under proper supervision , had something to do with the State-wide provision . Walker 's Bill Less Drastic . There is another bill  --  introduced by Assemblyman Walker , Tammany member from the Fifth Assembly District which provides for supervision of private bankers by the State Superintendent of Banks instead of the Controller , but which is regarded as less rigid in its plan of regulation than either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Van Tuyl bill who appeared at the hearing seemed less hostile to the Walker bill , and Mr. Walker himself lost no opportunity to ask advocates of those measures if they did not think his bill went far enough to meet the situation . There are three classes of private bankers who would be affected by the passage of either the Van Tuy1 or the Pollock bill . The first class is composed of private bankers who file a bond for $100,000 with the State Controller and are exempt from any examination of their books or business met:gods . There are about twenty private banking enterprises doing business in New York City who come within this class . Then there is a second class , composed of about fifty-five private banking concerns in New . York , who file a bond to the amount of 20 per cent . of their deposits with the Controller . They are subject to supervision . This group is being examined now by representatives of the Controller 's office . A third class files no bond and is exempt from supervision on the filing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The exemption of this Mum class was created with a view not to subject to periodicag examination unnecessarily the big private banking houses in Wall Street , which ? do business on a basis entirely different from that of the other classes and with a class of people that does not stand in need of any extraordinary Protection from the State . Size of Fund Important . It is among the members of the first group that ' the persons identified with the collection of the - " defense fund " are said to have been operating . Private detectives who have - been ? investigating for the Van Tuyl CommisSion have reported that the - collectors sought contributions on the plea that if the fund for " counsel service " was large enough , arguments might be presented which would bring about defeat of both the Pollock bill and the Van Tuyl in the Assembly . A. majority of the big private banking concerns on the ? east side:land in the ? Brownsville : - and matourg , 11 -. sectroxis 4F9 : #1:411:1W-frolllb , r , 