@@682693

txt Railroad heads in New York were unanimous yesterday in warning the public that its jubilation over the avoidance of a national strike should be tempered with the knowledge that it would pay  --  and keep on paying . The most ominous note sounded in these warnings was the prediction by men long familiar with the effect of freight rates on retail prices that the the paying would not be proportionate to the added transportation cost ; that an extra penny in . reight might well mean an extra 25 cents in the price to the retail consumer of some articles . It waa tod early to attempt to compute the bill , heads of great railroad systems said , but the levy would fall on all classes and would be collected in many and devious ways . Intermingled with the regret they expressed over the new national burden were general expressions from railroad Presidents , traffic managers , and others that the new law was " a disgrace to the country , " and that Congress had " shamed itself " In passing such legislation . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heads yesterday a definite determination to test the constitutionality of the new law at once and calm conviction that the United States Supreme Court would make short shrift of the legislation , " We were ready for a strike and would have preferred to fight It out to a finish rather than to have seen this bill passed , " said Vice President H. J. Stone of the Erie . " We shall obey It until It is set aside by the United States Supreme Court . It is so loose you can drive a team of horses through it . " The law has not settled anything . We shall have to go through the whole thing again . If the President 's program had been carried out , the problem would have been nearer solved , but , as it is , that part that favors the employes has been put through and the part that favors the railroads and the public has been deferred , I do n't say permanently , but at least till the next session of Congress . " The people do not realize that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The natural tendency will be to eliminate , so far as possible , work involving overtime and you ca n't get the work done in eight hours . While the Erie Railroad will dig up the money to pay the bill , it will take just that much out of the development of the property . " The general public will have to pay.1 Transportation enters into the cost of ' everything . A year from now , when the ralkoads have increased their freight rates , they may raise the cost of a pair of shoes as much as twenty-five cents . Of course , a cent a pair would be enough to cover the increase in freight rates , but dealers will use the increased freight rate as an excuse to raise their prices . The natural tendency , will be for the railroads to recoup the 1 treasury wherever they can . " President Howard Elliott of the New York , New Haven &; Hartford took much the same view of the coming effect of the legislation . " The step now being undertaken , " he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one , including the very men who have forced this issue , as well as to ail ' other working men . " I President W. H. Truesadel of the Delaware , Lackawanna &; Western thus conunenttd on the new law : " Everybody knows what the attitude of the railroads is and there Is nothing that can be added . I think the measure is-a disgrace to the country . As a citizen of the United States , I would rather face a conflict than see this Government put itself into the attitude it has assumed . The whole thing is a shameful surrender . - With regard to our course I can say nothing until I see the bill In its ' exact form ; there is no need of saying scmething now and having to retract it later . As soon as it is passed it will be referred to our legal department before deciding what course we shall Pursue . "                     