@@682618

txt Threats of violence alleged to have been made by striking motormen and conductors caused the Union Railway Company of New York City , a subsidiary a the Third Avenue Railway , to suspend operations last night on all of its surface street car lines in the Bronx . Service on about thirty routes in a territory of 700,000 residents ceased at 8 P. M. , following an announcement that as many of the cars as possible would be started again at 5 o'clock this mcrn.ng . The order to shut down the system came after the transportation facilities of the Union Railway in the morning and afternoon rush hours had been badly crippled by strikers . Members of the union who went on strike on the lines of the Yonkers Railroad Company and the Westchester Electric Company last Saturday made a trip to the Bronx early yesterday morning , and induced about WO uniformed employes of the Kingsbridge Divlsron to desert their cars . Officials of the company insisted that these men had not gone nn strike , but had been driven from their work by intimidation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 300 motormen and conductors on the West Farms Division of the Union Railway , when the order to suspend operations for the night was issued . The trouble in the Bronx was in keeping with the promise of officials of the Carmen 's Union that they would carry the labor disturbance " as far as the Battery " if the Yonkers Railroad Company and the Westchester Electric Railroad Company did not accede to the wands of the strikers . Edward A. Maher , Jr. , Assistant Vice President of the Third Avenue Railway . asserted that one of the cars of the Kingsbridge division of the Union Railway ' had been forced to return to the barn at 218th Street and Broadway by a striker , who first smashed the vestibule window with a brick and then compelled the motorman to turn back by pointing a revolver at his head . The motorman , Patrick Hartigan , was then compelled to quit his car . Men Driven from pars . Mr. Maher reported that another striker jumped on the platform of a car and forced the conductor to join the union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of lawlessness were alleged , such as pulling down trolley notes and placing obstacles on the rails of the company 's lines . All of these accusations were denied by the officials of the union . however . Members of the union in the Bronx sent a letter to Mr. Maher yesterday , /saying : We , the undersigned committed , representing the employes of the Union Railway Company , members of Division 581 of the Amalgamated Association of Street and Electric Railway Employes of America , have been instructed to forward to you a copy of our demands which have caused the present susoension of work : 16 The employes of the Union Railway Company shall have the right to join the Amalgamated Association of Street and Electric Employes of America without any interference upon the part of any of the officials of your company . 2 . We further demand an increase of 5 cents per hour over the rates of wages paid on June 30. 1916. 3 . We further demand that the officials of the company meet with the committees of the association and adjust the runs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President . PATRICK . FARRELL . Secretary . These demands are Identical with those served on the Yonkers Railroad Company and the Westchester Electric Railroad Company , also subsidiaries of the Third Avenue system , before the strike was called at Yonkers , Mount Vernon , and New Rochelle . The rate of pay on June 30 , 1910 , was 25 cents an hour for motormen and conductors during their first year of employment , and 28 cents an hour after that . The men told the companies they were willing to arbitrate these demands with the exception of the right to belong to a union , but President Whitridge of the Third Avenue Company refused either to grant the demands or to arbitrate them . Mayor Lennon of Yonkers attempted to bring the labor trouble in Westchester County to an end by inviting the intervention of the Public Service Commission of the Second District , which settled a strike of the carmen , in 1913. but the commesion yesterday decided at Albany that it was in no position , to compel the street car company to operate its cars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the situation in the Bronx because the labor trouble there is a result of the strike at Yonkers , Mount Vernon , and New Rochelle , all of which places have ordinances providing that motormen and conductors employed There must have had at least fifteen days ' experience on the ' lines . Francis G. Curran , Corporation Counsel of Yonkers , complained to the commission that the refusal to operate cars was a violation of the company 's franchise , but the Yonkers Railroad Company and the Westchester Electric Railroad Company replied that their hands had been tied by the ordinances . Seymour Van Sontvoord , Chairman of the commission , issued a statement , saying : On the occasion of a previous strike on the Yonkers railroad system in int , this commission very clearly pointed out the considerations which made it impossible for this body to compel an adjustment of the controversy . These considerations were ' that If the commission made an order dirseting the road to resume operations , the corporation would decline to obey the order on the ground that the so-called fifteenday ordinance would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who had riot first received fifteen clays ' instructions or the street railway lines of the city , fortified by proper certificates of fitness from a competent instructor . Conference to be Held . Chairman Van Santvoord subsequently said that the commission , although unable to compel the Yonkers road to run its cars , would make an effort to bring about a settlement . Mr. Maher and Leslie Sutherland , Vice President and General Manager of the Yonkers Railroad Company , have been requested by the commission to appear before it at Albany tomorrow for a conference . Mr. Maher asserted that much depended on the amount of assistance the company received from the police , asserting that much of the trouble yesterday had been due to the refusal of Inspector Schmittberger to permit the police to ride on the cars and protect passengers and property from harm at the hands of the strikers . Mr. Maher had been at the Kingsbridge barn at 218th Street and Broadway all Tuesday night , and was there at 0 o'clock yesterday morning when 300 members of the carmen 's union crossed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the barn over the bridges at 220th and 207th Streets . One hundred and fifty of the strikers commanded each of the bridges , Mr. Maher said , ' and forced those who were not willing to strike either to return to their homes or join the union . The immediate result of this action was to stop all lines running from the Bronx to Yonkers and to cripple the service on all the other lines above 129th Street . No cars at all were run for a time on the four Woodlawn Avenue lines , and there was great congestion at all points where persons working in Manhattan had to change cars in the Bronx to get to the lower sections of the city . Mr. Maher telephoned to Police Headquarters and ten policemen were placed on such cars as were able to leave the Kingsbridge barns , hut these were withdrawn on the orders of Inspector Schmittberger . Mr. Maher thereupon got in touch with private detective agencies and until late in the afternoon there was a continual procession to the barn of automobiles filled with detectives and strikebreakers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placed in charge of the cars , or stationed about the company 's property to guard it against damage . The Mayor 's Order . Inspector Schmittberger told the company that he was willing to furnish as many policemen as were needed to patrol the streets where strikers were likely to congregate , but that he was forbidden to let his men ride on the cars by an order issued by the Mayor . Nearly 400 policemen were finally detailed to strike duty , most of them being stationed in the streets approaching the barns of the company at 218th Street and Broadway and 176th Street and Boston Road . But despite the precautions the company was only able to run about one-fourth of its ears on the Kingsbridge division up to 8 o'clock , when the order to quit running altogether went into effect . Hundreds of persons going to work- were delayed in reaching their placer of employment . Many walked to the place : : Avenue station of the New York Central 's Putnam division , where they boarded trains to 105th Street . Parsons living in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York Central . When the afternoon rush began It was almost impossible to find a car moving out of the Harlem River terminals from the East River to Spuyteh Duyvil . Intermittent service was maintained on the eastern division running to Pelham and West Farms and Boston Road sections , but from Jerome Avenue to the Hudson River no cars were to be had . Jitney buses , auto trucks , and ramshackle coaches were pressed into service on some of the streets and their owners reaped a harvest . Shop girls and factory workers who had only 5 cents with them to pay their usual carfare home had to brave the drizzle and go to their homes on foot . Hundreds Were Stranded . Hundreds of persons , who had gone to City Island for the day were unable to find conveyances when the cars stopped running at 8 o'clock . and many of them were compelled to spend the night there . PersoriR Tikqi.fg : " Iii City Island had to walk trorrho'the New Haven station or pay the hfgh charges demanded by taxicabs and buses to reach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Union Railway on the West Farms line attended a meeting last night in Courtlandt Casino , 151st Street and Courtlandt Avenue , W. D. Mahon . International President of the union , arrive in the city today from Detroit , lit was said , to take charge of the strike . ' Six strikers were arrested on charges of hindering the operation of cars and interfering with policemen in the performance of their duty . Five of them were arraigned before Magistrate Nolan in Night Court and four were discharged , John Redden of Bill East 178th Street , a motorman , was fined $0 for interfering with Detective John Blagge of the Bronx Branch Detective Bureau while he was making an arrest . Magistrate Nolan announced that he would impose workhouse sentences on persons convicted of damaging the property of the Union Railway .                     