@@681096

txt Discussion of . SecreConducive tary DANIELs 's order to Naval banishing intoxicants Efficiency . navy vesselslac and in every instance begin with consideration of the sentence In Admiral BiusTEn 's letter recommending this action , which reads : " if there is one profession more than any other that calls for a clear head and a steady hand , it is  --  the naval profession . " The truth of that statement must be obvious to anybody who remembers the many and heavy responsibilities that rest upon the officers and crew of a Government vessel  --  responsibilities extending far beyond the money value of the public property intrusted to their direct control , often amounting to millions of Collars , and far beyond the lives directly dependent on their continuous efficiency , often many hundreds . In addition , great national interests are frequently involved in the exercise of their large discretionary powers . And the effect of alcohol on mind and body is no longer a matter of assumption or conjecture. : measurements as exact as those of the analytical chemist have demonstrated beyond question that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the normal competence of every individual . General knowledge of this fact has enabled many of the great employing corporations to enforce practically total abstinence on their workers without exciting a single protest in the name of " personal liberty . " Secretary DANIELS has therefore acted in accordance with the intelligence and the tendency of the time , and he will have , in what he has done , an overwhelming amount of public sentiment to support him . So obviously are sober officers as essential to a ship 's safety as a sober crew that the abolition of the present discrimination as to the use of intoxicants fore and aft is only common sense . It must not be supposed , however , that the issuance of the order was necessitated by tile prevalence of heavy drink-ing among bur naval Officers . Excessive indulgence has long been growing steadily rarer and rarer hi this class , and to the great majority of them the new restrictions will produce no change of habits , or one so slight as to trouble them not at all . The order will simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The . embarrassment as to the entertainment of guests in foreign ports can be easily removed in tile yeay Admiral BRAISTED suggests , with an incidental protection of our officers from a drain on their usually lean purses about which they have bitterly complaizied for many a year . Everybody in Westchester Westchester ? County Will Be ? its tradesmen and Eloquent . real estate dealers not less than its commuters  --  is intensely interested in the fate of the bill relating to railway rates now waiting Gov . GLYNN 'S signature or veto . ' Upon his action depends , the Westehesteriens firmly believe , the prosperity of the county . That its present unsatisfactory condition is wholly due to the big increase . in the cost of commutation tickets would hardly be contended , hut that this increase added appreciably to the glcom Is indubitable . The bill in question , on which a public hearing will be given in Albany tomorrow , would have the ' effect , it : signed . of putting into immediate force the decision of the Public Service Commission that the advance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prompt obedience to like orders in the future . Westchester County realizes that the New Haven is in special need of money , just now , but it objects to paying for the service it receives more than is exacted by other roads In this vicinity for transportation over like distances , and more , even , than is charged by the New Haven itself at the other end of its line . The claim that commutation business is not profitable at either the new or the old rates the Wise Ones of the county resentfully deny . It is not all of commuting to commute , they say , paraphrasing tile ancient angler 's famous phrase , for with satisfactory commbtation privileges go flourishing suburban towns and the large part of their general business that pays tribute to the railway . The advocates of the bill now before Gov . GLY NN have prepared elaborate briefs full of detailed information as to the cost of the commutation service . In these documents the recent expenditures for terminal facilities are balanced against the economies due to electrification in what seems to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comparisons between commutation rates , present and past , with those charged for similar transportation over the other approaches to this city . Highly probable , alCould Some most certain , as it is Have that men like the Sav sealers who were Been e d ? caught on the St. Lawrence ice in a blizzard would do to save themselves all that was humanly possible in such conditions , yet to remote students of the terrible catastrophe it seems strange that something more and different was not done . No united action in the way of utilizing snow and ice for the construction of shelters is reported , though that was apparently a simple and easy expedient . Instead the men ' wandered over the frozen expanse , with the one thought of keeping in motion as long as possible . Wherever they fell , they died unless they were able to rise and go on again , and only the strongest and most warmly dressed survived . It is stated that no clothing was removed from the dead . The repugnance for doing that is comprehensible , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a contrary course . Of course the Newfoundlanders were experienced and skillful , and into these remarks there should be read no sug : - gestion of adverse criticism . The desire is only for information .                     