@@681874

txt A tremendous explosion , believed to have been caused by some kind of bomb or infernal machine , wrecked the east reception room on the main floor of the Senate wing a the Capitol Building just before midnight last night . No one was injured . Officials thought that the explosive was placed there by a crank , who desired to create a sensation . Visitors were allowed in the room during the day , and a timed machine might have been left without attracting attention . Part of the plastering of the ceiling and side walls of the room was shaken down , a huge mirror and a crystal chandelier were shattered , and the doors were blown open . One of the doors , which led into the office of the Vice President , is said not to have been opened in forty years , Superintendent Woods of the Capitol 1Building , summoned by watchmen , made a hurried investigation , then telephoned for an expert on explosives . Until he ihas reported no official statement con ; cerning the incident will be made . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it was a bomb , it was evidently placed by some crank to create a sensation . If he really wanted to wreck the building there were many better ways of placing the bomb to do damage . - After an investigation of the most careful character we are absolutely at a loss to explain the cause of the explosion . Nobody knows what caused it . There is nothing to indicate that it was spontaneous combustion , as there was nothing in the vicinity to explode of which we have any knowledge . The reception hall was not littered with any material , but was neat and clean before the explosion occurred . " The explosion occurred at the north end of the east reception room on the main floor of the Senate wing , either in or near the telephone booths . " It could not have been caused by illuminating gas . There is no illuminating gas in the building . The explosion caused about WO damage to the reception room , but otherwise the room was not , harmed . Fragments of glass damaged the frescoes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to no considerable extent . There was no evidence that the electric wiring was out of kilter , for the electric lights of he main chandelier of the reception room were still burning after the explosion . " Another official said : " The suspicion grows that the explosion was intentional . If it was , and the purpose was to wreck the Capitol , the purposes of the person who caused the explosion failed absolutely . A most careful examination has been made in a preliminary way , and we are certain that there has been no structural damage to that part of the Capitol . The damage is superficial . " There were not lacking some persons who suggested that the explosion might have been caused by a person desiring to demonstrate his disapproval of some of the policies of the Administration . It was apparent that there was no intent to cause loss of life , as it was generally known that the room was empty at night . No fragments of any bomb were found , and no other fragments than those of the debris from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the building , but none seemed able to tell just what it was . Soon after the explosion the police were notified , but efforts were made to make it appear that it was caused by spontaneous combustion , in order to minimize the matter until a careful investigation could be made and the facts ascertained . This investigation was begun by Superintendent Woods , who directed that r.o person be allowed to leave or enter the building without special permission . Those at the Capitol participating in the investigation , with Mr. Woods , were Captain H. Harrison of the Sbitth Police Precinct in which the Capitol is situated , Lieutenant Dunhigan , and Sergeant Whalen , with policemen from that precinct . Representatives of the office of the Sergeants-at-Arms of the Senate and House were also present , as well as electric light company men , who were summoned and examined the wires . All the men on duty were being closely examined with a view to ascertaining who was seen in any part of the building last night . Nobody Is allowed in the building at night except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether he had found any evi1 dence of spontaneous combustion , he ! said : " There was no such evidence found . The telephone wires have been examined by experts and there is no gas in the building , and the fact of the matter I is that nobody has been able to die ' cover the cause . " The explosion was heard a mile away . and in a few minutes a crowd of excited people had gathered in the east plaza . In the meantime lights had been switched on , and excited officials were rushing back and forth on two floors of the great building . Watchman Jones , on the floor below at tile east entrance , said he was blown from his chair by the explosion . ' Some idea of the force of the blast was gained by the discovery of a chandelier crystal into the connecting link of which a splinter of wood had been driven .                     