@@684719

txt More than one hundred cities in the United States have decided to build  --  a memorial or community hall as a testimonial to their soldiers and sailors who served in the war . New York has made no decision , although as long ago as June 23 General GEORGE W. WINGATE addressed a letter on the subject to the Mayor 's Memorial Committee , ' proposing that such a building , Victory Hall , be erected upon the block bounded by Lexington and Park Avenues and Forty-first and Forty-second Streets . The western half was acquired by the city for subway purposes . Upon the remainder of the block still stand a storage warehouse and a car barn , and this lot of ground , it is estimated , could be purchased for $2,000,000 . Victory Hall , as planned , would cost $5,000 , - 000 , and if the city would contribute the half of the : site acquired by it the $7,000,000 needed to provide the memorial could doubtless be raised by a Citizens ' Committee . But time is Passing . The further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subscriptions . While the war , is in men 's thoughts the appeal for money will meet with- a quick and generous response . General WINGATE , a civil war veteran , speaks from experience when he says that " the enthusiastic feeling which ' . first " exists in regard to returning soldiers " and sailors dwindles and dies out " after a few years . " ? A new generation is not so deeply interested . The time to move in behalf of Victory Hall and all that it . imports is now , when men and women whose sons fought so gallantly in France and when the survivors of the war themselves feel ' the thrill of the ideals for which so many brave young Americans - gave up their lives . Who would refuse to . aid a project so worthy and enduring ? Victory Hall would be for all time an ornament to the city because.architecturally beautiful , a ' profitable possession because of great practical value , while its appeal to civic pride and ' patriotism would be constant . New York has no adequate ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it is ; Victory Hall would provide a most spacious one , the finest in the country . As the plans have been worked out , it would be found on the second floor . The ground floor would be devoted to exhibitions of all kinds . Below hi the basement there would be a swimming pool , 90 by . 180 feet ; a gymnasium , and a rifle range for high school boys . The , building would be of three stories with a flat roof , the third floor to contain rooms for the use of organizations like the G. A. H. , the American Legion , the Boy Scouts , and the roof arranged as a children 's playground and for horticultural and agricultural exhibits . It is proposed that the decorations shall include bronze tablets for the fallen in battle , portraits of commanding officers , ' and suitable inscriptions . . In the heart of New York , near a great railroad terminus , and reached by transportation lines serving every part of the Greater City , Victory Hall would soon have a national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its uses would be manifold . The convention hall floor would be in great demand for tournaments and athletic games , since in addition to ' an amphitheatre seating 5,000 people space could be found for a track ten laps to the mile . But this noble memorial and magnificent assembly building is as yet a design , an architect 's plan , a fabric in the air . Everybody exclaims that it is a transcendent idea ; that it must be carried out without fail . It awaits organization , action , and the call for funds . When public sentiment stirs and takes shape , the difficulties one after another will quickly vanish . No more golden moments should be lost .                     