@@679118

txt " Above all , we have ' given to India the Priceless boon of peace instead of war , settled life in place ofl anatekhy , security in place of brigandage and , rapine . " This is the declaration of Lord Curezox in his second and concluding article in The North American Review on " British Rule in India . " It is not an overstatement . While Lord CtruzoN puts this service to India " above all , " there are others that , in the total , are of great importance . The three which may well rank after the imposition of peace and order are irrigation , transportation , and education , with some distinct reservation by wellinformed observers as to the last . The vast network of wagon roads with the 30,000 miles of railway have made industry more fruitful and have made it possible to relieve largely , though not entirely , the famines to which India is exposed . Irrigation has added greatly to the products of the soil , and aided powerfully in building up the agricultural resources of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the subject of much ' dispute , but whatever perils it brings it has been deliberately planned and will not be abandoned . For a long time British rule has been bitterly attacked in India and severely criticised at home . Lord CURZON 'S articles are a reply to such criticism . The case is immensely difficult . Two alternative policies present themselves , ( 1 ) the abandonment of India , which is unthinkable at present , or within any time for which Governments can plan ; ( 2 ) a change in the mode of rule that shall ultimately-turn the affairs of the country over to its people . The dispute , which is chronic in Parliament and more or less acute in India , turns on the rapidity with which this shall or can be done . The Radicals , of whom Mr. KISS Haanna is the most active leader , demand prompt and substantial changes . The ultra-Conservatives resist nearly all changes . The , Government , under the guidance of Lord MonLiar , Secretary of State for India , would make changes in the direction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and carefully , and with a , firm determination to keep control  --  to keep the right to say the final word and the power to execute decisions  --  clearly in British hands . That is also the policy advocated by Lord CURZON , but with more marked insistence upon caution and a larger reservation of British authority and action . The essential difficulty in the way of turning over India to the people of India lies in the fact , the tremendous fact , that there is at present no such thing as the people of India in the sense that the word people is used in ordinary Occidental political discussion . That is to say , there is among the inhabitants of India no such body of sentiment and opinion as could be expressed in political action and serve as the guide and motive force of Governmental administration . The population is divided in race , in religion , in ideals and customs , and in large part so hostilely - divided that only the steady and strong hand of the outside British keeps the peace among them . Not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other races and sects , but there is among the Hindus , not , Mohammedan. an almost inconceivable system of minute divisions based on caste which form an apparently insuperable obstacle to that co-operation which is the basis of self-government in any people . Among the 200,000,000 of Hindus there are racial elements so diverse that nineteen fully developed languages exist and more than one hundred dialects . And beyond this , more important than even this source of disparity and disagreement , there exist some 3,000 ' castes and in most of these there are sub-castes . Now while the nature and effect of caste can not fully be understood bY ... the Western mind , there . Is one ' feature of It that no one can mistake . Caste is permanent . Asa writer In The Spectator of - London puts it : " ( 1 ) There is no entry except by birth . Marriage outside the caste is absolutely forbidden . " There is moreover a welldefined gradation in these almost innumerable castes , on the highest level of which are the Brahmans . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a. , - popular . National Government In India , a representative CieVerk. ment in , which . power should be ? lodged in the hands of officials elected by general suffrage , - would necessarily lead to discord , disturbance , and universal confusion , with incalculable risk of bloodshed , and with the probability of some form of native class despotism as the only alternative to general , disorder . The effect upon the industry and material and moral welfare of the inhabitants of India would hardly be an improvement over present conditions . Yet it is to be noted that the British are actually engaged ip the policy of gradually preparing India for a progressive participation by Indians in the management of their affairs . In the subordinate civil service , in the courts , in the police service , in the military service , ' and in the schools and colleges , Indians are employed in large number , and the number is increasing . The results have been only partially satisfactory . While the great body of those thus employed are efficient and trustworthy , there has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feeling , entirely natural . has been aroused that Hindus who can be intrusted to administer laws should have the right to make laws ; that those who can be admitted to the army should be able to aspire to command . Since the British determination to re- , Min final control absolutely balks this ambition and outrages this sentiment , the British , in the judgment of the more restless spirits , " must go . " This situation really constitutes the problem of India . It is one of great complexity and of constant difficulty . Certainly it is not one which outsiders , however sincere and zealous , can assume to pass upon In the light of wholly different experience , still less by the guidance of abstract theories conceived in wholly different conditions .                     