@@682526

txt When the Republican convention met this morning the nomination of Justice Hughes was inevitable . The forces of the Old Guard had beg un to disintegrate during the night . In the wee small hours of morning the leadership of the men who had formed a. close corporation within the tepubl ica n ranks faded away . Theycould not control their following , and sadly but with resignation they reached the conclusion that organization methods would avail nothing against the desire of the majority of delegates to follow their own course , which was to get on the Hughes band wagon as quickly as possible . Frank , . H. Hitchcock , who made the strategic plans that brought about the nomination of Justice Hughes , worked all night to prevent his program from being overthrown . He had slept little the night before and was fairly staggering with fatigue while he talked with men in hostile delegations whose help he needed . Last night he went without sleep again , but was at the Convention Hall bright and early this morning marshaling his forces for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ error had been made by the Hughes supporters at Friday evening 's session of the convention when they voted against the adjournment asked for by the Old Guard under the leadership of Senator Penrose of Pennsylvania . That error was due to a mistake in the delivery of a message sent by Mr. Hitchcock to the Oregon delegation , which was representing the Hughes interests on the floor , not to oppose a motion to adjourn . Oregon Men Misunderstood . The Oregon  --  men understood that Mr. Hitchcock wanted them to vote against the motion and they sent word to other delegations friendly to Justice Hughes that the Hughes following would vote against its adoption . The overwhelming majority cast in favor of the motion to adjourn encouraged the Old Guard contingent , which had in view the defeat-of both Hughes and Roosevelt , . but was all at sea as to how that result might be accomplished . As soon as possible after the convention adjourned last night some of the Old Guard leaders got together to decide on a plan of campaign , while others attended meetings of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Hughes camp . Some of these meetings lasted far into the night . The object of the Old Guard , whose combination against Hughes this week received the name of " the Allies , - was to determine on a candidate to whom the strength of the anti-Hughes forces should be thrown when it became apparent that the Justice was bound to be the party 's nominee unless all the contingents opposed to him were concentrated . The allies appeared , however , to have been unduly encouraged over the showing made in the vote on Senator Penrose 's motion to adjourn the convention until morning . They seemed to think that this meant the Hughes cause was weakening . On the second ballot the vote for the Justice was 8281 On the motion to adjourn the opposition , generally regarded as composed of Hughes sympathizers , showed a marked falling off front the second ballot vote for Hughes , and the Old Guard leaders seemed to get the idea that the sentiment for the jurist had begun to wane . How Ruch mistaken they were they did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convention hall prepared to administer a defeat to Justice Hughes . First Shift to Hughes . Perhaps the first break in the columns of opposition to Hughes occurred in the evening , when the two Vares of Philadelphia  --  William S. , a Congressman , and his brother , Edwin H. , . a contractor ? both powers In the Republican politics of the Quaker City , called on Mr. Hitchcock and asked him to tell them frankly what the chances were for the nomination of Justice Hughes . The Vares had quarreled with Penrose and had cast their lot with Governor Brumbaugh . Colonel Roosevelt was the favorite of the Brumbaugh-Vare combination . Tired as he was . Hitchcock made an eloquent argument to show that nobody but Hughes could be nominated . The Vares were convinced that Hitchcock had the votes to ? bring victory to the Hughes standard , and they passed around word among their followers that Hughes was the man to support on the first ballot this morning . ? Just before the final ballot was taken , the Pennsylvania delegation was polled to enable Chairman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The work of the Vares had made its influence felt , and Penrose following , joined a grand rush to the Hughes band-wagon . The poll showed 61 for Hughes , 12 for Roosevelt , and 2 for Knox . The twelve Roosevelt votes are supposed to have come from members of the BrumbaughVare faction , who had been chosen as delegates on the strength of their advocacy of the Colonel . But when the name of Pennsylvania was reached in the call of States there was another , rapid drift to Hughes , and as the official ballot of the Keystone delegation was recorded it showed 72 for Hughes out of the full strength of 76 . The Indiana delegation . which was pledged to ex-Vice President Fairbanks for the nomination , and had taken a solemn pledge not to desert him unless he gave authority for it to do so , took a long chance in the hope of bringing victory to their favorite son . The leaders of the delegation appealed to Roosevelt to support Fairbanks . This was after the adjournment of last night 's session of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telephone or by telegraph , that Fairbanks had always supported him . The Indiana man was the Colonel 's running mate in the Presidential contest of 1904 and had been a firm friend of the Roosevelt administration during the four years that followed . But Colonel Roosevelt would have none of it . He said frankly that he could not indorse the candidacy of Fairbanks . That settled it as far as the Fairbanks boom was concerned and the saddened Hoosiers went to the con ' fbntion hall this morning realizing that their candidate had no chance . The Ohio delegation , while pledged to ex-Senator Theodore E. Burton , was impregnated with Hughes sentiment and after the development of Hughes strength in last night 's balloting it was decided that Burton 's chances had gone a-glimmering . Some time before the convention met today he was Informed of the situation and he gave his consent to the withdrawal of his name and left his followers free to vote as they pleased . One of the real causes for the flop to Hughes was the withdrawal of Senator Lawrence Y. Sherman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been called on the telephone at an early hour this morning and told his managers that the Illinois delgation was of the opinion it was useless to keep his name before the convention any longer and that the delegation was disI posed to vote for Hughes . The decision to join the Hug es forces had been reached by the delegation at 2130 o'clock . Sherman gave consent to the withrawal of his name . and when this I word reached other delegations before the convention assembled it was apparent that many of the anti-Hughes delegates came immediately to the conclusion that it was useless to hold out any longer for the candidates they had supported on the two ballots last night . Another break to Hughes was caused by the action of Senator Robert M. T.a Follette of Wisconsin in releasing those who had voted for him last night . He said over the telephone that the La Follette delegates had his consent to vote as they pleased . but he expressed the hope that they would all vote together . He would not attempt to influence them , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the selection of Hughes . That put a considerable part of the La Follette followers into the Hughes column . The delegates from Iowa and other States that were under instructions to vote for Senator Albert B. Cummins of Iowa were mainly Hughes men and had been looking forward to being released from their obligation to support Cummins ever since they realized that he had no chance for the nomination , so when he sent word to them that he had no objection to having them vote as they pleased they ' went with a rush to Hughes . These switches to Hughes told the story that was published to the convention when the first ballot was in progress at the single session today . From a place in the background Hitchcock watched his work for the Justice accomplished in the way he had planned . From the convention hall Hitchcock went to his rooms in the Congress Hotel and received delegations of his followers . Rut between call= from these delegations he was busy giving directions to his lieutenants for the disposition of their forces in another battle that had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control of the Republican National Committee . The committee was to meet at 5 o'clock , and the report had gone around that the Old Guard forces were planning to organize it in their own way . " General " Hitchcock he is called by the men who have been associated With ' him ever since his entry into politics . The title is not of the military order , but Is an outgrowth of Hitchcock 'S service as First Assistant Postmaster General and as Postmaster General , designations too long and formal to be used in ordinary conversation . So his friends had compromised on " General - ' and they were using the title today with greater emphasis . The tall , fair-haired Napoleon of the Hughes campaign showed no elation over what he had accomplished . He was almost too tired to talk . But he was afraid to yield to the Importunities of his lieutenants to go to bed . He was afraid that those who had opposed his advocacy of the Hughes cause might take advantage of the opportunity by getting control of party machineryPeople flocked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and hosts of visitors who wanted to congratulate the " General " or get Hughes badges . It was difficult to persuade the Field Marshal of the Hughes cause to say anything for publication . He seemed to think it was not to be expected that he should give his views to the public . When he decided to make a statement all he would say was this : " It was the logical thing to do , the ' nomination of Justice Hughes  --  and will mean victory at the polls in November . It was about the only thing the party could do to win . " This last sentence expressed tersely what Mr. Hitchcock has been telling those Republican workers who have been associated with him or were approached by him to support the Justice . The story of his effort in Justice Hughes 's behalf has not been told , but those who know it say that it will make an interesting chapter in political history . A great deal of curiosity has been shown in Democratic as well as Republican circles over the re-entry of Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ascertain whether he has been acting for himself alone or represented others in his work for Hughes . Hitchcock always has indicated that he was acting entirely without authority of the jurist , and the Istatements that have been made recently in behalf of Justice Hughes have borne out Hitchcock 's assertions . The inception of the Hugnes movement and the reasons behind it have made one of the mysteries of current politics . It is now possible with the nominatien to lift the veil a little . The movement had its beginning last Autumn , when Mr. Hitchcock , acting , it is understood , in behalf of some prominent Republicans who were anxious to see the party returned to power , made a tour of the West to feel out political Isentiment . He found that President i Wilson was much more popular than Republican leaders had been led to believe . He found that there was people proserit in certa re that the of thesein placegsions wereand pretty well ' satisfied with ' Wilson He found that , while a disposition existed to criticise the President for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was a very widespread feeling that he had been instrumental in keeping the country out of war in Europe and Mexico and that he deserved credit for his efforts for peace . Hitchcock made it his business in these regions to ascertain the opinion regard , ing prominent Republicans who might be considered for the nomination for President . The impression he formed was that Justice Hughes stood out preeminent among these as the man who commanded the most respect and who I seemed to have the confidence of the people . He reported his impressions to I those who were associated with him in the effort to find e cendidate best qualified to mak. a successful campaign against President Wilson , and on the basis of his report a movement to have Hughes chosen was begun in earnest , under the direction of Hitchcock . The first definite move of Hitchcock was made at the time of the meeting ' of I the Republican National Committee in Washington last December . He was in Washington , and was active in consulting Republican politicians from all . parts of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Presidential election this year . What he learned then confirmed his impression that there was much sentiment for Hughes . particularly in the West , and that Hughes probably was the only Republican of Presidential size who would be able to defeat President Wilson . Friends of Mr. Hitchcock said today that if he had not come to Chicago I prior to the Repul Convention Hughes might not habveican been nominated by the Republican Convention . The favorite son combination was already in the making and it was declared forces were at work that might have proved fatal to the Hughes movement if Hitchcock had not been on the ground to counteract them . Hitchcock , it was said , had hesitated about coming to Chicago before the convention but had yielded to the persuasion of his advisers . Who will be Chairman of the Republican National Committee in place of Charles D. Wiles will be left to the disposition of Justice Hughes . This is in accordance with the unwritten law that the candidate for President shall be privileged to select his own campaign manager . None of Hitchcock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Hughes has any information as to whether the preference of the candidate will go to Hitchcock , although they said that it went without saying he had earned it . 