@@684115

txt It is safe to say that the great majority sentiment in America is now firmly against an inconclusive peace . But it is equally certain that general understanding of what et conclusive peace means is vague and undetermined . Germany is certain to put out peace feelers before long . It would be an easy matter for the pacifists and the Bolsheviki of this country , subtly prompted by pm-German intrigue , to favor ' a peace which , while seemingly an Allied victory . would leave Germany more powerful than at the beginning of the war . There should be no peace conference with Germany . The Allies should lay down proper terms in a protocol , which Germany will have no choice but to follow . DANGER IN PACIFISM American delegates at the peace conference will represent the party of partially reformed pacifists . We may recall past errors if only to profit thereby , and should beware of impractical or dangerous theories which would permit Germany to get away with loot , plunder and power . England and France have well understood the significance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been beguiled by the voice of the peace tempter , nor were they ever willing to let Germany off without a conclusive victory . We may rely on them for firmness and sanity . But some of their leaders have likewise expressed their willingness to listen to " sincere " proposals . PEACE MIST REST ON POWER How is it possible for any Allied statesman to believe that Germany would keep any treaty we might make with her while we were still impotent to conquer her ! If she is still too strong for us. we will not be strong enough to enforce the fulfillment of such a treaty . She would laugh in our faces , and pursue her preparations for more war . Self-interest alone should prompt us to free the oppressed peoples of Austria , and that quickly . The means are at our hands . Austria stands before us a living example of all that Germany now strives to be on a far vaster scale . Germany of today was built up by conquest ; but since it was absorption of other Germanic peoples , the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not a nation , there is no such thingas a true Austrian , nor is there an Austrian language , although one of our lawmakers in Washington once asserted there was . THE AUSTRIAN CONSPIRACY Austria is merely a gevKeaphical expression to furnish cover for the one great successful conspiracy in the world today . permitting as it does 12.000.000 . Austrian Germans to hold 26,000,000 alien peoples in a subjection which is little short of slavery . It is in Hungary alone that we find any support of German rale . However , of Hungary 's 20,000,000 inhabitants , only half are 3lagyars , and 2,000,000 are Germans , leaving 8,000,000 of Ruman- fans , Serbo-Croatians , Slovaks and Ruthenians , who certainly are not of German sympathies , but fiercely hating all German rule . Hungary alone enjoys a sort of quasiindependence , but nevertheless is part and parcel of the German autocracy . STOLEN TERFUTORT ! The very territory of Austria itself , or the greater part of it , is stolen property , for within it we find what were formerly portions of Italy , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and above all , of Poland , How then can we allow Austria to rontinue in its integrity ( or rather in its conspiracy ) , while we fight to nullify and destroy the same barbarous methods so successfully used in creating both countries , but which , especially in Austria 's case , were used to enslave alien peoples ? I THE WAT TO PEACE PERMANENCE We must disintegrate and dismember Austria , and make her discredited name but a memory of injustice and oppression . The Allies would not be able to keep their sacred promise of independence to martyred Serbia alone if this disintegration is not complete . One thing is evident , we must discard forever that obnoxious word " autonomy " -a fraud and a delusion invent ! ed for the sole purpose of giving a pretended independence , while retaining real and tyrannical control . MEASURES AT mast ) To effect Austria 's disintegration , we need not await the conclusion of the war . The means are at hand . We can do it now , and without firing a shot . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Allies should announce their war aims in detail . Certainly they had been far wiser , if , instead of tolling Germany what dire things they would do to her , they had announced their intention to free all those subject peoples of Europe , and especially of Austria-Hungary and the persecuted Balkan states , and of Turkey . THE TRUE attirsi c ? Ns:tress The Allies should long ago have assembled a Congress to study all these complicated questions in detail , calling to their councils all those men who rank as experts . The local questions of these states , ever warring and warred upon . are to them matters of life and death importance , which , if unjustly settled , will plunge them into fresh wars . Since America is in the democracy business . she must supply it retail as well as wholesale , or the quality of our goods will he qutioned , and we shall lose the confidence of our clientele . Let then the Allies thus in Congress assembled issue separate pronouncements to the Poles . the Serbians , the southern Slays , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to he freed for all time from Austrian and German domination . to be established in their complete independence forever , with their proper territorial lines restored . Let the Allies likewise so address all those Italians , Gieeks , and  --  Annenians , and al others now held as-vassals or slaves by the Central Powers . PROMISES OF FREEDOM Let these pronouncements be made in the language of the various peoples . in the most admirable style used by England in announcing freedom to the Arabians of Asia Minor . Let these pronouncements be not only positive and particular , but let them be accompanied by the promise that Austria will ' ire dismembered forever , that Bulgaria , the Prussia of the Balkans , will be restricted to her own proper territory , and that Turkey 's rule in Europe is at an end . Let it be known that all these things will be done and guaranteed for the future by the Allied Powers , and their decrees be backed up Ly force of Allied arms . THE MESSAGE OF LIGIIT With this message of light and liberty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practical movement for freedom that the world has ever seen . Where thousands of unwilling Slav and Latin soldiers forced to fight in the armies of Austria and Germany are now deserting , w-e would see millions take their courage in their own hands in a mighty revolt , and Austria would disintegrate like an ant hill . These millions of our natural allies would join our forces along the entire eastern front , and Germany 's doom would be sealed . Aeroplanes could be used in quantity not only to distribute the pronouncements of the Allies . but all the material aid needed . All military operations against Austria should be pushed with redoubled energy and force . Austria is alike the key to winning the war , and of peace guarantees for the future . MUST NEVER AI/JOLLEY The Congress of the Allies must hover be adjourned , but sit permanently , if peace is to be permanent . There can never be a successful league of peace other than the present league of the Allies . As an utmost concession , Germany 's delegates might have seats in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany can not be a member of this league in full standing because it will not be possible to trust her with knowledge of the policing forces of the Allies , which must be established to keep order in the world . An army and navy of the Allies must be placed under the executive branch of the Allied Congress , ready to move overnight , if necessary , as Germany did , and would again .                     