@@679587

txt The Democrats of the House , without faltering , without a single false step , have advanced like men to the per- ? formance cf their duty . The regular Republicans of the Senate have turned their faces rearward to the darkness , and in that direction alone they seem prepared to march . The Republican insurgents are squirming through devious and subterranean ways toward a still deeper disrepute than that which they have incurred by their flagrant insincerity . Five months ago the House Democrats passed the Reciprocity agreement bill , and sent it to the Senate . Two months ago they passed the Free List bill , and sent that to the Senate . The bill reducing the duties of the woolen schedule they passed and sent to the Senate on Tuesday of this week . Confronting the political and party emergencies which these three bills create , harassed upon the one side by the insistence of the protected interests that the tariff shall nowhere be touched , and upon the other by the fear and the fright growing out of their certain knowledge that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicans of the Senate have been thrown into dire confusion . They have shown themselves hostile to the Reciprocity agreement . The Free List bill and the Wool bill were adversely reported by Senator PENROSE from the Finance Committee yesterday , the committee showing an alacrity which won for it the sarcastic congratulations of Senator GORE , whose resolution of reference ordering a report on the Wool bill by July 10 had met with this surprisingly prompt obedience . The insurgent Republicans joined with the Democrats in ordering the report . And now we are told that this unexpected projection of the whole tariff subject into the field of Senate debate indefinitely postpones and may , possibly , defeat reciprocity . We do not believe it . Senator Crefrnes and Senator LA FOLLETTE are prepared with amendments to the Reciprocity agreement , amendments which have no purpose but to kill it . The insurgent enemies of reciprocity now insist that the revision programme of the House Democrats shall be broadened until it includes every schedule of the tariff , and some of them appear to delude themselves with the hope that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill they will defeat it It is true that the Senate may prepare , it might even pass , a bill revising the whole tariff act in the form of an amendment to the Reciprocity bill . Under the Senate practice of unlimited debate , it may keep Congress in session all Summer , until the coming of Winter . But the Republicans can not defeat reciprocity . They dare not do it. , they will not do it . The Democratic leaders of the House are clear-sighted and resolute men . They nave absolute command of the Congressional situation and they must know it . They have but to take their stand firmly on the principle that there shall be no tariff bill passed that has not originated in the House of Representatives , and in the Ways and Means Committee : let them make that resolve known to'the Senate and to the country , and let them inflexibly adhere to that reso. lution. and their triumph will be sure . Every day that the Senate delays the enactment of the Reciprocity bill , every day that it spends in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accept , will but swell the country 's rising tide of indignation against those who oppose its will . There can be no secrecy in this matter . From day to day the tactics and the tricks of their opposition will he made known to the country , the Senators who are responsible for them will be made known , , the responsibility will be fixed . Indignation and indignation mingled with , contempt will be visited first of all upon the Republican insurgents , for their procedures are entirely incompatible with a belief in their sincerity . Their professed desire for a general tariff reform at this session fools nobody . Chairman Ii NDERWOOD 'S programme in respect to the tariff has ' the approval of the country , and it is in his committee that reyision measures , should originate . Revision by Senate- amendment is at best ' only a method of robbing this House of its Constitutional prerogative ; but the insurgents do not aim at revision , they aim only at the death of reciprocity . They will yield , because they will have to yield @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aA should defy them . If the House makes it known that no tariff measure save of its own making will be considered , the Senate will be forced to choose between accepting reciprocity or accepting the consequences of its stubbornness . Thus challenged , it will not have the hardihood to defeat the Reciprocity agreement                     