@@680717

txt WASHINGTON , Aug. ** La Follette of Wisconsin , for the Progressive Republicans , introduced his substitute for the wool schedule of the Democratic Tariff bill in the Senate today . He proposes rates substantially . lower than those in the amendment offered some time ago by Senator Smoot of Utah , the tariff expert of the regular Republicans , and they are believed to be the lowest wool rates ever proposed by a Republican . Mr. La Follette divides raw wool into two classes , instead of the traditional triple classification . Class 1 , which includes merino , down clothing , and combing wools generally , is subjected to a duty of 15 per cent. , the rate the Democrats agreed to before President Wilson insisted on free wool . Other wools of the coarser grades , Including camel 's hair , are put on the free list . Corresponding heavy reductions from existing law are made in rates on improved and finished grades of manufactured wool . Wools of Class 1 on the skin and top waste , slubbing waste , and the like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shoddy , yarn waste , and woolen rags are reduced to 10 per cent . The duty on tops is proposed at 25 per cent. , on carded woolen yarns 30 per cent. , and on worsted yarns 321h , per cent . Woolen cloth and ready-made clothing are protected by duties ranging from 40 to 45 per cent . It is expected that when the voting begins on the woolen schedule , some time next week , Mr. La Follette 's substitute will not draw much support , even from Republican ranks . The regulars at first will rally to the support of Mr. Smoot 's proposals , and only after they have been defeated will the ; vote for Mr. La Follette 's rates as the best in sight . But Mr. La Follette 's proposals are certain to be defeated by the solid vote of the Democratic majority . In the Senate debate to-day on the schedule , the Republicans kept up a running fire of stubborn opposition to free raw wool and the radical reductions in woolen manufactures proposed in the Democratic bill . Senators Warren of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the former characterizing the proposed bill as " tariff-for-politics-only , instead of for revenue-only , " and the latter asserting that the woollen schedule as prepared by the majority was " distinctly against America and for Europe . " " From the British standpoint . " said Senator Penrose , " this bill is almost too good to be believed . It actually carries many rates of duty much lower and more favorable to British interests than the New York importers representing the foreign manufacturers dared to ask for . " Senator Warren , in a lengthy analysis of the wool situation , said that under the proposed law immense sums would be lost t othe producers of wool , without benefit to the consumer . Free wool he described as " uncalled for , cruel and unwise . " Responding to a recent resolution by Senator Sutherland , Secretary estimated that importers having merchandise in American warehouses under bond awaiting the new tariff rates would save about $10,000,000.                     