@@682475

txt Persons who went to the WaldorfAstoria yesterday to obtain information regarding a bulletined all-day conference I of the du Pont Business Men 's Presidential League learned , some with surprise , that the T. Coleman du Pont Presidential boom had blown up and vanished the day before . Telephone inquiries at the home of Ormsby , who has been in charge of the du Pont ' Presidential propaganda , brought out the information that Mr. was I on his way to Texas . The boom for Mr. du Pont has been housed in pretentious headquarters at the Waldorf for three weeks past . Prior to moving uptown . du Pont headquarters were maintained in the City Investing Building in lower Broadway . Mr. du Pont started out with the six delegates of his home State , Delaware , pledged to him , and there has been nothing to indicate that the boom has reached out and acquired additional strength from other States , although the country has been flooded with literature advocating the nomination of Mr. du Pont as a business men 's candidate . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pont headquarters , gained a good deal of publicity four years ago in connection with the work he did in the South corraling negro delegates for Colonel Theodore Roosevelt . Unlike so many other Roosevelt boomers , he did not leave the Republican ranks and become a Bull Nit:loser . The du Pont boom was his second venture this year . He was in charge of the ill-fated Henry D. Estabrook boom , which never made any noticeable headway . rinds Root Sentiment in West . Ex-Congressman John M. Dwight , Manager of the Root boom , returned from his Western trip yesterday , declaring that . he was well pleased with the way the propaganda for Elihu Root was taking hold in the Northwest aria the Middle West . " I was astonished to find how receptive the West was to Mr. Root 's candi , ? dacy , " said Mr. Dwight at the Hotel Manhattan . " They know him out there as a great big man , just as we do here . Everywhere I went , I found how highly he is regarded . I did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he Ls a candidate . I tell you , the West appreciates Elihu Root . " Mr. Dwight said he had rented a vacant store close to the Congress Hotel in Chicago and would open headquarters there for Mr. Root on May 23 on which date the Root headquarters at the Hotel Manhattan in this city will t he closed . " After , leaving Chicago , I went up to Minnesota , " said Mr. Dwight . " You know , I used to live there and know a good many people , business men as well as politicians . Nobody could drop off in Minneapolis or in St. Paul and have any doubt how highly they think of Elihu Root . They , all regret that he did not allow his name to . be Voted on . at the primaries . There is a lot of Root sentiment there and it will find expression in the convention . " Prom St. Paul I went down to Omaha and saw a tew friends there . They feel very kindly toward Mr. Root in Nebraska . After my experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Root will not be a strong candidate in that section , and the West is Republican this year , too . You can- I not travel out there and be mistaken on that point . " It was said last night that Mr. Root would have some delegates from Michigan . after the Michigan delegation had discharged its obligations to Henry Ford , the pacifist , for whom it has been instructed . Still Figuring on Hughes ' Mind . With . the division of the vote on the first ballot in the Republican National Convention pretty generally known , and with its effect practically discounted from the fact that , except in the cases of Colonel Roosevelt , Justice Hughes and Mr. Root , it will be little more than complimentary and sentimental , the Old Guard leaders at present are devoting their efforts toward preventing any large number of delegates whose obligations to their candidates will be diecharged after the first ballot from going on the second to Justice Hughes , who just now looms up as the strongest candidate among those to whom the Old Guard leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up their mind that if Justice Hughes should fail to receive the nomination on the second or third ballot , he would be compelled , out of regard ' for his present position , to put a stop to the further use of his name . Justice Hughes has already declared emphatically that he Is not a candidate and his position has not changed in any way despite the demand for his nomination which has come from all sections of the country . Persons who feel that they can interpret correctly the attitude of Justice Hughes believe that , while he would submit to being " drafted " to lead the Presidential fight this Fall . he would under no circumstances consent to the use of his name if the nomination could come to him only after a fight In convention . The Old - Guard leaders In their fight to " stop " Justice Hughes as they believe they have " stopped " the Colonel are relying on the delicacy of his position as an adjunct in their struggle to eliminate him . Burton Keeps Close to New York . Ex-Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ returned to the East again . On Wednesday night he made a speech in Oneonta , in the heart of the Congressional district now represented by George W. Fairchild . For some reason the Root leaders are viewing with complacency what ordinarily would be termed " poaching on the Root preserves . " The relations between the ' Root and Burton interests are so friendly that when ex-Senator Burton recently wanted a list of the New York delegates for campaign purposes he went to I the Root headquarters and got it . Mr. Burton has made a score of speeches in this State outside of New York City s'nce the pre-convention campaign has been in progress . The visit of Mr. Burton to the Fairchild stronghold led to the interesting rumor that Congressman Fairchild might be picked as a running mate for Mr. Burton , provided he should land the Presidential nomination , since Governor Whitman is not an aspirant for second honors . Mr. Fairchild is a candidate for re-election , but he is likely to have such a stiff fight on his hands in the Fall primaries that some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Vice Presidential nomination . His prospective rival for a seat in Congress is State Senator Samuel A .. Jones of Chenango. who , during the two years he has been at Albany , has become known as the " Billy Sunday of , the Senate . " Senator Jones has a strong 1 following n the political bailiwick of Congressman Fairchild . George W. Perkins , National Execu- I dire Chairman of the Progressive Party , had a statement -- commenting on the ? 1 result of the Pennsylvania primaries , all prepared for publication yesterday , ; but on further consideration he den ded not to issue it . Mr. Perkins said he would hold it until after a meeting of the Executive Committee of the ti Proressive National Committee , scheduled for next - Wednesday . Ex - Congressman William Havers Douglas , who is g delegate from the Seventeenth Congressional District , telegraphed THE TIMES last night that the statement that he might vote for Burton was incorrect , and that ha would , I stand strongly tor the nomination of Justice Hughes . 