@@683857

txt Senator Pittman has introduced in Senate a silver purchase bill recommended by Secretary , and prepared in conjunction with the Director of Mint . It provides for the milling or sale of 250,000,000. standard silver dollars from time to time in the purchase by the Director of the Mint of an equivalent amount of pure silver . The Pittman bill will undoubtedly become law , as it was prepared under the supervision of the AdminiStralion . The Treasury Department interprets it as meaning that producers must sell for $1 , and that the Government will pay $1 an ounce for silver . Secretary , in a letter to Senator Pittman of Nevada appuaving his silver purchase bill , says : " I have examined the draft of a bill embodying the ideas which have been discussed between us for the utilization of the silver now lying unused in the Treasury of the United States . I venture to recapitulate briefly the purposes to be accomplished by the bill and the reasons which in my judgment require its enactment . " The gold in this country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a base for the enormous credit structure it is necessary to erect in the process of placing Government loans , and every ounce of silver that can be used in the settlement of foreign balances is so much gained . It is better to settle trade balances by shipping silver , than to make arrangements for stabilizing exchange , where these are possible , as they are not in the Orient , because these exchange arrangements whatever their form , always mean a deferred demand for gold , while the settlement of foreign balances in silver is a definite settlement , calling for no future adjustments . ' Further , the unprecedented business activity in this country has caused an unusual demand for silver for subsidiary coinage , the needs of the United States for this purpuose during the present year being greater than ever before , amounting as they do to approximately 21,250,000 ounces . " There are now in the Treasury of the United States approximately 990,000,000 of standard silver dollars , containing approximately 375,000,000 ounces of fine silver . Against these standard silver dollars there are outstanding silver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outstanding , a corresponding amount of silver dollars must be held for their redemption . - ? " The proposition is , in brief , to retire silver certificates ; to borrow from the Treasury the silver for use for the war purposes above set forth ; and then , as silver from time io time in the future comes on the market , to replace the silver so borrowed by purchase in the market at the fixed price of Si per fine ounce and to replace the borrowed silver by coining the new silver acquired for that purpose into standard silver dollars . There is no limit of time within which this must be done . " The proposed measure is unquestionably in the interest of the country as a whole for the prosecution of the war . It proposes no ? permanent change in our existing currency arrangements . What is proposed is a temporary change , consisting of the active use for war purposes of the silver now lying inert in the Treasury . " Sections 5 , 6 , 7 and S seem to me the best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which would otherwise be brought about through the cancellation of silver certificates . This is accomplished by authorizing an issue of ? Federal Reserve bank notes in small denominations in order to fill the void occasioned by the retirement of silver certificates and provides for the prompt retirement of those Federal Reserve bank notes as silver certificates are from time to time reissued . " The Pittman bill provides in Section : 3 that " sales of silver bullion under authority of this Act may be made for the purposes of conserving the existing stock of gold in the United States ; of facilitating the settlement in silver of trade balances adverse to the United States , of providing silver for subsidiary coinage and for commercial use , and of assisting foreign governments at war with the enemies of the United States . The allocation of any silver to the Directorof the Mint-for subsidiary coinage. , shall , for the purposes of this Act , be regarded as a sale or resale . " Section 5 provides : " In order to prevent contraction of the currency , the Federal Reserve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reserve Board , at Ithe4equest of the Secretary of the Treasury , to issue Federal **  --  s , in any denominations ( including denominations of one and two dollars ) authorized by the Federal Reserve Board , in an aggregate amount riot exceeding the amount of standard silver dollars melted or broken up and sold as bullion tinder authority of this Act , upon deposit as provided by law with the Treasurer of the United States as security therefor , of United States certificate 's of indebtedness , or of United States one-year gold notes . " The U. S. Government is paying now 91c. an ounce for silver . This price has been steadily moving up from SSc . during , the past month . The highest price paid for silver by the U. S. Government in recent years occurred last September , which was $1.013 an ounce .                     