@@684792

txt The American steel industry is facing the greatest peace-time demand in its history . So great , apparently , will be the domestic and foreign demand on the United States for steel that once business hits its stride requirements will approach war pronortions . Maximum operations for a long period will he necessary to meet the demand . Bow long this period may be is a matter of question . Those carefully studying the situation agree that it will be several years if demand is allowed free play and export consumers ' needs can be financed . That financing will be arranged in due time seems probable . Despite the many uncertainties the industry has been facing this year , increases in iron and steel making and rolling capacity are being made by various companies . The Steel Corporation and larger independents have developments under consideration that are expected to be rushed to completion the moment general conditions become more stable . This in itself is the best proof of the opinion of those who know the steel outlook best . Next to food and clothing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inquiry and outlook and from the fact that steel is basic to most material developments on which world progress depend . All nations have had far less than their normal steel requirements for peace uses for several years . There is a great accumulated demand on this account . New conditions throughout the world occasioned by the war are stimulating much new activity . Undeveloped countries are tir be developed , new enterprises undertaken . all of which spells steel . Steel producers du not pick out any particular line or lines of products on which demand is to center . All staple products will be needed . Even now the lines in which there is lightest buying are in active demand . The fact that steel companies have been declining to book so much business owing to uncertain operating conditions and the possibility of higher production costs , has operated to keep much potential business out of sight . As it is demand is such that one large independent producer was recently quoted to the effect that a quarters business could be booked in a week . This may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ railroads have been variously estimated to consume from 25% to 35% of our entire steel production . They have for some time been taking well under half of their usual current steel requirements , at a time when the wear and tear on equipment and facilities ! have been maximum . As frequently pointed out there is in this quarter alone an enormous dammed-up demand for steel . There is , in addition , the great foreign demand for railroad steel both for track uses and for the building of rail- , road equipment . Railroads are projected in many foreign countries . If these projects materialize as expected and unless foreign steel producers make more rapid progress than they thus far have in regaining their positions in the trade , much of this business will he offered to American mills . Next to the railroads in the matter of requiring steel stand the oil , shipping and automobile industries . Development of the automobile industry and the growing use of oil for fuel purposes have been stimulating the steel demend as never before . Even under present conditions the oil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is no sign of a letup in oil demand and so in the demand for steel from this quarter . The automobile and truck industry seems to be but in its infancy , despite its present great proportions . Every step of growth in the automobile industry means just so much increased steel demand as steel and iron are largely used in the automobile and motor truck . The world shipping capacity is deplorably depleted as a result of war destruction and natural losses . With the steel ship , the accepted ocean carrier , shipbuilding to make up losses and meet expanding trade demands , must continue to contribute heavy business to the steel industry . Commercial building and miscellaneous fabricating enterprises , some of which are already reporting an unprecedented business , will use increasing amounts of steel for a considerable period . The prosperity and development of the farming industry , both in America and foreign countries , have resulted in farmers taking increased amounts of agricultural implements , owing both to growing heed : , and improved financial status . The agricultural implement maker is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disposition to contend that current prices are too high and will discourage protracted heavy steel buying . Those who object to prices are usually the ones who are least familiar with conditions in the industry and apparently wilfully disregard the fact that steel prices have twice conic down . even from a government-made price level , in n period when other commodity prices have been uniformly advancing ; also that by the Government 's own reports steel workers ' wages have been advanced most above the pre-war level , which was relatively high . In view of the fact that steel prices have stood the most gruelling opposition and criticism from governmental agencies , as well as the operation of the law of supply and demand during a trying readjustment period , it is general.ly that steel prices are on a firm basis and due 4.0 move up if there is any change at all .                     