@@678837

txt The Hudson County , N. J. , Grand Jury , in session yesterday afternoon , voted unanimously to indict , with one exception , the Directors of the National Packing Company , a New Jersey corporation , known as the Beef Trust , with offices in Chicago and 15 Exchange Place , Jersey City . The indictment , which is the result of the cold storage Investigation in Jersey City to determine the causes for the increased cost of living , is for conspiracy to depress the market and enhance the price of foodstuffs . Those against whom the indictment is found , it being a blanket indictment , are J. Ogden Armour , L. F. Swift , Edward Morris , A. Meeker , Edward Tilden , T. J. Conners. , L. A. Carton , T. E. Wilson , C. H. Swift , L. H. Heyman , Samuel L. , F. A. Fowler , and A. W. Armour . Kenneth K. ' , who is President of the Corporation Trust Company of New Jersey , and the agent in Jersey City of the National Packing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Directors . The officers of the company are : Edward Tilden , President ; L. B. Patterson , Vice President ; A. T. Fuller , Vice President ; S. G. Snow , Secretary , and Arthur Colby , Treasurer . Garven Seen Whitman . Prosecutor Pierre P. Garven of Hudson County , following his presentation of the case against the Beef Trust Directors , spent an hour yesterday in consultation with District Attorney Whitman . With him were Assistant District Attorneys Quill and McCarthy . The discussion covered the field of monopoly investigation , in the light of possible co-operation between the Prosecutors of the two cities . Mr. Garven talked of meat , poultry , and eggs , with a particular emphasis on eggs . He feels that his investigations so far have unearthed evidences of crime in this city , the details of which should be in Mr. Whitman 's hands , and that there is evidence to be had in this county which he would very much like to have . Mr. Whitman expressed himself later in hearty approval of the proposed co-operation . In his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had sufficient ' evidence to warrant the finding of an indictment on ' whim a conviction could be obtained . ' He stated that witnesses before the Grand Jury had told about meetings of the Directors of the National Packing Company , agreeing to raise the price of beef and other foodstuffs and keep the same in storage until prices fixed upon were acceded to . He declared that in New Jersey it was easy to obtain the minutes of the Board of Directors . Turkey Seven Years in Storage . This presentation of facts and the fact that a former employe of the Merchants ' Refrigerating Company of Jersey City told the Grand Jury that he saw one of the cold storage officials hold up a turkey which he said had been in cold storage for seven years , prompted the Grand Jury to vote for the indictments asked for . The news of the Grand Jury 's action became known at the Court House in Jersey City late yesterday afternoon and created a sensation . Beef Trust men heard of it and flashed it to Philadelphia and Chicago . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cold storage officials in Jersey City will probably be ix/-dieted for permitting foodstuffs that convey germs and microbes to be sold from their houses . It is contended by Assistant Prosecutor George T. Vickers of Hudson County that when beef that . has been in cold storage for any great length of time is put through a chemical process to bring it back to its apparent normal state , it developes germs and microbes and is injurious to the public health . Dr. George T. , microscopist , who has been making observations for the Hudson County officials at the cold storage plants in Jersey City , accompanied Assistant Prosecutor Vickers to Washington last night to confer there with Dr. Wiley of the Agricultural Department on the question . Another matter to be taken uD at this conference is that cold storage eggs take in a certain amount of gas that is poisonous . On the same questions Second Assistant Prosecutor James W. McCarthy went to Trenton last night to confer with the State Board of Health . The Jury That Did It . The Hudson County Grand Jury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B. Throckmorton , foreman ; William Barry , Thomas Brennan , Edward Carroll . Dr. T. Leo Callen , George H. Donaldson , Thomas M. Donnelly , Fred W. Gartmann , Jacob I. Haas , Emil Herz . John Introcaso , Thomas ' W. Leake . James A. Marnell , John J. Nealon , Herman P. Russer . Paul J. Riviere , Edward Schroeder , Charles Singer , Jr. , Fred H. Spengemann . Joseph Stilz , Philip Steuerwald , and William Wilhelm . Next Wednesday the Grand Jury will hand up the indictment to Supreme Court Justice Swayze , who only last week charged the jury on the law that regulates the cold storage ' Business and the law that has to do with any corporation or collection of men who combine to conspire and enhance the price of foodstuffs against the public welfare . He charged the jurors that if in their opinion they discovered ' any conspiracy it was their duty to find an indictment . Prosecutor Garven will , as soon as the indictment is presented to the court , issue summonses and apply for extradition papers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the court for speedy trial . In discussing the action of the Grand Jury last night he said : I have been working for several weeks . now to ascertain the real causes of the , high cost of living , and during the course of my probe I have learned much about pe manner probe- running cold storage plants and feel that officials of these plants are liable to indictment . I shall be in a better position to present any cold-storage investigations to the Grand Jury next week , and then the public that has , in my opinion , been imposed upon mercilessly will see what will happen . Rascals , when we find them , must be punished for the crimes they commit . " 