@@682121

txt Several newspapers have received tonight from what may be described as a semi-official source an intimation of one argument the Allies expect to use in getting satisfactory terms from the Teutonic Empires once commissioners meet about the council table to discuss peace . This information confirms private suggestions that the Allies , In spite of their recent reverses , mean to carry the war to the point where they can demand a large indemnity from Germany and Austria . This intimation is conveyed in the following statement : " One of the main points of the Allies ' peace terms is that on no account win the German mercantile marine flag be permitted to be seen upon the high seas until full indemnification has been paid . The Allies have the power to do this and mean to use it to the full extent . " It is doubted it this pronouncement has any Immediate application to the situation in Europe . Dr. von Bethmann Holiweg , the Imperial German Chancellor , told the Reichstag on Thursday that when the enemies ' of Germany came forward with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and her friends these proposals would be listened . to . The day before Premier Asquith said that if serious proposals of peace were received from the Allies ' enemies they would be considered by the allied Governments . Neither of these statements promised overtures in the near future . One suggestion as to the Allies ' attitude toward peace is that the statement comes just at the time when the remarks of the German Chancellor and the British Prime Minister are in the public mind . The statement , it is pointed out , may give German officials food for thought as to the loss to German trade . even should German arms continue for the time being their far-flung successes . Whenever peace rumors have floated over Europe  --  and many have seemed to come from Germany  --  the Allies have made it plain that they were not ready to talk peace . This reticence on the part of the allied Governments was taken to mean that they intended to press the war to a successful conclusion , and that they felt nothing could be gained by lending an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were far outside German frontiers . The suggestion today seems to look to the time when Germany will be fighting on her own territory , or at least within striking distance of German soil . Talk of indemnity has always been coupled with the idea that it would be I needed for the rehabilitation of Belgium , and more recently of Belgium and Serbia . But an indemnity is difficult to collect . Japan . though she had driven the Eussian armies at will , finally withdrew the demand for payment in gold . The Allies , however , once the , question of peace brought up the subject of indemnity , would be in a better position to enforce their demands . If the war came down to a formal siege in ail theatres , the British Navy could hold the German merchant fleet indefinitely in pawn . The indemnity might be asked in the way of redemption for the merchant fleet .                     