@@680692

txt ritual Gibbons today talked to interviewers on socialism , labor unions , the suffrage question , the troubles in Mexico . and the Mulhall scandal . Ho arrived at tekon to participate in the twelfth annual convention of the American Federation of Catholic Societies , which will open here tomorrow . The cardinal admitted socialism has features that are commendable , but added that it has others that are utterly reprehensible . " If they would only eliminate from their catalogue the objectionable features , then I would be with them heartily , " he said . " But there are several bad features about the party 's principles . Take the advocacy of having all goods in common . That would destroy all personal and individual exertion . " If I know I shall have the same amount of money tomorrow that you will have , regardless of my industry , I will let you do the work and I will get the spoils . But the basis of society rests on respect for personal life , property , and liberty . Cardinal Defends Property Rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ property , and no man has any right to dispute my prerogatives to my own property . The socialists say I am obliged to give up my property . That Is not right , but at the same time I am bound as a man and a Christian to relieve distress and Buffering . I am bound by the laws of charity to help the poor Lnd the afflicted . but no one has the right to interfere with my personal claims . " Certainly labor has a right to organize , " Cardinal Gibbons said , when asked whether In his opinion organized labor is an advoya tag ? or detriment to the country 's welfare . " I defended labor unions us far heck as 18,87 . Labor has as much right to organize for its own benefit and to cooperate for its own advancement as capital has . " Calls Mexican Situation Serious . In the threatened trouble with Mexico Cardinal Gibbons thinks the nation can rely on the judgment of President Wilson and his tmmediate advisers to do whatever is right . He admitted that he considers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give an intelligent opinion on the outcome of the present situation , " he said . " I am not in possession of any knowledge that would warrant me in making a definite prediction . I think the country should rely on the president and the government and accede to them the discretionary powers . These are the men that have most knowledge of the situation , and I think it best for the country not to Interfere too much with their plans . " Asked about Martin M. Mulhall. he said he had never met him and therefore would not take the time and trouble of denying his testimony before the senate lobby investigation committee that he had a conference with him with the hope of securing his influence in regard to legislation favorable to the Manufacturers ' association . " Catholics Arrive for Convention . Several hundred people arrived here during the day . Plans are being made to accommodate 50.000 . The delegation from St. Louis , Including Archbishop J. J. Merman , is touring to Milwaukee in automobiles , and will arrive tomorrow . The convention is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America , and nearly all of the most important men of that faith will be present . Among the most prominent , besides Cardinal Gibbons , are : Archbishop Ireland , Archbishop Keane .. Archbishop Messmer , and Bishops Muldoon , , Schwebach , Els , Schirmer , Fox , and Koudelka.                     