@@680455

txt The eyes of American bankers are now fixed intently upon Germany . There is now the gravest situation as far as the world 's money markets are concerned . Our Walkers say that it is serious but not critic. , as yet . It is a situation which explains some of the depression which prevails in the American securities market . It is a situation , too , which American bankers feel fully justified in alleviating if that can be done without serious impairment of our own monetary conditions . The recent failure of the German government 's offering of about one hundred and forty millions national bonds is of itself an object lesson which serves to teach the rest of the world what some features of the situation in Germany are . The great financiers the world over know that although France paid an indemnity to Germany after the FrancoPrussian war equivalent to a billion dollars of our money , yet a good deal of this indemnity was balanced by purchases Germany made of French manufacturers and farrneis in older to make good the wasting occasioned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Franco-Prusian with . Germany owed France a great deal of money . almost all of It repiescnting purchase , of French commodities , agt icultizral and industrial . t or this reason the sttain occasioned by the payment of a billion dollars by France to Germany was not so heavy as at first sight it was thought likely to be . The effects of the strain , such as it was , were speedily overcome in France . Soon after this payment was made Germany began to borrow money of France . Lip to the time of the serious . tension caused by what is known as the Moroccan incident , French capital in large amount had been loaned to Germany . Much of this capital remained liquid , after Germany received the money . In other words , it did not go into public works . factories or improvements . CALLING MCI : TUE sioNr.v . Immediately after the Moroccan incident . France began to withdraw her money from Germany . Various estimates of the aggregate amount of French money loaned to Germany were made by those from whom information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amount than five hundred millions as the figures that represented the loans up to the time of the Moroccan incident . Since the accession of the present German emperor , industry in Germany of all kinds has been rapidly advanced . Foreign commerce has been pushed , public works developed and an enormous amount of German money has been expended in these various national undertakings . Manufacturing plants , new railroad lines , canals , agricultural expansion , an increased army and navy  --  many things have absorbed German capital . Much of the funds necessary for these undertakings was secured by the German banks . The aggregate of liquid German capital converted into fixed capital or real wealth in the past twenty-five years is represented by an enormous figure . it has been principally with foreign money , almost exclusively that lent by France , that liquid capital has been furnished-to Germany for ordinary banking operations . Suddenly after the Moroccan incident France withdrew this capital . The result has been that while wealth is abundant in Germany liquid capital had become very scarce . A good - deal of money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Balkan war . The empire has therefore been compelled to rely upon the financial ability of the great bankers of Germany for the liquid capital which is needed and especially for money necessary to meet the quarterly financial settlements . These bankers have turned to the United States and have not turned in vain . A VERN : RICH NATION . The German empire is enormously rich . Wealth is there in abundance . So , also , Germany is fundamentally sound from the financial point of view . The empire is not in any danger except that which may be due to temporary embarrassment . The credit of the German empire is very high , and if it so happens that at this time a national loan of a hundred and forty millions is a failure , that is not to be taken as an imputation upon Germany 's credit , but as a proof of the very great money stringency upon the continent of Europe , except France . The French people and the French bankers are not disposed to furnish Germany with needed funds . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Germany now has from the paint of view of financing . Our bankers will continue to aid Germany . But while the tension prevails in Germany we are likely to have a reflection of it in this country .                     