@@684751

txt Election of Seward Prosser , president of Bankers Trust Co. , and George F. Baker , Jr. , vice-president of the First National Bank of New York , to the board of the Great Northern Railway , marks a new departure in the administrative policies of that road , and may mean more or less extensive changes in the executive management . Heretofore Great Northern has had but two New York directors in a board of twelve ; and only one , A. Barton Hepburn , was a banker . The addition of the two New York members i , s4iens.ely broadens the road 's financial affiliations , aside , rom giving the road , as directors , two active and comparatively young men of national prominence . Intimations in newspaper dispatches from the West . that control of the road has passed to Wall Street , do not find any support in well informed quarters here , where it is asserted that there has been no important recent change in ownership of the company 's stock . The fact that the two men who were replaced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understood to be representatives of Louis Hill himself , has given currency to the story , particularly in railroad circles , that the changes in the board were the result of differences between Louis Hill and his brothers and brothers-in-law , that the " shake-up " begun by the election of former VicePresident Budd to the presidency has only started , and that President Budd will " run " the road under the general direction of the New York members of the board . Contrary to this version , the statement is made on authority here that during a recent visit to New York , Louis Hill asked several of his friends to suggest men who would be valuable acquisitions to the Great Northern board , explaining that it was the desire of himself and other directors , to form a board which should have a wider outlook upon the business affairs of the country than was possible with a board composed so largely of residents of one city . Before the recent changes , the board included seven citizens of St. Paul , one of Minneapolis , two of Duluth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last two being the vice-president and treasurer of the company . Mr. Hill 's friends , it is added , advised the selection of Mr. Prosser and Mr. Baker . Ralph Budd , the new president of the road , held , until the other day , the title of executive vice-president . He was previously the chief engineer of the road . W. P. Kenney , the present Federal manager of the road , and formerly a vice-president , came up through the traffic department . What his future position in the organization will be is said in railroad circles to be a question .                     