@@679907

txt The President strongly urges the bill for compensation by inter-State railways for injuries to their employes which we recently summarized . He makes short work of the chief objections , on legal grounds , made to the bill . His opinion that Congress has Jurisdiction , that due process of law is not denied and that the right of trial by jury is sufficiently provided for , will carry weight with Congress . The most important matter involved in the bill is the central and controlling principle that compensation for accidental injuries to employes must be regarded as a part of the regular cost of earrying on business and be provided for under the regulation of the Federal Government . This principle is recognized and applied in the Sutherland Committee 's bill . It is strongly approved by the President . It has been accepted by a considerable portion of the business community generally , and there is reason to expect that it will be made the basis of legislation in Congress and in the several States . Properly guarded It has much to recommend it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its application . tinder it the old common law defense of aontributorY negligence is , if not wholly done away with , reduced to a point where it avails little . In the bill which the President urges the negligence of the employe must be " willful " in order to bar him I from compensation . Now " willful " negligence is not easy to define , and in practice would be far from easy to prove . That workmen are often very negligent , that they are sometimes inexcusably so , and that their inexcusable negligence is the ( cause of great loss of property , serious injury , and even of destruction of life , is well known . Generally the damage done involves many besides themselves . To what extent the new - style of law will relieve them from responsibility in such cases , or , even secure to them compensation for injury to themselves , practically avoidable , can be ascertained only when the law Is put in operation . But it is a matter that should very carefully be considered and possible mischief be guarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left in effect helpless against such misconduct under the law , they will be forced to resort to much more rigid discipline than is now common . No corporation can fairly be called upon to retain on its payroll men who recklessly imperil their own and others ' lives and the property of their employers . And . the latter will be justified in making and enforcing very strict rules designed to check mid severely punish the earliest indications of a tendency toward this kind of recklessness . It is claimed for the new rule that it ? will make employers more careful in- guarding against accident , and in some degree the claim is reasonable , but it the law qwq than offset . The President calls attention to one . probable effect of the law which would unquestionably be good . It would tend to lessen litigation . At present some employers fight all claims for damage , and sometimes succeed in defeating them by sheer force of cost and delay . The insurance companies which undertake , for proper compensation , to indemnify employers against claims for damage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employers themselves would be willing to be . On the other hand , there is an extensive brand of lawyers  --  the " ambulance-chasers " of our large cities , who push their clients ' cases in a manner quite as Unscrupulous as any of the employers or insurance men . So that it is literally true that the courts are Jammed with such cases to the serious injury of other litigants , causing delay that in effect is a substantial denial of Justice . it is extremely desirable to do away with this nuisance , and so far as the railways are concerned the bill Just introduced in the Senate will tend to do it                     