@@680500

txt It is the view of the steel experts that should the Underwood tariff bill go into effect without change it would mean an appreciable difference in earnings of the various steel companies of this country , in the event of a depression in the steel trade when foreign invasion of our markets would inevitably follow . The new tariff bill would I not immediately effect steel mills from Pittsburgh west to any great extent , however , due to the freight rate which . foreign oellorktvotild have to compete-with . On the other hand , the eastern mills , such as the Lackawanna Steel Co. , Pennsylvania Steel Co. , Maryland Steel Co. , Bethlehem Steel Corporation , and perhaps Cambria , to say nothing of the smaller strustural , plate and bar mills , would be the tint to feel any effects of free rails and the reduction in some of the other steel products . The placing of iron ore on the free list does not hold I any terrors for domestic steel makers . The iron ore lin ? ported at present is largely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have coniddersible holdings in the United States . Therefore , by bringing in foreign ore they only conserve their holdings in the . United States . Comparatively little pig Iron is brought Into the United States , so that a reduction in the tariff on this product at the present time will not be detrimental to the interests of American steel makers . This , of course , can be said also of steel sails , which are to be admitted free , and slab , wire , wire fencing , nails , etc. , the duty on which products Is to be greatly seduced , and other manufactures of steel , which are to suffer reductions . At present , even though steel products of all descriptions were admitted free of duty , little effect would be felt on this aide . . - However , should a depression such as that of 1907 and 1908 be met , when orders are extremely scarce and a large percentage of the steel mills are compelled to shut down . the effe:t of a drastic reduition in tariff would be precisely noticeable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Welsh , in fast , all other foreign manufacturers , can make steel and iron cheaper than it can be made in the United Stetes on the present wage basis . In other words , by paying much lees in wages . foreign makers are in a positior greatly to undersell this country in its own market . Thin . of course , would only be in the event of the market " abroad becoming so dull that foreign producers could not place their output in other reentries , being compelled . therefore . to turn to the United States for an outlet . Should the Underwood tariff bill go through as it is. the steel trade says , there is no doubt that sooner or later the reduction in steel duties would result in a reduction of wages of steel workers in the United States . The American steel manufacturers pay their employes much higher wages than do the foreign makers . Therefore , if they are compelled to cut selling prices to meet a sustained cont . Ipetitio ; on the part of foreign makers the first reduction in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Steel Corporation recently increased its wane charges 912,000,000 per year . This was a volunthry crease , and came at a time when the Steel Corporation was just recovering from the depreinion of 1911 . Although Judge Gary , chairman of the Steel Corporation , has not yet ' even out an : Adel statement regarding the effects of the Underwood tariff bill on the corporation 's earnings , it is probable Ile will have something to say regarding this at the annual meeting of the company to be held shortly . ' The Steel Corporation le in a better position to withstand a foreign invasion than independent steel companies . Sever years ago the corporation could produce steel and cell it at a profit of from $13 to $13 per ton at prices then ruling . During the last two years , however , selling prices have been off from $11 to $7 per ton , while taxes , wages . Ietc. , are considerably higher , causing a noticeable reduction lin profits . The corporation is still in a position , however . with ifs advantage over the independent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and lower , overheed charge ' , to show more profit per ton than its sompetiton . The Steel Corporation has not , in the last three months , taken advantage of the high premiums offered in a number of instances for quick shipments , but has held - strictly to its base price on all its products , thereby preventing a runaway market . The independents have not felt the same responsibility and have been selling for premiums in a number of cases , and no ' doubt will continue to do so . One of the largest steel man in the country , when asked . what effect the Underwood tariff bill would toy:elms Steel if the bill passed as presented , said : " There would not be any immediate effect on this country . In several years from now , however , or whenever the next depression in steel striae this country , Eng . land And Germany will be looking for markets for their steel products , and the United States will undoubtedly be ' called upon to absorb some of the surplus production of those countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free and billets , bars , Wire , , nails , tin plate , structural " , etc. , greatly : reduced , the American manufacturers will rundoubtedly have to do something ? to meet - this competition . Germany can make cheaper ' , steel and just as good as the Melted States . Therefore , Itean sell it for less money . In order to meet these prices ' and still make a profit ' on their product , American makers will be compelled to ' reduce , the cost of manufacture . As th ? strong Point of foreign steel makers is cheap labor , it-will-be along:thane lines that the home manufacturers will have to ; fight the influx of ' foreign business , and labor will suffer . There is more eteektiaking capacity in the world at present than ever before , - and this will be kept going as long as possible . " . ? ? 