@@680082

txt According to the Biblical narrative , " SALAAM rose up in the morning and " saddled his ass . ? ? ? and Gon 's " anger was kindled . " In like manner popular wrath might well be kindled by the complacent announcement of Mr. Gosrrxxs that he has saddled the Democratic donkey , and that it will do his will at the polls as it did at the convention when it adopted his plank regarding giving effect to Mr. GomPERS 'S peculiar ideas of justice in the administration of law regarding unions . The Democratic labor plank , the work , we suppose , of Mr. BRYAN , proposes jury trials in cases of indirect contempt of court . Indirect contempts are those not committed within sight and hearing or other direct cognizance of the court , so that evidence is necessary to establish the facts . When evidence Is necessary it is alleged that the proceedings shall be before a jury , and that Judges shall not be allowed to be Judges of the facts as well as the law . The reason why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have them , is because labor alone is accustomed to violate orders of court , and wants not to be punished for doing so . It asks for a first trial , and then for a. second trial to enable it to avoid compliance with the results of the first trial . It is hard enough to get one decision on the merits without providing for a second procedure , with all the delays and uncertainties of appeals . The only way known to man to administer justice is to inquire into the facts , and to make an order of court for compliance in accord with the result . To allow a single class of litigants to set aside an order of court without a separate trial regarding its justification In doing so Is to invite contempts of court , and to set up injustice . It will be time enough to do so when it is shown that the courts abuse the process of punishment for contempt . The platform further asserts that " labor organizations and their mem " bers should not be regarded as illegal " organizations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the exemption of labor from the anti-trust law , without showing that hardship is done by the equal action of the law . Under the light of reason unions are not organizations in restraint of trade unless they actually restrain trade , and do so unduly , or unreasonably . Nobody proposes that labor shall not be allowed to organize for the promotion of its own interests . What labor asks is the privilege of injuring others , and for exekmption from the law which forbids ' such injury . Nothing prevents any , number of laborers from setting any price or other condition on their labor , and exacting it or not working as they prefer . The demand is for the right of fixing the wages of others , and for preventing their working by violent methods . Strikes are lawful , but unionists ask that strikes shall be conducted in an unlawful manner , and with invasion of the rights of non-unionists and employers alike . Labor ought to have all its rights ; but it ought to be required to respect the rights of others . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be issued to those whose practice under the law has brought them under sentence for crime . This plank is a virtual vote of confidence in Mr. GOMPERS , who was intrusted with the disbursement of the funds for the defense of the MoN.A.ntA.s.A brothers . Their counsel is on trial for the charge of using money to defeat the ends of justice , and the assertions of the detective who brought the brothers to confess are to the effect that DARROW and GOMPERS are both guilty or both innocent . However it may be in this particular matter , it Is sure that the practice of Mr. GOMPERS under existing law shows what he wants the law to be                     