@@682003

txt The Prussian casualty lists 330 to 339 , covering the period from Sept. 17 to Sept. 28 , give the names of 63,468 men killed , wounded , and missing , according to . the Nieuwe Rotterdamsche Courant of Rotterdam . The Courant says that these figures increase the total Prussian casualties to 1,916,148 . How the severity of the fighting recently has increased , continues the paper , is indicated by the following figures : The lists from 300 to 309 gave 49 , - 765 casualties , the lists from 310 to 319 contained 53,396 names , the lists from 320 to 329 gave 58,445 names , and the remaining list as above . Besides the Prussian lists there have been published 224 Bavarian , 190 Saxon 274 Wurttemberg , 49 naval , and 4 lists of Prussian officers and non-commissioned officers in the Turkish service . SHORT CIRCUIT STARTS PANIC ON THE ELEVATED Passengers ' Rush from Train on Third Avenue Line When Car Begins to Blaze . Smoke began to ooze up into the sixth car of a seven-car train , north bound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ night , as the train was approaching the Broome Street station , and presently there was a burst of blue flame which shot up by the windows . Men and women , of whom there were about thirty-five in the car , jumped from their seats and rushed for the doors . Some got into the cars ahead or the car behind . Others would have jumped to the pathway beside the tracks had not the guards stopped them . The flashes of flame were increasing and Conductor John Maguire signaled Patrick , the motorman , to stop . The train halted just short of the station and instantly there was a rush from the blazing car . Men and women ran along the pathway to the station and others climbed over the guard rail to the fire escapes outside the old National Hotel in the Bowery , which they could reach from the elevated structure , climbing down these to the sidewalk . Some one In the street saw the flaming car and sent in a fire alarm which brought Deputy Chief Binns and several pieces of apparatus . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Maguire and others of the train crew had extinguished the fire in the car with fire extinguishers and they quenched the blaze in the ties before the firemen could get a line of hose up to the structure . Interborough workmen examined the car and decided the fire had been caused by a short circuit in the air brake compressor . They pronounced the car capable of continning the journey uptown , but It wd. ii-TArried empty for the rest of the trip . RISKS DEATH TO CATCH AN ESCAPING MOTORIST Policeman at Terrific Speed on Motor Cycle Chases Driver Who Injured a Man . One of the fastest motor cycle runs through city streets on record was made last night by Motor Cycle Policeman Foley of Yonkers , who covered the distance from Chestnut and Nepperhan Streets , in that city , to the West Sixtyeighth Street Police Station , near Amsterdam Avenue , in twenty-one minutes . The distance is something like fifteen miles , and part of the time Foley was going nearly eighty miles an hour . At Riverside Drive and Seventy-second Street . when he turned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make the turn at a. tremendous angle aed got away with safety . The trip was made down upper Broadway and Riverside Drive through a stream of automobiles , and Foley was alert all the time , looking for a car whose driver was wanted for running down a /man in Yonkers . It was at precisely 10:45 o'clock that Foley rode up to the Yonkers corner and saw a crowd surrounding a badly injured man who lay at the side of the roadway . Bystanders told him that three minutes before an automobile , the number of which several of them had obtained , had driven past and struck a man on foot as he was crossing the street , knocking him thirty-five feet into an iron railing . The two men in the car , they said , had gone on south without looking to see what harm they had done . Foley , seeing another policeman approaching . hopped on his motor cycle and started south after that car . Assum ing that it was going to New York , he followed the motor ror most in use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but never found the one he was looking for . At last , as he drove down by the corner of West Sixty-eighth Street and saw the green lights of the I station , the first he had noticed , he I turned in and dismounted , telling the story to the lieutenant at the desk . He learned the name and address of the owner of the car , who lived near Gramercy Park . Then Foley started on downtown to make the arrest , any city policeman having the power to arrest for a felony rnyw  --  ere in the State .                     