@@680675

txt From sources exceptionally well informed with regard to what has been taking place in Mexico the information I came last night that when Henry Lane Wilson , the American Ambassador , left the Mexican capital for Washington , in answer to the summons to make a report to the President and the Secretary , he was primed with facts and with what he thought were incontrovertible arguments that the United States should decide without delay what it was going to do with regard to alexia ? . Mr. Wilson , it was said , had made careful investigations , which convinced hint that the United Stated had almost lost the prestige it had enjoyed in Mexico , and that if a decisive step were not taken looking to recognition or something else , it would he impossible for Americans to remain south of the Rio Grande . According to THE TIMES 'S informant , Ambassador Wilson has conic here firmly convinced that one of two courses is possible for the United States . The first is recognition of the Huerta Government , under certain conditions . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who know Mr. Wilson best that he would support the former course . If that found no support at Washington . be would advocate intervention by a big show of force at strategic points along the border and at seaports . As the first step preliminary to intervention it was thought that he would Urge that steps be taken to remove every American citizen from Mexico , arguing that a show of force on the part of the United States without such a precaution would endanger every American south of , to Grande . Ambassador Wilson reached Washington yesterday , and in his preliminary talks with Secretary Bryan he was asked to prepare a historical resume of recent events in-Mexico . This he did , and the document , setting forth the facts of the southern republic 's troubles as he saw them , was communicated to President Wilson last night . This will form the basis of the conference which the diplomat will hold with the President and the Secretary of State tomorrow . THE TIMES ' s Informant said yesterday that Mr. Wilson would be able to show that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enjoyed , not a voice was raised in the whole of Mexico after President Madero was deposed , demanding that he be reinstated . On the contrary , Ins deposition was hailed with general 12. cetanlatlon . Some of the special acts of the Madero Administration cited by THE TENSES 'S informant to show the President 's despotic rule were these : Madero established a censorship of the press . He had persecuted many Americans in Mexico . He had deported nearly all the independent native newspaper editors , and bought or subsidized Most of the newspapers that he did not suppress . He had bribed all , the Generals of the army who held positions of command , beginning with Huerta at the front , and including Blanquet at the time tie sent hint to oppose Felix Diaz in his first revolution . He established a secret society , of which he made his wire and his brother the heads . It was called the Form , and it terrorized the country , violating all principles or protection against arbitrary arrest . He had shot three Major Uenera without any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being i-teyes and Ruiz . During the lighting in Mexico City he maliciously and purposely trained his guns directly on the American quarters . While tile revolution was going on which resulted in his overthrow he was meditating the use of dynamite guns to bombard the city , and was actually trying to plant the explosive in sewers and water pipes to blow them up and the city with them . ? While his administration was in power it spent 80,000,000 pesos ( $40.000,000 ) that Diaz had left in the Treasury , and had involved the country in obligations that totaled 500,000,000 pesos ( $250,000 , - 000 . ) He put 114 members of ids own family Into public office , and these drew salaries that aggregated 300,000 pesos a month . How Madero Really Died . The story of the death of Francisco Madero has been told with many variations , and the charge has often been made that Ambassador Wilson was culpable in the matter , if only by negligence . The actual circumstances , so far as an impartial investigation has been able to establish them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senora Madero had organized an attempt to rescue her husband after his Imprisonment . it was the intention to send the d /posed President to Vera Cruz in an armored train . Senora Madero telegraphed to the commandant at Vera Cruz . to know whether he would recognize her husband as President when the latter reached the seaport . The commandant foolishly wired back that he would do so , and the order for Madero 's dispatch by the train was revoked . It was at the instance of Ambassador Wilson that Huerta gave the order to transfer Madero from the cell in which he had been confined to more comfortable quarters . While this order was being carried out an attempt at rescue was made , and as nearly as can be established , according to the best information , the two officers in charge of the guard , through excessive or mistaken zeal , killed their prisoner rather than run the risk of having him taken from them . When the new Government came in after the revolution , there were two armies in Mexico City , and both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destroyed , and lives were in immediate peril . Anarchy threatened . It was then , according to THE TIMES 'S informant , that Ambassador Wilson got Diaz and Huerta to come together . Representatives on both sides were called to the American Embassy . The Ambassador briefly reviewed the situation . and , in effect , said to them : " Now , if you do n't get together and make every effort to preserve the peace , I will turn all the power and influence of the United States against you both . " When they left the embassy building , the rival factions left behind a signed agreement . At the beginning of the Huerta regime , Mr. Wilson took the ground that if that Government could not live , none could live in Mexico . This , according to THE TIMES 'S informant , was the view taken by American residents generally . The Ambassador 's attempts to get Washington to strengthen the hands of the Huerta Government . so that it might be assured or a continued existence , failed , however . Rebels Encouraged by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bryan to take action was interpreted in only one way by Mexicans . Every rebel in the country construed it to mean that the Washington Government was in sympathy with them , at least not favorable to the Huerta administration , and so did everybodi , else in Mexico . Had Washington recognized the de facto government at the beginning , it was believed , there would never have been any rebellion in the north . Thinking Americans in Mexico , according to THE TIMES 'S informant say that if the present Government in Mexico , contrary to the opinion in Washington , proves strong enough to go on , the United States will be in the position of having made It difficult for that Administration to survive . If it falls , the United States will be in the position of having helped to compass its fall . , As Germany has recognized the Huerta Government , the only two foreign countries besides the United States that have failed to follow the example of Great Britain are Chile and Brazil . Reports are current in Mexico City that Washington has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The conditions in Mexico to-day are serious , says the informant of THE ' . TIMES . The exodus of Americans from the capital has been continuous . Of the 10,000 American residents who were there at the time of Madero 's overthrow , fully 5,000 have left . From the surrounding country  --  and this does not take into account the number that have made their way home from the border States  --  there has been a tremendous inrush , and these refugees have been going recently at the rate of 1,000 a week . None , according to this Information , can say anything good about his own Government . He despairs that anything will be done to make his life safe in the country , now that his Government has refused to protect his property . To such a stage had this feeling of despair come that only about ten days ago American residents in Mexico City got up a petition to the German Emperor asking him for protection , saying that they could not get it from their own Government . This petition had received many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Ambassador Wilson 's intervention . Americans Want Intervention . The Americans in Mexico are generally for intervention , according to the informant The only one of note who has been standing out for recognition of the Huerta Government is the Ambassador . Others at one . time wanted the  --  Huerta . Government recognized , but say now it is too late , and that there will be no protection for Americans now unless intervention comes . The National Railways of Mexico , largely built with American capital , is seriously embarrassed . More than 610,000,000 worth of its property has been destroyed . The road is working as far as Saitillo , and the Federals control the line as far as Nueva Laredo , but reconstruction work is slow and difficult . Of the 160,000,000 pesos ( about $60 , - 000,000 ) borrowed by the Huerta Government , it is known that the amount that actually came into the hands of the Government to be used for the purposes for which the loan was intended was less than a third of the total . In the first place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had to pay to Speyer &; Co. 40 , - 000,000 pesos , which it owed on open notes . Then it had to hand over 10 , - 000,000 pesos to the Mexican banks for money borrowed . Next it had to pay 10,000,000 pesos in discounts and charges . Thus the 160,000,000 pesos had dwindled to 54,000,000 when the Government got a chance at it . Practically no mining operations are going on in Mexico , certainly not any which are in the hands of Americans . It is impossible to get to toe smelters . The loss to property and to laborers represents a million dollars a day , according to Tun TINtEs informant , and most of it falls upon Americans . That there is a strong feeling against Americans in Mexico there is little doubt . At the same time this feeling , this sentiment , though plain , is artificial . it has been created . At heart every Mexican who thinks at all realizes that American money and American enterprise have been largely responsible for the development of the resources oC. his country . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existing Government and the unconcern which Mexicans think it shows about happenings beyond its southern border have been seized upon as a basis for manufacturing anti-American sentiment The banks are in bad condition . Owing to the fact that practically , nothing is being produced in the greater portion of the country , no new money is being offered for- deposit . At pointsalong the northern border Is lying $20,600,000 worth of goods , mostly of American manufacture , which is awaiting a chance for shipment Into the country . - Matamoros , once ' a thriving community . Is now a waste , having been destroyed by the rebels . Juarez is in the hands of the Federals , the only border towns in possession of the revolutionary forces being those of Sonora .                     