@@684107

txt For some reason not clear , the Intertstate Commerce Commission is not made party with the railways and the shippers who are indicted as conspirators in restraint of trade . That the greatest railways and largest shippers should conspire to restrain the trade which they profit by increasing is an absurdity comparable only to the omission to indict those who , in fact , are responsible for doing what the railways and shippers are charged with doing . ? To put tilt point plainly , there has been no such restraint of trade practiced by anybody as by those who have thought to declare an economic revolution by repealing the common law regulating competition by " trusts " and railways . The two sets of laws are alike in being failures for the same reason . Both the anti-trust and anti-railway laws were directed against hypothetical evils for theoretical reasons . Both sets of laws ignored the real evils resulting from such legislation , and attempted to substitute invented remedies for evils for which there already existed economic and penal remedies ranging all the way from bankruptcy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and were of the sort Nileged against the trusts and the : ailways . There were and are under ' he common law remedies enough for Conspiracy against good morals and to the public detriment . But the antirailway and anti-trust laws invented crimes which were purely statutory and provided remedies as fanciful as the supposititious evils . The sort of rebates which are immoral and contrary to public inte : .. est should be forbidden , but not the sort which are consistent with universal and immemorial business practice . One of the first decisions of the Interstate Commerce Commission , hr 1887 , covered the very point raised in the indictments reported yesterday . A railway allowed shippers 10 per cent , discount when the business Vas presented - in lots of trainloads . There were economies and profits on both sides . It is merely the familiar custom of allowing a lower price on wholesale trade . But in 1887 there were only two shippers capable of doing business on that scale , and the rebate was disallowed on the theory , that , if the discount were allowed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business . It did not seem to occur to anybody that the disallowance of the rebate worked to Prevent the smaller dealers from combining their shipments and obtaining for themselves and their trade the advantage denied to the large-scale business . If the railways had been allowed to pool their business , they would not have had to compete excessively for business . If the small shippers had been allowed to pool their shipments , there would save been " an equality of advantage ! lid a gain to the public of the lower rate . But pooling was forbidden to , oth , all rebates were forbidden , and ! egulation was substituted . The remit is that rebates were driven mderground , and we have had regilation without the economic checks vhich honest competition would have ) rovided . Regulation went to ex:es* just as cutthsnat competition tad gone to excess . We imurr- had too ow rates reached by diftweent routes vhich arrived at the same destine. - ion  --  reduction of facilities and destruction of railway credit . ? All rebates are not good , . any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ honest rebates are cornatible , but not under the sort of egulation which it has taken us hirty years to find out that we do of want . Regulation needs a rule f reason and morality such as the , upreme Court provided for the trusts , after business had completed the economic education of the court , and the court had recoiled from an earlier destructive attempt to give effect to enactments of the " profes " sional agitators , financial pirates , " labor unions , and prosecutors at " Washington . " If the language seems extreme , it should be pardoned to the State Public Utility Commissioner , who Used the words upon his discovery of what his colleagues need to discover . Confining discussion to the Federal regulators , it may be asked in all candor if they do not now think that they gave too much attention to the mere reduction of rates , and too little attention to the recasting of the railway rate system in accordance with the common law regulating common carriers respecting both their trade and their rates . Railways cut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a manner equally immoral and destructive to trade . - The rebates should have . been regulated , not forbidden , for rebates are one form of that sort of competition which is the life of trade , not its death , The worst form of rebate is not that practiced by the big shippers . It is that encouraged by the Commission and applauded as patriotic . When . a rate is made too low for the sake of creating traffic which could not exist without the too low rate , a rebate Is given to one commodity which drives another out of its rightful market . When a rate is made too low for the sake of enlarging the market of specific producers , a ' rebate ? is given such as boards of trade fight for , regardless of the effect on the railways , or of the uneconomic competition of their city with other cities . When short-haul rates are regulated by proportion to too low long-haul rates , according to which little or no traffic may move , there is an uneconomic and destructive rebate given , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more considerate of their local interests than of the general interest . The indicted rebaters haVe committed , apparently , a statutory crime , but it is of a sort which neither shocks nor surprises traders of any sort who do the same thing daily . The Commission neither discovered nor regulated the rebates , being blind on the rebate side and short-sighted on the rate side . Instead of taking a universal , birdseye view of its task , it confined itself to reducing rates , often by concealed rebates , in unwholesome stimulation of trade without a right to exist in that manner . After thirty years rebates exist , and the railway rate structure abounds with uneconomic schedules , such as are obnoxious to the common law , although esteemed in patriotic stimulation of trade by those taking a view as purblind as that of the lawmakers and regulators , State and Federal .                     