@@682671

txt The bill for the restriction of Immigration by imposing a literacy test has been vetoed by both Republican and Democratic Presidents . It was put in the way of veto again by a combination of Republican and Democratic votes , so the President said yesterday , and the warning served to postpone consideration of the bill until the next session of Congress . Therefore there is nothing partisan about the proposal . it is rattier industrial and economic in its origin and application . It is not necessary to try it for a year . and to repeal it if we do not like it . We have had experience of restriction for two years , and the result is known . It is agreeable to a considerable number of wage earners , and objectionable to many consumers and employers . No other single cause is so productive of shortage of labor , I rise of wages , and uncontrollable cost of living as the stoppage of immigrytion . For the two years before the war the - excess of arrivals over departures averaged 60.000 each month . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the period included an industrial depression . In the following year . end , ing with June , 1915. there Ras an average inward movement of aliens of about 10.000 monthly . For the ten months ending with April . 1916. the average was under 9.000. and increasing . Estimating the year 's arrivals at 110.000. the total for two years since the war will be about 257.000 . Thus there is a shortage in labor arrivals of not far from a million . The shortage is greater than that if allowance is made for the usual stimulation of arrivals by such industrial activity as now prevails . ft is not likely that even the addition of a million Immigrants would break such a labor market as that now existing . The probable effect would be to stimulate trade and increase production by the additional workers . It is even doubtful that the normal immigration would greatly affect the cost of living through the increase of production of consumable goods , so large is the demand for export , with the result of relieving the domestic market . It is likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? by strengthening the usual sanctions to the demands for the increase of wages . If this were distributed according to the demand for labor , or according to the needs of the workers , or even if the effect were to Stimulate production just where it is needed for the relief of consumers , it would be possible to find public benefit in it . The usual effects are observed . The ' better organized workers are exploiting the labor market for their own benefit . The necessities of foreign buyers are so great that they overbid home buyers for the production limited in this manner . The foreigners buy on credit which is extended to them in a freedom which shortens supplies . for domestic industry . The result therefore Is mixed . There are debits and credits in the runaway labor market , and each class judges the results according to its own interests , rather than according to party affiliations . If it were any longer the mode io consider the interests of consumers as controlling it might be possible to saly that the consumers are suffering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the bill is designed to make permanent . But opinions change with conditions when expediency controls lawmaking instead of principle . When next there is a surplus of labor  --  as no doubt there must be In due time  --  the bill may be found to fit the case of that time better than now . At present the bill is satisfactory only to those who believe that anything justifies the creation of conditions raising the rate of wages , whatever the results to others than wage earners                     