@@680595

txt Some Congressmen , it is said , see elements of Socialism in Attorney General MCREYNOLDS 'S plan for strangling the big tobacco concerns by a graduated internal revenue tax rising in the ratio of their production . In these times such perspicacity is astonishing . But it is more amazing that Congressmen should fail to see , that anybody should fail to see , that this policy of taxation , which Senator HITCHCOCK of Nebraska has embodied in a bill , aims at the assassination of American industrial enterprise ; that it is monstrous . oppressive . that it shocks the public sense of justice , and that it is in every way contrary to public policy . No crime except bigness is charged against the Manufacturing concerns assailed by Mr. and singled out for destructive taxation in Mr. Hrreficocies bill . The Nebraska Senator explains that $10,000,000 of additional taxes would be levied upon six companies on the basis of their last year 's business , and that the revenue collected would probably reach a total of $15 , - 000,000 a year . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is Un " questioned . " says Senator HITCHCom , and that is precisely what his bill aims at . He further says that " the Government already has the machinery to enforce this tax . " The Government has the machinery to ellforce any tax , but no Government but one under the control of unsafe and reckless men would impose such a tax . The decree of dissolution approved by the court gives judicial sanction to the manner in which these companies have carried on business . Judge NOYES , concurring in the opinion of the Circuit Court approving the decree , said that the Supreme Court did not condemn the combination on account of the great amount of property which it had acquired . " Indeed , it " must now be accepted that magnitude of pusiness in and of itself " does not constitute unlawful monopo " ly , at . least up to the point where " economy of production and man " agement are thereby permitted . " Beyond all question economy of production and management are promoted by the operations of these companies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " independent " competitors would not set up the complaint that they are unable to hold their own . What the Attorney General proposes , therefore , is that the taxing power must be used to punish the large concerns for putting a good article upon the market at a low price . The tax would be made to apply to all companies putting out tobacco products in excess of a stated amount . The tax would diminish production and inevitably raise the price to the consumer . This is an astounding policy to be proposed by a Democratic Administration . If in the other world the spirit of THOMAS JEFFERSON is able to take cognizance of such matters , he must conclude that in its present state of mind his party is in urgent need of the services of a lunacy commission . No reason on earth for imposing this tax is set forth by Mr. MCREYNOLDS , save his personal dissatisfaction with the decree of the court and his tender solicitude for the independent competitors of the big concerns . Thousands of men have been displeased by court decisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hardihood to express his contempt for the court by such a procedure as this . Undoubtedly , the economy of production and the efficiency of the large concerns make the way steep for the smaller ones . But if the Government is to punish the winners in the economic race , then the policy should not be confined in Its application to the tobacco business . The farmers of New England once profitably raised wheat for the maret . The opening of the Western prairies to wheat growing drove them out of business . Of course , the West : ern farmers ought to have been taxed to death . Great merchants under this principle would . be despoiled in order that the little men might have a chance . The Democrats in the last campaign denounced the Progressive plan of licensing monopoly . Mr. , prominent in President WILSoN 's Administration , would make monopoly disgorge a part of the ag . The Democrats , too , have denied that large scale production effects economies and lowers cost . Mr , 'S proposal and Senator HITCHCoCies bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for this tax is unquestionably for the purpose of raising production cost And the consumer , however the tax may affect the companies , must bear the burden . The Supreme Court has said , President TAFT has said , President WILSON has said , that mere bigness is not lobnoxious to the law " Big business is not dangerous because it is big . " were President WiLsoN 's words . Yet it is now said on good authority that the President approved the graded tax upon big business before the plan was submitted to the Senate . The country can not be too promptly informed whether the Wilson Administration is going to run amuck , whether it is going to play fast and loose with the principles of well-ordered government , of law , and of justice , or whether there is a man at the head with wisdom and backbone enough to keep his responsible ministers in order .                     