@@682105

txt Official announcement that the steamship Hocking , flying the American flag , had been requisitioned by the British Goverment without the formality of prize court proceedings was received by the State De- ' partment late today in a dispatch from Consul General Young at Halifax , where the ship has been detained since she was seized by a British warship while on the way from New York to Norfolk . This procedure will be vigorously contested by the United States Government as being illegal and in violation of recognized rights under international law . Officials of the department , who had been more or less skeptical regarding unofficial reports of the intentions of Great Britain , expressed frank amazement when they learned that the Hocking actually had been requisitioned . The United States , it is said , will demand that the ship be retained in prize court on the charge that she is partly German owned , and that the prize court will act promptly in the case . Confirmation of unofficial reports regarding the action in the Hocking case leads officials here to believe that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other vessels of the fleet owned by the American Transatlantic Company . if it has not done so already . The company has informed the State Department that its ship Genesee at St. Lucia , West Indies , has been requisitioned. and that the Kankakee , now bound for Port Stanley , Falkland Islands . in charge of a prize crew from the British cruiser Macedonia , will be requisitioned upon her arrival at Port Stanley . Representations regarding the Hocking probably will Include also the cases of the Genesee and the Kan-1 kakee . Attorneys acting for Great Britain in the cases base their motions for orders of requisition upon a British Order in Council issued April 29 , which the United States is not prepared to accept as in accordance with international law . Await Word from Page . The State Department is awaiting a report from Ambassador Page at London . who. after the department had received unofficial intimation of the intention of the British Government , was instructed to inquire into the matter and to enter a vigorous protest if he found that requisition was contemplated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it was Presumed by department officials that he had received confirmation in London . The department desires to know just what action Mr. Page has taken before determining what form further representations shall take . Consul General Young 's dispatch said that when the order allowing requisition was granted by the prize court in Halifax this afternoon it was stipulated that the Crown should give an undertaking for the appraised value of the ship . The Crown , under this arrangement , agrees to pay the amount of the appraisement into the court should final adjudication in the case be against the British Government . The report contained no details regarding the appraisement . Dispatches received by Counsellor Polk of the State Department from attorneys for the American Transatlantic Company , however , stated that in the case of the Genesee the undertaking had been fixed at ? 4d,000 ( $225,000 ) . Officials of the State Department already are arranging the legal arguments which may be used in the case . They have found that during the civil war certain neutral ships were seized and requisitioned by the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , are said to have been blockade runners . The department also was informed tonight that the American Transatlantic Company had nearly completed its collection of affidavits from the holders of stock in the corporation , which would , it was said , prove that the company was wholly owned by American citizens . All except two of the affidavits , it was said , had been collected . Those now on nand , it was . said , might be immediately submitted to the State Department for its information . It is asserted that they show that at least 90 per cent . of the stock is owned by American citizens . The Hocking was requisitioned under authority of a rule of prize court procedure . provided for by the Order in Council , reading as follows : " Where it is made to appear to the Judge on the application of the proper officer of the Crown that it is de-sired to requisition on behalf of his Majesty a ship in respect of which no final decree of conc:emnation has been made , he shall order that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undertaking being given ? ? ? the ship shall be released and delivered to the Crown . " This rule was contained in an amendment which was made after the attorney appearing for the British Government in the case of a neutral ship which bad been requisitioned contended that a belligerent State had a " right to requisition , according to international law , for urgent purposes of offense or de ' fense , the property of neutrals , provided it is not within neutral jurisdiction , " It was further contended that such requisition was subject to " adequate compensation , " and that the subject of a neutral State whose property had been so requisitioned could not complain to a British court , the remedy being through diplomacy . The American Transatlantic Company is e Delaware corporation which was formed recently by Richard Wagner of I New York and Wisconsin . It purchased ten ships , nearly all of which before i the war were flying the flags of foreign countries new neutral . The status of the vessels was questioned by Great Britain and for a time applications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to American registry were held up pending investigation of statements that their ownership was largely German . The State Department ruled , however , that the vessels were entitled to American registry on a prima-facie showing that they were owned by an American corporation . The rule under which the British Government is acting was adopted after the Prize Court of England last March refused to allow the steamer Antares , a Norwegian vessel , to be requisitioned . The Antares had been taken before the London Prize Court because she carried a cargo of copper , declared to be contraband . The Crown moved that the ship be requisitioned before the completion of the Prize Court proceedings . Sir Samuel Evans of the Prize Court refused to allow the ship to be requisitioned under the rule as it then existed . To meet this decision Rule 29 of the British code was amended , and it Is under the amended rule that the orders for the requisitioning of the Hocking and Genesee have been issued at Halifax and St. Lucia . THREE CREWS MAROONED . Wagner Refuses to Send Money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wagner , President of the American Transatlantic Steamship Company , received dispatches from Montevideo and Halifax , Nova Scotia , yesterday . notifying him that the crews of the steamers Kankakee and Hocking bad been marooned by the British authorities in the same manner as the crew of the Genesee was treated at St. Lucia , in the West Indies , on Wednesday . In each case the officers and men were set ashore and cables were sent to the office , at 17 Battery Place , asking for money to bring them home . Mr. Wagner said he had declined to send money I to any of the crews , and had notified the State Department at Washington that it was the business of the United States or the British Government to take care of the men . Mr. Wagner received a message from Secretary Lansing informing him that instructions had been sent to the embassy in London to make energetic protest if the reported requisitioning of the Hocking , Genesee. and Kankakee proved . correct . This was followed later by a message from Washington saying the State Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requisi , tioning of the vessels . " The first dispatch I received today was from Captain Faber of the Rocking . at Halifax , informing me that the steamer had been requisitioned and the I crew were to pack up and go ashore , " said Mr. Wagner . " He asked for money to send the officers and men back to New York . This was followed by a cablegram from Montevideo , sent by the United States Consul , stating that the - Kankakee was anchored on the English Bank , fifteen miles off the coast of Uruguay , in the mouth of the River Plate , and that sixteen of the crew had been landed by a. tug and the others were expected ashore tomorrow . The Consul said money was needed to pay their fares home . In my reply in each case I referred the officers and men to the United States Consul for help . " Peter &; Co. , the United States consular agents at St. Lucia . cabled me this afternoon that the authorities had taken steps to have the prize court proceedings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the transfer case would be in court tomorrow , meaning Friday . Upon receipt of all this information I sent the following telegram to Secretary Lansing : After seizing steamships Hocking , Genesee , and Kankakee , England bas now requisitioned these ships and put the crews ashore respectively at Halifax , St. Lucia , and Montevideo . Crews are ashore through England 's illegal acts . We received no income from the last trip of these ships , and we refuse to provide funds for transporting crews to the United States or for their care . If this Government will not compel England to release the shipS , believe this Government legally nab% to take rare of crews . AMERICAN-TRANSATLANTIC COMPANY . Mr. Wagner said that as he had received no assistance from Washington concerning his appeal for an American warship to convoy the steamer Winnebago from Buenos Aires to New York , he had decided to bring her up on his own responsibility . " The Winnebago has a cargo of 6,000 tons of quebracho wood , which is consigned to the Stamford Manufacturing Company , " said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suit if I do not deliver the cargo . The freight amounts to $75,000 . I have cabled to Captain Anderson of the Winnebago to start for New York and keep inside the three-mile limit to Rio Janeiro , where he will have to go for coal . " I have also notified him not to stop if he is ordered to do so by a British warship when he is inside the three-mile limit . I also sent a telegram to the Brazilian Ambassador at Washington asking him to notify his Government at Rio Janeiro to protect the Winnebago if the British tried to seize her inside Brazilian waters . He replied that this should come through the State Department and the United States Embassy at Rio Janeiro . I have made a request to Secretary Lansing to have the embassy at Rio Janeiro and at Montevideo notified of the departure of the steamer from Buenos Aires . " Mr. Wagner said the Winnebago was loaded ready to leave Buenos Aires on Nov. 6 , and would be about due in New York if the British had not held her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freight . He said if the steamers were requisitioned and the United States Government could not protect the company 's sailing vessels under its flag , then he supposed the American-Transatlantic steamers would have to be sold .                     