@@681586

txt The State Department here and the Foreign Office in London today , by agreement , made public simultaneously the British reply to the American Protest against the undue detention of American ships and cargoes seized for search for contraband . The answer . signed by Sir Edward Grey , the British Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs , was addressed to Walter Hines Page . the American Ambassador in London , who cabled it to Washington on Jan. 7 . The note is preliminary , and will be followed by a more detailed reply . The tone of the British answer is conelliatory . The note recognizes the friendly spirit in which the position of the American Government was stated . Though the British answer challenges the American contention that the ttnsettled state of American foreign trade is the result of the policy ' of the British Government toward neutral shipping . the general character of the reply is understood to be pleasing to the Administration . Briefly . the British note , while conceding the principles of the American Government 's contentions. points out difficulties in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . and cites statistics showing an increase rather than a decrease in certain neutral commerce , in support of Great Britain 's suspicions that Germany and Austria have been indirectly obtaining contraband through neutral countries . The note promises , however , that Great Britain will " make redress " whenever the action of the British fleet " may unintentionall ? exceed the limits of international law . " His Majesty 's Government . " says the note , " is prepared , whenever a cargo coming from the United States is detained , to explain the case on which such detention has taken place . and would gladly enter into any arrangement by which mistakes can be avoided and reparation secured promptly when any injury to the neutral owners of a ship or cargo has been improperly caused . " After stating that the British Government accepts the principles of international law upon which the American note was based . Sir Baward Grey points out that it is not the intention of Great Britain to interfere with bona fide trade between the United States . and other neutral countries , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemy 's country . " and England is ready , whenever its action may unintentionally exceed this principle , to Make redress . Bryan Reserves Comment . Officials of the State Department would not comment on the British note tonight . Secretary Bryan said that , this answer being merely preliminary , he would postpone comment until a full answer had been received . Though no comment was forthcoming , it is believed that officials of the Administration are pleased with the basic feature of the answer , which admits the correctness of the principles of international law upon ' which the United States based its contention that shipping with neutral countries should not be embarrassed , and also with Sir Edward Grey 's declaration that Great Britain is most desirous that " British action should not interfere with the normal importation and use by neutral countries of goods from the United States . " The American note called for a reply on two main points : First ? " For information as to the manner in which the British Government proposes to earry out the policy which they have adopted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to protect our citizens engaged in foreign trade . " Second ? " That England would realize the obstacles and difficulties which their policy had placed in the way of . American commerce by instructing British officials ' to refrain from all Unnecessary interference with the freedom of trade between nations which are sufferers . though not participants , - in the present conflict ; Me reply indicates that the British Government 's main concern is with contraband destined for the nations with which Britain is at war and that its purpose is to reach only such American export of contraband as is not genuinely destined to neutral countries .. This . Sir Edward Grey elves assurance , will be the attitude of the British Government toward copper . The British note takes issue with the contention of the American note that the action of the British Government had interfered with the normal flow of American export trade to neutral countries . ft informs the United States that the British Government thinks " much misconception exists as to the extent to which u  --  e have , in practice . interfered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is responsible for the present condition of trade of neutral countries . Figures are given shoeing that exports from New York for Denmark , Sweden , Norway . Italy . and Holland , countries continuous to the seat of war , during November . 1914. aggregated SZ1.O1SAKIn. as compared with exports from Ncw York to there same countries in November , 191:I. amounting to $8,772 , - 000 . Immense Copper Shipments . The American note pointed out rest " commerce between nations which are not belligerents should not be interfered with by those at war unless such interference is manifestly an imperative necessity to protect their national safet : - . and then only to . the eaten that it is a necessIty . " Sir Edward Grey responds that England will try to keep its act ; xi within the limits of this princip:e. but asserts the right to interfere with contraband destined for the enemy 's country . The American note regarded as " anwarrapted. " the seizure and detention of articles of " absolute contraband " consigned to neutral countries , saying these detentions dere made because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the exportation of sugh articles. - Specific mention was made by the United States cf Copper . The British answer says that shipments of copper to Italy from the United States had increased from 15,21r2,090 pounds in November , 191a to 30,283,000 Pounds in November , 1914 , and that to the section of Europe which included Norway , Sweden , Denmark , and Switzerland the shipments had increased from 7,275,000 to ** Sir Edward Grey says the presumption Is very strong that the bulk of this copper , though consigned to neutral countries , is intended not for their own ' use , but for that Of a country ( Germany ) which can not import copper direct . and that it is an imperative necessity for the safety " of England while at war that the British Government shall do all in its power ' ? to stop such part at this copper as is not genuinely destined for neutral countries . " The American note referred to a shipment of copper to " a specified consignee in Sweden " that was detained " because , as was stated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ copper . " Sir Edward Grey replies that there are four detained consignments of copper and aluminium to Sweden at Present which , though definitely consigned to Sweden , are . **according to positive evidence in the possession of his Majesty 's Government , ? definitely destined for Germany . " tlreal Britain doubts that the United States can consider the propriety of taking suspected cargoes to a prize court . or that the 1'nited Si rtes could wish to " strain the int ereatiol t al rode in favor of private ieterests . ' FO as to prevent ( ; ' ' eat Britain from taking legitimate means for her ? rot.etion , A significant feature of the British reply is that it takes males of the tart that since the outbreak of the war the American Government has changed previous practice by prohibiting the publication of manifests till thirty days after the steamer leaves an American port . Sir Edward Grey says that England has no ground on which to base any complaint against this change of practice , hut points out that the effect of it is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Dispute Centnin Contentious . The State Department will marshal statistics and facts to dispute sonic of the British rnntentionn . These will be set forth in the American note of reply to the promised detailed ennummiration of t be British Government . in t he Meantime inmroventents being put into effect daily by the Allies in the treatment of neutral commerce are counted 111 ) 011 to ameliorate the situation generally . The statistics brought forth by the British rote to show that commerce between the United States and neutral countries contiguous to Germany and Austria had increased materially since the outbreak of the war were regarded here as misleading . It Was pointed out that , in view of the breaking down of the normal routes of commerce with Germany and Austria , many non-contraband products had been shipped through neutral countries . Similarly , the neutral countries . which previously had obtained much of their supplies from belligerents. were now importing from the United States . As to the increase iii shipments of copper to Italy , it was pointed out that ? he Italian Ambassador already had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany and Austria for her manufactures , now was forced to import from the United States because of the embargo on exportation which the belligerents themselves had imposed . The American Government contends , moreover , that if some copper has reached the belligerents through neutral countries , it is the duty of the British to make more effective arrangements with those neutral countries . There is every reason to believe that the United States will not accept the view of Great Britain that cargoes must he taken into port for extended examination . While statistics advanced show that only 45 cargoes out of 77:1 have actually got into the prize courts , officials here note that no mention is made in the British reply of the great number of American cargoes detained and subsequently released . It was not the loss already suffered by American commerce which brought forth the American note . but the desire to prevent commerce In the future from being mistreated . The United States also laid stress on the effect which the detentions already made had had on shippers , who hesitated to export cargoes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the indecision of the British authorities in applying their own rules . Officials regarded as novel the argument of Great Britain that it could not gjvc unlimited adherence to the rules with respect to conditional contraband destined for belligerent countries because Britain 's enemies had departed from " hitherto accepted rules of civilization and humanity . " It was suggested Ithat American commerce should not be forced to suffer because of circumstances over which this Government or the American people would have no possible control .                     