@@682069

txt Great Britain was asked today by the United States for information concerning the recent searching of the American ship Zealandia In the Mexican port of Progreso by a landing party from a British cruiser . Ambassador Page was instructed to make the inquiry through the London Foreign Office . American Consul John W. Germon at Progreso reported that the Zealandia was forcibly searched last week by ; nee from a British cruiser now lying outside the harbor , presumably waiting to seize the vessel . In the absence of complete data State Department officials were not Inclined to comment on the case , but it was indicated that it might develop new points in the neutrality situation prompting Mexico as well as the United States to protest to Great Britain . Accepting the Consul 's report as accurate , the official conclusion here is that the British naval authorities not only violated Mexican neutrality , but far exceeded their rights In forcibly searching an American ship in a neutral port . It is admitted that such an act would constitute one of the most serious issues to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controversy now in the cnannels of diplomacy over the British : Navy 's conduct toward American shipping . German Crew and German Flag . The Zealandia sailed from Pensacola , Fla. , on Oct. 7 for Tampico , and was reported to have hoisted the German flag at sea , though this was denied by the owners . She is said to have a German crew aboard and a cargo of resin consigned to Sweden . Reports concerning the cargo and the alleged purpose of the Captain of the Zealandia. to undertake commerce raiding caused the British Admiral in charge of the Patrol Dff the Atlantic coast to dispatch a vessel to determine the inerchantman 's status anti intentions . It is reported that on searching the Zealandla the British round no armament . What conclusion was reached concerning the cargo has not been revealed , but the Consular report indicated that the ship would be seized as soon as she left Progreso . Since the vessel is Americanowned , with no change of registry involved , the Washington Government desires to know on what grounds search was conducted in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enter a Protest , but as Great Britain has not yet recognized the ? de facto Government in Mexico the situation is somewhat complicated . As soon as the facts are established , however , the State Department probably will advise the Mexican Government of what occurred . If it should develop that the Mexican port authorities had no means of resisting the entry or the British seamen the good offices of the United States to prevent a recurrenceof such incidents might be enlisted by Mexico . It was suggested in some quarters here today that if it was known that the Zealandla was armed for raiding purposes her sojourn beyond the twenty-four-hour limit In a neutral port , especially where the authorities were powerless to intern her , might be advanced as a justification for entering the territorial waters to seize the vessel . It was recalled that this defense was offered in one case in which British warships entered territorial waters off Chile . Mere suspicion that a merchant ship is armed , however , is not regarded by officials ' here as sufficient ground for such action . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ late in reports of the investigation of British agents who were on the trail of ships supposed to be fitting out in the United States for attacking oil-carrying ships from Mexican fields , from which the British Navy draws a great proportion of its supply of fuel oil . The Zealandia mysteriously left Pensacola at night , carrying a large stock of provisions and manned principally by a crew of Germans . An American flag painted on her hull had been painted over . The ship moved from Tampico to Campeche , where British agents located her and reported she bore a large quantity of resin , which is used largely for making shrapnel . They also reported their suspicions that she bore a large quantity of copper . and the British view was that the ship was waiting for an opportunity to slip out with the cargo for some port where it would find its way to Great Britain 's enemies . Nothing further of her movements was reported until , today . Owners in the Dark . The Zealandia is owned by the Fiske Trading Company of New . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aware that their vessel had been searched , nor had they received any report from Captain Devanchier in the last week .                     