@@683351

txt The gentlemen at Albany who are fixing up a food law are thinking of many things besides food . They are things about which other people are not now thinking . It is a long , long read to the elections of 1918. and the supply of food for the present is more controlling than the politics of the future . One faction reinforces Itself with the prevalent hostility to the cold storage interests , and alleges a conspiracy of " addition , division , and silence . " Another faction seeks the favor of the farmers , and proposes to . pay them a price unnamed , but certain to cause contention when put into figures . One faction finds present laws to have too many teeth , and another faction is charged with the extraction of the teeth of the proposed law . It is proposed on the one hand to seize food brought into the State , for purposes of eating , it may be supposed , and on the other hand ' to authorize the State to buy and sell food . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the consumers are to have cheap food , both at the expense of the middlemen , whose unenviable place is to be taken by the State . Hardly anybody would have dreamed there was so much more in the control of food than had been discovered until Albany turned on the light , and many will wonder how much more ' remains to be revealed . From whom is the State to buy food ? From the ' farmers of the Far West , who already are holding their unharvested crops above the Washington price ? Or from Mr. HOOVER , the buyer for the nation ? If there is to be competitive buying between the nation and the State , is there not likely to be the same sort a competition with the buyers of other States ? If the nation gets the food , where will the State buyers supply themselves ? If the State buyers get the food , what becomes of national regulation ? If the States protect themselves against the nation . ought not the cities to protect themselves against the States ? The Intention of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more local than the tariff seemed to General HANCOCK . After the politicians whittle away the national view of the matter , the conSumer begins to take his personal view , ' and regulation by all for all degenerates into regulation by . competition with States and cities looking lout . each for itself . There can not be both regulation and competition , and toffy-eight sorts of regulation are little different from competition . There is no sign that any State needs protection from the nation , or any other sort of protection from other States than the nation Is providing . So far as there is need for any local protection , it is needed as much against the State as against anything or anybody else . There are particulars in which the city 's food problem is specific , and there is pending a proposal specific to the city , without antagonism of national regulation . There are laws in the State which forbid hoarding , and combining , and unfair procedure contrary to public interests , If the facts are proved . It might be well to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of such laws , even though it already is the duty of Grand Juries and District Attorneys . Federal officials have found that the trouble about sending extortioners to jail is more in the lack of extortion than of law against extortion . Scores of cases have been brought into court with a flourish of trumpets and thrown out for lack of proof . Now there is a demand for more law , with scant signs that existing laws are enforced as they might be if the crimes were as flagrant as alleged . Of food control for the sake of politics there is already a sufficiency , if not an excess                     