@@679768

txt The experience of this State has been that the casting and the counting of the ballots upon constitutional amendments is a process abounding in defects and possibilities of error . The election of no candidate is as important as the decisions taken on matters of permanent importance to the State and city . This is no truer now than at the last election , when five amendments were before the people and when , counting each amendment separately , over a million ballots were cast blank In this city alone . Less than one-third of the Voters who elected the Governor thought it worth while even to mark their ballots regarding constitutional amendments . And the election officers were more contemptuous than the electorate . The vote from this city was canvassed with fourteen districts missing . In one district .500 affirmative ballots Were counted void , and thirty boards were brought before the canvassers for misconduct . Thirtyseven returns were unintelligible , and were corrected from memory . In some districts blank ballots were counted as not nays , and therefore equivalent to Yeas . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counted nays . For the most part the constitutional amendments were regarded as a nuisance and the least attention thought safe was paid to them . One of the amendments concerned a matter of such intrinsic importance to the State as the canals , and another concerned a matter so popular and important to this city as the subways . If it was not thought worth while then to vote or count the vote on such matters it is to be feared that similar in difference may be experienced to-day . Yet the manifest intention of the voters was negatived then , and may be this year as well. ? The up-State counties which were most interested in the canals voted nay , and the amendment was carriad by the perfunctory vote of the other counties , especially at this end of the State . Less than half of the citizens of New York City thought it worth while to vote on the subway amendment , and the perfunctory vote cast in this manner overruled the vote of the interior counties . We speak merely of the mechanics of the vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by what is said here . Especially ought those wishing to defeat any amendment to record their nays . Since 1845 sixtysix amendments have been submitted to the electorate and only ten have been rejected . The chances that the amendments will be adopted are six to one . That is to say , if the merits are at all ? doubtful there is only one-sixth of a chance that the negative side will prevail . This is the more disheartening because there is small chance that the merits will be considered in specific cases . It is much more likely that the voters who take any trouble at all will vote all nays or all yeas . The likeliest thing is that the voters will not express their intentions with even a part of the care and interest with which they vote upon candidates . The fact being that two-thirds of the electorate were unwilling to mark their ballots at the last constitutional election , the probability is that not even one-third of those who may vote this year will have so much as read the proposals . We urgently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have an opinion on the important amendments and to express it . Also we wish to impress upon the watchers and the counters of the vote that the amendments really mean something , and that the vote upon them is worth being ' put on the record . The candidates elected or defeated will be known the next day . It is likely to be a month before the vote on the amendments is known , and it may never be any better known than in the case of previous constitutional returns , when the suspicion that the votes were cooked was never entirely dispelled . The people to-day will give instructions to future Legislatures and to the courts regarding the subjects embodied in the amendments . A constitutional election ought not to be a farce or a routine matter . The matters to be decided today are important enough to affect the solvency of any private concern making like decisions . Nothing can bankrupt the taxpayers , but the orders of the people as registered to-day may , result in their inconvenience . Vote on the constitutional amendments . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of your own . It would be better if you would think ten minutes and express your own opinions , whether they agree with anybody else 's or not .. But vote on the amendments somehow . And see to it that your vote is counted .                     