@@684174

txt Youths who are 19 and 20 years old and men between 32 and 36 years , inclusive , will be the first subject to call for military service under the new selective service legislation , and it is probable that many thousands of them will be needed to fill the cantonments next month . As to the boys o. 18 and the men between 36 and 45 , General Crowder said that full Information would be published as soon as the War Department 's completed program had been prepared . It is probable that about 150,000 of the boys  --  and among- these will be some of 19 and 20 ? will be sent to students ' training camps . It seems unlikely at this time . that any call will be made upon men front 86 to 45 for active service , at least before January or Februsuy . To speed up the work of classifying the registrants Who will be subject to immediate call , the questionnaires will first be sent to those of 19 and 20 and those between 32 and 36 . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of classification in these age groups completed within forty-five or fifty days after registration on Thursday . The first os. the early calls for active military service will be made upon the men included in these ago groups who do not claim , exemption and to whom no de/erred classification is granted at the request of employers or others . General Crowder said that the needs of the cantonments this month practical : - ly would exhaust the registrants in Class 1 under the earlier selective service legislation . He referred to the number who would be left over after the September quotas were filled as " negligible . " In fact , they will represent only a few who have been made ' available by the recent combing over of the classification lists . As to the number of men who will be needed to fill the cantonments in October , General Crowder was not prepared to make a statement . It probably will not be under 270,000 , the total determined upon for September , ' and may be considerably in excess of that figure . One guess has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of men out of those who will register on Thursday will require rapid work by all officials connected with the selective service machinery , and this emergency , General Crowder believes , makes it a patriotic duty for all employers and other representatives of industry to devote themselves to supplying such aid as they can in properly classifying the registrants . It is General Crowder 's hope that the local boards will prepare their reports on Thursday and , that they will be forwarded to the Adjutant General 's offices the following day . Reports to the Provost Marshal General 's office by the Adjutant Generals are looked for within two days . By that time the serial numbers will be completed and the questionnaires will be rushed out to the registrants . Youths to Be In Majority . The officials expect that the larger number of men called into active service will be from the 19 and 20 classes and that the percentage of deferred classifications to be granted to men from 32 upward will be ? larger in proportion to the total registered than in the earlier drafts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will register under the present draft . The War Department 's estimate contemplates taking about 601,000 of the .2,800,000 men who will be needed by next June , from those between 32 and 45 . The youths , including those of 18 , who will be sent to the students ' training camps at the 400 or more schools selected by the Government , will be inducted Into service upon their entry to the camps . General Crowder would not discuss the details of these training camps or the methods to be employed in selecting the candidates for them as this feature of the program is in the hands of other War Departmeht agencies . Concerting the duty of the employers and other representatives of industry , General Crowder issued a formal appeal which he hoped would recejve the closest attention of those whom he addressed . His appeal follows : " The time has come when I must address to you some recommendations as to your share of responsibility in the classification of the new registrants under the Selective Service act . I have noticed , in the general expressions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frequent features which lead me to the present comments . " One of these features is the belief that the process of awarding deferred classification to a registrant requires merely the filling out of the questionnaire , and that the Selective Service Boards will perceive the propriety of making the deferment , without the assistance furnished by the registrant 's formal claim indicating the deferment desired . The other feature is the employer 's failure to realize his responsibility to intervene in aiding the board 's determination , and , therefore , to inform himself fully on all the considerations which should affect the decision as to deferment . Both of these features are due to a single larger fact , viz ; A failure on the part of many to reflect on the industrial considerations governing deferred classification . " 1 . As to the first-mentioned belief , it ieust be pointed out that if it were unteesally acted upon , the process of classification would be seriously hampered and delayed . Some one must indicate that the individual case is one which should arrest the special attention of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The boards do not possess a superhuman omniscience . Nor are they permitted by circumstances to devote unlimited time to the search of questionnaires for possible grounds of claim . In 1917 , out of more than 3,000 , - 000 registrants called , only 140,000 filed occupational claims , or 4.7 per ' cent. , thus 95 per cent . of all registrants raised no question of such deferment . Under the questionnaire system the exact scrutiny of every page of this 95 per cent . of questionnaires presenting no occupational claims would have been an intolerable expenditure of time , involving a delay fatal to the speed and decisive action necessary for filling the army . " The boards will do all that they possibly can on their own initiative to reach a just decision by a complete examination of the questionnaire even where no claim Is expressly made ; following in this respect the spirit of the Secretary of War 's statement made before the House Commitee on Military Affairs on Aug. 19 last , ' It is not easily possible ? it is , perhaps , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aids from the men affected ; but as far as it is possible we ought to have the facts developed by the answers to the questions which the man makes and call on him for as little aid as we can in determining whether or not he is to be exempted . ' A registrant is therefore at liberty , if he sees fit , to trust to the scrutiny of the boards to discover the necessity for his deferment . " Nevertheless , the boards will welcome and will need all tip aid that can be furnished by the indication of a claim made for diferment . With this aid , the process will become a simple and speedy one . Time and labor will not be wasted on needless search , and ample time will be gained for thorough attention to those cases explicitly raising a question of occupational deferment . " But who is to make that claim ? Ordinarily the registrant himself will indicate the claim on his questionnaire . But if through mistaken chivalry he should fail to do so another may make it for him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , this other person will naturally be his employer or some other representative of his associated group . And this brings me to the second feature above mentioned . " 2 . Why should the employer , at third person , in such , cases , make the claim ? Because the employer in this situation represents the nation  --  because ( in the statutory phrase ) ' the maintenance of the military establishment or of national interest during the emergency ' requires that some well-advised third person should look after that national interest , which the registrant himself may not have sufficiently considered . " It is at this point that I wish to address to employers ( and other representatives ) the suggestion that they charge themselves , more systematically than hitherto , with this responsibility . I have above referred to such third persons as ' well advised , ' and this is the place to emphasize to employers the importance of making themselves well advised for the execution of this duty . " How many employers , having charge of some industrial or other occupational group , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their employes are registrants and which are not ? How many have studied carefully the required conditions for occupational deferment , as laid down ' in the President 's regulations pursuant to the statute ? How many have made it a point to survey their entire plant so as to single out the really indispensable individuals ? " With the oncoming of a more extensive registration , an even larger outlook is necessary . The general industrial conditions , the supply of skilled men in the industry at large , the possibilities of training substitutes , the availability of women workers  --  these are some of the considerations which bear directly on the need of occupational deferment as related to the need of the army . " Moreover , it is often forgotten that the selective draft is only one element in ? the depletion of a particular , industry 's man power . A second and large element is found in the voluntary withdrawals for enlistment ; how large this is may be seen from the circumstance that the total inductions by draft have reached some 2,000,000 while the total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nearly three-quarters as many . " A third element , very large , but unknown as to its precise extent , has been tiv transfer of labor power from one indstry to another , e. , into the die : - tinctivele war industries offering the inducement of higher wages . How relatively small , in actual effect , has been the effect of the selective draft is seen in the fact that , for all the occupations represented in the 8,700,000 classified registrants of January , 1918 , the percentage of the entire industrial population represented by the Class 1 registrants amounted to only 6 per cent . *It ran as low as 3 per cent . for some occupations , and correspondingly higner for some other occupations ; but the national average was only ( ) per cent . Any notably larger depletions in particular industries must therefore have been due , partly to enlistments. and ? In probably greater degree to voluntary transfers into other industries . " These other Influences are therefore to be kept in mind by employers and others , in weighing the question whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the deferment of individuals or groups of men . Such deferments may assist the immediate situation in the particular establishment ; but they merely force the army and navy to seek elsewhere for the same number of men thus deferred . The quantitative needs of the military forces arc known and imperative ; and any given quantity of deferments will ultimately have to be made up by the depletion of some other occupation . Thus , it becomes the employer 's duty to consider these largest aspects of deferment , in seeking that solution of his own problem which best comports with the national interest . " My present object is to urge upon employers the duty and responsibility of becoming well advised in all these matters ? of equipping themselves with full information as to the extent to which their particular establishment is affected by the liability of registrants to military service-of observing the extent to which other influences of depletion have affected it and the degree in which other methods of slimily can relieve that depletion  --  and of laying these facts and other pertinent ones before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  to the end that those individuals or groups who are indispensable and irreplaceable should receive deferment , whether or not they have made claim for it , and that the army and the navy should not be deprived of its proper supply of man power by illconsidered deferments not absolutely 40 . Mended by the national interest , " The cessation of enlistments will henceforth protect industry against on , irregular and uncontrollable source og derangement . It will correspondingly throw upon the selective service system the greater responsibility for an intelligent and discriminating selection made in the light of industrial needs . But this responsibility is shared by employers and all who represent groups of workers . To fulfill this responsibility they must now prepare themselves even more carefully than hitherto . They will find the boards heartily ready to co-operate with them to the utmost . " The keynote of purpose for all of u11 ought to be . and l am sure will he , that wise and profoundly significant phrase in the act of Congress under which we operate , ' The maintenance of the mile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military forces , or the maintenance of national interest during the emergency . ' " The War Department tonight author . teed the following from tho Provos Marshal Central : " The Provost Marshal General 's oalslabor f . flee urges upon meltemnlm throughout the United States to allow their men sufficient time off Thursday , Sept. 12 , in which to register . wen* the registration booths everywhere will be open from 7 A. el . until ii P. M. reg. intention day , It Is desirable not to hays the bulk of the work of the registrars crowded into the closing hours of the day . "                     