@@684742

txt Settlement of the steel strike by a committee of six to be chosen from the three groups in Industrial Conference was proposed by labor delegates in resolution offered by Samuel Gompers in Industrial Conference Thursday morning . The resolution says : " Be it resolved that each group comprising this conference select two of its number and these six shall constitute a committee to which shall be referred existing differences between workers and employes in . the steel industry for adjudication and settlement . Pending findings of the committee , the conference requests workers to return - to work and employers to reinstate them . " Another resolution submitted by Mr. Gompers on behalf of organized labor set forth its principal demands . Chief of these were the right to organize , collective bargaining , institution of an eight-hour day with time and half for overtime ; laws protecting women workers and prohibiting child labor , and the creation of a national conference board of employers and workers to discuss and decide questions affecting workers and employers . Bernard M. Baruch , chairman of the public group , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and a plan formulated by Secretary of Labor Witson for the creation of boards consisting of equal numbers of employes and employers in all the principal industries , and also for groups of minor industries . The plan provides for the submission of all industrial disputes to the board in the industry concerned , the board also having power to act on its own initiative when 50% of-the members believe a strike or lockout imminent . Failure of the board to arrive at a decision would then involve reference of the dispute to a general ? board appointed by the President of the United States , one-third being selected from employers of labor , one-third from tabor organizations and one-third from neither of these sources . In the event that this board fails to agree , the plan further provides for the reference of the . dispute to an umpire selected by the board or if the board can not agree on an umpire , he shall be drawli by lot from a list of 20 names selected by the President as suitable . The plan further provides that both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall both be morally bound to abide by the terms of the board or umpire . Another resolution submitted through the public group suggests the resumption of the status quo in all industries now affected by strikes and demands both employers and employes refrain from agitation for a period of three months . Still another resolution , the author of which was Gavin of San Francisco , asks the President to recommend to Congress the creation of a board of conciliation and arbitration , consisting of four members , at least one of whom shall he a woman , selected by the President , two members selected by the Senate , two by the House of Representatives , ex-Presidents and the Secretary of Labor . Another resolution emanating from Chas . Edward Russell recommended the enactment of an anti-profiteering measure with provisions for public accountancy by , corporations . Among other resolutions was one providing for stabilization of employment , and suggesting that employers , , as much as possible , shall assume the burden of unemployIntent insurance , and another demanding that employers ' recognize rights of workers to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demanding , further , that employes recognize the rights of employers to deal , with them through shop committees as well as through labor organizations . A lively discussion followed the presentation of the resolutions for the labor and public groups . The so-called employers ' group was not ready to report any resolutions . and Samuel Gompers and other labor men urged speed . Thomas L. Chadbourne of the public group expressed the opinion that it would be inadvisable to hurry , and urged the delegates to be patient , and not to expect to solve the great problems before them in a few days . Replying to Mr. Chadbourne , L. E. Sheppard of the conductors ' union demanded that the conference bs hastened , declaring that strikes were being held up on all sides , waiting for the decision of the conference . " We arc holding off men who are entitled to consideration and are not receiving ; it . " he asserted . Sheppard also outlined the proposition , which , he said , he hoped to see the conference discuss . Among these Sheppard also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see the conference discuss . Among these was the right of labor to share in management , the question of the division of profits , and the fixing of fair profit ; from ' manufacturers to retailers . He also demanded that the conference recommend legislation prohibiting dealing in futures in the necessaries of life . Apparently referring to Judge Gary , Sheppard quoted " an eminent gentleman " as having said in regard to the steel strike , " let it take its course . " " This is what Nero said while Rome burned . " Sheppard declared . Among the demands of the labor group presented to the Industrial Conference was one for a two-year ban on immigration with subsequent - restriction to the country 's needs . John D. Rockefeller , . Tr. , through the public group of which he is a member , offered it resolution endorsing the principle of representation for workers in industry in matters affecting terms of employment , and working and living conditions . Preamble of the resolution follows : Whereas , The common ground of agreement of action with regard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new relationship between capital and labor which the President sought in calling this conference can only be discovered as we approach the problem in a spirit of justice , brotherhood and of willingness to put oneself in the other man 's place , the coming of which means the substitution of confidence for distrust , of good will for enmity , of co-operation for antagonism ; and , Whereas , This spirit can be developed only by the resumption of personal relations between employer and employe , or the nearest possible approach thereto ; and , Whereas , Some form of representation in industry i , essential in order to make personal relations possible under industrial conditions ; now , Therefore , be it resolved : That this conference recognizes and approves the principle of representation in industry under which the employes shall have an effective voice in determining the terms of employment and their working and living conditions ; And , be it further resolved : That just what form of representation shall take in each individual ' plant or corporation , so long as it be a method @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be determined by the parties concerned in the light of the fact in each particular instance ; and , 13e it further resolved ; that any form of representation to be adequate must include : Ample prevision whereby the stockholders and the employes through their respective representatives shall give current consideration to matters of common interest such as terms of employment and working and living conditions and such other provisions , if any . as may be necessary to insure the prompt uncovering of grievances , real or alleged , and their speedy adjuetment . Fuller R. Callaway , cotton manufacturer of Atlanta , Ga. , and also a member of the public group was responsible for the following resolution : Resolved , That individual initiative and enterprise should be encouraged . The conference on the recommendation of the generel committee decided to appoint a committee of nine members selected from the three groups to consider the high cost of living . Chairmen Lane suggested the creation of a committe lo study the relations between employer and employe in industries and plants where industrial peace prevails .     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       