@@679160

txt There is a striking difference between the attitude of President TAFT at the Conservation Congress and that of ex- . President Roost.vka.x . The President approaches conservation as a very important problem , affecting the welfare of the entire Nation , involving extensive and complex interests , and demanding study , deliberation , openmindedness , and the practical co-operation , so far as possible , of all concerned . He sees that it may inevitably raise questions of jurisdiction . since it is essentially a new matter not clearly or directly conceived or provided for in either the State or the National Constitution . He submits to the Congress a careful and orderly statement of what he considers to be the substance of the problem in its various phases , with a succinct and intelligent account of what has been done or undertaken by the Federal Government , of which he Is the head , with suggestions as to future action . And he concludes with a pointed recommendation that the Congress avoid " rhapsodies " and confine itself to " specific " questions and definite propositions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if we may be pardoned the simile of a pugilist " looking for trouble , " or if that seems a little narrow , in the spirit of a campaign orator , out for popular approval , and bent on the denunciation of his enemies . He frankly refers to the movement as " the conservation fight . " It is a part of the general " fight " against " destructive monopolization , " its foes are the " predatory corporations , " its aim is to " drive the special interests out of our public life . " There are no " specific " statements of fact in his long address , and no very definite propositions . For the difficulties that may come from doubtful jurisdiction he finds an easy solution in his notion of the new Nationalism , " When in doubt , take the trick . " If we are not sure whether particular tasks fall most clearly , or most wisely can be placed , under the control of the States , turn them over without hesitation to the Federal Government . If any one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all the evils arising from " special interests in public life " have come from the Federal Government controlling for-. eign trade for the advantage of those interests , we suppose that his reply would be that he had not had time to take up that matter when he was the head of the Government , and when he did there would be nothing to complain of . - Naturally with this spirit , the scope of Mr. ROOSEVELT 'S ideas of conservation is imposing and comprehensive . It ranges from the opening up of a deep waterway from the lakes to the Gulf , with " adequate terminals in every city and town , " ( with railways forced to deliver freight to them at fixed rates , ) through swamp drainage , control of all water power and like grandiose plans to the improvement of the social life of farmers and the restoration of all his pet commissions , which Congress ruthlessly cut off . Incidentally , as to this unpleasant experience , he recalls his declaration to Congress that if he ? had been going to remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the action of Congress , but he does not explain where he would have got the money which Congress refused . Be is ready , when in office , to add to the duties of the Executive , the function of the Supreme Court , and to decide when the action of Congress is " unconstitutional and void , " a function for which he thinks the court rather imperfectly adapted , but he might have trouble in getting money out of the Treasury without an appropriation . There is one portion of his speech In which his friends the insurgents may find an unexpected and gratifying significance . Speaking of the development of the resources of Canada and Mexico , he says : It is to the mutual interest of the " United States and our sister American republics that this development should be wisely done . Our manufacturing industries offer a market for more and more of their natural wealth and raw material , while they will increasingly desire to meet that demand in commercial exchange . The more we buy from them the more we shall sell to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thank Heaven ire of this continent are now beginning to realize , what in the end the - whole world will realize , that normally it is a good thing for a nation to ' have its neighbor nations prosper . - Here is a suggestion of a truth which , - : : ' logleally : : and , Practically " applied , would completely undermine the whole ? iystem of protection , which is based on the plain assumption that selling and not buying is the only source of profit in international trade , and that we prosper most when our neighbors sell least and we sell most . This is a fallacy which Mr. ROOSEVELT long ago understood , but which of late years he has persistently ignored . It is permissible to suggest that the sound doctrine has now become sufficiently popular to repay his attention .                     