@@684747

txt Results obtained during the last two years in the search for new oil lands in South America , especially along the Caribbean coast , justify the prediction that great fields of high productiveness will be placed in commercial yield in the next few years . Several of the larger petroleum companies of the United States and important foreign companies have had their best petroleum engineers at work malting geological investigations in many of the Central and South American countries . Certain companies already have secured what is believed by them to be areas from which large and stable yields may be expected with confidence . Sufficient drilling has been done to prove some districts as prolific territory . All discerning men who have full knowledge of the rapidly increasing demands for oil , look with alarm on the future of the industry unless our American production can be ? supplemented by large output from new fields , which in years to come can insure the steady operation of the great refining plants along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts . Crude oil used directly , without being first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will never again be generally used as fuel , such as has been the case in sections of the United States in the past . Nor will the more simple refining processes be considered sufficiently economical by the great companies , who , by complicated processes , are obtaining yields of the higher grade products that only a few years ago would have been considered commercially impractical , if not impossible . Each day brings closer the time when large amounts of crude will need to be treated to supply liquid fuel foe marine service . Much of this supply will come from Mexico , and perhaps from undiscovered oil pools along the Gulf coast . But any one who analyzes the situation appreciates the especially great value of any production which might be found tributary to the shores of the Caribbean or on the east or west coasts of South America . The value of such a find for fuel is more or less independent of whether it be an easily refs able oil or not , although , of course , an oil which would yield on refining a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in view of the rapidly increasing consumption of these products in the southern countries . The great value in the immediate future , however , is for fuel uses , for almost without exception industries throughout Latin American countries depend for fuel either on British or American coal . With the shipping situation holding little promise of low rates for years to come , the use of liquid fuel is a foregone conclusion , if it can be obtained at any reasonable figure . Great fueling stations along the principal trade routes leading through the Panama Canal and to the east and west coasts of South America will be established soon , and a southern source of supply for these requirements is greatly needed . Any surplus of the lighter products could readily bear the tank steamer rates for delivery to our older markets . It is certain that the great bulk of production within the United States will be required for our own consumption , and even at the present time we are calling on Mexico for enormous quantities of the fuel oil grades to supplement our own supplies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therefore , either in the West Indies , Central or South America which might be depended upon for requirements of our customers and for the southern liquid fuel stations to serve the merchant marine is most essential .                     