@@682336

txt The economic dictator . of Germany increases the restraints upon food consumption by means of butter and potato cards , the British Government ny Order in Council puts new prohibitions on the importation of luxuries , including even soap , and the Chairman of the Good and Welfare Committee of the National Jewelers ' Board of Trade in New York talks ominously of a diamond famine hecause the reopening of the mines 01 South Africa has been postponed and t he demand for gems at the same time is increasing , What a crazy world ! Not enough food in some places and not enough diamonds in others . But for contrasts one does not have ti , compare New York with Berlin or London . They exist side by side in the same places , In Germany . though the restrictions upon food have to be tightened , the art dealers flourish amazingly . The reasons are not far to seek . One is that the irreducible demand of the rich for objects of art has now to be satisfied in Germany , as there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that the war has created a newly rich class . which is buying art for the first time . In England , according to an item of news just printed , " thou " sands of stately homes are Chang " ing hands because the former own " ers have been forced by taxes to " reduce the scale of their living . " But stately homes can not change hands by being merely offered for sale . They have to be bought in order to he sold To whom do the former tax-oppressed owners sell ? To the persons who have gOt newly rich from war contracts . corresponding exactly to the buyers of art in Germany . What now is taking place in the world is a diffusion and relocation of some forms of wealth an a scale never before witnessed , - There is , of course , a tremendous amount of destruction going on at the same time , but there are kinds of Wealth , such as stately homes and objects of art , that can not be directly converted to the uses of war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and those other forms change hands in the process of paying indirectly for what war immediately requires . A man living on a fine estate ; surrounded by rare norm . lairs and pictures , has nothing that war can directly consume . He is taxed more and more , and ' his income , being derived , perhaps , from fixed interest-bearing securities , does not ' increase . The cost of maintaining his establishment rises . At last be is unable to ' keep up . fie must ' sell out . And the- buyers are , tlioSe .. ' who . have had the - things war wanted , ships , shells , saddles , and khaki . For these prices have enornionsfY advanced . Values are violently altered . ' Money is inflated . All tangible things are valued in money. - Wargooda. and life necessaries rise in price ; - the unnecessary things which - people ' . enjoy in times of peace accordingly fall ' Or , if you like , money cante'ca , st out of the reckoning . That will make it ' , easier to understand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Goods do not swap for goods on the old terms . Bread is worth more , a beautiful vase less , because in war one is necessary and the other is not.1 In a pinch a ton of copper might be I worth more than the rarest painting , in the world . Thus those who minel metal , produce food , run factories , and in general command the means of supplying the goods for which war creates special demands will be able I to exchange them for more of the other things they have always want-1 ed , that is , for art , old estates , and diamonds . all of which have fallen in value . This process of revaluation will continue so long as the war lasts . If it lasted long enough art would bel worth nothing in Europe . and people would be reduced again to thy ' means of primal subsistence . wanting only food , clothes , and weapons                     