@@679025

txt GREENWICH . Conn. , June 6 . ? Greenwich to-day elected six members to constitute a town School Committee , which is to succeed the twenty District Committeemen and a Board of School Visitors , legislated out of office last Fall . The Greenwich Equal Franchise League , composed entirely of New York society women , had taken part in the selection of candidates , and , deciding that one of their own sex could not be elected , advised their husbands and brothers whom to nominate . The members of the retiring Board of School Visitors were catechised by a committee of women , and all but one were found wanting . The women attended the caucuses last week , and the parties respected their selections , each naming three candidates they approved : Eighty-one women were entitled to vote . but only twenty-five women voted , most of them singly . Three lost their votes by voting for more than three candidates out of the six . Support promised the women was lacking at the polls , and any move to defeat their candidates would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ HERE . He 's Inspecting Public Improvements and the Park System . Mayor John F. Fitzgerald of Boston is in town making an inspection of public improvements and the city 's park system . He is accompanied by City Engineer Jackson of Boston . They went to the City Hall to see Mayor Gaynor yesterday and after a long talk with him left in the company of Howard Bradstreet , the newly appointed Superintendent of Parks in Manhattan and Richmond , who was delegated to act as their guide . They went first to the Battery , where t hey went through the Aquarium , and from there to Central Park and Bronx Park . LITTLE GIRL A WIDE TRAVELER At 12 She Has Seen the World to the Extent of 125,000 Miles . First ashore when the Atlantic Transport liner Minnewaska reached her pier yesterday was Miss Charlotte Pardee , a 12-year-old girl and world-wide traveler . She has been traveling almost ever since she was born , in an army post in Montana . She is a daughter of Major William J. Pardee , IT . S. A .. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old , her father being ordered to another post . The family was hardly settled when the Major was ordered to the Philippines . This was the child 's first long trip . Since that time she has been back to America , and then to Japan and China . Recently she was in Egypt . it is estimated that she has traveled 125,000 miles . Little Charlotte was welcomed by her chum . a , girl of about her own age . She said she had come back to go to school at North Adams , Mass . She has only attended school here a short time before , and that was when her father was stationed on Governors Island . She has never celebrated more than one birthday in the same place . Major and Mrs. Pardee return from a visit to Egypt . He said Col. Roosevelt had hit the nail on the head in his recent speech at the Guildhall , London .                     