@@684736

txt Emit : ROOT and others hardly less distinguished think that CHARLES E. HucuEs is wrong in his opinion that Congress lacks the power to regulate the earnings of railways in excess of a fixed return from reasonable rates . The basis of their dissenting opinion Is that the Cummins proposal does not fix rates for individual shipments , or carriers , but for the total service of a group of carriers . That leaves the total earnings of the group open for reconsideration and distribution on the basis of realized results , according to the accuracy of the guess in the tentative schedules . The proposed Cummins method is recommended as an " absolutely accurate " substitute for the " prophetic and uncertain " method of enacting precise rates in the manner exemplified by the practice of the Interstate Commerce Commission . The shippers ' right to have a rate fixed for each shipment by each carrier is said to be a " mere common law right , " subject to modification by Congress under its right to regulate commerce in any reasonable manner , and any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in sufficient vigor to enable them to maintain competition among themselves . It is as much the right of doctors of law to disagree as of doctors of medicine . When doctors of the law of such authority disagree it is the part of prudence to leave the last guess to the Supreme Court . The disagreement suffices to make it sure that the constitutional power to enact the Cummins rate law will be unsettled for some years . The creation of a rate zone of that twilight sort is undesirable , and the more especially so since even the validation of the Cummins method would settle only the law , and would leave unsettled the even more peremptory question of the credit of the individual railways if the group rates are adequate . The necessities of the railways are a matter of today , and should lc settled today , as each day 's meals must be eaten on the day . The defense of the Cummins plan proposes an interval of , hunger to be satisfied by an accumulation of meals . If the law imposes that upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the money market . That will he decided not by the lawyers or the Supreme Court but by the opinions of those who have the resources which the railways heed . There is a perfect illustration of that in the ? working of the Federal rate law and the State public utility nickel fare laws . There is no dispute about the legality of the Interstate Commerce law , nor about its effect on the credit of the railways . There was no dispute about the State public utility fare laws until their results became manifest . It was put into testimony before the President 's commission that " sixty-two electric rail " ways in the United States with " 11,912 miles of track already were " in the hands of receivers ; sixty " railways with 763 miles of track " had been dismantled and junked , " and thirty-eight railways had been " forced to abandon 257 miles of " track . " Those facts ore the basis of the reconsideration of the nickel fare laws in many cities . There is need of a similar change of sentiment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be regulated upward if railway credit is to he restored . That result is hopeless of realization by any new Method about which lawyers disagree , and in-. vestors agree in disapproval .                     