@@682129

txt Chicago was selected by the Republican National Committee tonight as the meeting place of the 1918 Republican National Convention , to be held June 7 , one week before the Democratic convention in St. Louis . The vote was Chicago , 31 ; San Francisco , 13 ; St. Louis , 7 ; Philadelphia , 2 . Earlier in the day the committee had : determined upon the convention date , a much-discussed problem , with sentiment for and against meeting before the Democrats pretty evenly divided . The decision was reached without a roll call and some said a record Vote might have brought a different result . Advocates of an early convention date argued that now Was the time for the Republican Party to take the offensive against its political enemies without regard to the ancient customs of allowing the party in power to meet first and announce its candidates and principles . It was urged that the party should not consider a defensive campaign , but should blaze the trail and give its story to the country first , without waiting to see what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an early date by representatives of West Virginia and South Dakota , where primaries to elect convention delegates are veld June 0 , was swept away by adoption of a resolution which will permit placing the names of the candidates from these States On the temporary roll of the convention , with the agreement that certification by telegraph from the proper State authorities after the primaries would be valid authorization for the seating . Chicago Wins Easily . The fight for the convention proved to be more one-sided than friends of the cities which lost had believed it would be . The fact that the Democrats meet in St. Louis June 14 , and that many thousands who would attend had made reservations at the hotels there for several days ahead , undoubtedly had its influence against St. Louis . After the committee had decided upon June 7 as the date , San Francisco made a strong showing , but the combination between St. Louis , San Francisco and Philadelphia , which was talked of yesterday , failed to materialize . It would have made no difference , for Chicago had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the principal argument for Philadelphia . Henry R. Rathbone and Mayor Thompson for Chicago , Representative Julius Kahn for San Francisco , and ex-mayor C. P. Walbridge for St. Louis . After the vote was taken the contest apparently was forgotten , and all sides went to work on campaign plans . Every one of the four cities had its check ready , and before the ballot was taken Chairman Hilles held paper worth $400 , - 090 . All was returned except the $100 , - WO from Chicago . The committee officially took no cognizance of candidates , although the lobby of the hotel where the meetings were held Was well filled with Repub1 licans who hays been mentioned as Presidential Possibilities and their supporters . About tiG0 of the 985 delegates to the convention are to be chosen . at 1 primaries , and by the time most of these elections are held the leaders ex. pea to have a good line on what the ' different States think of candidates . Defense a Chief Issue . I The Republican fight , it was said , would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commerce land industry and defense of American lives . One of the points of attack will be that the Democratic Party in Congress did not advocate an adequate plan of preparedness until events across the Atlantic forced them to change their position . One of the last things done by the committee today was the selection of a Committee on Arrangements . This body will select a temporary Chairman for the convention and name some of its important temporary committees . Chairman Hilles is need of the Arrangements Committee , and the other members are Ralph E. Williams of Oregon , Franklin Murphy of New Jersey , E. C. Duncan of North Carolina , Fred 11 ' . Estabrook of New Hampshire , Fred Stanley of Kansas , Charles B. Warren of Michigan , Alvah H. Martin of Virginia , James P. Goodrich of Indiana , Thomas K. Nekl-inghaus of St. Louis , and John T. Adams of Iowa . This committee will meet either In New York or Chicago in a few days to lay out its preliminary Plans and is expected to have many meetings before June . Chairman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Temporary Chairman of the convention , but that there seemed to be sentiment among many members to wait and see whether the Winter did not develop some Republican orator in Congress who could properly sound the keynote . The committee adopted a resolution designed to prevent the use of proxies at future meetings of the committee , except when the giver of the proxy was ill , out of the city where the meeting was to be held . or a member from some territory outside the continental limits of the United States . This resolution was introduced by Mr. Warren and was said to have been drawn for its effect upon the committee meeting next June , when contests would be taken up . Hear Suffrage Arguments . The committee gave an hour during the afternoon to proponents and opponents of woman suffrage . Applause and ' laughter greeted all the speakers . Dr. Anna Howard Shaw asked that the Republican platform of 1916 carry a plank promising a Federal suffrage amendment , and Miss Frances Joliffe of California and Mrs. Sara Bard Field of Oregon of the Congressional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4,000,000 women voters in the West whose votes were worth getting and could be had if  --  the Republican Party would put such a plank In its platform . Mrs. A. J. George was spokesman for the anti-suffragists.                     