@@679866

txt Mature men wishing to become proficient in any particular line of knowledge will have an opportunity of doing so after Feb. 5 by applying at the College of the City of New York and passing such an examination as would be required if they were entering with the intention of taking the full course . President John Finley said yesteray that at the outset probably not more than 100 students would be taken , but that if the experiment proved successful the num. - ber would be increased to the full capacity of the college . Dr. Finley 's idea is to use the college and its splendid equipment to the utmost for the benefit of the people of the city . One of the features of the new departure will be the fitting of men for service in both the city and the Federal service . " Many of our boys get into the Federal civil service , " ; he said , " and many more are anxious to enter the lists . If we can help them , and help the men already In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are capable of , the Faculty feels that the college will be rendering an additional service . " A man need not be a. civil employe or ambitious to become one to enter for a special course . Among the special courses that an admitted student may take are languages , mathematics , natural history , philosophy , physical instruction and hygiene , chemistry , physics , and political : science . The minimum number of hours demanded of students taking the full course is about fourteen and a half a week , but the number for the special course will be reduced to five , in order that studies may be pursued during periods not occupied by a student 's daily work . There are already nearly 500 taking special courses , or courses not in sequence , but with the same idea in : view as the regular students , that Is , of finally graduating . Also , there are about 2,200 school I teachers taking advanced studies , in order to fit themselves for promotion . But the new plan will be made easy for ' every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and practically fix the hours himself . " The purpose of this college , " said Dr. Finley , " is to help the people of this city , and it is the desire of the Faculty to do this in every possible way . We do not graduate as many as some of the other institutions of learning . because the conditions are different . Some of the students come here for special teaching and do not remain the full term : others that hope to graduate find that it is impossible , for financial reasons , to continue their studies , and leave at the end of the first or second year . We have about 1.400 regular students here , about the same as Princeton ' University , and we graduate about half as many as Princeton , or about 200 a year . " Some of the universities are raising their standards for admission . Columbia University has done so in the matter of its engineering course . Every student ' will hereafter have to have a three years ' college course to enter the Columbia School @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ college taking day courses are barred from the night courses , and vice versa . The new students are expected to fit In with those already at work in the present classes . Those desiring to take advantage of this new departure will have toapply for admittance not later than Feb. 3 . Dr. Finley wants it to be known that while every one is welcome to come , the number will have to be limited at the beginning , so that room May gradually be made to conform to the new conditions . Much attention is already paid to the science of government . Under the present system of filling civil places an employe has to learn nearly everything lie needs to know about his job after he has received his appointment , and at the expense of the taxpayers . But if Dr. Finley 's idea is successful . he will enter the public service thoroughly equipped to do the work expected of him . Or if he can not do this he will have at least plenty of information concerning methods , so far as it relates to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if there would not finally grow up in this country . a beaurocracy such as exists in some Of the European countries . " Such a system would do no harm here , " he replied . " It is surely better to have a fixed service by persons knowing the work than by a shifting service where the lists of employes and the systems are subject to frequent changes . We are obliged to have public servants . and the more competent they are the better for the city . I see no reason for not keeping them If they prove able to perform the services for which they are paid . "                     