@@678929

txt New York was dryer yesterday than it has been for many a Sunday  --  since the dayst when Theodore Roosevelt was a Police Commissioner , some said . Most of the saloons not operating under Raines law hotel licenses decided not to take chances with Mayor Gaynor 's new plan of enforcing the liquor law . The saloon men had no way of knowing Who the policemen were who had this work in hand , and remembering that last Sunday more than sixty of their number had their names submitted to the District Attorney as lawbreakers , most of them decided it would pay better not to keep open . All over Manhattan saloons which had not been closed on Sunday in years were shut tight yesterday , and only in a ' few widely separated sections of the city was there anything resembling defiance of the law . Chinatown and the lower Bowery were in the defiant zones , Chinatown being perhaps . the most flagrant offender . A big batch of affidavits is expected from there . On the Bowery , although many saloons not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not so easy to get a drink as in Chinatown . Most of the saloons had lookouts at the side doors , and admitted only such persons as they knew . - In the " Hell 's Kitchen " section , however , many saloons did business with little or no apparent attempt at concealment. , In the Tenderloin , where the excise law has for years been looked upon as more of a joke than anything else , there was a real drought . Those saloons that did business only admitted those known to the man who swung open the side doors . The district higher uptown , while it had dozens of closed saloons which usually do a thriving back-room business on Sundays , had a few cautiously opened places , which , however . served only old customers . All of these places had " blinkies , " as they were known in the days of Mayor Strong , on the watch for Plain-clothes men . In the Bronx , also , it was noticeable that the law was obeyed to a greater extent than it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , President of the ' Westchester Liquor Dealers ' Association , famous as among those visited by the eXcise raiders , Keenan and Cunningham , now dismissed from the force , was closed tight , as were others found open by the two policemen weeks ago . In other parts of the Bronx the saloons were either closed or did business only for those known to be safe , so far as excise enforcement was concerned . Brooklyn , however , had few " dry " spots . Side doors swung as merrily as usual in all parts of the borough , although some of the more careful of the liquor dea , crs posted lookouts to watch for unfamiliar faces . But the fact that about thirty warrants had been issued on Saturday for saloon keepers who failed to expose their bars to view from the street last Sunday was the cause of many screens being removed . No announcement of the probable number of affidavits to be submitted to District Attorney Whitman as a result of yesterday 's excise supervision was made by the police last night . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ District Attorney by to-morrow night . The . affidavits will be made on the new forms given to the police by Mr. Whitman on Saturday . One excise arrest in the city was reported , as against the two made a week . ago . SHOCK KILLS WOMAN AT FIRE . Mrs. Scheuer Was Overcome While Fighting the Blaze  --  Others Faint . Samuel Scheuer , a policeman . connected with the Criminal Branch of the Supreme Court , and his brother , Julius Scheuer , a cigar manufacturer , both of whom live at 329 East Houston Street , went out last night , and Julius 's wife . Emma . went to call upon Mrs. Kate Scheuer , her sisterin-law . Several other women dropped in . At 10 o'clock the women heard some one in the rear cry " Fire ! " Running to the back window they saw a woodshed in the rear of the house blazing . Mrs. Kate Scheuer , seizing a bucket , began to run from the kitchen sink to the window and pour water on the fire . The other women became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Scheuer dropped the pall , cried out " I 'm dying , " and fell to the floor . Mrs. Emma Scheuer fell , too , in a faint , followed by all the other women in the room . Policeman Reigel of the Union Market . Station , - who bad heard the screams , accompanied by Benjamin Kirchste0. near-by druggist , went to the second-floor apartment . They found that Mrs. Kate Scheuer had died from shock . Mrs. Emma Scheuer was removed to Bellevue Hospital , and at midnight she had n't recovered consciousness . The other women were revived and went home . Meanwhile the small blaze in the back Yard had been put out by the firemen , the damage being less than $100.                     