@@682196

txt In spita of much opt:M-Mon to the prospective appointment of ex-Fire Commissioner Joseph Johnson of New York to be Postmaster there . President Wilson and Postmaster General Burleson are understood to have decided that Mr. John son 's nomination snarl be sent to the Senate . They discussed the matter prior to the Cabinet meeting today , and while it was asserted afterward in official quarters that no definite action had been taken , it appeared to be assured that unless something unexpected occurred Mr. Johnson would be nominated . That the nomination may go to the Senate within a day or two was indicated by the statement that Postmaster General Burleson took to the White House a Postmaster 's nomination blank with Mr. Johnson 's name filled in . The opposition to Mr. Johnson 's appointment did not become active until about ten days ago , when some of his critics were aroused over the understanding that he load beep selected to succeed Postmaster Morgan . A protest came to the White House from the AntiSaicon League of New York . which based Its objection to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a saloon keeper . " air . Johnson 's response .10 this was that his only ' connection with saloonkeeping had been participation in the model Lavern esiabashed in New York by the late Bishop Potter , among the Directors of which was the late Dr. E. It L. Gould , who had been a classMate of President V ilson at Johns 110ptans University . It was charged also that Mr. Johnson had changed his polities several times , that lie was close Lo Tammany Hall , and that some of his appointments when Fire Commissioner were political rather than in the interest of efficient see ice . Most or the opposition to Mr. Johnson was based on his alleged closeness to Tammany . Mr. NVilson is credited with having been convinced that air . Johnson is a good man who will make an excellent Postmaster . That the nomination would be pleasing to many of the President 's political well-wishers has been appartnt . Their preference for the ex-Fire Commissioner has been due to the be , lief that the appointment would do much to make Charles F. Murphy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , something that they regard as particularly desirable in a Presidential campaign year . It was pointed out also that Senator O'Gorman was favorably disposed toward Mr. Johnson , although he had not indorsed the candidate directly . Mr. O'Gorman , it was known , was willing that Mr. Johnson should be appointed . and mentioned his name along with several Democrats acceptable to him for the Postmastership . From what has been said here , it is clear that the nomination of Mr. Johnson will be acchpted as a sign that President Wilson is not disposed to show an unfriendly feeling for the New York Democratic organization . Tammany has declined to take any active part in the contest over the Postmastership , but it has been the understanding that Mr. ! Johnson 's appointment would be pleasing to organization Democrats . The Democratic Congressmen from Manhattan , however , all of whom are Tammany men , decided to advance the claims of Augusta Powers , head of a downtown photo-lithographing establishment , who had been an Assistant District Attorney under William Travers Jerome . It WaS made apparent early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Joseph Johnson said last night that he had received no confirmation of the report of his forthcoming nomination to the postmastership . All he knew about it , he said , was what he read in the newspapers . " I have never been discouraged from the time my name Was first mentioned for the place , " ho continued . " I hope it is true . If it is , it means that - I have a lot of good friends . That 's all I can say . " Mr. Johnson has a Summer home at Bound Brook , N. J. , and an apartment at 547 West 150th ' Street . In his new post he would receive $10,000 a year , $5,000 as Postmaster and $2,000 a year as custodian of the Federal Building . The term is for four years . George T. Keyes , Secretary of the National Civil Service Reform League , 79 Wall Street , last night issued a statement which said : It does not seem possible that the American people will long tolerate a condition ' which makes inevitable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as that which has terminated in the selection of Joseph Johnson as Pcstmaster at New York  --  a demand , too , Frieda at a time when the President should be free to give his entire attention to matters of state of the greatest importance . " " The statement sails Mr. Johnson -a political opportunist , who " in 1912 did his best-to violate the civil service law of New York and the principles of decent administration by distributing the appointments in tPfie Fire Prevention Bureau equitably to each Assembly District in this city , appointments presumably dictated by Charles F. Murphy or the - district leaders of Tammany Hall . "                     