@@681510

txt The United States Government has been asked by the chief nations of South America to co-operate with them in negotiations with the belligerent powers of Europe to bring about the exclusion of all belligerent warships from the waters of the two Americas and safeguard the trade of Pan-American countries with each other . , Argentina , Chile , Peru , and Uruguay have laid their suggestions before the Washington Government while the Brazilian Government is considering the advisability of taking a similar step . Practically all the Central and South American countries have been sounded by some of the leading nations , resulting in a series of diplomatic conferences in Washington and the capitals of South America , which are now in progress . While the proposals are different in character and scope , they all seek the same end  --  the restoration of the trade between North and South America . paralyzed by the European war . The Movement also has for its object the removal of possible causes of serious friction between the countries of this Hemisphere and the European belligerents on questions of neutrality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Colombia bare had serious difficulties with the belligerents over the use of the wireless and the coaling of foreign warships , the presence of which in the Atlantic and Pacific is growing ob- ' noxious to South American countries . None of the nations which have made Suggestions is committed to any particular plan , but all seek the co-opera-1 tion of the United States . The impetus ' that will make any plan effective , it is recognized by the diplomats of South America , rests with President Wilson . The various plans thus far formally1 communicated to the United States are as follows : 1 ? The establishment of neutral zones on the Atlantic and Pacific coasts of North and South America within which the belligerents shall be asked to agree not to engage in hostilities or interfere with commercial vessels . A meridian would be designated as the limit in each case . 2 ? The convocation of a general conference of diplomatic representatives and commercial delegates of all the countries of this hemisphere , with power to vote on steps which can be taken to protect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Pan-American Union of a Comm scion to recommend steps that would remove dangers to pan-American trade . 4 . Prohibition by all nations of the two Americas of the privilege hitherto exercised by the belligerents of coaling in neutral ports , or the issuance of only a sufficient quantity of coal to enable a belligerent vessel to reach the nearest port of another country . Already some of the powers of Europe have been sounded on these propositions and it is understood that Great Britain is ready to deny her warships entry into Central and South American ports to coal if the United States approves the proposal and no other belligerents agree . While many diplomats , who have considered carefully the effect of restriction Of coaling privileges , believe that such a proposal alone would not keep belligerent warships from American waters , the fact that England with her sea power looked with favor on measures that would assist the South American countries in preserving their neutrality and restoring their trade has been a source of much encouragement to the diplomats here . Still in a Formative Stage . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and depends very largely for its progress on the attitude of the United States toward it . This Government , it is believed , is particularly anxious to take no steps which possibly would impair its influence with any of the belligerents in the eventual settlement of the war . South American diplomats , realizing this , have been seeking some common ground on which to act , so that practical results may be obtained without embarrassing the neutrals in their relations with the belligerents . The position of the South American countries as explained by some of their representatives is one of earnest anA serious effort to assert their rights as neutrals . Their trade has suffered immeasurably and they feel that they are the innocent victims of a conflict which they had no possible means of preventing . With the very economic life of the South American nations threatened by the rupture of trade connectio-is with Europe , the Latin countries are looking to the United States for capital to promote domestic enterprises , and they believe the development of their industries by foreign interests will not come until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Zones . The idea that neutral zones may be established within which ships of all nations may move unmolested is an extension of the orginal principle of international law which fixed three miles as the territorial limit of a nation . This distance was agreed upon , because it was the range of guns in use when the principle was established . Since then the range of guns has extended to more than twenty miles . and the wireless has introduced a new means of controversy over breaches of neutrality . The countries which favor the establishment of a neutral zone argue that an extension of territorial waters to 100 , or even 200 , miles from the coast is just as much an inherent right of a sovereign nation as was the fixing of the three-mile limit The proposal to deny coal to warships . it is thought by some of the South American diplomats , would be ineffective . Much difficulty has been experienced in preventing merchant ships from coaling men-of-war at sea . The idea also of giving a warship only enough coal to reach a port of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the belligerents to coal their vessels . Already Colombia , which was not signatory to The Hague Convention , has ordered that , instead of giving a vessel enough coal to reach the nearest home port , only enough shall be sold to enable it to reach the port of an adjacent country . This , however , has resulted from the desire of Colombia to restrict the exportation of coal . of which she has only a limited production . The coaling- of a conference through the Governing Beard of the Pan-American Union has been widely discussed as an instrument for joint action by the nations of the two continents . If the conference is decided upon it probably will be held in Washington . While high Government officials would not discuss tonight any of the various suggesticns that had been offered , saying they were all under consideration , there were intimations in some quarters that out of the numerous proposals , some plan for the restoration of trade between the two Americas would be evolved by the American Government In co-operation with South American countries . COLOMBIA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Colombia has maintained the strictest neutrality ever since the Europeon war began and has made every effort to compel neutrality of the strictest sort on the part of all foreigners in that country , according to Don Julio Betancourt , Colombian Minister to the United States . He made this announcement in an offeial statement which he gave out hire yesterday . The statement follows : " Mr. Bets.ncourt , the Colombian minister said that the government of Colombia had ma " ntained the strictest neutrality and had made every effort to compel all foreigners in Colombia to maintain the strictest neutrality ever since the European war broke out . He said that if either the English or the French governments had proofs of violations of Colombia 's neutrality by anY persons or corporations in . Colombia and would present them at Bogota , he could guarantee that most condign punishment Would be meted out to the ofrenders. " 