@@682119

txt emperor William has formally recalled Captain Karl Boy-Ed , naval attache , and Captain Franz von Papcn. military attach ? . of the German Embassy , in accordance with the request of the United States Government , upon the stated reason that they were no lonier " acceptable " to the American authorities . The State Department has been asked by the Kaiser to obtain safe conducts for the return of the attaches to Germany and for the safe passage of their Successors here . With the case of the attaches settled , except for the arranging of the safe conducts , the United States is prepared to continue negotiations with Germany looking toward a settlement of the Lusitania controversy . The negotiations , it was said , would probably be resumed at an early date . Secretary Lansing is said to be prepared to urge an early settlement . A cipher dispatch received by the Gorman Embassy from Berlin today announced the recall of the attaches , and Count von Bernstorff called at the State Department late in the afternoon to communicate Germany 's decision . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has informed me that the German Emperor has been pleased to recall Captain von I'apen and Captain Hoy-Ed in eotnplianve with the wishes of the United States Government . It was necessary for the request for the recall to be communicated to the Kaiser , because German naval and military attaches are appointed by the Military and Naval Cabinet , of which the Emperor is the head , and can not be appointed or removed without his sanction . Ac Secretary Lansing 's refusal to give a further statement of the reasons for asking the recall of the attaches was not cabled until Tuesday , and as it had to be forwarded to the German Emperor , it is apparent that . the Kaiser and his advisers did not waste time in complying with the request of this Government . Germany 's prompt response is gratifying to officials here . Count von Bernstorff 's manner as he left the State Department , reflected his own apparent pleasure . Germany Not Quite Satisfied . It was learned tonight that there was a possibility of further correspondence on the subject of the withdrawal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States far its request were accepted as satisfactory , becanst any objection on the part of the American Government to the attaches would render their continued presence undesirable , the German Government may see fit later to address a communication to the United States , stating that it does not find itself able to agree that the attaches conducted themselves in a manner ' hal warranted the statement that they were not acceptable . So far as is now apparent the only possibility of further difficulty lies in the request which Count von Bernstorff made to Mr. Lansing to use his g'cld offices to obtain from the Allies safe conclue:s for the return of , . clams von Papen and Boy-Ed , and also for the transportation here of their successors . It is understood mat . Secretary Lansing has already moved in the direction of requesting safe conducts for Boy-Ed and von Papen , but no steps will be taken toward obtaining safe conduct for their successors until they have been named and they have been formally accepted by the State Department . It is not thought here that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Boy-Ed and von Papen to Germany , but it is frankly admitted that there is nothing in Washington upon which to base an assumption . One fear here is that the seizure of Col. D. Napier may arfect the decision of the British and French Government in the Boy-Ed and von Papen cases . Colonel Napier was British Military Attache at Sofia . He was en route from Us post to London with dispatches when he was taken from a Greek steamer by an , Austrian submarine , which took some , of his papers . Unless Colonel Napier is permitted to proceed to London . England may refuse to grant safe conducts to Captains Boy-Ed and von Papen . In German circle ; here an effort is made to show a difference between the Boy-Ed and von t apen cases and that of Colonel Napier , the argument being that Colonel Napier , before starting home , I spent some time at saloniki and was I concerned in the disembarkation of Brit ' ish troops . Details of the communications and ' conversations between Secretary Lansing and Count von @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were obtained tonight . They disclosed that Secretary Lansing in his second communication to Count von Bernstorff stated virtually the same reasons of the recall as had been given in his first communication , with a few details added . The names of various per ! Sons , with whom the attaches had talked , had been seen with , or had associated with by inference and other , wise , are said to have been given . Many of the names , it is understood , Were those of persons who have since been discredited , or have been connected with investigations or prosecutions . Secretary Lansing is now free to consider the cases of other foreign diplomats and Consular officials which the State Department has under investigation . The case of Alexander von Nuber . Austro-liungarian Consul General at New York , is under serious consideration and will probably be decided first . A report today that Mr. Lansing had decided , with the approval of the President , that the exequatur of the Consul General would be canceled , and that he would be asked to leave the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Department . A decision is expected within the next few days , however . It is known that the department also has under consideration the case of a high diplomatic official , but a decision in that matter is mit expected for some time .                     