@@682441

txt Color is to be e. feature of the biennial convention of the General Federation of Women 's Clubs , which is to turn New York . in a woman city the last of this month . There are 2.500,000 women in the federation , 9,000 individual clubs , and there are few of those clubs which will not send delegates . In addition , approximately 10,000 delegates , 15,000 other women will attend the convention , which holds its session from May 23 to June 2. inclusive , in the Seventh Regiment Armory . The armory is to present a beautiful appearance . The Art Committee arranged to fill it with gardens , and in addition to the clubwomen themselves , who always wear the gayest of gowns . every committee has a color by which it is known . There are so many committees that the colors of the rainbow have been used , and the women had to fall back upon fashion 's color scheme , and orchid , raspberry , Alice blue : with many others , are to appear in badges . with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " which will be worn by the emergency staff . Committee Worked Two Years . The Biennial Committee , Mrs. William Grant Brown , Chairman , which has been working for two years making ready for the guests , have things practically in hand now and the program , which Is to he a big souvenir affair , is now in the hands of the printer . The committee , which has had the hardest time is that in charge of hotels . The Biennial headouarters being at the Hotel Astor most of the 23.000 odd women , who are to come decided at first that for convenience they would stop at that hotel and each woman thought there would certainly be room just for her . Then the women who have the habit of coming to New York every year ori so each had a favorite hotel at which she decided to remain . The hotels being so crowded this year , asiCle from the convention , there was as much difficulty in all the hotels . The Hotel Committee of the Biennial reports the high-est number of reservations ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are to be grouped as far as possible by States in the hotels . New York City and its different institutions are officially taking note of the arrival of this great army of women and the Chamber of Commerce is the latest to announce a program . The Federation delegates will be the guests of the Chamber of Commerce on a trip to West Point on one day of their stay . One of the Hudson River Day Line boats will be chartered , luncheon will be given to the women on board . they will witness a drill at West Point . tea will be served there and they will return to New York to find cars chartered to return them to their various hotels . The women will be guests of the Metropolitan Museum of Art on the evening of May 25 . The Art Committee has arranged a trip to some interesting studios , and museum arts and crafts shops are to be- visited each afternoon . Blackwell 's , Ellis Island , Coney Island will be among the places visited and there will be sight-seeing trips through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Entertainments . Any number of luncheons will be given for the women , the International Child Welfare League entertaining at the Colony Club on May 29 . There will be a Shakespeare dinner at the National Arts Club on May 30 and Mrs. William Tod Helmuth will give a dinner to the old standbys , the women club pioneers at the Hotel Astor May 27 . Mrs. Thomas A. Edison , who is a member of the Orange Woman 's Club , founded 1842. gives a reception May 28 , and the National California Club is to give a garden party at the Claremont May 31 . There will be special Decoration Day features on May 20 . A New York song has been written for the Biennial . the State Presidents are to have copies and every federation delegate is supposed to learn it by heart ready to sing on all occasions . It combines patriotism with its club sentiments , and the song also cheers the " Gallant Seventh . " in whose quarters the convention Is held . It is a two-part women 's voice song and sells @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ T. Crawford . One celebration for the entertainment of the visiting club women will be a Russian Day at the Hotel Majestic , to be under the personal direction of the Russian Ambassador Bakheteff. who has arranged with Louis H. Chant . formerly of the Russian Imperial Ballet to present the spectacle and train the dancers , who will be New York girls . The Ambassador with his entire staff will be present . The date is to be announced later . JOBS GIVEN TO 1,871 . . City Employment Bureau Reports Demand for Farmhands . The Municipal Employment Bureau of New York , according to a report made yesterday by Walter E. Kruesi , Superintendent , to Commissioner of Licenses Bell , in the month of April placed 1,871 persons at work , at the rate of one every five minutes *of the working days in the month . While the number placed was fifty-five less than the number sent to work in March , the rate of placing workers was lowered one minute . The recodds of the bureau would make an even better showing , according to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the bureau the introduction and report cards brought to them by workers engaged through the bureau . The heaviest demand , said the report , was for painters and carpenters , with heavy calls for automobile mechanicians , machinists , upholsterers , blacksmiths , stationary firemen and engineers , cooks , and farmhands . The bureau had most difficulty in supplying farmhands , few of whom could - be foun davailable to answer the call of farmers wishing to till their ground . Although the bureau found in most cases that the demand for workers exceeded or equaled the supply , there was a surplus of male clerks , salesmen , shippers . and mercantile help in general .                     