@@684529

txt Those who read the reports of yesterday 's parade of " New York 's Own " and remember that today is the anniversary of the Lusitania murders will be bound to admit that the soldiers have done their part better than those who are so slow about paying for the work which they ordered . The soldiers ' part is finished , and finished in a manner entitling them to hold their heads high . It is not their fault that their uniforms are owed for and that there are not in hand funds for bringing back the other million who fought beside them . As the account stood when they were marching up the avenue yesterday the city which vaunts its pride in them had paid only 30 per cent . of the money price to qualify as patriots . Of our forty-eight States , only four have yet been reported as 100 per cent . true either to their country or to the defenders of democracy . Of the dozen Federal Reserve districts , not one has filled the subscription which was opened with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know the reasons and the excuses for a condition which will remain a reproach after it has been removed from the record . The loan is going to be covered , of course . The only war loan which failed was Germany 's last , offered after its defeat . Everybody knows that the Victory notes are the world 's best promises to pay , inferior to none in moral sanction and supported by the greatest wealth ever commanded by any nation . But that adds to the record of reproach that the average of the country 's subscription is only 40 per cent . and that the best record , that of St. Louis , is only 07.99 per cent . We are no prouder of the 77th Division than it is our right and duty to lie , but the men of the division can hardly feel the same way about their own city and State , and even their country . There are no unpaid bills in their record . Some of them paid to the uttermost . All met their obligations at sight . They are 100 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greater New York , Brooklyn alone has met its obligations , with the help of banks whose elderly Presidents bought a million dollars apiece in consideration of being kissed in public by a prima donna . She rolled up millions for the Victory Loan as gayly as she ever rolled down the hills In Prospect Park , which was her childhood 's playground . When it comes to buying bonds New York will outbid Brooklyn , the erstwhile Cinderella borough of the city , now a borough of banks as well as of churches . Our banks , when their time comes , will complete the subscription . At latest reports they were scores of millions ahead of the next district , and they had not yet begun to move up in the home stretch , with their powers well in reserve . Once more we are proud of the 77th , and we hope that the 77th will be proud of us , too , after this week .                     