@@682330

txt The recent suggestion of Senator , NEW LANDS that a commission be appointed " to consider the whole subject , of defense " recalls to mind the proposal made a few years ago by a naval officer on duty at the Naval War College for the organization of a council of national defense whit h would consider this whole question and lay the foundation for intelligent , economical , and concerted action . It was suggested that the President of the Flitted States should preside over the council and that the members should be the Secretaries of State . War , and Navy , the Chairmen of the Naval and Military Committees of the House and Senate , the Chairmen of the Ways and Means and Appropriation Committees of the House , with army and naval officers as expert advisers . It will be seen that the membership of this council . embracing ell elements of the executive and legislative branches of the Government tthat are most directly concerned In national measures of defense , could logically be depended on wisely to determine a policy and formulate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proper organisation and preparation of the army and navy , as well for the demands of peace as for the emergency of war . Notwithstanding the evident necessity for such a concentration of responsibility , and the great good that would come of it . years have passed during which we have drifted without policy or preparedness. various departments of the Government presenting or formulating bills from time to lime and all working at cross ourpOSes . There is no head . no coherency. no common sense ; it Is a shameful muddle with no solution in sight . The crying absurdity of the situation and the country 's humiliation can be appreciated by reviewing the events of the past few weeks -- the resignations of the Secretary and Assistant Secretary of War , the so-called hearings before Congress , the bills and schemes almost without number that are thrust forward by every individual who is moved to save his country . It is in the hearings before the Naval Committee , perhaps , that we find the most picturesque evidence , if military chaos . The Chief of the Bureau of Yards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who has least to do with the fighting fleet and who never spent a day in a battleship , was kept on the witness stand for twelve tong hours , during which he was interrogated , not only concerning mat-1 ters of a political and civil nature in connection with the navy yards , but , his title being Admiral and all Admirals looking alike to some of our statesmen , he was asked questions about which he could know nothing whatsoever . Another officer was re- ! ( mired to give an opinion as to the value of a revolver on a battleship in ! order to satisfy a distinguished gentleman who may have had need for a revolver on the plains of the great ) West . And so the days pass and precious time is wasted in the endless examination of officers and individuals , each of whom has his own Persona ! views and all very naturally differing from one another in respect to many detaila , The appointment of a council of na-j tional defense would serve to co-ordi-j nate all the agencies most competent j @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outline clearly and intelligently measures that are necessary to put the policy in force with such a beginning that the committees of Congress could proceed with less delay in preparing appropriation bills , without which nothing will be done unless a sudden emergency or a brigand like VILLA forces the adoption of hurried Measures at once inadequate and uneconomical . There can be no question that the people of this country would approve and applaud a dignified and sensible method of shaping a policy which involved the expenditure of hundreds of millions of dollars annually for national defense . It is not a matter for treatment by a mob .                     