@@682027

txt The arrival of Colonel E. M. House of New York at the White House today , where he is to be a guest for several days , and the presence of President Wilson , the entire White House family , at Mrs. Galt 's home at dinner tonight , led to the expectation that the wedding day of the President and Mrs. Galt would be announced within the next twenty-four hours . There were with the President and Mrs. Galt Colonel House , Miss Bones , Miss Smith , and Mary Smith , and Dr. Cary Grayson . Colonel House , who is said to be the President 's closest personal friend , is expected to serve as best man at the forthcoming ceremony . However , it is entirely possible that , all such formality I may be eliminated and the President land his fiancee may go to the altar Unattended . In any event Colonel and Mrs. House will be here fir the wedding , although up to the present time there is great uncertainty as to what other guests may be present . From @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is learned that they hold widely different views regarding the time and place for their marriage , I although not by reason of their difference in religious belief . Mrs .. Galt has shown her complete readiness to accept the Presbyterian ceremony and be married either in the President 's church , in Sixteenth Street , or at her home in Twentieth Street , with the President 's , pastor officiating . The President , while sharing his fianc ? e 's views as to tho personal rather than official character of the ceremony , is anxious that the marriage take place in the White House . However , to bring this about , the President not only has to convert Mrs. Galt to his way of thinking , but else her mother , Mrs. William H. Bolling , who feels that the place for the marriage is in the home or the church of the bride or the bride 's family .. While Mrs. Galt has lived alone through her seven years of widowhood , she is most deferential to the wishes of her mother and the traditions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her native State  --  Virginia . According to persons , close to the White House it is this unsettled question that has deferred the announcement of the wedding day . Invitation List in Doubt . While the President has authorized the statement that due notice will be given , to the public as regards the date of the wedding , this promise does not find favor in official circles owing to the uncertainty concerning the invitati ? n list . In the case of President Cleveland the engagement was announced more than two weeks before the ceremony , but the day and hour of the wedding were not announced until about fortyeight hours before the arrival of the bride-elect and her mother from New York , after several months ' sojourn in Europe . The guests at that wedding , which took place in the Blue Room , numbered fewer than forty and included no officials except the members of the President 's Cabinet and the President 's Private Secretary . No diplomats were invited to that ceremony , and owing to the very short time between the announcement of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except from the members of the Cabinet , in those days regarded as a part of the President 's family circle , and the relatives of the bride and bridegroom . It is said here that the Presidential yacht Mayflower , is being kept ready for orders with the idea that President ' Wilson and his bride will leave Washington via the Potomac , and will pass their honeymoon in one of the old Virginia mansions that have already been offered to them . Mrs. Galt 's Telephone Silent . Mrs. Galt is , as ever , most gracious to all inquirers regarding her plans , but to friends , reporters , tailors , milliners and caterers she makes the one reply that she has nothing to say at this time . So persistent have become the calls upon Mrs. Galt that her house telephone has been disconnected , and the private wire to the White House , which , was installed a few days ago , is now the only means of communication between 1308 Twentieth Street and the outside world . Mrs. Bolling , Mrs. I Galt 's mother @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the too numerous calls for inform ? tion concerning the movements and in , tions of her daughter . With the announcement of the wedding day , the Administration circle generally , and the Cabinet in particular . ' dill form glans for the coming Winter which now promises unusual social interest . The Cabinet dinner , with which the President and wife always open the eries of State dinners of each season , usually has been held about Dec . D , and is followed by the Diplomatic dinner , the Supreme Court dinner , and the Speaker 's dinner . Until the dates of these events were given out from the White House no official matron would think of making any important engagement as hostess or guest . In addition to the White House dales . which are now awaited with much concern , will be the series of dinners complimentarY to the President at which Cabinet officers will entertain , in turn , beginning with the Secretary of State . Besides the State dinners , which are necessarily limited to a small circle , there will be at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House be ' tween Jan. 1 and Shrove Tuesday . Invitations to these affairs vary greatly with the form of the reception and the disposition of the host and hostess . It is safe to assume , however , that some 18,000 persons will be bidden to the White House in the coming Winter . In addition to these fdrmal receptions and dinners , it is believed that the evening musicales of former seasons will be I revived . These entertainments , as well 1as numerous small dinner parties , will be entirely personal with the mistress of the White House , and in no way an official obligation to any portion of society .                     