@@684058

txt When the Department of Justice completes its investigation of the control of The New York Evening Mail by German interests and obtains the details it is seeking concerning the activity of von Bernstorff , Albert , and other German agents in their efforts to buy American public opinion with a $30,000,000 bribe fund , and thus pave the way for atrocities such , as the sinking of the Lusitania , it is believed here tnat a long step will have been taken in ending the effectiveness of the Kaiser 's secret service within the boundaries of the United States . The arrest of Dr. Edward A. Rumely and the fact that are American newspaper is involved , along with-the evidence : . of von Bernstorff 's - connective " with the case , have served to bring the Investigation to a crisis and provide for a searching inquiry to determine in what other directions the German agents reached . The decision as to the course which will be adopted in regard to The Evening Mail 's future and the other developments which may be expected were discussed at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . / Among those who participated were Henry L. Stoddard and Paul Block , the two largest bondholders in the corporation publishing the newspaper ; A. Mitchell Palmer , the Alien Property Custodian , and Francis J. Garvin , Mr. Palmer 's New York representative . The Department of Justice , it was reported , also was taking the keenest interest in the evidence which is before these ? investigators . To Trace German Funds . It is the intention of the Government agents to follow every trail in connection With the $1,361,000 which the German Government by many devious methods sunk in The Evening Mail through the agency of Rumely , and to determine whether any of it found its way to other newspapers . It is also hoped that the invsetigations now in progress may show how German agents attempted to dispose of other moneys involved in the hugh propaganda fund , and whether they met with any measure of success . In regard to The Evening Mail , the Alien Property Custodian 's office has been anxious to follow a program which would permit its continuance as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , no definite announcement tonight . It is possible that the officials will be in a better position to shape their course when it is determined just where all of the second payment of $626,000 said to have been made through Rumely has gone . In the course of the investigation of the status of The Evening Mail , which has been going on quietly for at least eight months , other newspapers , in-. eluding some in Middle Western States , in which anti-British and pro-German articles and editorials have from time to time appeared , have been under observation . It has been known for ' some time that a large sumof money was involved in the German Government 's efforts to poison the minds of the American people , through newspapers , where such propaganda was most likely to prove effective , but it has not been an easy task to uncover evidence which Would make arrests possible . It is believed that some of the money may have gone into German language newspapers and into other foreign language publications where the agents of Germany ? could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign , it is said , was not unsuccessful prior to the time that the United States entered the war , but the careful watch ' kept upon all publications by the United States Government agents from that time made even propaganda work of questionable value a dangerous practice . Suspected Publications Watched . The careful supervision of all suspected publications , however , has been kept up in the belief that evidence of value might be obtained if Germany sought a premature peace and looked to newspapers which had been fed with its money to back up its efforts to create a division of opinion in America as to the course which the American Government should follow in such an emergency . The agitation which has been caused by the revelations in connection with The Evening Mail and the widespread publication concerning the fact that Germany had put aside a big fund to be used to influence the American press , it is believed , will prove a factor in rendering valueless all of the careful work which the German agents have accomplished . It is intimated also that Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has , as yet , been made , and that further developments of importance may come within a short time . Apparently the German Government is faced with still another fiascc which has cost it many millions of dollars , and may look for its only consolatiori in the articles which were published before America entered the war , and which were valueless , so far as the end sought was concerned  --  keeping America out of the war . It was reported tonight that accountants were koing carefully over all of the books of The Evening Mail and making a still more thorough investigation of the activities of Dr. Rumeley and others whose names have been brought into the revelations .                     