@@681728

txt In a drizzling rain that might give her some hope of slipping past the French and British ships on guard outside , the crew of the German cruiser Prinz Eitel Friedrich was awake and busy at half past 10 tonight . Light from an open port showed men massed on the quarter deck moving about . Below them , in the full glare of arc lights , the American guard from Fortress Monroe slept in their tents on the pier . Toward the open roadstead the Eitel was more carefuuly guarded against approach than ever before . The navy launch made its accustomed round while the big navy tug Patanxent blocked all access by lying across the Eitel 'S stern . The Patanxent and the army tug Reno , lying at the other side of the Biters pier , are equipped with searchlights , which are turned en all craft coming near . When a press launch came in a trip of inspection the search light was turned full on it . But the nearness of the launch 's approach nefore the light picked it up , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eitel hi a dash for sea . The moon is not shining and in spite of the rain the wind is steadily increasing . An officer of the cruiser said this afternoon that a dash would be made and he seemed to think it would be successful . The Prinz Eitel , he said , would pass the Summer in the German port of Bremen . Toward midnight things quieted down on the Prinz Eitel , though the guards by water and dock were strictly kept . A driving rainstorm offered an opportunity which apparently the German cruiser was unwilling to take . While yesterday it was understood that arrangements had been made for loading the ship 's supplies of foodstuffs on Sunday , a quick change was made this morning . The supplies were hurriedly called for , and before . nightfall the ship had on board all the supplies allowed her by the American officials under the laws of neutrality . She completed coaling lasenight . As the afternoon wore on the suggestion was made that the change in plans about the ; supplies was occasioned . by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been almost as clear by night as by day . But this morning a haze rose from the water and the weather thickened - steadily throughout the day . The weather report also predicted a storm coming up the coast from the southeast . These conditions seemed to promise the German cruiser the best chance for eluding the three British and one French cruiser now waiting for her off the capes . Everything that Commander Thierichens said to his callers today indicated that he still was determined to try for the open sea . The feeling a the German officers seems to be that the Prinz Eitel has a chance to escape and that if she gets away she will keep many allied ships in search of her , while she may destroy several allied merchantmen . From this point of view , it is simply a sporting proposition with the ; chance of being useful in case of escape balanced against the certainty of being useless if she remains where she is . Collector of Customs Hamilton again visited the Prinz Eitel this afternoon , but his call was largely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Virginia , Mayor Mayo of Norfolk , Goodrich Hatton , and Henry Kern , a wealthy German-American of Norfolk County . Mayor Mayo smoothed the way by declaring himself in sympathy with Germany , but the climax came when Mr. Kern produced a passport issued to him sixty-three years ago In the Kingdom of Wartemberg , to permit his transit to the United States . The German officer expressed himself satisfied with Mr. Kern 's identity . " And you must come and visit me on my plantation , " said Mr. Kern . I will with the greatest of pleasure ? when I come back , " laughed Commander Thierichens . " But . " he added . " do n't have any parties . Just let it be you and I and some German noodles . " And they discussed other German dishes with gusto . As this party left the ship , ex-Secretary of War Jacob , M. Dickinson , accompanied by Colonel Haynes and Capt . Totten from Fortress Monroe , came aboard and talked with the German officers . Early this morning it seemed for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and was in the hands of the American Navy , The artillery ' men were still on duty across the foot of the pier at which the German cruiser was moored , and the two little navy launches that had been cruising about gave way to two large navy tugs , one of which - tied up across the Eitel 's stern . The other lay alongside  --  the pier . It was thought at first that the tugs had come either to tow the ship into the navy yard for final internment or to take from her the breech plugs of her guns and certain vital pieces of her machinery to insure her from an attempt to leave . But later developments disclosed no support for this view , and the preparations for departure apparently continued . Besides the guard supplied by the American Government , German sentinels also pace up and down . The ship also has a watchdog whose admirers boast that he can smell a strange craft out of sight over the horizon if the wind is in the proper quarter , This is the little terrier that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day after the Eitel reached Newport News . While the German commander has an ample crew . for anything he may undertake , he can get two recruits if he wants them . They are two young Germans living in Norfolk who are anxious to enlist . They called on Commander Thierichens this afternoon , but he gave them no final answer .                     