@@679653

txt In the early hours of this Morning it was stated that a speedy termination of the labor troubles'in London was imminent at an all-night sitting of the Hoard of Trade . The carmen 's strike , which was the chief obstacle to a. cessation of the conflict , had , it was reported , been settled , and the transport workers ' dispute Would probably be adjusted in the course of to-day or to-morrow . The hopeful prospect comes just as the capital had resigned itself to face a serious famine . The-situation yesterday was extremely critical . " Mob law reigns in London . The strikers are supreme . In all directions yesterday they stopped traffics and interrupted food supplies . " The capital finds itself in the position of a blockaded city within which civil war , fortunately of a mild type , is In full swing . " These are the words in which a widely read paper this morning described the situation brought by the strike of the transport trades of the metropolis . Seven million inhabitants in the Thames valley were on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disquieting shortage of all manner of supplies . From many quarters the Government had been called upon to take exceptional measures to meet the unparalleled situation . " Must the whole city starve , " it was asked , " because some thousands of its workers are . discontented ? While the Port of London authority and its men are settling their disputes the rest of the population can not go hungry . " At first the Government intimated that the Commissioner of Police was competent to deal with the situation , but events moved yesterday at such a pace that it became evident that other measures were necessary . Arrangements had been made by the Home and War Offices acting in conjunction to use the army , both to assist the police in maintaining order and provision the city . Troops last night were being held in readiness at the various camps in the neighborhood of London to march into the capital at a moment 's notice , Ball cartridges had been served out in some regiments , and . practically the whole commissarial service was mobilized for the distribution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up at the military railway sidings at Aldershot , and men were sleeping in uniform so that no time would be wasted if orders for them to move on London were considered necessary . In fact , at an early hour this morning an Aldershot telegram stated that cavalry were entraining for London . As those strikers whose claims have been conceded stick to their determination not to return to work till the demands of all kindred trades were satisfied , the concessions to one section brought no relief . Almost as fast as one class of workers is placated a new division came out with a demend for higher wages or shorter hours or both . Yesterday , for instance , there were at least half a dozen extensions of the strike fever throughout on a great scale . Branches of labor in nowise connected with the Port of London stopped work at a moment 's notice . A typical instance occurred at the head offices of one of the big provision dealers , where a section of employes , who had hitherto received a weekly wage of 21 shillings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was granted instantly . The change which the strike bas worked in the physiognomy of London is most remarkable . Traffic shrank yesterday to a tithe of its usual volume . The Streets , which are generally congested , presented an almost holiday appearance . The rumble of heavily laden vans was gone , and one missed that continuous deep-toned roar of traffic , which is the voice of London , speaking of its innumerable and tremendous activities . At every turning were long peaceful vistas which suggested that all London was on a holiday , not engaged in a. most serious and , disconcerting industrial struggle . London Bridge bore only a trickle of traffic , and at times the Tower Bridge , which on ordinary days resounds with the never-ending roar of heavy motor and horse traffic , did not show a single vehicle pn its broad surface . But perhaps the most striking scene was at what was the famous pool between London Bridge and Tower Bridge- , Dozens of big steamers lay there , their cargoes rattling under hatches . Not a sign of life was to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steamer disturbed the calm of the waters . A perfect stillness brooded over the famous port , where the air is usually filled with the sound of rattling winches and chains , the shouts of stevedores , and all the babel ' consequent on the handling of heavy ea*.                     