@@680546

txt Several reader s Teachers three , so far , to be exUnduly act  --  seem strangely to Disturbed . have misunderstood and , misinterpreted recent remarks in. this column concerning teachers . Ignoring all probabilities , and failing to make what would seem to be assumptions both natural and inevitable , these persons imagined that teachers had been attacked or treated with less than the respect which their character and the enormous importance of their work earn for them . ' Of course there was no such intention ? no lack of appreciation . The only purpose was to present for consideration reasons more or less plausible for the unquestionable fact that teachers as a class are not and never have been the ' trusted guides of their generation in the practical affairs of life  --  a fact well illustrated by the failure of the word " academic " to be synonymous with the word " wise , " as it certainly would be if " academies " were the recognized centres whence wisdom as well as learning is distributed . That teaching is not a. profession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discreditable to it . Therein , however , undoubtedly lies one reason for the comparatively slight regard in which teaching is held by the many who have no measure of success except money . To state that reason is by no means to commend it . Again , it is not unjust to the ideal teacher  --  to him or her who makes teaching a life work because of love and competency  --  to note how often it is entered as a mere stepping stone by those who are ambitious for other rewards than teaching gives . That our educational systems are in really desperate need of reformation and improvement is generally , or rather universally , admitted , and surely it is not reprehensible to make an honest effort at finding the causes of the trouble . Teachers should . be the last to complain of that , especially as it is from teachers themselves that the severest criticisms of our schools are coming ? by them that the loudest protests are made against the evils and defects mentioned in this column . While an ? epigrammatist can say with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; who ca n't , teaches , " the general estimate of teachers and teaching will remain what it is. and this will probably be for some time to come  --  a time that will be the longer if even a few teachers continuo to resent as insults every denial that they have already attained even that degree of perfection which is possible for mortals . " Efficiency engiPhysiology neers " deny the to idenApplied tity of . and even any similarity between , Efficiency . their efforts to eliminate needless motions from work and the " speeding up " that is recognized and hated by " labor " as the most ruthless and destructive form of capitalistic exploitation . They claim for their method that it is at least as beneficial , physically and pecuniarily , for the work ' man as for the employer , and they would be the first to admit that , if the result of their innovations were the untimely wearing out of the laborer , the whole ideea was utterly wrong and labor 's antagonism to it justified . The possibility , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the new efficiency may have a seriously bad side ? is suggested by an editorial article in American Medicine . " Waste motions , " the writer of it says , are not always as useless as they seem . for the apparently ineffective expenditures of strength do or may create moments of rest for the particular muscles that are performing the set task and so save them from the exhaustion which is fatal to both efficiency and health . Elimination of waste motion decreases the total expenditure of energy , but it does not necessarily make possible the doing of more work . Only machinery is capable of cOhtinu011Ei repetitions of motions rigidly limited in direction and extent . Muscles soon tire , and one very common way of resting one set of muscles is to put another set in action . This is the expedient to which workers of every kind instinctively resort , with the effect , if not the purpose , of hiding from themselves that their effective activity is intermittent . These superfluous motions . it is declared . are what give the skilled workman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the eliminators had their way . Artists no less , perhaps more , than manual laborers , indulge in flourishes and gestures that seemingly accomplish nothing . Many professional pianists do it to an amusing degree , and the contortions of the baseball pitcher are open to the same physiological explanation , for the direct relation of these contortions to pitching itself can not be large . This defense of the superfluous motion is so plausible that the efficiency engineers will have to consider it seriously , for their announced desire is to make work easier , not harder , and to conserve the workman , not to wear him out . Mle E. BERNHARDT She Should contributes to the current discussion Study Anthropology . of " spheres "  --  or her publicity agent does for her  --  the interesting and characteristically naive suggestion that many tasks , including that of voting , now withheld from women should be turned over to them . so that more men may be spared to serve as soldiers and policemen . That is an excellent idea in its way . The way is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grandmothers can not claim originality for it . Just the division of labor she advises has always been in vogue among primitive peoples and is to-day . The savage and the barbarian always leave to their women the doing of practically all work except war  --  and hunting , which is much the same thing . For this they have been much criticised by the unthinking , and most unjustly called lazy and unchivalrous . Savages and barbarians know their business extremely well  --  they have to , in order to live at all  --  and their apparent laziness is merely the accumulation of energy required for the brief but violent exertions upon which depend the safety of their womankind even more than of themselves . As stages of culture advance , men relieve women of one hard task after another  --  with some preference for the pleasanter and more profitable ones . our suffrage friends say  --  and the roles of specialist and general worker tend to become reversed . That must be all right , too , the only question being as to how fast , and how fast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of any particular As an able writer in this month 's Atlantic points out , a man is not necessarily a brute because he walks ahead , unincumbered , while his wife trudges patiently a few steps behind him carrying the bundles and the baby . When the lives of the whole family depend on that arrangement , it is a very good arrangement indeed and delicately courteous .                     