@@680807

txt Provisional President Huerta has not resigned , nor has be fled from the capital . When seen at the National Palace at 5 o'clock this afternoon he said he had no intention of doing either . " When I resign , " he added , " it will be to seek a resting place six feet in the soil . When I flee the capital , it will be to shoulder a rifle and take my place in the ranks to fight the rebels . " This was President Huerta 's answer to questions whether there was any foundation for the reports , which have been freely circulated ' in the capital and have found their way to the United States . Gen. Huerta looked the picture of health and energy . Attired in a new suit , he greeted the correspondent with cordiality , motioned him to a seat , asked for a cigarette , and listened to the explanation of the motive for the visit . " So it is reported that I have fled , " said the President , " You can see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To say that I have resigned or intend to resign is an absolute falsehood . I have no intention of resigning . " Within the Lass if Possible . " " Should the elections . which will be held as I have promised . indicate another for the Presidency . I shall step aside . Until that time you will find me here complying with my promises to the nation , which are to re-establish peace  --  within the law if possible , but to re-establish peace . " President Huerta interspersed his remarks with anecdotes , illustrating his points . " Another thing , " said the President . " I have money for my requirements . Do n't think that I have n't . Where did I get it ? " Here : : ) , Y tapped his chest with a satisfied *rale , adding : " But I have it . " On the question of pacification , he said that before the end of the month the Government would have retaken Torreon and made headway toward the pacification d the State of Durango . " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " moving on Torreon , and 2.000 more arc proceeding north from Zacatecas . " In reply to a suggestion that further rumors were afloat to the effect that a troop train proceeding to . Torreon had been blown up , he exclaimed : ' , " More lies ! Nothing of the kind hae occurred . " To the statement that a report was current that all Americans had been ordered to leave the ' capital , Gen. Huerta answered with a gesture of disgust . " What nonsense ! " he replied , " As I have repeatedly said since I came to the Presidency , foreigners , from Hottentots to the most enlightened , have received and will continue to receive every guarantee . Mexicans likewise who obey the laws have nothing to ' fear from me . Trans -- gressors must watch out . They shall be punished through every means the law affords . " Says Foes Started ' tumors . In the opinion of Gen. Huerta , the sensational rumors originated with the enemies of the administration in the capital and elsewhere for the effect they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fifteen ter eighteen hours daily , sleeping at odd times when fatigue overtakes him . Ito adopts - various ruses to escape from the scores striving to reach him with personal affairs . He slips out of unused entrances and takes roundabout routes to hide his whereabouts . Col. Carlos Aguila , his son-in-law , who is with him almost continuously , sought him to-day in half a dozen haunts before locating him in the palace . There is no truth in the report that Americans have been ordered out of Mexico . Several American residents here have received cablegrams in the last few days from relatives in the United States begging them to leave . One business man has been instructed by his firm in the United States to wind up his business and quit the country . This has given rise to various disquieting rumors . Accuse 74 Deputies of Sedition . Seventy-four of the 110 members of the Chamber of Deputies , arrested by order of President Huerta last week , were formally declared prisoners today by the second Judge of the Federal District , who has had charge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which charges had to be filed against , the Deputies or their liberty given to them expired to-day . ? ? The charges made against the Deputies to-day were for political offenses , designated by the law as rebellion , sedition , and insults to important public functionaries . Ten Deputies , against whom there . was said : to be insufficient evidence , ' were released to-day . Ail the others had been previously set at liberty , It was expected that Rodolro Reyes , formerly Provisional Minister a Justice . and Jorge Vera Estanol , formerly Provisional Minister of Public Instruution. would be released , but they are still kept in custody .                     