@@684232

txt The reply of the German government to President Wilson 's note was forwarded to Washington at noon today . ' The text was toad* public , here this evening . Germany accepts the terms laid down by President Wilson for the foundation of a permanent peace of justice . It declares itself ready to comply with the president 's proposals for the evacuation of occupied territory . It suggests that the president may occasion a meeting of a mixed corn-mission to make arrangements for the evacuation and says that the ans. . ent government , which has the support of the majority of the reichatag , has undertaken responsibility for this atop towards peace . Shows Germany 's Distress . Germany 's reply to President Wilson reached London too late for any authoritative comment . It was bound to coma , however , into an atmosphere charged with suspicion and the opinion is held in all quarters that the reply would be a good gauge of the degree of Germany ' . military distress . An armistice is the old familiar ruse for a distressed army . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ associates Austria-Hungary , but not Turkey , with the German government . The implicatlor seems to be that unless the Germ ' secretary for foreign affairs has writ ten the message with unusual haste Turkey is no longer Germany 's ally . In all previous important diplomatic documents Germany has scrupulously mentioned all other allies . British Fear Conference . The phrase " to agree upon practical details of the application of these terms " is on Its face a straight reply to President Wilson . It was not unexpected here , but is likely to be regarded with suspicion . English papers have said that a conference based on such a formula may be considered by the Germans to mean an extended debate . Some of the most Important German papers , in latent- quotations cabled from Holland , persist in using the word ' compromise " with reference to the application of the president 's principles . But the feeling in London is that It will be hard for the allied armies to hold their hand In the hour of seeming victory . Against Any Compromise . f " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British people in this hour than any commlasion to arrange for evacuation . Events in the last week , particularly the sinking of the Leinster , have steeled British hearts against a compromise . There is a strong belief here , voiced even by the " compromising " papers , that there are yet two powers in Germany  --  one power of the new government , the other of the army , and that it is not yet decided which is supreme .                     