@@682264

txt The unohicial Republican State Convention has led the Progressives to believe that they may be compelled to stick in the middle of the road and fight the battle of 1912 over again . A threat that any serious attempt to force the nomination of Elihu Root would make any coalition of Republican and Progressive forces impossible was implied in a statement authorized yesterday by George W. Perkins , Executive Chair . man of the National Progressive Party . " The attitude assumed by the Republican State Convention is very disappointing and makes the outlook for a satisfactory result from the two conventions that are to meet in Chicago in June less favorable than before , " said Mr. Perkins . " We Progressives meant what we said in our Chicago statement ? every single word of it  --  and if the big , broad patriotic thing Is not done at Chicago the blame will not rest on our shoulders ; it will rest on the shoulders of the same men who caused the clbk ; ruption In 1912 . " It was more than hinted yesterday that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ return to the Republican fold is to fight to the finish any man entered in the Presidential race who in even the remotest way had a hand in what one Bull Moose leader yesterday characterized as " the political murder that was committed in Chicago four years ago . " It was pointed out that this anathema would include all the candidates at present prominent in the public eye . It would include Elihu Root , Theodore E. Burton of Ohio . Charles W. Fairbanks of Indiana . and Samuel W. McCall , Governor of Massachusetts . Find Progressive Sentiment . It was said that a statement would come from Progressive quarters within a few days in which the party 's attitude would be set forth bluntly . It was intimated that the statement would lay ' down the course the Republicans must steer to avoid blocking a harmonious understanding with the Progressives next June . The Progressive leaders have been for weeks feeling out sentiment among Republicans throughout the country especially in the West . The reports of this investigation all point in one direction  --  that there is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concession to bring about the consolidation between Republicans and Progressives without which . it is realized , a Republican victory would be impossible . This sentiment , according to Progressive leaders is pronouncedn the West . but exists in the . East also . Progres-i sive leaders point to the cent action in Massachusetts , where influential members of the Republican organization have launched a primary fight for Colonel Roosevelt . Statements by prominent Progressives recently indicate that the Progressives are animated by the conciliatory spirit that is seen in the progressive wing of the Republican Party . According to one Progressive leader the lines now laid for the Progressive- campaign do not necessarily lead toward the nomination of Colonel Roosevelt by the Republicans . Prominent Progressives , in fact , express doubt that the Colonel would take the Republican leadership . The Bull Moose leaders at present , it was said , seek only to prevent the Republicans from followingly blindly extreme reactionary leaders , who for selfish political reasons would accept defeat rather than yield an inch to the Progressives . ? Repnbilean , " Says Perkins . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by such leaders as William Barnes that the Progressive Party had disintegrated , and that nothinss ' coot a handful of leaders was left to claim the party name , even if not baseless , could not be taken as proof that the Progressive spirit was dead . George W. Perkins himself took serious exception yesterday to any hint that he was not a good Republican , even though enrolled as a Progressive . " The morning papers quote me as having said : ' Thank God . I am not a Republican , ' " said Mr. Perkins . " The newspaper men undoubtedly misunderstood me . What I said was : ' Thank God . I was not mixed up in the recent meeting of the Republican State Convention in New York , ' " As to being a Republican , I have always regarded and still regard myself as the truest kind of a Republican . The Republicanism I believe in is the Abraham Lincoln , Thomas B. Reed , James G. Blaine , William , Theodore Roosevelt brand . I am a Progressive , because certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideals of the party and refused to keep abreast of the times . I firmly believe that hundreds of thousands of Republicans in the rank anti file of the Republican Party stand for the very things that hundreds of thousands of Progressives stand for , and that these things are vitally necessary to the present and future welfare of the country . I believe their achieve ? merit has been impossible thus far because , a few men in Control of the Republican Party , machinery In certain ' States are more , interested in their own Political fortune 's than they are in. the Welfare-of the nation as a whole . " ? Republican leaders identified with the Old Guard , when they heard of the statement made by Mr. Perkins , . especially the threat in the event of Mr. Root'nnomination , said Mr. Perkins was reckoning With Colonel Roosevelt . One prominent Republican , concerned in the Root movement , said he was confident Root would . be chosen and would have the whole-hearted support of Colonel ' Roosevelt He also said that Mr. Root had received ample @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This leader said similar messages had been conveyed to Senator Burton , Samuel W. McCall , and Philander C. Knox . Either of these candidates would be acceptable to the very element in the Republican Party that was chiefly responsible for turning down Colonel Roosevelt in 1912 . Their aspirations are said to have grown up under the auspices of the leaders who forced the nomination of Mr. Taft in 1912 . According to the story told in the Old Guard camp , the message from Colonel Roosevelt came through General Leonard Wood and Robert T. Lincoln . ' The intimacy that has existed between Colonel Roosevelt and General Wood , whom he made Chief of Staff of the army , is well known . Mr. Lincoln is a son of Abraham Lincoln , is President of the Pullman Palace Car Company , and a. very close friend of the Colonel . So devoted is the Colonel to Mr. Lincoln that he has told friends that one thing that led to hie breach with Taft was Taft 's failure to take Lincoln into his Cabinet An effort was made last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ camp on Govern Island said t General was awayors inspecting coast ae hrJillery. but was expected back this morning . At Mr. Lincoln 's home in Chicago last night it was said that Mr. Lincoln 's exact whereabouts were not known , but that he was traveling in the South . Among leaders urging the nomination of Elihu Root the opinion prevails that , with the campaign fought on the issues of preparedness , a firm foreign policy and protective tariff reform , Mr. Root I would carry New York by 250,000 . They ' feel that the effect in Western States of Ithe strong Root sentiment expected to develop with discussion of the issues in the East would insure his election . Colonel Roosevelt , in their opinion . will support any candidate the Republicans nominate . They feel certain that to insure the defeat of Wilson he would swallow his own pride , forget the past and drive his Moose flock into line for Wilson 's rival . In the Old Guard camp there Is a feeling of assurance that Colonel Roosevelt has no designs on the nomination this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to get back into party regularity by giving loyal support to any Republican nominee with the hope of being in line for the Presidential succession in 1920 . " Harmony Is as inevitable in 1916 as the split was inevitable in 1912. " said a Republican leader . " The Bull Moose issues are dead . Who will think of making social and industrial justice , for instance , a topic for the stump after the keynote speech of Senator Root ? This is a campaign with new and bigger issues . " Proofs of an editorial , to appear in today 's issue of The New York Progressive , under the heading : " United We Stand , Divided We Fall , " were sent to the newspapers last night In this editorial the statement occurs that Elihu Root in his speech sounding the keynote of the Republican campaign " indorsed substantially the utterances and views of Theodore Roosevelt  --  the ideal progressive American citizen . " " When Mr. Root rezerred to President Wilson 's timid method of ' shaking his fist first ana his finger afterward ? he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open for the support and good-will of Colonel Roosevelt and his many followers . " the editorial continues . many In times like these it is quite fitting that the supporters of Mr. Root and the supporters d Colonel ; RiMaevelt and all friends of . preparedness and protection , as . well as all ' fees of uncertainty and the disastrous free-trade.Democratie. alatferin ; should aneet . on common ' ground to defeat the ' pretieht Administration in . the forthcomings campaign . ? It is , . therefore , logical . to supposettiat in the mid the friends of Mr. Root and - the friends of Colonel Roosevelt , having the- best interests of the nation at heart ; will join hands and decide upon , the most available of the ' two- men standard bearer . to lead a . united grand old party to . victory . And if unable . to ' decide between the two , tO compromise and unite en - the most ' available man , Justice Hughes , who with united support could surely win for obvious reasons . " William Barnes ' denied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West for the purpose of attending to the Root boom . I dislike to deny so preposterous a as ' was printed this morning , for story reason that I can not believe that , any sane man would give credence to it , ' said Mr. ' Barnes . " That the Republicans : Should present a united front the coming campaign is unquestioned . Because of the acrimony caused by the. , ' Convention - of 1912 I declined in the in- ' , terest of unity to be considered as a . Delegate at Large from this State , or from my district . I do not ? believe , as I said in my letter to Mr. Tanner in declining to be ' ? a delegate : . that " . if this nntion. enters upon.a- .. program of complete defense we should place In the Chief Magistracy a matt who by temperament would itch to use the power . At  --  this-time , above all others , . what is required in the Presidency is deliberative courage . " WHITMAN SETS THE DAY . Will Confer with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learned last night that Republican State Chairman Frederick C. Tanner tied received word from Governor Whitman , naming next Thursday as the date for a conference of the delegates designate , Senator Wadsworth , Governor Whitman , Mr. Tanner , and Senator Eton R. Brown . The Governor has expressed a wish to meet his fellew-delegates at Albany . The question whether or not a preference for any prospective nominee should be expressed by the delegates v.411 be discussed at the conference . Senator Wadsworth and ' Senate Leader Brown favor an expression for Elihu Root . Mr. Tanner , while he is said , personally . to favor Mr. Root , does not believe that the delegates should make any binding pledge . Governor Whitman is opposed to Mr. Root and has declared for Justice Hughes .                     