@@683393

txt The opening in the first week of next month of the Brooklyn Rapid Transit 's route to Fourteenth Street and Broadway , Manhattan , will be the first fruits of the dual subway bargain . The city 's contribution is the Manhattan Bridge and the Manhattan subway connections . The Brooklyn Rapid Transit 's contribution is the elevated system throughout Brooklyn , which will feed the Manhattan lines . Over the combination the fare will be a nickel , eventually from Fifty-ninth Street to Coney Island , with a link through Queens on the side . Cheaper access - to Coney Island is the least of the benefits . In families where there are several habitual riders between home and work the gift will be equal to the interest on a thousand dollars . An even greater contribution to reduce the high cost of living is access to cheaper rents in more comfortable homes . The city 's share lies in the consequent increase in taxable values in the several boroughs , besides the aid to sanitation and the promotion of good citizenship through the scattering of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the halving of the fare cost to daily riders , there is a good prospect that the merely financial results will not be ' disappointing . During the period of construction , since 1913 , there has accumulated a deficit on this section of the dual subway of $1,037,276 , and no benefits have been realized . That was inevitable . But for the last year of the period there was earned the full preferential to the Brooklyn Rapid Transit , and within $250,371 of the interest upon the cost of the new construction . If that can be done with the system not opened , it is with reason that the Brooklyn Rapid Transit 's last report says : " It will only be " a short time after complete opera " tion when all of the operator 's pref " erentials will have been earned and " the city will begin to get interest on " its investment ! ' That is more to be wished by riders than even by the city and Its contracting operator , . and there will S be eager expectancy as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them will be in time to invite the confidence of voters in the administration which has advanced this great work . The steel for it cost $42 a ton , and could not be bought now for double that ' A great deal of the construction was done at a like saving in wages , and yet full going rates were paid . Hundreds of steel cars have been contracted for , and most of them delivered , at a cost 40 per cent . under present prices . There are offsets , of course . The contract for the extension of the Centre Street loop to a connection with the nearly completed tunnel to Montague Street , Brooklyn , has not , even been let , L And . the connection . at the Futton Street , Brooklyn , elevated railway with the Manhattan subways hangs fire interminably . The physical connection is necessary for the operation of the trains and to save passengers the necessity of changing cars . But what is the necessity of waiting for this work to be done before realizing part of the benefits ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will prevent their being used unfairly ? Every day now many riders over this Brooklyn elevated change cars and pay an added nickel to the Interborough . That is because the Interborough penetrated Brooklyn before the Brooklyn Rapid Transit penetrated Manhattan . The gentlemen 's agreement for the duplication of fares and the separation of the boroughs has received a hard blow , and Greater New York is about to be consolidated in a manner otherwise impossible . One of the issues of the approaching election is the expression of appreciation of the services of those who have put the city far on the road of municipal ownership without committing the city to the perils of municipal operation .                     