@@682471

txt Samuel Hill , who has been associated for twelve years with his father-in-law , James .1 . Hill , In the latter 's railroad enterprises , arrived last night from Liverpool on'the American liner Philadelphia , on which he made the round trip . It was his thirty-ninth on the Atlantic . While the liner was in port on the other side , from Monday morning . May 1 , to Saturday afternoon , May 6 , Mr. Hill traveled to London , crossed over to France . dined with Albert . King of the Belgians . at his headquarters ; visited the firing line in Western France and Flanders . returned to London by way of Boulogne , met Cabinet Ministers , went to Scotland , visited the fleet , saw the harbor protections ' against submarines , and reached Liverpool some hours before the Philadelphia sailed for New York . Mr. Hill said he had made this rapid trip to get certain information , and had succeeded In his mission , the nature of which he could not disclose yet . He is going to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany is beaten , " he said , " and the end of the war is In sight . Peace will come suddenly , as the great war started , in August , 1914 . There will not be another Winter campaign . Germany can not struggle against the overwhelming financial strain and the economic conditions prevailing since the war . " In 1913 Germany imported 500,0001 laborers to harvest her crops , and this year she wilt only gather in 60 per cent . of the harvest of the year before the war . " King Albert , whom I have known personally for twenty years . was in excellent health and confident of having his country restored to him at the end of the war , which In France and England Is regarded as a certain victory for the Allies . The French people have got living down to a practical economic basis . They eat only sufficient food to sustain them in health . " When the Philadelphia got alongside the Liverpool landing stage early Monday morning I was permitted to leave at once and caught the 9:20 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I drove at once to the French Embassy , Presented my credentials from Ambassador Jusserand and the State Department , and obtained a special permit to travel that night to Parts via Southampton and Havre , which is prohibited generally to neutrals , who have to go by Folkestone and Dieppe . . Met Belgian King . " On my arrival at Havre on Tuesday forenoon I drove to the capital of Belgium , which is called Nice Havraise , and saw the Minister of Justice , who telephoned to Paris and arranged for my visit to King Albert . Before taking the train for Paris.I was taken for a twentyfive-mile automobile drive outside Havre , where the crops are abundant . Not a square inch of ground has been left uncultivated . I saw . more vegetation in that ride than I did afterward in the whole of my trip through England and Scotland . I slept In Paris on Tuesday night and started early Wednesday morning in the direction of Dunkirk There were no cabs in the French capital , and the porter had to carry my bag @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When I left the train at a small station , of which I may not give the name , I was met by an Aide de Camp with an automobile marked ' S. M. ' in white letters on the front and side . There was a soldier chauffeur in front , and the officer and myself sat In the tonneau . " I do not know the make of the car , but it went at a speed I had never traveled before over hills , streams , and plains , never stopping , for nearly five hours . Our average speed was fifty-five miles an hour , and we were seventy-five to eighty miles on the down grades . At every main road crossing soldiers covered us with their rifles , but fell back as the officer made them a sign . This scared me frequently , as I felt that he wised make a mistake in the sign and the soldiers would fire on us without stopping for inquiries . - 14 was about 4 o'clock on Wednesday afternoon when we arrived at the small village near Lappin where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I had a conference With 1418 Maiesty which lasted three hours and then had dinner with him . The QUeen and a Belgian General were the only others present . The meal was ay very simple one , consisting of soup and roast chicken , with salad and dessert- There was no wine on the table- Alter dinner I talked with King Albert until 10:80 o'clock , and then drove oil in the automobile to a. small . ramshackle house , where I slept until 4 WI:dock next morning in a sparsely : ftipratteal room . " At -- -ttist hour . -I was awakened by a rocking sensation accompanied by a heavy booming , which I discovered to be the Germans saluting the dawn . The King had promised that I was to see something of the firing lines , and he kept his word . After breakfasting on eggs , bread , and coffee I drove some distance in the automobile until apparently we came quite close to the German guns and saw the Belgian soldiers in the distance , scattered in twos and threes , lying on the ground . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his staff arrived , with the Queen , in the rear of the fir gig lines . After leaving the Belgian battlefront I drove in the Kins automobile at the same terrifio speed for about 200 mules to Boulogne . where I had a special permit to cross over to Folkestone on one of the British transports . " Since his retirement from the railroad business Mr. Hill has identified himself with the construction of highways all over the United States , the most recent being the Columbia Highway , between Washington and Oregon , on the Pacific Coast . Another passenger on the Philadelphia I was Baron Robert Oppenheim , a London financier , who has come over on a business mission for the Government and expects to return in two weeks . I know that the Germane realize they can not win the war from the reports we get from the banking houses in Berlin and Frankfort. , " saki the Baron . 