@@678809

txt Believing himself telepathically persecuted by leaders of the Christian Science Church , Henry Pennington Toler , Princeton graduate , athlete , Stock Exchange broker , and Reader in the First Church of Christ , Scientist , plunged into the inrushing Hell Gate tide on Tuesday from the southern point of Ward 's Island . I-le had been confined in the Manhattan State Insane Asylum for the last seven months as a victim of incurable religious mania . All day yesterday the Manhattan State Asylum authorities . the Harbor Police , and his brothers , Hugh and John Toler , brokers of this city , searched in vain for his body . He was of powerfpl physique and an excellent swimmer . But his friends and keepers do not believe that after wading out into the tide race he made any attempt to swim . They believe that he succeeded in an attempt to commit suicide , and that his body will be found wedged in some inlet or dock of the East River or the Sound within the next few days . After having achieved considerable notoriety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the First Church of Christ of exerting " malicious animal magnetism " over him , and by various other acts of religious delusion , Toler last July was adjudged insane and committed to the Manhattan State Hospital for the Insane on Ward 's Island . His case was diagnosed there as one of constitutional insanity with certain paranoiac features . Nevertheless , as he was a man of genial nature and pleasant address , he was , according to Dr. H. C. Everts of the asylum , yesterday , put " on parole " and allowed to go freely about the grounds . Although recognized as incurable , he was thought to be harmless until Tuesday morning , when he walked into Mr. Mabon 's private office on the island . and with a nervous , furtive manner , which at once attracted the alienist 's attention , pointed to a small abcess which for several months had been forming upon his cheek . For the first time in months he began to revert to his former accusations against the Christian Scientists . " They are making it worse , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " There 's only one escape for me . " Dr. Mabon , realizing that his patient 's delusion was returning to a dangerous degree , summoned an attendant from Ward 44 , where newly arrived cases are kept under observation . This ward is on the ground floor of a two-story wing of the main asylum building , and Toler walked quietly over to it with the keeper . He was examined by Dr. Spellman , and was then put in charge of Mrs. Pierce and was led up to the second story to Ward 45 , where convalescent cases are confined . This ward is quite long and there is a locked door at the other end of it . Mrs. Pierce , realizing that the patient could not let himself out , turned to perform some other duty . Toler swung coolly down the long room and approached the seated attendant who guards the locked door at the other end . The attendant had come to know and like Toler , and did as the other keepers . " I 've been up visiting Mrs. Pierce . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Let me out , will you ? " said Toler easily . The attendant had come to regard Toler as permanently on parole . He knew nothing of Dr. Mabon 's order of twenty minutes before . It 's the healthiest place to be , Sir , " he answered and unlocked the door . Toler walked down the single flight of stairs and out upon the grounds . He quickly skirted the power house and green houses , and , almost before the authorities realized that he was missing . had reached the southernmost point of the island , a quarter of a mile away . Churned and foaming tinder the wintry wind gusts , the incoming tide was rushing toward Hell Gate . An eighth of a mile away , half the distance between the asylum and the island point , a lone sentry . standing outside his sentry box , saw a tall , athletically built man , dressed in well-cut civilian 's clothes . wede out into the rushing water . When the water reached the man 's knees the ledge sheered and the man plunged off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , hut seemed to be making no effort to swim . The sentry ran into his box arid telephoned what he had seen to the asylum . The search which then began for Toler 's body had not ended yesterday . Born forty-five years ago , Toler came of a wealthy New York family . He graduated from Princeton in 1886. after having achieved considerable distinction through his golfing and football playing . He was a member of the famous Princeton football team on which a fellowPlayer , Lamar , made a record run the length of the field and defeated Yale . He continued his golfing after he left college and won many ? championship matches . He married Miss Virginia Wheeler and formed a partnership with Charles D. Halsey , a college classmate . in the brokerage business , becoming a member first of the Consolidated ' and then of the Stock Exchange . In 11101 he took un Christian Science and gradually became the victim of fixed religious notions . He gave $50,000 toward the building of the First Church of Christ in this city , at Central @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ donations to the Christian Science cause . His religious notions finally subverted his mind to such an extent that he sold his seat on the Stock Exchange for $33,000 and took a position as reader in the Church . As a result of his religious leanings he separated from his wife , who has been living at 75 East Fifty-fourth Street with her two children . while he took up residence at the Hotel Seville . He practiced " psychic healing " for a time after selling his Stock Exchange seat . and also laid claim to 83.000.000.000 of Harlem real estate . which , he believed , should have rightfully been in the possession of several hundred other heirs under a I grant of Charles TT .. He established several offices in this cause in various parts of the city , and announced that , when his lawsuit was successfully terminated , he would turn the tract into a " New Jerusalem . " The movement dragged along for two years , and Mrs. Eddy finally wired him to drop it , when it threatened to make the Christian Science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eddy , and when Mrs. Augusta Stetson led a revolt against her in this city he espoused the latter 's cause . About a year ago he became convinced that he was a " Messiah . " He also got the idea that he had run down and killed some one in his automobile . He quarreled with Mrs. Stetson , accused her of exerting malicious animal magnetism " over him , and attacked her in the study of the First Church , which he had helped to build , choking her , beating her head against the wall , and blacking her eye . Last July his brothers , John and Hugh Toler , and Mrs. Ruth Litt of Chicago persuaded him to return to a room in the Hotel Seville . From there he was taken to Bellevue , and from the latter place to the State-Insane Asylum . 