@@680806

txt As Harry McCloskey of 53 Prospect Street , Jersey City , was driving his automobile along Palisade Avenue on the Heights shortly after 9 o'clock last night , he intended to cross the long bridge that spans the Ravine Road , but his wheels skidded sharply on the asphalt , wet from the evening 's drizzle , and instead of taking the bridge the machine turned . to the right and ripped its way through a flimsy wooden fence . Mr. McCloskey felt the car take the grassy embankment beyond the fence and start rapidly down it . Then he did some swift thinking . He had to think not only for himself and his car but fcit , , his brother and .. sister , who were with . him , and two women whom they had invited for an evening drive . Their alarm was great enough , but his was ' greater , for he knew the lay of the land just at that point and knew that within a few more seconds his machine would I reach the brink of a sheer drop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ un- der the bridge and almost at right angles to the avenue whose slippery pavement - he had just left , was the Ravine Road , leading off into Hoboken . He knew that that road was sunk in a rocky chasm , its Jagged wall practically as precipitous as the walls of a room . He knew , too , that the height of that wall was just about eighty feet . It was very dark there just then and neither ' ne nor any of the frightened members of his party could see clearly ahead of them . But Kr . McCloskey had seen it all a hundred times in broad daylight . The edge of the sharply slanting grassy bank was just ahead of him and protected by no wall or barrier of any sort . The only barrier was that wooden fence along Palisade Avenue and his car had torn its path t'nrough that without wasting a moment 's time . All this flashed into Mr. McCloskey 's mind as swiftly as the thoughts of a dream . He wondered what he could do and in the press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course  --  to put on full speed and see what shooting out into space would do for them . His hands had not left the wheel and they were at the brink . Mr. McCloskey shut his eyes and put on full speed . Out over the precipice  --  the car seemed .. 1 to plunge forward . And then it dropped . Those who had witnessed the start of the accident and had rushed forward to the railing of the bridge heard the screams as those in the car , as , with lights on and seats full , it dropped 80 feet to the road below . They heard the thump of its landing . They wafted tor a brief instant of silence and then exclamations of surprise , mingled with startled , nervous laughter , came up from the Ravine Road . The car had fallen the eighty feet , but it had landed right-side up . The speeding car had shot so far forward that it landed beyond the sidewalk , and beyond even the middle of the road . It had bounded once , and on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ curb . The impact smashed the right front wheel . And that was all that happened to the car . Besides his brother Robert and his sister , Catherine McCloskey , Mr. McCloskey 's other passenger was Miss Roslyn . Kramer of 233 Ralph Avenue , Brooklyn . Mr. McCloskey himself is 20 years old , and the prediction in Jersey City last night was that an enterprising firm would soon be blazoning forth the make of the car that safely took the eighty-foot drop to the Ravine Road : As to the occupants , one of them , Miss Grace Platt of 02 Booream Avenue , Jersey City , bad jumped before the car fell  --  jumped and landed so that she fell on the grassy embankment . She was jarred and bruised , but not so seriously hurt  --  but that she was able to go to her home with the rest of the quaking- , thankful party . Harry McCloskey was . still at the wheel of the car when it landed in the road below . He found ' afterward that a pain in his side came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the blotter in the Jersey City Police Headquarters in these words , with some of the names ' misspelled : " At 8:40 an automobile with a New Jersey license No. 48080 owned and driven by Harry McCloskey , of 53 ProsPbct Street , JerserCity , in which . were four other passengers , Robert MeClos-. key , Catherine McCloskey , of 53 Prospect Street ; Rosalind Kraemer , of 233 - Ralph Avenue , Brooklyn , and Grace Platt , 52 Booreani Avenue . Jersey City . was going - north on Palisade Avenue and when 80 feet south of the Ravine Bridge skidded and broke through the fence , ran down an incline , and dropped seventy-five feet to Ravine Road . Grace Platt injured in the right side , treated by Dr. Mereheimer , of 258 Palisade Avenue , . and taken home in Ms automobile . The:other-passengers escaped injury .. The - front- l- wheela of ? he . tautomo. ? blle were , broken . "                     