@@682290

txt The British Admiralty tonight officially made public the Admiralty orders to armed merchantmen , given Oct. 20 , 1915 . The orders say that the armament of such vessels must be used solely for resisting an attack by an armed vessel and for no other purpose . As British submarines and aircraft are ordered not to approach merchantmen , the orders say , the approach to a British merchantman of a submarine is to be regarded as done with a hostile intention . The official statement reads as follows : In view of the recent issue by the German Government of a memorandum on the treatment of armed merchant ships , the Admiralty has decided to make public the instructions actually governing the actions of British merchant vessels armed for self-defense : Instruction , dated 20th of October , 1915 , in re the status of armed merchant ships : ( 1 ) The right of the crew of a merchant vessel to forcibly resist visit and search and fight in self-defense is well recognized in international law and expressly admitted by the German prize regulations in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when it was known that numerous merchant vessels were being armed for self-defense. ( 2 ) Armament ig supplied solely for the purpose of resisting attack by an armed enemy vessel and must not be used for any other purpose whatsoever . ( 3 ) An armed merchant vessel , therefore , must not in any circumstances interfere with or obstruct the free passage of other merchant vessels or fishing craft , whether these are friendly , neutral , or hostile . ( 4 ) The status of a British armed merchant vessel can not be changed upon the high seas . Rules to be observed in the exercise of the right of self-defense : ( 1 ) The master or officer in command is responsible for opening and ceasing fire . ( 2 ) Participation in armed resistance must be confined to persons acting under the orders of the master or the officer in command . ( 3 ) Before opening fire the British colors must be hoisted . ( 4 ) Fire must not be opened or continued from a vessel which has stopped , hauled down her flag @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5 ) The expression " armament " includes not only cannon , but also rifles and machine guns in cases where these have been supplied . ( 6 ) The ammunition used in rifles and machine guns must conform to Article XXIII. , Hague Convention , 1907 , that is , bullets must be cased in nickel or other hard substance and must not he split or cut in such a way as to cause them to expand or set up on striking a man . The use of explosive bullets is forbidden . Circumstances under which armament should be employed : ? ( 1 ) The armament is supplied for the purpose of defense only . The object of the master should be to avoid action whenever possible . ( 2 ) Experience has shown that hostile supmarines and aircraft have frequently attacked merchant vessels without warning . It is important , therefore , that craft of this description should not be allowed to approach to short range , at which a torpedo or bomb launched without notice would almost . certainly be effective . British and allied submarines and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it may be presumed that any submarine or aircraft which deliberately approaches or pursues a merchant vessel does so with hostile intention . In such cases fire may be opened in self-defense in order to prevent the hostile craft from closing to a range at which resistance to a sudden attack with bomb or torpedo would be impossible . ( 3 ) An armed merchant vessel proceeding to render assistance to the crew of a vessel in distrEss must not seek action with any hostile craft , though if she herself is attacked while doing so fire may be opened in self-defense. ( 4 ) It should be remembered that the flag is no guide to nationality . German submarines and armed merchant vessels have frequently employed the British , Allied or neutral colors to approach undetected . Though , however , the use of disguise and false colors to escape capture is a legitimate ruse de guerre , its adoption by defensively armed merchant ships may easily lead to misconception . Such vessels , therefore , are forbidden to adopt any form of disguise which might cause them to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which are those at present in force , are the latest issued . Successive issues have been made , not by reason of a change in policy  --  the policy throughout has remained unaltered ? but by improvement in wording and greater clearness of expression , to emphasize the purely defensive character of the armament of merchant vessels . It is because of the distorted interpretation given these instructions as a whole and the very forced character of the interpretation given by the German Government to portions which they quote from an earlier issue of the instructions that the Admiralty felt it desirable , with a view to allaying neutral anxiety , to publish these in extenso.                     