@@680960

txt Ogden Mills Reid , publisher of The New York Tribune and son of the late Whitelaw Reid . was motoring toward Ohpir Farm , the Reid country home near this village , at 11 o'clock this morning in company with his brother-in-law , G. C. Rogers , when , as they rounded the top of Anderson Hill , just a short distance from the farm gates , they caught sight of a man who appeared to be backing deliberately into the middle of the road with his back toward them and his hands held above his head . Mr. Reid 's chauffeur tooted his horn sharply , but the man in the road seemed to settle himself all the more firmly directly in the automobile 's path . With a sudden swerve the chauffeur took to the side of the road and shot past , and as he did so Mr. Reid saw that there were two men , and that the face of the second was masked with a bandanna handkerchief , and that he held a revolver in his hand . It was a hold-up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then Mr. Reid realized that the man with his hands up had backed into the road in the hope of bringing the car to a stop and so of surrounding himself with help . Mr. Reid at once directed his chauffeur to slow down , and the car came to a halt some distance beyond the top of the slope where the hold-up had been so boldly staged . " And you know , " Mr , Reid said in an amused way , as he was telling of his adventure later in the day , " I remembered then that I was a Deputy Sheriff of Westchester County , and that I really ought to do something about this . " He proceeded to do something about it forthwith . He and Mr. Rogers jumped from the auto and slipped out of their heavy motoring coats . At this manoeuvre the man with the bandanna handkerchief gave a final flourish with his revolver in their general direction and vanished over the fence . He was out of sight when they reached the scene of the hold-up . The still bewildered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Lawyers Title Company of New York , bound to spend the day with his sa41.  - -  lim- fzugtAs - 11. ; g0n1t1zot.fir or'the bruoster. a dairymTat , ! Ophjr lietrind ? put the muzzle of the rovolverzt04-his stomach es he Wd ff6M1Vhite to the farm . Bowcock had been balking in the hope of help coming when - he heard the chug of the Reid automobile In the distance . Then he palavered as Much as possible , but the revolver muzzle was pressed too menacingly , and just before the Reid car came to a stop the highwayman gained possession or the $10 Bowcock had with him and with it took to his heels . Mr. Reid , still weighed down with his responsibilities as one of Sheriff DoyIe 's deputies , bade the chauffer to drive to White Plains at full speed and fhid a policeman . Then , telling Bowcock to direct all reinforcements from the road , Mr. Reid and Mr. Rogers , although they knew their man was armed and they were not , climbed over the fence and started on the thief hunt . The highwayman was nowhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear in the wet snow , and the two followed this trail . It led them a pretty chase over open fields , through patches of wood , across little ice-bound streams , up hill and down dale . Before long they saw not only the tracks but the man himself . He was just in sight from the top of a ridge , but he must have been all of three-quarters of a mile away . Satisfied at least that they were on the right track , Mr. Reid hurried back to the road and arranged for Bowcock to tell the police in just what direction the thief had gone and just how he might possibly be overtaken by cutting across country . Then he rejoined Mr. Rogers on the ridge . Meanwhile the chauffeur had found that the White Plains police considered this bit of country out of their territory and could not possibly be persuaded to send help . But Sheriff Doyle was notified and with several deputies he hur- ' ried by motor car to join the chase . Leaving the roadside from a different angle he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up with the original pursuing party still following the footprints in the snow . These led eventually to a : little settlement in the ' Silver Lake Park section of the county , and , still clear and unmistakable , straight to a certain house . Furthermore , the Sheriff saw the tracks of the same man made at the time he had set out from that house earlier in the morning , and , pretty well satisfied as to the identity of the highwayman , he settled down to watch the cottage for the man he wanted had not tarried there . Late to-night Sheriff Doyle arrested a man as a suspect and locked him up here . He refused to give the man 's name or to tell anything else about him . There have been several other hold-ups in that very stretch of road near the Ophir Farm within the past three months . N. Y. A. C. ELEVATOR FALLS . Its Secbnd Tumble in Brief Perini Another Fortunate Escape . Several men and women in the elevator of the New York Athletic Club last night suddenly were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fifth floor to the second , where it came to an abrupt stop , amt was caught and wedged in the shaft . When the car door was opened it was found that- no one had suffered severe in ! jury . Some of the passengers were bruised and the dresses of the women were torn . The elevator fell in the same fashion on Dec. 15 . There were fourteen passengers in the car when the cable snapped . On this occasion a serious accident was averted when the car was stopped at the second floor . fire Disturbs Church Service . While services were being held in the Martha Memorial Reformed Church at 419 West Fifty-second , Street last night fire was discovered in the cellar of the ; apartment house next to the church . The fire was extinguished with a trifling loss , but several persons left the church when they heard the- fire- engines . They returned when they found there was no danger .                     