@@679536

txt Mrs. William H , Taft , wife of the President , is ill at the home of her brotherin-law , Henry W. Taft , at 36 West Fortyeighth Street . She is said to be suffering from a recurrence of a nervous disorder which prostrated her two years ago , but according to reports from the sickroom at midnight is in no immediate danger and expects to be able to return to Washington in a few days . Mrs. Taft is under the care of Dr. Evan M. Evans , the family physician of Henry W. Taft . President Taft hastened here from Harrisburg , Penn. , last night . It had been his intention to go direct ? o Washington from Harrisburg , where he spoke yesterday afternoon , but he was unwilling Lo return to the capital without seeing Mrs. Taft again and learning from the physician whether it would be wise for him to leave her bedside . Tanen his arrival here at 10 o'clock last night , however , Mrs. Taft 's condition had improved to such an extent that the President will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remain at the home of her brother-in-law for a few days . Miss Helen Taft is with her mother , having been summoned from Washington by telegraph yesterday morning . The President 's two sons . Robert and Charles Taft , were also notified of their mother 's Illness , but were told not to come here at present . President and Mrs. Taft attended the dinner of the Academy of Political Sciences at the Hotel Astor on Saturday night . Mrs. Taft sat through the dinner at the table of William M. Ivins . At 11 o'clock , after President Taft had finished speaking , he and his wife left the Astor and proceeded at once by automobile to the Henry W. Taft home . Mrs. Taft had shown no signs of illness at the dinner , but had chatted gayly with Mr. and Mrs. , Ivins and their friencs . Shortly after reaching the home of her brother-in-law Mrs. Taft became ill . Dr. Evans . whose office is at 56 East Fiftyfifth Street , was summoned by telephone shortly after midnight , and reached the ' Taft home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trained nurse was atecessary , but informed the President that that he saw no immediate cause of alarm ' in Mrs. Taft 's conditicilt ? She needed rest . and quiet for a few days . It had been Mrs. Taft 's plan to accompany her husband to Harrisburg yesterday morning , and they had planned to go direct from there to Washington last night . But in view of Mrs. Taft 's condition , the President decided to make the trip alone , and to come back here before going to Washington . He left here for Harrisburg at 10:04 o'clock yesterday morning in his private car , the Ideal , accompanied by his secretary , Charles H. Hullos , and his military aid , Major Butt . The first news of Mrs. Taft 's illness came in the form of a news bulletin issued from the President 's private car yesterday afternoon as it passed through Philadelphia . " Mrs. Taft had a ' recurrence this morning of the nervous trouble which she suffered two years ago , " said the bulletin , " but in a less severe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will not return to Washington for three or four days . This has caused a change in . President 's plans for the ' Washington rip , and he will return to New York to-night . Dr. Evan Evans is in attendance . The President probably will return to Washington tomorrow , unless there arc developments that are entirely uniooked for now . " When reporters reached the home of Henry W. Taft they were told that Mrs. Taft was in no danger , and that her condition had improved . " I am in charge of the case and can safely say there is no cause for alarm , " said Dr. Evans . " Mrs , Taft has had a slight recurrence of her nervous trouble . It is nothing serious , and there is absolutely no cause for alarm . " " Mrs. Taft is greatly improved today " said Mr. Taft , " and to-night she is resting easy . We have the utmost faith in Dr. Evans , and he assures us there is no cause for alarm . " This was shortly before President Taft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought it best to nave Miss Helen Taft come here , not because her mother was in any danger , but because a mother always wants her daughter around when indisposed . He ' said that Robert and Charles Taft would not be called here unless a sudden and unexpected turn for the worse occurred in their mother 's condition . Four city detectives were on hand at the Pennsylvania Station at 10 o'clock last night to meet the President and his party . They followed the President in an automobile to the Henry W. Taft house and waited there for half an hour . ? ' Four au'omohiles waited an hour at the Pennsylvania Station for the President 's party . Gen. Alexander of Washington was in one of them . He is an old friend of the President . and they greeted each other warmly . Those who saw the President arrive noticed that his customary smile was gone . He showed the worry that he felt . It was 11:30 o'clock when the President reached his brother 's home . A group of reporters awaited his arrival @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . President Taft went immediately to his wife 's room on one of the upper floors . She was awake when he arrived , and they chatted a moment , and the ' President joined his brothers and his daughter in another room , where a late dinner was served . As midnight approached one of the President 's party came out and read the following statement , which had been prepared at Secretary Hills 's direction : " Mrs. Taft is much improved to-night , after a steady improvement all day . Dr. Evans says that she will be able to return to Washington within a few days . President Taft will return to Washington at 10 o'clock to-morrow morning . Miss Helen Taft will remain with her mother . Secretary Hillis leaves for Washington at midnight . " A nervous attack , Similar to her present one , was suffered by Mrs. Taft on May 17 , 1909 , while she was making an excursion on the Presidential yacht , the Sylph . Mrs. Taft was on her way from Mount Vernon to Washington with ? st Party of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evident . It was said that she was overcome by the ordeal of witnessing an operation on her son Charles at the Eye and Ear Hospital in Washington that morning and by the heat of the afternoon sail down the Potomac River . She was removed from the Presidential yacht and taken back to the White House , where she was ill for a long time . She was obliged to give up all her social engagements for the remainder of the SUM ' III el* . Members of the Taft family say that the present nervous attack is . probably the result of the trying season of ? social events-in ' which- Mrs. Taft took a leading part during the Winter and Spring                     