@@682515

txt Justice HUGHES 'S remarks to the schoolgirls in Washington move our neighbor The Evening Post to the comment that " it is really impossible to write of such a matter seriously . " We are quite of that opinion . The worst of it is that the Progressives at Chicago , in whose minds it is of the utmost importance to create a firm belief in the soundness of Mr. HUGHES 'S views upon preparedness and Americanism , also refuse to take seriously the Justice 's observations about the flag and the country . It is impossible to dissent , none but the most abandoned and false-hearted would dissent , from the declaration that the flag means America first and an undivided allegiance , that it means America united , strong , efficient , and equal to her tasks . But the Progressives are hard to satisfy . They feel that while the speech to the girls may be big enough for a " bid , " it is too small for a declaration of principles . They demand specifications , details , emphasis , gesticulation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inappropriate to the peaceful bread-andbutter occasion which was adorned by the Justice 's placid and unexciting utterance . So these remarks about the flag and undivided allegiance produced in Chicago only the reaction of indifference . The strife continues , rivalries grow more heated , and the two bodies of delegates are still agitated by centrifugal forces . There is visible , however , a common purpose which may in the end become a resolve and lead to a decision . Mr. ROOSEVELT , for some reason , is not an enthusiastic admirer of WOODROW Wtr.soN . Having in view his many public references to the President , it is not straining the process of inference to say that he would like to see him defeated . The Republicans are all inflamed with that desire . Mr. WILSON is a Democrat  --  that is reason enough for them . Both conventions , therefore , have a common ground , the same yearning . The difficulty is to bring them together upon the common ground . It ought to be very easy to prepare a platform satisfactory to both . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There they are of two minds . The prophet who should predict that they will agree in the end would not be condemned for hardihood . There is much declamation in the Progressive ranks . The followers of Mr. ROOSEVELT at Chicago are a prancing and truculent lot . We will take none of your men , they say to the regulars ; take the Colonel or we will put him up and give you a repetition of 1912 . Their very ? vociferousness betrays  - -  -  them . Their outcries and their behavior suggest acceleration and instruction . They are doing what they have been told to do . At least , when they talk of nominating Mr. ROOSEVELT at once as a defiance to the Republican Convention , as a means of forcing that body to take him or invite certain de -- feat by taking anybody else , none but the inobservant will believe that they represent the real purpose and desire of the Colonel : It may safely be assumed that Mr : ROOSEVELT would like to return to his former allegiance ; that he would prefer to see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Wir.soN reelected . It may not be Justice HUGHES , it may ' not be any of the men now most prominently mentioned in the dispatches from the scene of the conflict . But no condition thus far revealed , no declaration of position thus far made , overcomes the very considerable probability that an agreement will be reached as to platform and as to candidate                     