@@680027

txt President Gomez sent a cable dispatch to President Taft early to-day , protesting against American intervention at this time . The Cuban Executive has thereby struck a popular chord , even among the newspapers and politicians , who formerly condemned his every act The latter now declare he has proved himself a patriot of patriots. and some go so far as to assert that it will mean his re-election to the Presidency . Announcement of the message was made at the palace . It was stated that President Gomez had sent a cablegram to President Taft last night , saying he had received a note from the American Minister , which informed him that the United States Government had ordered the dispatch of a gunboat to Nipe Bay and the concentration of a naval force at Key West in anticipation of the possible inability of the Cuban Government to protect the lives and property of American citizens , in which President Taft will disembark in Cuban territory such forces of the United States as will be necessary to protect these . The note adds that these measuree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it does not appear to be otherwise , and with the natural development of the situation once these foreign troops are landed only , this construction can be put Upon it . President Gomez goes on : " It is my duty to advise you that a determination of this sort by the American Government is grave and alarming , and injurious to the sentiment of the Cuban people , so loving and so jealous of their independence . It is especially so when such measures are taken in the light of the previous agreement between - the two Governments , which places Cuba in a position of humilating inferiority by the forgetfulness of her national rights , producing natural discredit at home and abroad . Nor is the action of the American Government justified because neither that nation nor any other in analogous circumstances would have displayed more enterprise than Cuba has done In the extraordinary mobilization and operation of its forces . " This is evident from the fact that in only four days it has gathered more than 3,000 regular forces against the rebels who have risen , sending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by sea . In this short time she has cleaned the island with the exception of one limited eastern district of arnied Parties or bands to such an extent that there are now none who will show their faces either in Pinar del Rio or in this province or in Santa Clara , wherefrom. on the 19th of the present month most of them were driven and disbanded . " Moreover , the invasion is not justified when public spirit has arisen and has distributed for the defense of the farms and towns more than 9,000 rifles , with ammunition , and prepared to inundate with patriotic fighters and soldiers the comparatively small zone to which the rebels have been drawn . It is an astounding fact that up to the present time no sugar mill has suspended its operations . " I appeal to you , therefore , as a loyal friend of Cuba , respectful of her rights , that with serene judgment and elevated spirit you will appreciate the facts which I have presented , being assured that it will compel the conviction that this Government ; a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people to annihilate the few unfortunates , who are fighting without reason and without a flag . " If you will duly appreciate these facts , you will hasten undoubtedly to recognize that it is not a friendly Government which in such a case would proceed so precipitately and unjustifiedly to contribute to the humiliation of a Government and people like those of Cuba , placed as they are in a difficult position , but not too difficult for them to adopt the necessary measures to overcome them in ways that their patriotism and their hearts supply . " All are now convinced that the demonstration by the United States really means intervention . Commenting on the matter to-night , La Prensa said : " The honorable President has done a patriotic and energetic act , which expresses the feeling of all his fellowcitizens The note to the First gisgrate of the United States protesting , i1onthtued. on rage-Oar A with all the vehemence which the place he- occupies permits against the unjustified intervention of the American Nation in our affairs is a document which , if we are not mistaken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Gen. Gomez has demonstrated to President Taft once for all in unmistakable terms that the Cuban people , who were so appreciative and generous , are now tired of living with a kind of Damocles sword suspended overhead . " Gov . Manduley wires from Oriente Province that Capt . Brooks , Commander of the United States naval station . has called on the Mayor of Guantanamo and stated that if desired , he would land United States marlines . The Mayor answered that United States troops were not needed , as the Cuban forces were amply able to protect all the foreigners who applied to the authorities . Gov . Manduley also wired Seiler Sanguilly that Gen. Estenoz , the rebel chief , had given notice that he would burn the sugar mills within seventytwo hours if he was not paid money . The farm of Fernando Cueva , a Spaniard living near Guantanamo , was raided by Estenoz , who demanded $5,000 on pain of destroying the place . The owner compromised by paying $1,000 . The English Vice Consul called on the Governor of the province @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He also notified the English Minister . A fight occurred at the Santa Cecilia sugar mill , near Bayate , yesterday . One negro was killed and several were wounded in the encounter . The Mayor of Alto Songo reports that Gen. Ivonet , the second in command to Gen. Estenoz of the insurgent forces , came out of the hills yesterday and was seen foving toward Ramon de las Yaguas with 1,200 half-armed men , who were taking every precautionl against an engagement . Major Gen. Jesus Rabi , a negro , commanding great influence among his race throughout Oriente Province , has joined the Federals for putting down the Estenoz revolt . It is expected his action will have a beneficial effect . The Mayor of Guantanamo says the rebels are killing negroes who will not join them . President Gomez has refused the cabled offer of aid from 500 American cowboys . He sent this message : " I greatly appreciate your kind offer , . - but I am not lacking in men . Give my thanks to the generous cowboys , telling them that I have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Gen. Rego left Sagua la Grande for the country . It is declared by the secretary to the Governor that he has gone for Pacheco , the chief of the Santa Clara negroes , who desires to surrender . Armenteros , leader of a second band , operating in Santa Clara Province , has notified the Judge at Sagua la Grande that he will surrender if his life is spared . The Judge asked the Secretary of the Government for permission to take charge of the prosiner . Armenteros is probably one of those after whom Gen. Rego went . It is announced positively to-night that Gen. Monteagudo , the Commander in Chief , will leave for Oriente on the cruiser Cuba to-morrow afternoon . He will be accompanied by his entire staff and bodyguard of 100 men . The shipping houses are not giving in to the strikers and Havana firemen have been armed to-night , for fear that the city 's safety may be endangered tomorrow .                     