@@679015

txt August Belmont broke a rib this afternoon when his polo pony tripped and throwing him from the saddle fell on him on the Meadow Brook Polo Grounds . Mr. Belmont was attended by a local surgeon and afterward left in his automobile for his Manhattan home in West Thirty-fourth Street . There ' were no witnesses of Mr. Belmont 's accident except his sons , August and Morgan , Bradley Martin , Hamilton Redden , and W. Lee . Other members of the club were attending a polo match at Great Neck or were at the dog show in Mineola . Mr. Belmont . his eons , and the others had visited the club grounds for a practice match at polo . They had been playing for some time , having made up sides between them when Mr. Belmont made after a long drive from the mallet of one of his opponents . He spurred his polo pony to full speed , and the pony was running in long strides when it overran the ball which rolled between Its forefeet . Mr. Belmont . his mallet raised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blow which he had started before the pony crossed the ball . He swung heavily , the mallet head striking tile ball and sending it bounding back toward his opponent 's goal , although at the . same time the shaft of the club struck the running pony above the hock of his off forefoot . The force of the blow knocked the foot from beneath the pony and it fell heavily to the turf . Mr. Belmont was thrown over the pony 's head as the animal fell , but his feet caught fast in the stirrups , so that instead of being thrown clear he alighted on the turf almost directly beneath the kicking heels . In its fall the pony , too . was thrown off its balance , so that after it struck the ground it rolled over , pinning Mr. Belmont beneath it . His sons and the others , greatly alarmed , spurred toward Mr. Belmont from across the field , but the injured man reassured them by a shout that he was all right if only some one would haul the kicking pony from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon as they reached Mr. Belmont 's side and hauled - the struggling pony to its feet . Then they assisted Mr. Belmont to ' arise . " It 's my side , " he said , " I guess a rib 's broken . " He managed to walk to the clubhouse , where he was made as comfortable as possible , while Dr. John Mann of Westbury was summoned by telephone . The physician made the trip to the clubhouse in his automobile in record time and found Mr. Belmont in considerable pain , but conscious and cheerful . The accident was explained to Dr. Mann , who made an examination . Having been warned over the telephone of the probable nature of Mr. Belmont 's injury , the physician had come prepared , and he proceeded to set the broken rib and to put a plaster cast around the injured side . Mr. Belmont , who was conscious throughout the operation , declared that the cast afforded him much relief , and announced his intention of proceeding to his Manhattan home , although his sons and friends tried to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over night . Mr. Belmont declined to follow this advice , however , and after leaving the hands of the doctor walked out of the clubhouse to his automobile , which was waiting , entered it , and ordered the chauffeur to drive to New York . BRONX TROLLEY BLOCKADE . Broken Cable Ties Up Lines for Two Hours and Hundreds Are Delayed . A broken cable supplying power to the Westchester line of the Union trolley system . tied up that line for two hours yesterday morning from shortly before 6 o'clock . Government dredgers at work in the Bronx River where the cable crosses beneath the water caught It in their dredge and snapped it . With the cutting off of the Dower not only the trolley cars but the drawbridge could not be moved . The latter was open to let the dredgers work , so that presently the Westchester bank of the river was lined with anxious business men and women , who usually ride across the bridge to the Simpson Street station of the Subway . A few men of the neighborhood who owned boats established @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were willing to pay fancy prices were enabled to reach the west side of the river and walk the few blocks to the Subway . Those who Would n't pay had to go back to Westchester Village and then to the West Farms station of the Subway . The dredgers called up the trolley officials on the telephone , and a ' wrecking crew finally managed to catch up the broken ends of the cable and splice it . 