@@682871

txt There is an undercurrent of rumbling in Wall Street not pleasant to note . Nobody should accuse the German embassy at Washington of bringing the war into this country by attack on the credit of the Allies , without the fullest warrant in the evidence . The first German propaganda in this country perished with the 39 American babies on the Lusitania The rutnble that was heard in America as the response to the sinking of the Lusitania caused a hasty retreat in the German lines in this country . The newspapers carefully refrained from noting the number of bruised heads arriving at the hotipitals and the German propagandist disappeared from the street corners . Recently he reappeared in Wall Street and some people were not slow to recognize that the lines of his garb could have been fixed up by none other than a notorious advertiser and stock operator . There are those who declare that Count von Bernstorfrs associates were noted in conjunction with this manipulator notorious for his skill as an attacker of credit . This is almost unbelievable . for Count von Bernstorff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of honor . Indeed , the relations between Germany and the United States at the present time hang upon his declaration in the submarine controversy " Hereafter liners shall not he attacked. ? Coincident with the Wail Street attack upon the credit of the Allies was the onrushing of the Federal Reserve Board . Their action is likely to be so far reaching in our trade relations during and after the war that judgment should not he hastily passed . As some preliminary thereto a careful study might he made of the campaign speechec and declarations of Mr. ' and the Administration before the election that our present prosperity was not due to the war and the present declaration of the Federal Be- , : erre Board quite to the contrary . What is puzzling thouhful men in finance is n-hy the Administration and the Federal Reserve ' Board and Mr. have so suddenly after election found a war prosperity in this country against which they must issue warnings aimed directly for its curtailment. 