@@683088

txt There were strong intimations tonight that recent events had effected a quick change in the War Department 's plans for immediately mustering the remainlog units of the National Guard out of t he Federal service . Whether this change has to do witn tiermany or with the threatened railroad strike is unknown . There are still about 55,000 National Guardsmen in the Federal service , and some of them at least , it now appears , will be held for the time being . Some time ago orders were issued for all National Guard troops on the Mexican border to entrain for their home rendezvous not later than March 21 , It was then expected that they would all be ready for muster out by April 1 . Up to yesterday afternoon no orders had left the War Department changing the previous orders for muster out . But it is known that something has happened since then changing the prospective status of National Guardsmen still on the Federal muster rolls . Since the German situation became more acute , the War Department has been working night and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces up to a high standard of efficiency . The announcement made on Friday , that preliminary mobilization , nstructIons had been sent to the Adlutant Generals of all the States , showed : hat the department was preparing for quick response by the National Guard f developments justified recalling it to : erviee . It is almost physically impossible . however , that any orders in refard to postponing muster-out should save been sent from Washington since levOs was received late this afternoon of he sinking of the three American ships . It was explained here that Commandng Generals of military departments : ould on their own initiative postpone flustering out if emergencies in their lepartments justified . A strike might le such an emergency , It was said . teports have been received that the austering out of National Guard units a New York and North Carolina has cep postponed . Both these States are a the Department of the East , under he command of Major Gen. Leonard Wood , with headquarters at Governors stand , New York . Whatever orders have been issued tore issued secretly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ details . When Secretary of War faker was questioned on the subject tonight he replied that he could not discuss it in any way . Officers of the New York National Guard said last night that they had received no orders instructing them not to muster any more of the guardsmen out of the Federal service . The only units of the New York guard that have not thus far been mustered out are the First Cavalry , which returned from the border last week : the Fourth Field Hospital , and a few men who had charge of equipment , in all , about 1,300 men . It was expected that the First Cavalry would be mustered out within a few days . In the meantime its members are reporting to headquarters daily . The Sixty-ninth and the Twelfth Regiments of infantry , which returned a short time before the First Cavalry , were mustered out about a week ago . Special to The New York Times . ALBANY , March 18 . ? City officials who had been preparing a homecoming celebration for some of the members of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which has just returned to Peekskill from the Mexican border , received word late tonight that the unit was not to come home on Tuesday , as was planned . The city officials were informed that a new order had arrived from Washington an hour or so after the news of the sinking of three American ships , announcing that the mustering out of troops from the Federal service must stop at once . Word that the mustering out of State troops was to be suspended until further notice was telegraphed to Captain Joseph L. Gilbreth , U. S. A. , who was at Peekskill ready to discharge the wagon train from Federal service . RALEIGH , N. C. , ' Starch 18 . ? Orders received at the Adjutant General 's office here today suspended the order for mustering out the Second and Third North Carolina Regiments of the National Guard and Brigade Headquarters and directed that they be held under arms after their arrival . The Third Regiment is on its way to Raleigh , having been sent here from Texas . The Second Regiment has not yet started @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 18 . ? The mustering out of the Second South Carolina infantry , recently returned from the border , now in camp at Styx , S. C. , was halted today on receipt of orders directing the Federal mustering officer to await further instructions . MEMPHIS , Tenn. , March 18 . ? Colonel H. S. Berry , in command of the First Tennessee infantry , which arrived here today from Eagle Pass , Texas , was advised tonight that orders had been issutd suspending the mustering out of National Guardsmen " until further orders . "                     