@@684277

txt As the United States has for many years advocated the exemption of all private property , not contraband of war , from hostile treatment , you are authorized to propose to the conference the principle of extending to strictly private property at sea the immunity of destruction or capture by , belligerent Powers which such property already enjoys on land as worthy of being incorporated in the permanent law of civilized nations . This instruction was repeated at the time of the second Hague Conference , in 1907 . The status of private property at sea was discussed by the conference ; when the vote was ? taken there were tee ? ety-one votes sustaining the American position , eleven were against it , and twelve did not vote . Germany voted with us on condition that there should be a preliminary agreement as to contraband and blockade . Great Britain , France , and Japan , also Russia , voted nay . The subject is one of great complexity , since it necessarily involves correlative questions of blockade and contraband . When Great ' BritaiU established @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States , in its famous note of March 30 , 1015 ? while admitting the established right of blockading specified ports , protested against a blockade distant from the inhibited coast and so maintained as to bar access to many neutral ports and coasts , ' and subjecting " all neutral " Ships seeking to approach them to " the same suspicion that would at " tech to them were they bound for " the ports " of an enemy of the blockading Power . The doctrine of " continuous voyage " is also - involved .. In our civil war we seized many ships , principally British , as to which a suspicion or proof existed of intention to supply goods to the Southern States , then blockaded by us . We intercepted these cargoes even when they were consigned to a neutral port , as the island of Nassau or the Mexican port of Matamoros , when et was evident that the real - destination was a port of the Southern United States . The doctrine then laid down by our courts was that if an intention to run @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seizure ; if any ' part of the cargo was contraband " Every nation is free to travel to " every other nation and to trade with " it , " said GROTIUS . Under this broad principle of international law the seas beyond the three-mile limit are open on equal terms to ships of every nation . But this rule is of unlimited application only in time of peace ; . in time of war belligerents have certain recognized rights of interference with trade , such as blockade , visit and earch , and seizure of contraband , and it is over the scope of these rights that differences have arisen between nations concerning the freedom of the seas . That expression , as Mr. WILSON used it in the second of his fourteen points , has nothing to do with the use of the seas in peace ; it relates only to the defining of the rights , re  --  pectively , of belligerents and neutrals in time of war . It is in many ways fortunate that the allied Governments have noted their inability to accept , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the freedom of the seas , " and that they have reserved to themselves " complete freedom on " this subject when they enter the " peace conference . " It is fortunate because the subject has long been controverted . The principles involved should be made clear , should be discussed until they are agreed to by all nations , to- the end that they may become a part of the universally accepted body of international law . The reservation now made by the allied Powers ought to lead to that happy conclusion . The American doctrine of freedom of the seas , briefly stated , is that private property , not contraband of war , should be exempt from seizure by any belligerent at sea as it is exempt on land . The instructions drawn up by Secretary JOHN HAT " for the American delegates to the first Hague Conference , held in 1890 , clearly stated the American doctrine : that part was subject to seizure Whe : it was clear that , though destined to neutral port , the ultimate . destinatioi was within the blockaded territory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spirit which ha tended to restrict belligerent rights ti acts undoubtedly essential to th prosecution of the war , . while safe guarding and continuallyextendini neutral rights , in order that by pro hibiting so far as possible interference with commerce of the seas the loss am calamity of the war may . be confine ( to belligerents . The tendency is ti restrict within the narrowest limit the right to molest neutrals .. Thi exigencies of this tremendous wax have caused the nations engage ( against German ? ' to be little regardfu of encroachments on freedom of seat Which in the case of a minor conflicl would- have encountered protest . What Germany means ley freedom of till seas , of which she has talked so much , is the right to replenish her stores be unrestricted trade with all nations during the war , her object being to secure the denunciation of British blockade at illegal and not to be endured . Great Britain , as a nation of frequent wars , holds views somewhat at variance with the ' Amesican doctrine , which has its origin in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the interests of this nation are almost continuously those of a neutral . it is to be hoped that the differences in. respect to Mr. WILSON 'S second point , which are by no means irreconcilable , will be removed by frank interchange of views before the assembling of the peace conference , in order that the delegates of the Allies , when they meet the German delegates , will be found to be altogether in agreement .                     