@@680028

txt The " Airship Ride " proved one of the most popular amusement devices in Steeplechase Park , Coney Island , last night , for it is erected outside of the pavilion " ' andclose to the beach , where the freshest breezes from off the water sweep over the boatlike cars , suspended from long steel arms like the spokes of a wheel , and sent flying around like the governor on an engine when an electric motor causes the steel axle , rising perpendicularly from the ground for some twenty feet , to revolve rapidly . There was scarcely a trip when the half dozen cars did not each hold its quota of half a dozen persons . The care were flying round and round at a swift pace shortly after 10 o'clock , their occupants shouting and the women screaming in pleasurable nervousness , when the cars , forced outward further and further by the speed at which they traveled , swung at such an angle that nothing but the speed retained the passengers in their seats . The speed had been increased to about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power would have been reduced slowly and the flying cars , zoing more and more slowly , would have settled inward until they hung directly beneath the supporting arms when the machinery stopped . There came a metallic crack , however , just before the slowing down commenced , and one of the light steel cables by which the cars are suspended to the arm of the big wheel overhead snapped in two . The end of one car , which it had supported , dropped abruptly toward the ground , and its five passengers , shrieking with fright , were tumbled headlong out of it to crash down upon the ground fifteen feet below with all the force of such a fall increased by the sudden cessation of the speed at which they had been swung through the air . The five in-jured persons are : CONNELLY , Mrs. MAUD , 832 Monroe Street , Hoboken , N. J. ; severe bruises and cute . CONNELLY , MICHAEL , her husband ; left shoulder broken . LEVINE , CHARLES , 571 De ICalb Avenue ; stunned and bruised . PRICE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bruised and cut . ROHLFIND , Miss MINNIE , 36 Bowers street . Jersey City , N. J. ; bruised and cut and left leg-broken . The occupants of the other cars were terrified by the accident . Women fainted and men had all they could do to keep them from toppling out of the cars , which now Were slowed down rapidly . The fallen ends of the ear whose cable broke swung round and round ' only a few feet above the ground , a flying menace to the crowds which first rushed forward to pick up the injured , and then drew back in panic as the broken car , swinging around again , threatened to mow them down . Mounted Sergeant Klinck and Mounted Policeman Body of the Coney Island Station were in Surf Avenue in front of the park , and some one rushed out to them with news of the accident . They hurried into the park and found the great crowd which had filled the pavilion thronging out through the grounds to crowd around the " Airship Ride , " the cars of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were assisted from these . The injured persons , several of whom had been knocked unconscious , were carried into a building , and there Dr. Rubin and Dr. Overend , from the Coney Island Hospital , and Dr. Charles Hail of 2,113 Mermaid Avenue , attended them . Meantime the crowd became so pressing that the reserves were called from the station , and every one was driven back from the open space around the broken ride and the building where the injured had been taken . After their wounds had been dressed it was found that all were able to go to their homes except Miss Rohlfind , who was taken to the hospital . Connelly , his shoulders in splints and ' bandages , insisted on accompanying his wife to their home . NEMO CUTS IN CROWD . Stabs Two Men Who Do n't Move Quickly Enough  --  Caught After Chase Steeplecnase nark , at Coney Island , was thronged with pleasure seekers shortly after 6 o'clock last evening , and many of them were crowded about the " Bumpthe-Bumps , " down which Men and girls were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bottom of the slide were laughing heartily at their antics , when some one callea out , loud above the din : " Look out ! He 's got a knife ) " Then through the closely packed crowd a young negro in the uniform of a park porter pushed and shoved his way . His face was distorted with fright and anger , and in his hand he brandished a knife with a long blade . Women and children screamed at sight of him and fell back to give him room as he rushed along coward the park entrance . Men seemed so taken by surprise that before they were prepared to act the negro , now running , had passed them by . All the way to the gates the park was well filled with people , and through this throng the negro darted . The cries of frightened women and children filled the big pavilion , but above them all rose the cry of a man whom the negro had slashed with his knife when he failed to make room for the rushing fugitive . Presently there resounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blade into another man . He was near tbe gates by this timf4a and so rapid had been his rusn from the " Bump-the-Bumps " that he was through the gates and safely on his way toward Surf Avenue before any of the attendants at the entrances realized what had happened in the park . Back in the course over which the negro had rushed there was intense excitement . The men he had wounded ? John Lipton of 41 Melrose Street and Walter B. Wilson of 2,038 West Ninth Street , Coney Island  --  were being attended by park employes and persons in the crowd . Others in the crowd who had seen the start of the negro 's flight were telling excitedly how they had seen him fast enter into argument with four young men , and how then a fight had started , in which the negro was pummeled several times before he crew his knife and bolted , The four young men could not be found anywhere . Lipton was assisted to the Coney Island police stationhere Dr. Overend C came from the Coney Island Hospital and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not badly hurt enough to be taken to the hospital . Wilson was carried in a cab to the office of Dr. Philip I. Nash of Coney Island . The physician found that he was stabbed in the right side and back , and decided that the knife blade in one instance ' might have punctured the lung . Dr. Nash said that the young man 's condition was serious , but he insitsed on being taken home , and was conveyed there in a carriage . Detectives Busby and Wyman set out to find the negro . located him about three hours after the trouble and locked him up .                     