@@681704

txt Five-year-old Thomas Santarano shrieked with delight yesterday afternoon when a fawning , friendly mongrel strolled through the open door of the tenement at 932 Liberty Avenue , Brooklyn , into the back yard where Thomas was playing with his seven-year-old cousin , Angelina Santarano , and munching cake which his mother had tossed to the children from her kitchen window , three stories above . Thomas had been pushing his cousin 's toy white poodle up and down the sloping cellar door , but when he saw a real live dog . he turned his attention to the animal immediately . The mongrel received it joyfully , and the dog and the little chap rolled about the yard and wrestled together , while Angelina clasped her woolly poodle in her arms to keep it safe from the newcomer and looked on . Presently Thomas , wearied of the sport , espied the end of a rope dangling from the fire escape above the cellar door . He climbed up till he reached it , dragged it down till there was enough to throw , and then tossed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delighted with the new game , and back and forth jerked the dog and boy , each trying to drag the rope from the other . Angelina was as interested as Thomas in the game , but she did not understand the danger when the rope looped itself about the boy 's neck . The little dog jerked away persistently at its end , and Thomas 's contortions as the tightening noose strangled him jerked his end , so that the dog tugged all the harder . The little boy was almost senseless and his struggles had almost ceased before his small cousin realized that something was wrong . Then she set up a scream , but when her cries finally brought Mrs. Santarano and other women from the house into the yard little Thomas lay still . The little dog , its tongue handing out as it panted , rested on its haunches , still mouthing its end of the rope , one eye cocked against a sudden move by its adversary . The mother tore away the rope , grabbed up her boy , and ran shrieking to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and prayed that his life might be saved . The druggist called Dr. Kinnaird from the Bradford Street Hospital , but the surgeon said the little boy was already dead of strangulation . Then Mrs. Santarano collapsed , and Dr. Kinnaird had to carry her home . SATCHEL WIRELESS FOR QUICK WAR USE Eight-Pound Device Tested by Army Men Sends Message Twenty-one Miles . A wireless telegraph instrument weighing eight pounds , that can be carried in a hand satchel and operated from an automobile , was tried out on Bedloe 's Island yesterday before officers of the Signal Corps . It is the invention of Dr. Otto F. Reinhold of Newark . The instrument , connected with the antennae of the wireless station on the island , sent a message which was received at Fort Hancock , twenty-one miles away . Without the use of antennae it sent messages which were received plainly at 300 feet . It could be used without antennae , according to an officer at the trial , to send messages 1,000 feet or more , which might make it extremely valuable for trench warfare . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secret . The mechanism is inclosed in a case measuring 5 by 8 by 14 inches . Master Signal Electrician M. B. Dilley , who watched the tests , said it undoubtedly could be operated with the electricity from an automobile battery , as the owner said it , could , and that it would . be ready for use wherever a live wire could be tapped . Dr. Reinhold has a receiving device built on the same scale as the sending instrument , but he did not take it to Bellow 's Island yesterday . It will be tried later . After Dr. Reinhold had sent an inquiry by his instrument yesterday to Fort Hancock as to whether the fort had heard his call , the reply was sent to the permanent station on Bedioe 's island . The operator at Fort Hanco , : k said he had read Dr. Reinhold 's message easily . It was intended yesterday to use the invention ' in an attempt to send a message about 120 miles to Fort H. G. Wright at New London , Conn .. but that was prevented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yard . According to the inventor , the instrument is capable of sending messages 300 miles and can be used with either direct or alternating current . Its military value is- that it may be carried anywhere by hand and can be operated on short notice wherever any form of electricity is available . For sending messages long distances antennae , according to Master Signal Electrician Dilley , could be strung from balloons . Others present at the tests ' yesterday were Capt . Alfred T. Clifton , commanding the Signal Corps on Bedlow 's Island ; First Lieutenant J. G. Taylor , . a wireless expert ; who supervised the . tests : Operator -- Harrington , and George 10. ; elkiner and N. -H                     