@@683985

txt While the Board of Expert Tax Reviewers is known to have made reports to the Treasury Department embodying its recommendations for legislation to get the most possible revenue out of real war profits without visiting injustice on business whose normal profits have been reduced by the war , no intimation of the nature of the recommendations has become public , except by inferenc : through Secretary 's suggestions . It is known that some members of the Board favor , as Mr. does , the successful English system of establishing a normal pre-war average profit , as far as it . is humanly possible , and exacting a tax of 60c7 , - to 80%. on profits that exceed such pre-war earnings . Congressman Hull , chairman of the Board and easily the best'informed authority on tax questions in Congress , is a warm advocate of this system . On the other hand , Professor T : . S. - Adams , also a tax authority of wide experience and-a member of the Board , seems to have gravitated toward adherence to the methods of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the-Western Economic Association in Chicago a year ago . Professor Adams said that the choice of a basis for the excess tax was largely a question of administrative expediency . " And , " he added , " to that question , in this country , filled with corporations whose capital accounts mean nothing , there is only one answer : Avoid the capital basis whenever by human ingenuity it is possible to do so . " Continuing he said : " The American law of March 3. 1917 , and House Bill 4280 are characterized by the following fundamental defects : They base the tax upon the original investment and recognize neither appreciation nor depreciation , neither the building up nor the extinction of intangible assets . Consider this a moment There are hundreds of important corporations which have no true record of actual cash paid in . For these we should be forced either to construct an exceedingly expensive and difficult financial history or else turn to guesswork , in which the corporations with the largest volume of water would do the tallest guessing and get the highest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greatly depreciated-and here the-Government enormous revenues . Still others have built up intangible assets , such as trademarks and goodwill . If such a corporation had happened to pass through a reorganization in which a ' cash consideration ' figured in some way , the tangible asset would he recognized ; otherwise not Here a fortuitous detail of procedure , the occurrence of a conversion or sale , might make all the difference between a heavy tax and no taa . " Nothing so discredits good taxes and so demoralizes good taxpayers as inconsistencies of this kind , the unlike // EXCESS ' PROFITS ' TAX . ? AS SOLVES IT -. - ( ContinztectiArmit First Page ) ? . . treatmen.1 of . like - situations , the turning of the.tax upon inconsequential details , the-failure to recognize controlling facts , the willingness to recognize meaningless ? " The preceditt. defects maybe remedied by employing an income rather than a capital basis . " SEEMING CHANGE OF VIEWS In December Prof. Adams seemingly reversed his position before the American Economic Association in Philadelphia and left the impression that he favored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He said : " The first American excess-profits tax ( of March 3 , 1917 ) was a moderate , flat tax on the income of corporations and partnerships in excess of 2% upon actual capital invested ; it was later changed by the Senate Finance Committee to a tax on war profits ; and finally after protracted discussion was changed back to a highly graduated tax on the ' supernormal ' . income of individuals , partnerships . and corporations . The excess-profits tax in its present form represents a conscious and deliberate victory of the excess profits principle over the war-profits principle . WHY CONGRESS CHANGED ATTITUDE " The conviction that carried the day for the excessprofits principle was the knowledge that , adventitiously , some industries ( c. g. , the automobile industry ) were exceptionally prosperous just before the war , while some other industries ( e. g. , the textile and lumber industries ) were in an abnormally depressed condition during the ' pre-war period . ' Congress apparently saw no reason why the industry which was exceptionally prosperous just before the war should on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pre-war prosperity can establish no just ground for exemption during the war . " This was the principal judgment registered by the adoption of the war excess-profits tax of Oct. 3 , 1917 . Congress decided to lay special tax on ' super-normal ' income , whether the taxpayer chanced to have made exceptionally high or exceptionally low profits during the three years 1911-13 . At the same time Congress decided is measure normal income as a part or percentage of invested capital and not as an average of past profits . The latter decision I regard as of secondary importance . lit the future it is not improbable that we shall employ past earnings as the chief determinant of invested capital . In essence there is little difference between an income and a capital basis . But there is a vast difference between a war-profits and a super-normal income tax . " One important aspect of this : difference has to do with the possible permanence of the tax . If we measure . the excess to be taxed as the difference between income during the war and the income @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The basis would be likely to disappear with the war which created it . But if we succeed in determining what is the normal income ( either as a percentage of the invested capital or in any other way ) and lay the tax upon the net income in excess of that normal return , we have a tax that may permanently endure . It represents . as it were . the share of the state in the ' supernormal ' success of every business enterprise . It measures roughly the value of the facilities . opportunities and environment provided by the community . " MeADOO CUTS GORDIAN KNOT " Apparently , in view of the extreme need for more revenue , Secretary has solved the problem by accepting Professor Adams ' views " both before and after " . The Secretary asserts that the present excess tax law should be amended to remove inequalities , presumably including those so forcefully set forth by Professor Adams in his June speech . but he proposes also to take advantage of the good revenue producing features of the present law , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Therefore tie suggests : " That a real war-profits tax at a high rate be levied upon all war profits . This tax should be super-imposed upon the existing excess profits tax in such a way that the taxpayer should be required to pay which ever tax is the greater . The existing excess , profits tax should ; . e amended in certain important particulars so as to remove inequalities . " AR GUM ENT FOR REAL WAR TAX The argument for a real war profits tax , patterned after the English system , is set forth convincingly by the Secretary , who says : " The existing excess profits tax does not always reach war profits . The rates of excess profits taxation are graduated , and the maximum is 60Te . In Great Britain there is a fiat rate of SO% on all war profits . The Government departments , under great pres. sure , as they are , to get necessary war materials and supplies with the utmost expedition , can not , in the nature of things , fix their prices nor guard their contracts in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The one sure way is to tax away the excessive profits when they have been realized . I do not say this in ' a spirit of criticism of the corporations or business men of the country who have for the most part loyally sup ' ported the Governments In entering into war contracts they take grave risks . They are callecl upon to make vast expenditures of capital for purposes which may prove unproductive after the war . They are not to be blamed in these circumstances for asking for prices ancrterms which cover these risks . " On the other hand , when ? the risk has been liquidated by proper allowances and the contract has proved profitable , the Government should take back in taxes al profits above a reasonable reward . Under existing law that does not happen because the tax rates are not high enough and can not safely be made high enough , since the test now is not how much of the profits are due to the war , i but what relation the profits bear to the capital invested . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Of course no one objects to reasonable profits ; on the contrary every one should want and , I am sure , does want enterprise to be rewarded with reasonable or even , liberal profits . Prosperity should be preserved and can be preserved , I believe , on the basis of reasonable profits , The problem of statesmanship is to establish a just relation between necessary taxation and the earning power of the nation . "                     