@@679977

txt By all means , and at whatever sacrifice of squeamish notions of delicacy , the correspondence and facts which Congressman GARDNER says are so damaging to Col. ROOSEVELT should be made public . In the campaign that preceded the Illinois primaries Mr. Boon . VELT by hint and insinuation , and in every way short of making a direct charge , sought to make the voters of Illinois believe that President TAFT was opposed to the unseating of Senator LORTSIER , that he was In sympathy and alliance with Lopvwua . That belief , so far as he implanted it , was naturally of the greatest assistance to Mr. ROOSEVELT in that State . But Mr. GARDNER says that the Colonel well knew that Mr. TArr , so far from having any sympathy with Idontarsa , was opposed to him and desired his unseating , and that the evidence of the Colonel 's knowledge of the facts is contained in correspondence between him and President TArs : The correspondence should be made public . The flagrant indecency of Mr. Rooseveur 's misrepresentations of the President must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. GARDNER further asserts that he has " seen original correspondence " in which Mr. ROosEVELT advised President Tarr to be friendly with Speaker CANNON , to make use of him , and to " tie up " with him . The Progressive supporters of the Colonel are entitled to see that correspondence . It would show them how great a change has come over the spirit of their leader . It would give them the full measure of his sincerity and an insight into his motives . Mr. GARDNER charges that Mr. Rooseveer , while President , suppressed the report of the Commissioner of Corporations on the Harvester Trust , and that certain papers given out by the Department of Justice in that case were suppressed . All , this ought to come out . If all the stories that are told about Mr. Roosevevr are true , he is about the most vulnerable man now in publics life . The trouble is that , save in a few instances , like that of the Harriman correspondence , persons in possession of the documents and the facts have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feel that they ought to produce proofs that would implicate an ex-President of the United States . The time has gone by for that . This ex-President of the United States is behaving in a way that makes it a duty to give full publicity to idie facts that will inform the people . We judge from Mr. GAensien 's letter , and from some hints that have been dropped as to the nature of the speeches the President himself will make in Massachusetts , that foolish scruples are . now-to be , 144 aside and new elements of interest and liveliness are to be injected into the campaign . We are not sure that such revelations will materially affect the primaries to be held in Massachusetts on April 30 . The men who are supporting Mr. RoosEvntir in his present adventure would , for the most part , support him anyway , no matter what was said or proved against him . In that respect the direct primary is very different from a popular election . On election day everybody votes who is registered ; at the primaries nobody votes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men are very much more likely to be enrolled than the Taft men . The Colonel , of course , knew that , and that accounts for his insistent demand for Presidential preference primaries . In this city the Union League Club was unanimously in opposition to the Colonel ; It would be interesting to know how many of the members were enrolled . The active workers always enroll , and the active workers'in politics are precisely of the kind that would be found under the Roosevelt banner . In Illinois Mr. TA.FT'El vote in 1908 was 629,929 . At the primaries held two weeks ago there were only about 875,000 Republican votes cast . That was a high proportion . Ordinarily , something less than 50 per cent . of the election day vote is cast on primary day . The Colonel 's friends would say , of course , that it is the voice of the common people , the real people , that is heard at the primary . Well . we imagine that the nnenrolled voters are not all bad men , not all men who would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the money power to be administered . The issues of an election bring substantially the whole people to the polls . The primary brings less than half of them , and that half is largely of the practical politician kind . Obviously , if the primary method of nominating is to be followed , there must be a readjustment of party habit . It may be , unquestionably it is , a nuisance to have to go to the polls three or four times a year Instead of once . But to abandon primaries to the agitators and the political workers would in a short time give us a Government , not of the people , but only of the demagogues and the politicians . That part of the electorate which calls itself the more intelligent must do its duty or it will have to take the consequences                     