@@680124

txt Sam Schepps. who has been called the paymaster of the murder crew who killed Herman Rosenthal , was arrested last night in Hot Springs , Ark . It is not believed that there will be any difficulty in bringing Schepps to this city , as it is understood that he has been in communication with friends here , and realizes that his best hope is to win the favor of District Attorney Whitman by returning at once and telling what he knows . Schepps has figured prominently in the iuvestigation of Rosenthal 's death . rode in the gray murder car in the hours before the slayers met Rosenthal outside the Hotel Metropole , and it Was he who distributea among them the ten one-hundred-dollar bills which " Bridgey " Webber , at the Instigation of Lieut . Becker , gave to Jack Rose to enable the gunmen to get out of town . Jacob Reich , or Jack Sullivan , as he prefers to be called , the close personal friend of Lieut . Charles Becker , gave way yesterday under the strain to which De @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flerman Rosenthal. and especially since his transfer to the West Side Prison , enters Jack Rose , " Bridges " Webber , and Harry Vallon are quartered , and let it be known to Assistant District Attorney James E. Smith that he was ready and willing to tell District Attorney Whitman everything he knew in connection with the death of Rosenthal and the graft situation . Until yesterday Sullivan bad steadfastly proclaimed his innocence , and by Inferepee , therefore , the innocence of his friend and patron . lAeut . Becker , of any guilty knowledge of the slaying of Rosenthal . Their ride uptown in the touring car which Becker used as his own had been as guiltless as might have been a. trip to Long Beach . That the car stopped st " Bridgey " Webber 's less than halt an hour before the shooting , and that Sullivan alighted there at a time when the gunmen were gathered in the poker rooms over the cigar store  --  these things until yesterday were merely coincidences . Seeker and Sullivan , whatever the others might have known , knew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merest chance which took them into the neighhood . To what extent Sullivan will amend this story now can not be predicted . He contented himself yesterday with notifying Mr. Smith that he was prepared to confess , and offered apparently as surety for the revelation which he is to make to Mr. Whitman on Monday the one bit of testimony that the meeting between Becker , Rose . ' Webber , and himself In front of the Murra.y Hill Baths shortly after the murder actually took place as Rose confessed . What Sullivan wants is some assurance of clemency from Mr. Whitman , some pledge that immunity such as Jack Rose now enjoys shall be his in return for his testimony . Just how much Immunity la Jack Roses , and how he came to acquire it became known for the first time yesterday . Hon Rose Got Immunity . It can be stated now that James M. Sullivan , counsel for Rose , was able to enter Into a stipulation with Mr. Whitman , a stipulation which afterward was submitted to and received the approval of the Grand Jury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the fullest and most complete sort should be granted to Rose provided his testimony resulted in the actual indictment of sonic one , and provided further that it be not shown that'he had fired any of the shots which struck Rosenthal . Both- these conditions have been fulfilled . Lieut . Becker was Indicted by the Grand Jury as a result of the confession made by Rose to that body , and so far there has been no suggestion that Rose had a hand In the actual firing . Rose to-day , therefore , may be said to be as much a free man as is the District Attorney himself . That he is still behind bars is largely at his . own desire . It Is known that Rose wants nothing less than - to be liberated before the last trial which may result from the graft and murder inquiry shall have been ended . Rose very frankly admits that he fears ? .. for his life . He has little or no money , ? tint when the time comes funds will be : Sorthcoming to place him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on some steamer leaving this port for parts now unre-vealed , there to begin life over again . . lust where the funds necessary for this are to come from has not been indicated ? by those who assert their confidence that fuck ' sums will be provided . It is believed , however , that there are several civic organizations which have become sufficiently interested in bringing about a complete investigation of the murder ' and graft Cases-to make them willing to support Rose financially in return for the revelations which he has made . May Expose Pollee Grafters . That Sullivan will receive any such Immunity as that which has been won by Rose is not believed by those in the con-fidence of the District Attorney . Whatever he may have to tell scarcely can be of equal importance to Rose 's revelations , : Ind probably will do little more titan substantiate the statements of the gambler . Some hope is entertained , however , that Sullivan may he able to throw very ? aluaide light on the manner in which . graft has been collected by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Whitman is in pos ! - ession of positive information that Sullivan acted as a collector ; for whom has never been made public , though from . facts in the possession of the District Attorney 's office the inference is that Sulli-en acted for Lieut . Becker in the same .. apaciiy as Rose , the latter attending to The graft which came from gambling houses and the former receiving payment tor the protection of disorderly resorts . - The District Attorney also has the antes of two men who acted as collectors for two Inspectors of Police . These men are being kept under constant Surveillance , and will be taken to Mr. Whitman 's office whenever it is felt that the Hine is ripe to listen to their confessions . %Mem- is no doubt whatever in the minds of those who are conducting the special investigation into the collection and distribution of graft that these men will confess just as soon as they are asked to , lo so . It is expected that the day will come in the not distant future when there will be a rush of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they know 0 ; 3eut graft . Tracing . Beeker 's Bank Accounts . Assistant District Attorney James E. Smith is in charge of the investigation iD10 the hank accounts which Lieut . Decker and others of the Police Department may possess , and it became known yesterday that his inquiries had disclosed the existence of deposits in the name of either Becker or his wife in six banks in this city . In these six banks d. posits of Sn.7%,4 Mb ) have been made Avithin the last eight months , and there remain four banks which Mr. Smith has not as yet investigated . His investigations have disclosed also the fact that two Police Inspectors have deposits of ; ; T : , , tHin in banks in this city . So far Sir . Smith has got no trace of any accounts in out-of-town banks , and he does not believe that any are in existence . Air . Smith has issued subpoenas for the officials of three ? banks in which Becker or his wile had accounts , and they Will appear before the Grand Jury on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Manhattan , another in Harlem , and a third in the Bronx . Two of them : . re savings banks , where the limit of deposits is ** The other is a trust company . in which an account of S1.3,1.1110 has been found credited to Becker . In connection with the bank accounts of Becker and his wife THE Totes discovered yesterday that on the afternoon of Tuesday , July 30 , the day following tieeker 's arrest , Mrs. Becker visited the F:mpire City Savings Bank , in 125th Street . and withdrew an account of 5 ? ' . S which had been held there jointly in the name of her husband and herself . Airs . Becker tucked the cash in a black satchel. in which there was much more money . and hurried away . She was accompanied by a man who was recognized as a police officer in citizen 's clothes .                     