@@679293

txt The police of Jersey City have another strike on their hands , and although it will not be twenty-four hours old until to-day , it already has given them almost more trouble than did the whole express drivers ' strike . The oldest striker is not more than 15 years old , and all told they number fewer than seventy-five , for there were defections from their ranks when the bell rang for the afternoon session in School 21 in Twelfth Street . Those who still remain out , however , declare that never will they return until they are transferred to School 32 , a fine new building in Coles Street , or receive the benefits of a three-hour day in return for learning their lessons in one of the older schools . Yesterday the strikers kept most of the Pupils and many of the teachers in a state of panic from the time school let out until a squad of police arrived and dispersed the rioters . They threw bricks at the school windows and beat all of the boys who had gone back to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They even attacked the policemen , doing it , however , with stones and from a respectable distance , but it was nearly nightfall before the more timid of the non-striking youngsters were able to scud out of the side door of the school and slip away home . School 32 , the new building that extends along Coles Street , all the way from Seventh to Eighth Street , is at the bottom of the whole trouble . Until it began to rise , story by story , to its completion , as one of the largest schools in the whole State , no care more serious filled the heads of the small inmates of School 21 , than how to avoid learning lessons without paying the penalty of hours of detention in the class rooms after school was dismissed . But as the new school became nearer and nearer ready for occupancy every school boy in the neighborhood began to hope that he would be transferred to this palace , which has a swimming pool and a gymnasium . It also has a library , and although they had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the basis of special complaint yesterday that , by exclusion from the new building , they would be deprived of this ' obvious advantage to a school boy . There were visions of new desks. new books . a probable relaxation , cf discipline , at least in the first few days of the new schoo ; , . si , d loot a boy of old No. 21 but was looking forward ' to the change to No. 112 . And then the blow fell yesterday . It was announced when school opened that the grammar departments of old 21 would be abolished at the close of the session and the pupils transferred  --  every boy present hung on Principal W. Allan Messter 's words  --  to School 4 in Eighth Street . ' seven blocks away . Only a few of them could be gent to the new school , Mr. Messter explained , and none better than the present strikers knew by this token that they would not be among the elect . Felix Seneke ? who is about 14 years old , took the matter to heart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , un like them , he was not daunted . Quietly during recess he whispered first to one and then a.no'raer of the daring crew he had chosen . When the bell rang for the afternoon session , Felix and his followers . who numbered full seventy-five , drew with blue chalk on the sidewalk outside the schoolhouse door , " No. 21 is on strike for a new building or a three-hour day . " Felix explained that a three-hour day was no more than fair , since School 4 was seven blocks further from their homes than is 21 , while the disappointment of not being sent to the new school required some compensation . Then along came Mr. Messter . He read the ultimatum and passed on into the school , where he learned the ? story from teachers there . Then he returned to the street and sternly ordered the strikers to come back to school . " Nix on that ! " was the shouted and gleeful reply . Finally Mr. Messter went inside again . followed by one or two whose nerve had failed them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him and those who had capitulated resounded cries of " Scab ! " But it was when school was dismissed at 3 o'clock that Felix and his followers Caused the most disturbance . No sooner had the first faithful pupil started from the school doorway than strikers appeared to spring from the very cracks in the pavement . They made for the unfortunate and in a moment he was on his back on the pavement beneath a dozen pummeling , kicking boys . Only the appearance of other ' hordes from the school saved his life . Into the newcomers lit the angered strikers . The air was full of sticks and stones , and in despair Principal Messter telephoned for the police . The squad that responded to this call for help was . met with a shower of bricks and other missiles . Their helmets were knocked off an dtheir shins bruised , and they pursued one tormentor only to have a dozen more fall on them from behind . Policeman Kelly managed . at last to capture fifteen-year-old George Monaco of 234 Erie Street , and later Justice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city prison for one day . But Monaco was the only victim . The other strikers beleaguered the school until they wearied of it and then went to their homes vowing that Monday mi , rning should find them still on strike unless they were sent to 32 or got a three-hour day . Principal Messter worked far Into the night last night preparing a list of names of the strikers for the guidance of the truant officers , who will look them up on Monday . Chief of Police Monahan has promised to have a squad of men on hand at the opening of the school . But with seventy-five boys to deal with they do not know . where to expect the next blow .                     