@@682705

txt The campaign which Charles E : Hughes has been conducting came to a temporary halt today while the nominee rested , pending the outcome of the State election in Maine tomorrow . After three days devoted to speeches in the Pine Tree State , Mr. Hughes left behind hint a situation which is puzzling the politicians . The Republican leaders are predicting victory , but there is evident in the manner ' of the Old Guard leaders , both in Maine and in this State , a lack of the assurance which marked their attitude immediateiy after the National Convention in June . They expect to win in Maine , but they are not ready to offer the odds they would have given then . And they are all ready to discount the importance of the Maine election if it goes against them . There has been a lull in the Republic'an campaign in Maine since the departure of Colonel Roosevelt after his Lewiston speech . Mr. Hughes was well received , and faced big meetings , but as a whole his addresses were not of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his outspoken utterances in attacking the Wilson Administration and the hyphenates . Sonic of the Old Guard were frankly disappointed . , - Mr. Hughes , while vociferous in his remarks about the passage of the Adamson Eight-Hour bill and the shipping legislation , issues which some of the leaders wished he had sidetracked for Americanism and the tariff while in Maine on the eve of the State election , did not match Roosevelt in the deter ' mination and bitterness of his assaults upon Wilson and his remarks about Americanism and the German-Amerleans . Whereas Roosevelt called President Wilson by his name and heaped ridicule and vituperation on the President and his advisers . Mr. Hughes referred to them as " our friends on the other side " ' and emphasized the fact that it was a friendly discussion of the issues and that he liked to have it considered such . In a way these forms of attack represented the two extremes , and the politicians , with little time for a canvass , were wondering how the people would be affected in sizing up Hughes . Want a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the political leaders feel , the result in Maine may have a vital effect upon the national campaign . A Democratic victory , or even a Republican victory by a very narrow margin , with possibly the defeat of Colonel Hale , the Republican nominee for the long term as Senator , may open the way for a pretty thorough reorganization of methods . On the other hand , It may be more difficult for those who believe in such a reorganization , which would carry with it a direct and unqualified attack upon President Wilson said his Administration , to bring it about if Maine should go Republican by a large plurality , and by so doing lend strong indorsement to the methods adopted by Mr. Hughes . There is an unquestioned feeling among some of the Old Guard leaders in New England that a reorganization of methods is important if the Republicans are to hope for success In the nation , especially if the result in Maine is not satisfactory . For one thing they feel that the campaign has been mismanaged sadly and that Mr. Hughes has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in States that were either surely Republican or surely Democratic and also to get into situations which have not aided his fight . In a nutshell , the feeling is that Mr. Hughes has had full opportunity to run his campaign as he has seen fit and that in the face of results he should listen to reason . This , of course , is the opinion of the Old Guard , which has had its toes stepped on by the nominee . On the other hand some of the Progressive Party leaders have expressed much the , same opinion . One of these leaders sat 8 that to his mind the Campaign slumped after the first week or ten days , because Mr. Hughes had " gone hunting armed with birdshot , when he should have taken buckshot in his ammunition bag . " Criticise Management . The criticism of the Old Guard element is directed as largely at the management of the campaign ? in which the Old Guard has taken no leading part ? as at the utterances of Mr. Hughes and his method of handling the assault @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waste of time to send Mr. Hughes to Tennessee and Kentucky , which States they believe will go Democratic , and that in the other States included In the Western swing too much time was given to sure Republican strongholds and not enough to doubtful territory . They are of the belief also that talk of efficient government , economy and the businesslike management of the country 's affairs is all well enough , but hardly the type of utterance to stir the people to revolt against Mr. Wilspn , who is conceded to be strongly intrenched because of the progressive legislation which he has put through Congress . They liked the Roosevelt address in Lewiston and cited it today as an example of the right kind of speech . They would like Mr. Hughes to take much the same line in attacking President Wilson and to drop the talk about friendly discussion . There is talk heard here of prospective powwows In New York if things do n't go right in Maine , and some of the Old Guard leaders want action anyway . They want Mr. Hughes to centre @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Illinois , Missouri , awl possibly Iowa and Wisconsin , which they feel will determine the result of the election . They want a management which will not permit Mr. Hughes to waste drub , which will urge him on to more out#poken. utterancea. sad which will prevent him from getting into more entangling situations such as he found himself enmeshed in during his visit to California . Eight-Hour Talk Unfortunate . Mr. Hughes is taking the situation complacently , and seems supremely confident of victory in Maine . He has heard much of the complaints which have been enumerated , and then he has steered his course as he saw fit . He struck out in Maine at the passage of the Eight-Hour Day bill and the shipping legislation because he felt that he had chosen the right course . Most of the leaders feel that in the end his stand on the eight-hour day legislation will reap a reward , but they are worried about its effect in Maine . The impression has got out among many of the voters there , they feel , that Mr. Hughes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make it plain in his later addresses that such is not the case . Mr. Hughes had a few visitors today . Among them was W. Murray Crane , the dominant figure among , the Old Guard leaders in this section . atitinnei ; who'had a prominent part in obtaininetb , enornination of Mr. Hughes . Despite the situation , which some of the leaders feel is critical . Mr. Crane had only fifteen minutes this afternoon with the nominee , who then wc-nt for am automobile ride with Mrs. Hughes . Mr , Crane said that he had not discussed politics with Mr. Hughes . Later it was learned from a friend of Mr. Crane 's that he had urged Mr. Hughes to make it evident that he favored an eight-hour day for labor as a general proposition , if he continued to oppose the Adamson legislation . Other visitors to Mr. Hughes were W. Cameron Forbes . head of the Hughes Natiorfal Alliance , and President Lowell of Harvard University . mc . Hughes left here at 11:15 o'clock tonight for Syracuse , where he will attend the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will go to Plattsburg and then to Bridgehampton for a few days of rest . it was learned today that Mr. Hughes would go to Saratoga on Sept. 20 to be prt.sent . at the unofficial convention of the Republican Party and deliver an address which may be used as the keynote of the State campaign . 