@@680818

txt Elbert H. Gary , in an address at the semiannual meeting of the American Iron &; Steel institute , of which he Is president , commenting on the fact that confidence has been shaken and capital is becoming frightened because of unreasonable and uncalled for agitation and attack , declared that nevertheless the country , while hesitating , is eager to do business . He said that never before were the conditions which promote the material welfare of the people so favorable as they are at present , and prophesied that in view of the disposition of leading statesmen of all parties to bring about and maintain industrial peace and progress , the country is approaching the dawn of the greatest prosperity . The address was as follows : " The association of business men under the auspices of such an institution as this , based and maintained on the high order of intelligence and of regard for each other which governed the motives of these most active at inception , can not he otherwise than most agreeable and directly beneficial to all of us , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other . We are kinder and more liberal towards our employee . We treat our customers better . We do something for ourselves because we do something for others . We ' have been potential in placing the whole iron and steel iodise ? try on a higher plane . We have learned from each other much that has been profitable to us in the practical management and direction of our business affairs . " Your president has heretofore , on many occasions , referred to questions of morals and ethics and patriotism as being of the greatest Importance , and has endeavored to apply the principles to the conduct of our daily efforts . We all agree that , in our daily walk and conversation , we should recognise the necessity of upright , honest , fair and loyal treatment towards every one affected by our decisions . There is no intention of departing from or " Without stopping to make computation , it will readily be seen that the number of miles is very much larger in our country than in the other countries in proportion to the population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considering the commercial strength of a nation . " As to the production of wealth in 1912 , this country produced in agricultural products alone 49,299,000,000 , of which at least 80% was in crops . The other 20% , it is estimated , was fed to animals on the farms . In minerals it produced in value $1,918,226,253- " While the figures relating to other countries have not been secured it is universally recognised that the United States is far in the lead in the production of corn , wheat , oats , tobacco , petroleum , pig iron , steel and copper ; and the location of the United States in a temperate sone , together with the richness of its soil , insures an everincreasing production of crops on the average ; and they are the real basis for expecting the greatest material growth and progress . " Another fact worthy of mention is that the balance of trade between this country and all other countries for the fiscal year ending June 30th amounted to $553,000,000 In our favor . " As ? result of our great wealth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better supplied with the necessities of life than those of any other country . There I are exceptions depending upon local causes , but generally I speaking the people are better fed , clothed and housed ; and what is all important , the wages received by the laborer in comparison with the MR of living are far in excess of them of other countries . It is for this , reason that immigrants from all parts of the world are coming in by the thousands . " Again , the basis of transacting business has been much improved during the last few years . In passing , it must be admitted there has heretofore been , some ground for complaint . This was not local nor did it apply to any particular class or classes . But at present capital is more considerate of labor and vice versa . Business men are more frank and fair and honest than formerly in their dealings with each other . Men in power are more thoughtful in their treatment of those who are more or less dependent . Those holding positions of trust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their beneficteries and are giving them more information and better protection . The rich are more liberal and more charitable and the poor are more grateful for what they receive . In short , the relations among all are becoming closer and better understood . " We have been passing through a period of transition . The subject is too large to admit of detailed reference at this time , but it is sufacient to say the business world has adjusted or is adjusting itself to new and changed conditions resulting from the great wealth and progress of the country . " Now , in view of the great advantages presented to our people , why is it that business prosperity is frequently and seriously interrupted ! The peoples of other nations are asking this question ; especially those who hive money for investment . There are exceptional cases in which mismanagement has caused distrust or dissatisfaction on the part of foreign and domestic capitalists ; but this is not the principal reason for hesitancy at the present time on the part of these capitalists in making investments ht our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great and growing wealth and resources and our superior advantages we are not more continuously prosperous ; why we are not more stable in prices and values and in general.conditions ; why there is ever any disposition on the part of anyone to interfere with the normal and natural progress in the development of our country and its industries . Every one who travels extensively abroad is confronted with these inquiries by foreigners friendly to and interested in our commercial and financial conditions and success ; and we assembled in this room are asking ourselves the same questions . " I venture the assertion that it is largely because of much unnecessary agitation and ill-considered criticism by those who have not the nation 's best interests at heart . There is too much demagogy , too much mud-slinging . The man out of office criticizes the one in office , and the one in office in turn seeks to advance his own interests regardless of the effect upon all others . In many public speeches and in magazine articles the author is influenced by motives of selfishness or cupidity . Appeals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dissatisfaction and unrest when this is unnecessary and Unjustified . Fortunately , this is partially offset by the conservative attitude of sons of the leading journals ; and the number is increasing . " It is not uncommon in public discussions to treat success as an offense ; to consider the possession of wealth , however honestly acquired , as wrong . Legislation calculated to create classes is urged persistently ; also laws to impose unnecessary and unreasonable burdens ; to forcibly take from one something which he has and is entitled to have , and turn it over to another ; to prevent or to lessen the success of ' legitimate enterprise and endeavor . " Capital , always timid , has been seriously affected by this unreasonable and uncalled-for agitation and attack . Indeed , it is becoming frightened . Confidence has been shaken . It is becoming almost impossible to secure , on fair terms , on good security and at a reasonable rate of interest , the necessary capital to equip or liberally maintain going and successful properties , to any nothing of the additions and extensions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The stability of business , which is essential to its proper and reasonable growth and success , has been an . terfered with . Our great and growing population can use our products ; it needs Seed and clothes and material to build ; and it is willing and anxious to buy them . It is in need of railroads and ships with the best equipment to carry these products from one point to another , and it is willing to pay fair rates for the service . Laborers are willing to work at a reasonable wage , and employers are anxious to furnish work and to pay liberal compensa. tin . The carrying companies are desirous of providing necessary facilities for adequate transportation . Producers in all departments of industry wish to satisfy the demands for their products at fair prices , and to that end they would mpke the necessary increases in capseite ,                     