@@679806

txt The audience assembled in Carnegie Hall last night listened to a clear statement by Mr. ANDREW D. WHITE of the issue involved in our dispute with Russia over her treatment of American passports . Mr. WHITE made it very plain that when the Emperor NICHOLAS L , on the part of Russia , and JAMES BUCHANAN , the American Minister , negotiated the present treaty in 1832 , neither of the negotiators could , or would , have put his name to an instrument violating the laws of his country . This is certainly true of Mr. BucHANAN , whatever may be said about the power of the Russian autocrat to make hie laws fit the treaty . The Constitution and the laws of Mr. BUCHANAN 'S country forbade him to sign a treaty that would admit of a construction which Russia has chosen to put upon the compact of 1832 . If the treaty did and does admit of a construction which would permit Russia to say that she will honor certain American passports and refuse to honor others , then Mr. ** had no authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the treatymaking power at Washington was in violation of the supreme law of our land . All this is the same as saying that if the Russian contention be admissible , then we have no treaty with her , since the treaty of 1882 was void from the beginning . It is surprising that Mr. WIIrTIO should consider such a question as this a proper matter to be referred for arbitration to The Hague tribunal . He told his audience last night that there are two ways of settling this dispute . One is to abrogate the treaty , the other is to arbitrate the difference . He believes that a resort to arbitration should be the first step , and that abrogation should be the second . Thus he admits that the question would not be settled by arbitration unless the decision were in our favor .. That is a singular view of the theory of arbitration . Yet this is the view Mr. WHITE holds , for he said : /f after trying arbitration it shall be found useless , then let us denounce and abrogate the treaty . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that all Americans worthy of the name would prefer this to the continuance of a treaty which involves American dishonor. - We have already expressed the conviction that arbitration of this question is for us an impossibility . To go to The Hague with it would be to submit our National dignity and honor , our sovereign rights , and the integrity of our institutions and our laws , to the decision of a court . That we can not do . For another reason , we could not in good faith enter a court of arbitration to argue the questions involved and ask the tribunal for a decision , being all the time in our own minds determined and fully intending to repudiate the finding and resort to other measures if the court decided against us . Arbitration implies an antecedent agreement to abide by the decision , and the agreement commonly defines the scope of the reference and the rules or principles to be applied . This is the universal practice , it is the view entertained by text writers . HALL , in his treaties on international law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a true tribunal , authorized to render a decision obligatory to the parties with reference to the issues presented before it . " An arbitral decision may be disregarded when the tribunal has exceeded its powers , when it has openly denied justice , or If the award proves to have been obtained by fraud or oormotion , or if It is equivocal in its Inns:rage . But to assume that we could honorably refer this passport question to The Hague tribunal , being resolved , as we must be resolved , to repudiate the finding on the sole ground that It was adverse to our case , is , it seems to us , an astonishing position to take . There may be collateral issues which would be fit matter for arbitration . The main question , the single question , whether Russia must keep her treaty agreement to recognize American passports without discrimination , is not arbitrable . Arbirable questions , however , might arise out of Russia 's treatment of Americans who had entered ! her territory bearing our passports . The accepted principle of international law is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which are not violative of the international code and practice . No nation has a right to supervise the municipal laws or regulations of another nation , or to insist that its nationals shall be exempted from the operation of such laws after they have voluntarily placed themselves within the jurisdiction . A ' nation has exclusive jurisdiction within its own territory . It has complete control of all foreigners therein , save of those who , like Ambassadors , enjoy special immunities . The reasonableness of Russia 's treatment of Americans sojourning in her dominions or the question whether her regulations were equitably or inequitably applied . to Americans , might , therefore , become a subject for arbitration . But these , matters are not of the substance of the passport question ; they are , as we have said , only eollateraL The right of Russia to refuse her consular vise to American passports when she has I by treaty declared that our citizens shall be at liberty to sojourn and reside in her territory , is not a question as to which we invite anybody 's decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Americans , she may abrogate the treaty , and withhold from all Americans the right of entry . But we can not permit her to admit some and exclude others on such grounds as she , now asserts for that discrimination . The resolutions adopted by the meeting show that ex-Ambassador WHITE ! failed to convince his audience . Nothing whatever Is said about arbitration in the resolutions ; they recommend as the first step what Mr. Ts would adopt as the second , and urge upon Congress action looking to the abrogation of the treaty .                     