@@684043

txt One of the suggestive facts in connection with the opening of the Seventh Avenue subway from Times Square to the Battery was the total lack of any sentimental feeling for the effect which that long-awaited civic improvement will assuredly have upon the few remaining evidences pf old times in Greenwich Village . Quick transit for a large and rapidly growing commercial section of the west side below Twenty-third Street has been so urgently needed for years that the day . of its realization brought no regrets for any of the inevitable results of transformation . The effects , indeed , have been apparent for some time , for while the new subway , running through the heart of Greenwich Village , is the greatest municipal work ever carried out in that interesting locality , another work of perhaps more importance to the physical character ' of the neighborhood is the Seventh Avenue extension , cut through from Eleventh Street to Carmine Street , joining at that point Varick Street , which has been widened to a 100-foot thoroughfare to its termination at the junction of Leonard Street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the subway plans rendered absolutely necessary , as the railroad tunnel is beneath the roadway for its entire length , gives Manhattan a new north and south avenue of ample width for heavy truck use , a most valuable acquisition for the long-haul transportation needs of the city . The average New Yorker scarcely appreciates the radical changes which this splendid new avenue , almost.midway between the North River docks and Broadway , has already caused in a historic portion of the town , which , unfortunately , is still associated in the minds of too many persons as a paradise of artists , genial bohemianism , and small streets with an irritating tendency to turn off at most unexpected angles . The last named is the only one of undeniable truth . There are , let It be said , many quaint survivals of simple home days in old Greenwich . and in the history of our metropolis its traditions will always command respebt and honor . Such evidences of conviviality as characterize the limited purlieus associated in the public mind as Greenwich Village have nothing in common with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have passed . When Trinity Corporation began , over ten years ago , to demolish the little houses and tenements which had stood for generations , wisely sensing the dawn of a grqat commercial growth , a new era opened for the neighborhood . The big warehouses and industrial plants on Hudson , Christopher , Dominick , Vandam , and other streets bear witness to the reign of trade . With these new conditions came the natural demand for efficient transportation facilities , and that is the chief reason why Greenwich Village is now connected by subway with the lower and far upper parts of the city and has one of the broadest and best north and south thoroughfares on the island . A contract to pave Varick Street was recently awarded by the Borough President , the cost representing over V25,000 , being the largest individual new paving operation planned by Ale city under the $2,000,000 appropriation for Manhattan streets this year. , This new pavement is expected to be completed before the end of the year . Those old New Yorkers who delight to revisit the scenes of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and bred in the celebrated Ninth Ward  --  swill be repaid by a journey to the old village , and standing , say , at the Christopher Street and . Sheridan Square subway station , look north and south along the line of Manhattan 's newest business thoroughfare . The ruins of many houses , razed to make straight the line from Seventh Avenue at Eleventh Street to Varick Street , just back of the well-kept Hudson Park , may be seen in varying stages of demolition , with other indications of the tremendous upheaval experienced by a large part of old Greenwich to conform to twentieth century requirements . A few months later it will be impossible to see certain sections of the place with such sharp contrasts as is possible today . The lover of old New York , endowed with sentiment graced with common sense , will find much to enjoy and . recall to memory by a subway trip to Greenwich , emerging into ' the village at Christopher Street . Many of the old streets recall interesting traditions , and may the worthy names , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the most eminent is that of General VARICK , Revolutionary officer and many times Mayor of New York in the days when Greenwich was just beginning to be a village .                     