@@679052

txt INSURGENTS CLAIM CREDIT . Murdock Says Anti-Cannonism Made ' Action of Congress Possible . - I WASHINGTON , June ** insurgents in the House of -Representatives were responsible for much of the important legislation passed during the session , of Congress just closed , according to Representative Murdock of Kansas . one of the leaders of the insurgent band . The Railroad Rate bill and the rest of the vital legislation passed were ? ? effective and responsive to the public will , " he declared to-night , " just in proportion as the Speaker 's power was broken , his lieutenants overborne , and his machine scattered . " Mr. Murdock 's declaration to-day was in reply to that made by Speaker Cannon last night just before Congress adjourned , in which the Speaker said that " the changes of rules have contributed to the pleasure and perhaps the power of some individuals in the House , but the current of legislation itself has moved on as usual , with little disturbance on account of a few new methods , and with little advantage therefrom . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Speaker Cannon took pains to say that the constructive legislation of this Congress was the best in thirty years . He thi not acknowledge . as he should , that it was the activity of those so-called insurgents in the House which touched all the major measures passed with a vitality that similar legislation has not had for years . " The constructive legislation passed at this session has been reponsive to the popular desire . and the reason for it is that the manaclesthave been falling from the members of the Hot se . " The tendency there since last December has been toward free government . Tyranny in committees , brutal cloture in the House . arrogance in the Chair have been under constant fire . The tendency has been toward free government in the House . Legislation has become more and more the work of the whole membership , serving the whole Nation , and less and less the work of a political ring serving Its own selfish purposes . It was the challenge to Cannon and Cannonism that made the legislation what it is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ PANIC AT A PICTURE SHOW . Woman Falls In Convulsions When an Indian Whoops and Will Die . " The Forest Ranger " was on last night at the Regal Theatre , 2,028 Third Avenue , a moving-picture house . " The forest Ranger " was described as a " big Western drama , " and " Big Chief Rosa , head of the Apaches , " had been employed to accompany the pictures with war whoops , dances , and bow-and-arrow work . At 9:30 o'clock , after the " Big Chief ' had given three or four blood-curdling whoops , the pictures meanwhile showing li white men being scalped wholesale by Indians , a woman in the third row gave a shriek and fell to the floor , dropping ; her ** baby boy , who rolled I -- 1 around on the floor , screaming at the top of his voice . Through the dark house the word spread somehow that something terrible had happened , and in a few minutes the entire audience had stampeded for the doors . When the lights were turned on the woman was found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The baby was crawling around on the floor , with two big lumps on his head , but satisfied . IEgLefTdanarTg'n ; v1g1 ) tilaied wcoorAeanins , purse to identify her . She and the baby were removed to the Harlem Hospital , where . the surgeons said she would die . At midnight she was still in convulsions. mined and overthrown . The devil is foreclosing a mortgage on our country . " The clergyman said he thought marriage should be the outcome of judgment as wed as of romance , " for love can not i harmonize incompatibilities , expand narrow minds , overcome physical disabilities , or bake bread , any more than the relater 's between husband and wife can be wisely and happily affected by love without judgment . " To drink , ' ? he continued , " the devil of strength which drags men from home , the ruin of many families is attributed , and in the pale face in the kitchen and the hungry little mouths about the hearth stone the ravages of the evil can be traced . " As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uniform legislation is proposed , so that it will not be possible to step across the line from one State into another , and upon a few weeks ' residence in a city already made infamous by the countenance it gives to prizefighting , evade legislation against the divorce cobra which is encircling our National life and injecting its poison into our institutions . " Marriage must be regarded in its true light of a divine institution , not created by man or otherwise . If it become a civil Institution man may dissolve the relations with his wife just as with a servant or his cook . " Latest Shipping News . Arrived  --  Steamship Arabic , Liverpool , June 13 ; nineteen miles east Vire Isl-. : a and Lightship at 12:55 , 4. - M .. Steamship . AtiuCetta , Port- Antonio ; June 20.                     