@@680625

txt After deliberating seven and threequarters hours the jury in the case of ex-Sergt . Peter J. Duffy , indicted for bribery , returned a verdict of guilty as charged in the indictment at 1:30 o'clock this morning . At 10:55 o'clock the jury asked to have read to them the entire testimony of Julius Roth , the gambler who admitted paying Duffy $30-a month , as well as the testimony of William D. Harris , the negro waiter in Roth 's estab ' lishment , who had testified that he had seen Duffy come to Roth 's place on two loccasions . The jury also wanted re-read that part of Justice Seabury 's charge concerning the ruling on theaccomPlices . Justice Seabury had ruled that Roth and Patrolman Fox were accomIplices , and that all the other witnesses produced by the State , including three gamblers who had admitted paying money to Duffy , were non-accomplices . The re-reading of the testimony of Roth and Harris left no doubt that the two main props in the State 's case were caught in a mesh of discrepancies as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roth 's place . In the first trial these two witnesses told practically the same story , but in this trial . it was the I changed testimony of the gambler Roth that accounted for the discrepancies . After the reading of the direct testimony of Roth and Harris , Justice Seabury explained the relationship of the testimony of Wilkins , Quackenbush , and Lennon , in reference to corroboration of the testimony of Roth and Harris : He went into the matter very carefully , and at 12:45 this morning the jurors returned to the jury room to continue their deliberations . Justice Seabury remained in his chambers . On cross-examination by Assistant District Attorney Nott , Duffy made one startling admission . He said he had " seen trouble coming " when he heard of the confession of Patrolman Fox on Feb. 3 . Mr. Nott tried to draw out that this expectancy of trouble had some relation to the " accidental loss " by Duffy of his memorandum books . These books disappeared from Duffy 's locker on Feb. 3 , two days after Fox 's confession . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noon recess . He made much of the discrepancies in the testimony of Roth and Harris . Assistant District Attorney Nott , in summing up for the State , lamented the difficulty in which the State found itself in the Prosecution of graft cases . " The District Attorney has a hard row to hoe , " he said . " If a gambler is Put on trial with policemen as witnesses they say you ca n't believe the police , and if a policeman is put on trial with a gambler against him they say you ca n't believe a gambler . If such conditions persist It will be as easy for gamblers to gamble and for the police to graft as it will be to sell matches . " Justice Seabury 's charge was an hour and a half long . At the morning session Duffy testified in his own defense . He told practically the same story he told at his first trial . This story , on direct examination , consisted solely of denials of the charges . It was just 4:45 P. M. when the jury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had left the courtroom and a court attendant forced her to sit down . As she did so her husband turned toward her , but Mrs. Duffy turned her head away and left the courtroom in tears . She was met in the corridor by her seventeen-year-old son . Her two daughters , who had heard most of the State 's case on Tuesday , were not present . SHIP RACES BACK AFIRE . Standard Oiler Sioux Wirelessed from Barnegat for Help . Anxiety was caused in shipping circles at 6 o'clock last night by a wireless dispatch sent by the Southern Pacific Railroad steamship Comus , bound for New Orleans and off Barnegat , saying that the Standard Oil tank steamer Sioux was on fire and had sent out an " S. 0 . S. " signal for assistance . The message added thjat the Sioux was heading back to port at full speed and had left Earnegat at 5.30 P. M. On receipt of the report that the steamship was on fire and heading toward Scotland Lightship Chief John Kenlon ordered the fireboat New Yorker to leave the Battery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Sioux and render assistance . Atmospheric conditions were so baa last night that it was very difficult to get any message through after the dispatch was received from the Comus , and all kinds of rumors were circulated from the wireless stations regarding the burning steamship and her condition . One report said that the Sioux was burning up and her crew would have to leave her , as there was no hope of getting the blaze , which it was said was among some bales of cotton in the forwarp hold , under control . A later report received about 8:30 said that she was laden with refined oil from Bayonne- to Tuxpan , Mexico , and was then in sight off the Scotland Lightship . This caused the departure of two powerful wrecking tugs to the scene , and another tug chartered by the New York newspapers . Word finally came at 10:13 P. N. that relieved the anxiety that had been felt for the oil steamer . It came from the Captain of the United Fruit steamship Santa Marta , due to-day from Colon . and reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fire was under control , and that she was in no further need of assistance . The Sioux is a German steamer of about 6,000 gross tonnage , in charge of Capt . Lotze , and went to sea at 10:30 o'clock yesterday for Tuxpan . She is a sister ship to the tank steamer Mohawk , on which the explosion took place last Friday off Tompkinsville , resultingin the death of five men and a fire which damaged the engines and hold to the extent of several thousand dollars . Capt . Davison of the steamship Santa Marta , which arrived in Quarantine at midnight , said . that he received the message from the Sioux at .6:20 o'clock , when she was forty-five miles south of the Scotland Lightship , stating that the fire was under control , and . the vessel was proceeding on her way                     