@@681171

txt Hope of a peaceful settlement of the brick makers ' strike has been abandoned . The brick council yesterday refused to ratify the agreement made by the arbitration committee . The 150,000. building trades workingmen , who bays been Idle for eleven week : ) , will not return to work with the sanction of the briekmakora ' canton . When this news was given to William Schtake , representing the manufacturers , a meeting of the employers was hastily called . , They will assemble today to consider a " lockout - of the unions and the employ-mg of " strike breakers . " The action of the brick makers ' council is expected to cause a city-wlde labor war . The new break in the negotiations was caused by the brick council 's refusal to concede one clause In the agreement . The clause pertained to the discharge of men . The brick makers insisted the manufacturers had no right to discharge employes without the consent of the union . The manufacturers declared the demands of the union unreasonable . All Arbitration Fails . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee was appointed . Arbitration committees from both sides held joint sessions with the council committee . It was agreed the men were to be given an increase of 5 cents an hour on condition that an objectionable discharge clause be modified . The labor committee modified the clause to the satisfaction of all members of the various committees . The agreement was drawn up and signed and sent to the " high " council of union men . The " high " council of brickmakers turned down the contract which had been made by their committee . They declared the employers " would have to agree to everything or nothing , " As the situation now stands all mediation plans are ended . The manufacturers say they will make no further attempts to " pacify " the labor leaders and say they are willing to carry the fight as far as the unions " desire . " May Hire Nonunion Men . At a meeting in Mr. Schlake 's office today it Is predicted plans will be made to employ only nonunion men . According to Mr. Schlake , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have made every effort to bring about a peaceful adjustment . " We have haggled along with the union men for eleven weeks , " he said . " We were willing to give careful consideration to all their grievances . We agreed to many of their demands which seemed to us unreasonable . The men are not satisfied with a more than fair agreement and we can not afford to ruin our business by a longer delay . We will have : to act immediately . " General Tieup Threatened . The situation will cause a crisis in the building operations throughout the city and county . If the manufacturers hire nonunion labor , other trades probably will refuse to work on buildings , causing a general tieup In the construction held . More than ** worth of building enterprises have beer , held up during the strike . Although only 2,800 brickmakers are concerned , more than 150,000 worlters In other trades are automatically thrown out of employment . Shculd the manufacturers hire " strike breakers " probably 600.000 union men will be forced to quit work . Following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special council committee made plans to hold a meeting in an attempt to delay the " lockout " order . Steps will he taken to ask the Building Construction Employers ' association to take a hand in the matter . Engineers Plan Strike Vote . Other labor disputes also hare reached crises . Negotiations between the managers of ninety-two western railroads and the representatives of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and Firemen and the Brotherhood of Railway Trainmen which have been carried on for three months In Chicago , are OW ' an en4.                     