@@682292

txt Accounts that reach Paris from Bar-le-Duc . Chalons , and other Junction points to which most of the Verdun wounded have been taken , make It clear that the French soldiers have retained complete confidence ; despite , the extraordinary fury i of theMTnbarifrilerit  --  Vihla ? all agree far surpassed anything ever known before on this Irons . An auxiliary surgeon , who has just returned from Sar-te-Duc , says : It is a pity that a neutral observer is not able to compare our wounded with the German prisoners , taken after the Champagne bombardment . Even when unhurt , the latter were utterly dazed . The majority could not speak coherently , but just managed to babblel words of terror or relief at their escape . " Ours naturally feel the shock , but ' show it rather in excitement or fever than in lowered morale . Their eyes show that each is eager to describe his part in what all declare a victory . Fully two-thirds express regret at ' having to leave before we finished off the Boches . ' All are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with one of a batch of ' , German prisoners , all Prussians , young and well equipped . They had come from Serbia after six weeks ' rest . They were very different from the confident group I saw after the Marne . They looked thoroughly beaten . One youth I interrogated talked French well . He said to me : " We were told that this was the last battle of the war , that the French were tired and had no cannon . So we were literally stupefied when your cannonade replied , fully as effective as ours . My regiment attacked south of Beaumont We lost quite half of our men in the first discharge of the French guns . The rest retired speedily . ' We In the front were glad to crawl to your trenches . We have escaped from I hell . ' " A Young Soldier 's Story . One youngster of the class of 1914 , who has a broken arm , is quoted as giving this vivid account of the early fighting : " They told us the Boches had 400 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can well believe it , but they have lost more than a third of the former at least " As for the cannonade , it was a regular deluge . Our trenches were demolished as if they had been deliberately turned upside down by a giant hand . After six hours of that there was nothing left to defend , so we retired to the support trenches near Anglomont We had to crawl , and , what with shell holes , corpses , and barbed wire , it was no trip in a sleeping car . " Then the enemy began to advance . They looked like a big gray carpet being unrolled over the country . Our guns had the range exactly , but the gaps filled up as by magic . " We opened fire at 200 yards . I guess there were few misses at that close , but we might as well have been firing peas . They never even hesitated . " Then our mitraillenses got going . That was different . Whole rows of the enemy toppled over like corn under the scythe . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ died just like sheep , almost without resist ' ance . " I never believed the stories that the Boches were drugged before their attacks , but that lot were certainly queer , and the few prisoners we took neither spoke nor moved , but lay on the ground as if numbed . " We held that same position for three days . The worst time was when the enemy tried a flame attack with jets of gasoline . Not wanting to be roasted , we charged , and that time we took no prisoners . Directly we reached them it was finished . They could not fight , carrying all that ironmongery , so we stuck them like pigs . " They tried gas , too , but the wind was not steady and the gas covered them as much as us . We looked like a carnival crowd , with those swinesnouted masks . Then my arm was hit , so I was forced to go . " An officer , wounded in a counterattack yesterday morning , is also quoted 1 by the surgeons as saying that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times before the Germans finally abandoned the attempt to xenew contact with the Brandenburgers in the fort , who are now reduced to 8,130 ' 0 2,000 men . He said the Germans had ceased to make serried mass assaults since Monday morning , the clearest proof of their unsupportable losses . Three sappers had a remarkable expenitence while connecting up a mine in the Vauche Wood with an electric battery further south . They were buried in the mine gallery by a shell , and waited hours until the mine ex- ' ploded . Then they dug their way out through the mine crater . One of them despaired during the work of digging , but the others realized that they were near the surface by the blood percolating through the subsoil . Finally they emerged , cutting their way through the debris , hundreds of Germans filling the hollow . 