@@684324

txt FRIENDS OF AMERICA . British Statesmen Who Have Not Had Recognition Here . To the Editor of The New York Times : It la a matter of profound gratitude to us all who love Great Britain that the people of this country are beginning to appreciate not only her unmatched and unmatchable naval contribution to the victorious conclusion of the war , but also her achievements as a civilizing power on this earth . Traveled as I have on all the continents , I regard Britain as the most potent force that maketh for righteousness and civilization in this world . I find , however , that old prejudices still exist in this country against Great Britain .. Your school histories inculcate in young minds false ideas abdut Great Britain . They tell the children all about George III . and Lord North , but nothing , or very little , about Edmund Burke , Fox , and Chatham . The people of this country are keenly interested in missionary work , but do you think that noble World-work would be accomplished but for the protection by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I have not so far come across a single statue of Burke , Bright , or Bryce , while that honor has been accorded to some of the worst exponents oI " Kultur . " . Burke thundered in the House of Commons in defense of the colonies ; Bright was firm for the Union once and forever ; Bryce made known to the world the imperishable Constitution of America as no other man has ever done or will ever do , and yet nothing is done to remind the rising generation of the people of America the services these friends of America rendered to this country . Let New York take the lead and make up the desideratum . My final appeal to the people of America is  --  give up the prejudice ; go around the world , go to India , go to Egypt , go to East Africa , go to any of the far-flung portions of the British Empire , and then judge Great Britain by her achievements . RUSTOM RUSTOMJELL New York , Dec. 2 , 1918 . THE KAISER 'S OATH . To the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family is so much in the limelight , it might be well to refer to the extraordinary speech which William II . made upon his accession to the throne in 188S . The new Emperor , much to tale distaste of his father 's celebrated counselor , Bismarck , as we all know , was very fond of making speeches , but none could be more significant now than the following : " Summoned to the throne of my fathers , I have taken up the reins of government , looking for aid to the King of Kings . I have sworn to God to follow the example of m : .. fathers and to be to my people a just and firm ruler , to nurture piety and the fear of God , to cherigh peace , and to be a helper of the poor and oppressed , and a faithful guardian of justice . " The ' results of this terrible war have shown how well William Hohenzollern ha . fulfilled his trust . HERBERT DUPUY . Pittsburgh , Dec. 4 , 1918 . UNSPOKEN GRATITUDE . To the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ returned from a , walk on lower Broadway , where I saw dozens of men just returned from the front , many of them wounded . They are passing along in groups of two or throe , among men and women whose hearts are filled with the deepest emotion , but no word is spoken or sign given , and I am wondering if the men realize how glad we are to see them back , and that nothing but a foolish timidity keeps us from Shaking hands with them or in some way expressing our welcome . This has been written In the hope that some of the men may read it and realize that the silence Is not due to lack of appreciation . but to a reticence which fa really InexPlisable , especially on the part of men , who easily fraternize . A. J. MENZIES . New York , Dec. 4 , 1918 . TRIESTE . To tat Editor of The New York Timms : I have read during the last few weeks several articles dealing with Italian claims on Trieste , and also I have had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this city . When Victor Emmanuel Cavour , and Garibaldi undertook in 1859 the unification of Italy and its deliverance from foreign oppression , they meant to reach her natural northeastern frontiers , the Tyrolean and the Julian Alps . Unfortunately they had to stop half way , and they died , saying that the redemption of Trento , Trieste , Istria , and Dalmatia should be the work of the new generation . Now the boys of this new generation , who have completed the work so nobly begun by their fathers , by taking up arms for the triumph of liberty and democracy , and who spent most of their - substance and millions of their lives on the battlefields of Italy , France , the Balkans , Palestine , and even Russia , will not permit their enormous sacrifices to he in vain , or that  --  the sacred wishes of their fathers should remain unfulfilled . PAUL OCCHIPINTI . New York , Dec. 6 , 1918. 