@@683124

txt The Army bill submitted by the War Department to Congress , which it is hoped will be accepted without any radical amendment , embodies a plan to prepare for land defense based on the lessons of our past experiences and those derived from accurate knowledge of recent military developments . Its provisions arc ample , and while . as it is devised only to meet the present war emergency . . it does not provide for a permanent system of universal training it recognizes , as the President did in his address to Congress , the principle of universal obligation . Where volunteering fails the draft will be resorted to precisely as in the plans of Senator CHAMBERLAIN and the General Staff , outlined in their bills for universal training . The exemptions specified in those bills , of the physically unfit and of men with families dependent upon them for support , will be recognized as far as possible . The arm- in view for service as soon as its members can be trained will eventually comprise 2,000.000 , and should be 1,000,000 strong in less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be Increased to its authorized war strength , and the whole National Guard , drawn into Federal service . Is to be increased to 440,000 men . Then the first increment of 500,000 young men is to be assembled for training at sixteen district posts . Commissioned and noncommissioned officers of the regular army , experienced officers of the National Guard , and the members of the Officers ' Reserve Corps are to be assigned to train recruits . The new army on this continent will comprise thirty-two infantry and four cavalry divisions , with the requisite bodies of field artillery , a vastly increased medical corps and , of course , a complete reorganization , on larger lines , of the signal and aviation corps . The details of the bill indicate that it has been . drawn with great care and that all the mistakes of our earlier wars will be avoided , even if some corrections must be made in the new plan , when it gets into operation . That the volunteering will be so heavy in the immediate future , as to make resort to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be a great demand at the beginning for officers ' commissiOns , and the need is so great that men who have the mental and ' physical qualifications will be eagerly accepted and put in the way of training . Sooner or later , the compulsory law must be enforced for both the army and the navy , and this , we hope , will be the forerunner of the establishment for all time of the system . of universal training under . which every eligible citizen must possess either a certificate of service or one of exemption . Many men are wanted in the enlisted reserve , which is already a considerable force , and must he increased to meet the new requirements . The skilled workmen in this force . however , will be regularly enrolled as members of the army . The multitude of industrial workers , railroad men and operatives in manufactories , who can serve their country better than they could as soldiers by sticking to their present tasksf also should be enrolled and provided with the necessary exemption paPers . The cost of building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upkeep will cost enormously , too , but the country can afford to pay for its defense and the maintenance of national honor . The prevailing feeling now is not regret for the cost but gratification that we are going into the war with our eyes open and determined to be ready for any emergency .                     