@@682909

txt MORE INTEREST IN EUROPE . A Revised American History for Schools Is Recommended . London , Dec. 17 , 1016 . Having been born and educated in America , though resident in England for the last few years , I am amazed that a nation like the ' United States , with so well earned a reputation for jealousy of her own dignity and rights , should at this moment fail to insist upon them . with all the force at her command . Hitherto respected , ( at least potentially. ) as champions of the rights of other nations , Americans must face the fact now , as they will be obliged to face it in the future , , both as individuals and as a nation , that It is exceedingly difficult for the mass of the people in the allied countries to understand the American attitude of passivity and of ? satisfaction with the idea of having been " kept out of the war . " Even thpugh the people are satisfied that their own dignity and rights have not seriously suffered , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are likely to receive is adequate to the offense , nevertheless there is a moral obligation to uphold those laws which are the basis of civic life , and the greatest benefits of which America is now enjoying in peace . Have diplomatic notes convinced Germany of the immorality ( apart from the illegality ) of her nefarious methods of warfare on noncombatants and neutrals ? It is to . be recognized that the basis of the allied cause is a question of national morals . Failing effective protest against Germany 's methods , these may become legal tender among all other nations . What , then , of America , if her turn comes ? Painful and humiliating though the admission may be , ? the United States has fallen definitely short of the measure as a , champion of the cause of common human rights . The kindest interpretation which tan be placed upon the attitude of passivity ? apart from the immediate question of domestic politics  --  is that there is , and has been , something wrong about the Influences which produce public opinion . The Monroe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same time it may become highly dangerous if it is allowed to overemphasize and limit and confine American political interests to events transpiring in the Western Hemisphere alone . The world has had a right to expect from the United States more of moral force than she has given when put to the test . While it may be both expedient and necessary to place emphasis upon the teaching of American- history in the public schools , it would be wise if every student capable of judgment were taught not only American history but America 's place in the history and development of the world ; not only her rights as a great , nation , but her duties to maintain and support every law which has helped the development of all nations and all races  --  the commonest laws of universal fair dealing . Americans should never forget that they are debtors at least to the Old World for most of the laws ( representing uncounted generations of struggle ) upon which their national unity is based and their private liberties protected . Such a policy of public education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but in a less misleading , more just , and more accurate appreciation of what the world has done for America as well as what she hats done for the world and herself in her short history . If her citizens had received this- form of instruction it is a question whether or not they would feel pride in , the mere fact of having been " kept out of the war "  --  and neither would the United States find herself judged by every belligerent alike , as the Laodiceans were judged . E. HUGGINS . The Recall of Pershing . To the Editor of The : Veto York Times : The Administration is being urged to recall General Perehing 's force from Mexico , with the consequent abandonment of the ' purpose for which that punitive expedition was organized . because Carranza , offers opposition . But what of Columbus and Carrizal ? What of the unwarranted and unprovoked murder of our American soldiers at Carrizal ? Are these events to be the forgotten incidents of history along with our forgotten and unatoned Lusitanla dead ? Is " offense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States in everything but name , - of more paramount importance than punishment of the ' bandit forces who cowardly murdered out American soldiers while unselfishly serving our country ? Is nothing worth a struggle ? ' The same policy should be applied to Mexico that was applied to Cuba . It calls for action and effort and sacrifice , to be sure ; it may call for military opposition to Carranza , but are these sufficient- arguments for peace ? Because a policy of atonement for murder of our citizens and of effective guarantee that those murders shall not occur again , and because a policy of helping a bandit-ravaged country calls for sacrifice and effort on our part , is that to be a sufficient argument for shirking our plain duty and letting an unfortunate country work out its own salvition amid the ravages of bandit forces as best it can ? Is nothing worth while but our own softness , security , and prosperity ? Is not Mexico a part of humanity , which President Wilson says we - must serve ? B. C. KEELER . New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Account . What object is there in keeping the Pershing forces in Mexico ? ? Absolutely none , except to excite constant irritation south of the Rio Grande . Our dignity ? Twaddle . That is a curious dignity which finds sustenance in ' merely provoking the other party . If ( as ' in this case ) the other party is a fractious and irresponsible boy , it is merely an Invitation to him to shy stones . First or last we 'll have to come to lt-Ao hold , occupy , and possess , at the very least , the Mexican customs . At the close ' of the European war the demand will assuredly come : " Collect and pay over what is due to us from Mexico . If You cc wo n't , then goodbye to your saucy Monroe Doctrine ; ' we 'll collect for ourseiVes . " And they will . Do n't let us delude ourselves . Every claim accrued and every life taken will have to be accounted for . WILLIAM J. ROE . Newburg , N. Y. , Dec. 30 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of The New York Times : In your article this morning under the sub-heading " General Joffre and His Retirement . " you talk ? about how much this General has done for France . This is really and truly amusing . In what way has he or any of the other Ally Generals on the western front done anything at all except blunder ? With France 's army , which alone is almost as large numerically as Germany 's , with several million Britisher 's , not to mention Russian 's and Belgians , since the war began they have kept occupied for the time being not quite half of the German Army . Truly this is magnificent . No wonder the Alileif never win . At present , when Germany 's main armies are in Russia and Rumania , the Allies have about four men to every German soldier , and the condition of a deadlock exists . Suppose the whole German Army were there , what would happen ? It would be all over in two months . The American phrase : " Nothing to it " wonderfully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tackle . GEORGE HUNEKE . NeW York , Dec. 29 , 1916 . WANT IN GERMANY . A Letter Shedding Some Light , on Present Conditions . England 's blockade of Germany may be ineffectual , even a failure , as Germany contends , but the beast that the Central Powers can wage war against the Allies for years , or indefinitely , will hardly be taken seriously in the face of even the little scraps of news as to present conditions that sometimes slip through . The writer , as a sample , quotes from a letter that left Germany on Doc . 5 . Our two expensive fires do not keep us warm , and we miss fat in any form . Our Thanksgiving dinner consisted of cornmeal soup , fried brains , and potatoes ; red cabbage for J. and a carrot for me , A goose coeds 100 marks , ( at presqnt rate of exchange nearly $16 . ) I had a present of an eighth of a pound of butter last night . Christmas is near , but there will be few - presents exchanged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of soap would be splendid , but we can not rob our supply , As yet we are quite clean ; but the crowds ! J. has distinguished herself by laying by , but we pity the housekeepers . You may not believe it , but in these matters I could be interesting . It goes without saying that in Germany at the present time the best and most of dvorything goes to the army , and yet it is a known fact that von Hindenburg has recently complained that his armies are not being properly fed , that they must have more fat . Where is it to come from for the future through which Germany contends she can maintain a war indefinitely ? Is it not becoming apparent that the Kaiser 's appeal for peace is but the disguised echo of the cry of his hungry people ? The mere possession of plenty of money in Germany does not even help the rich to satisfy their need of proper foods . The writer knows of a lady who is immensely wealthy who was seen when dining , to carefully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in paper , and carry it away , for a future occasion . SUBSCRIBER . Fort Wayne , Ind. , Dec. 30 , 1916 . An American Example for Europe . Those who are now intent upon the estabIishment of permanent peace would be wise Ito centre their views for the present in our continent , with the . purpose of doing here on a small scale what the world itself tomorrow will naturally have to do . The favorable circumstance of our isolation , our republican forms of government , and the similarity of ideals make it comparatively easy work for the American republics to arrive at an understanding in matters pertaining to international relations . The convening of a ran American Congress at an early date to discuss ' these matters would undoubtedly pave the way toward the greater undertaking of establishing a world league . Among the subjects to be considered by such a congress these would surely merit its attentions : To uphold the Monroe Doctrine as a part of our continental policy ; to sustain unaltered our democratic forms of government ; to ' thwart any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign or American power : ? to submit any controversy between the nations represented to a Pan American tribunal created for this purpose . The fact that both President Wilson and Secretary Lansing have been assiduously laboring for a closer Pan American union gives us hope that something of this nature will be done in the near future . R. MUNOZ TEBAR , New York , Dec. 30 , 1916 . The Best Soldiers . Your editorial stand on the subject of universal military training , is meat encouraging to ell ' true advocates of adequate preparedness , but your editorial this morning would seem to indicate that the main difficulty which we have encountered in our military Policy has been that of State rights . It is true that that is a large one , but the main difficulty lies in the whole theory of relying on citizen soldiers and a militia as first line of defense . History has shown that this is false theory and that the only adequate method of preparedness Iles in a suitable " regular " army . / One of the best articles on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Wealth of Nations , " an article which it would pay every advocate of preparedness to read . Adam Smith points out and history has proved that the only capable army is one whose members are making a distinct trade of the work for the time being , Adequate Preparedness necessitates adequate training . and the only way . for a soldier to secure this is to apply himself solely to his military pursuits while training . As a man can not obey two masters , neither can he be a good soldier and a good merchant , mechanic , or professional man at the same time . As we can not , without an entirely excessive cost , secure the entire time of enough men long enough to give them the necessary training the State must and should exert its right to demand service from all its citizens . D. A. WILCOX . New York . Dec. 30 , 1916. 