@@680574

txt It would be difficult , probably Impossible , by any scientific process to make a classification of the preferences of newspaper readers in such a way as to show what the qualities are that determine their choice of a Particular paper . or their liking for some other paper which might be called their second choice . Completeness of news service is doubtless the greatest single influence , special features and departments count for something . A little light is thrown on the subject by an inquiry THE TIMES has made in respect to the orders filled by twenty important news dealers in Manhattan , on the east and west sides , in Brooklyn , Mount Vernon , and Montclair , N. J. The list is fairly representative of the newspaper-reading community . The total orders received by these twenty newsmen , including THE TIDIES and seven other morning papers , - were 14,498 copies daily . In this total THE TIMES was represented by 5,545 copies , or 88 per cent . of the entire delivery of the eight morning papers . With THE Toms at 5,545 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ third at 2,195. and the fourth at 1,692 copies , it is evident that among the customers of these twenty newsmen there was a marked preference for THE TIMES . The figures showing the home deliveries . that is the number of copies delivered at residences by the newsmen , are significant . The total home delivery of the eight morning papers is 10.628 , of which total 4,467 were copies of THE TIMES . This is 42 per cent . of the entire borne delivery of all the eight morning papers . There could be no more conclusive evidence that THE TIMES Is distinctively a home newspaper , a paper that is - wanted and is read in the family . As against 4,467 copies of THE TIMES delivered at home , we may compare the second newspaper with 1,881 , the third with 1,539 , all the others being below LOW The list of single deliveries , that is of homes in which only one newspaper is taken , shows a total of 7,658 for the eight papers , and 3,318 of these are copies of THE TIMES . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showing a very high percentage of readers who find that THE TIMES supplies their wants . But in a large number of homes some other paper is taken with THE TIMES . Thus 4t appears that out of the total home delivery of 4,467 copies of THE TIMES there were 1,158 houses in which some other paper was taken in addition . The number of these7duplicate deliveries was for one paper 487- copies , - for the - second In rank 232 , for the third 168 , for the fourth 150 , with the others ranging from 78 to 21 . It appears that 23 per cent . of the home readers of five other morning newspapers take THE TIMES also . It would be interesting , but here again very difficult , to analyze these preferences and to determine what is the basis of the choice made of a second newspaper . The two newspapers of considerable circulation that are usually ranked with THE TimEs in respect to character and quality stand far above the others in this second choice list ; in fact , 25 per cent . of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also . In the case of the other papers the percentage runs from 16 down to 11 . The one inference apparently justified is that the taste which eschews what is called sensationalism guides the choice of these readers in making their selection of a second newspaper . The figures are instructive as showing the kind of newspaper that is preferred in the home , for this preference is exhibited not only in respect to THE TIMES , but in the cases where another newspaper is taken . And no doubt this inference would be con : , firmed if it were possible by an individual canvass to ascertain the reasons which determine the reader 's choice .                     