@@681290

txt If there were a disposition to look for them , it would be difficult to find good reasons for not taking the New Haven railway case into the courts . But the correspondence published yesterday itself affords the best of reasons in support of that procedure . Like the report of the Interstate Commerce Commission , the correspondence is marked by temper and prejudice . Repeatedly the Attorney General uses adjectives so strong that they weaken his ease . Not even the President altogether preserves the decorum due to discreet dealing with offenders against the law . The President adopts the language of the Attorney General , for example , in reproaching President Hums for not fulfilling the " solemn " agreement on behalf of the railway . Even the President finds this act " entirely without justification , " and accordingly approves procedure in the courts , both by indictment and by civil proceeding for dissolution of the " monopoly . " It seems to the President " inexplicable " that the railway should take a view different from the Attorney General regarding facts not known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement . Nowhere is there a trace of consideration for action taken under complex and - Teivildering conditions . Nowhere is there a trace of sympathy with the 60,000 shareholders , who , with the employes and those dependent upon them , represent 600,000 people , or More than one-tenth of the population of New England . Not one sentence is given to regret for the effect upon trade conditions in this specific case , or to the disclosure of a disposition toward wrongdoers  --  assuming them to be such  --  so disturbing to many under like denunciation , or in daily dread of it . There are reasons why the Government should proceed with tenderness In the New Haven case . The Attorney General himself recites that one Government suit was dismissed in 1909 . That hardly creates a presumption in the Government 's favor now . The Attorney General seems to think that the solemnity of the agreement Was all on one side . Both were bound by the agreement , and the railway showed better appreciation of it in its attempts to prevent the enactment of conditions obstructive to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Massachusetts Legislature , but the Government allowed the protest to be made without its support . Of protection or assistance to the railway in its effort to regain the straight and narrow way there is not a trace either in the correspondence or in the act of the Government . The courts are a welcome refuge from a pursuit so pitiless . Procedure by indictment is preferable to indictment in the newspapers , where denunciation can be made to take the place of proof , and the defense can be prejudiced by publishing a letter and not publishing the reply . It is difficult to see why the Government should put its worse foot forward in such a manner . The case of the New Haven is so bad in appearance , and the road is so unpopular , that merit could be acquired by combining unswerving execution of justice with moderation of manner toward the offender.                     