@@683869

txt The arrival of French troops on our northern front is the most important act that has happened during the last three or four days , and it was with deep satisfaction that we met these troOpti on the rod &; and knew that at last our poor , tired men would get support and help against their overwhelming odds . Beside the khaki army of the British has grown very quickly an army in blue , the cornflower blue of the French poilus . They are splendid men , hard and solid fellows , who have been war-worn and weatherworn during these three and a half years past , and look the great fighting men who have gone many times into battle and know all that war can teach them in endurance and cunning and quick attack . I As they came marching up the roads to the front they were like a streaming river of blue blue helmets and coats and blue carts and blue lorries , all blending into one tone through these April mists as they went winding over the countryside and through French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and then through the villages on the edge of the Flanders battlefields , where they waited to go into action under shell-broken walls or under hedges above which British shell fire traveled or in fields where they made their bivouacs , and fragrant steams arose to one 's nostrils as cuistots lifted the lids of stewpans and hungry men gathered around after a long march . I saw some of these French soldiers under fire yesterday , harassing fire which the enemy was flinging about the roads and fields , and they were very careless of its menace and went about their jobs calmly , with many jokes among themselves , like men who are accustomed to this sort of thing , and made no account of it . Some of their officers were strolling about on a plot of ground which the enemy was plowing with odd shells , big and beastly things which came with a shrill singsong and burst enormously , and these French officers , very chic , very courteous to the English about them , smoked cigarettes and chatted together as they watched the battle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wicked line of fire from the German barrages dowxPthe Flemish roads . ' Their nerves seemed unshaken by the noise , and they were not excited . Yesterday morning some of their men attacked on a British flank and drove the enemy out of a village for a time , and helped to strengthen the lines of defense for the battle which is now going on . It gives one a greater sense of security to know that these French forces are with us in the north , and the enemy will not be glad to see their blue among our khaki . Thursday 's Battle . Several actions are in progress today , practically all the way from the Flanders front down from Wytschaete to the country in front of the forest of Nieppe and as far south as Givenchy . The enemy is making desperate efforts with strong forces to capture Kemmel Hill , which his troops have been ordered to take at whatever sacrifice , and with this object he is trying to break away beyond Meteren , west of Bailleul , as well as striking down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our nothern front were preceded yesterday by a strong offensive against the Belgians between Kippe and Langemarck on a front of six kilometers , ( four miles , ) but after gaining an entry through the front-line trenches the Germans were counterattacked in the most gallant way by the Belgians , who made 600 prisoners , among them many officers from regiments representing at least four , Gorman divisions . Foe Unhappy on Bad Terrain . During the British withdrawal from the height of Passchendaele ? the enemy troops hesitated very much in following up , and it was many hours before their forward patrols drew anywhere near . Meanwhile British guns were waiting for them and swept this ground with fire , killing their outposts and breaking up their assemblies at Polygon Wood and other places on the old Flanders battlefields of last year 's fighting . All that ground is still as horrible as when I described it in the early Autumn of last year , with its innumerable shell craters filled to the brim with water , and liquid bogs among // Philip Gibbs 's Story of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not yet be told with any certainty , because it is not yet over , but what is certain is that the enemy has again suffered heavy losses , not only from machine gun and rifle fire , but from shell fire of field guns and heavies , which have caught his men in their assembly places and moving along the roads with terribly destructive effect . As prisoners describe it , one regiment of the 42d German Division has lost over 50 per cent . of its Strength , and other losses are on a similar scale . . These ghastly casualties have been piling up along this line between Merville and Bethune since the 13th of this month , when the Germans made a series of small attacks as a prelude to today 's battle , owing , it seems , to battalion officers taking the initiative without orders from the High Command , in order to push forward and break the British lines if they could find weakness there . Faced Fire During Five Hours . On the 13th. and 14th some of the South Country troops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second day ' for five hours at a stretch the enemy endeavored to come across from houses and inclosures west of Merville toward St. Venant . For those five hours the South Country lads fired with rifles , Lewis guns , and machine guns into solid bodies of Germans , and their field guns tore gaps in the enemy 's formations and broke up their assemblies before the attacks could proceed . One advance in five waves was mown down before it could make any progress , and others were dealt with in the same way . While prisoners say that the British fire which swept their ranks was terrifying and most destructive , the South Country and Scottish troops along this and other sectors of the battlefront firing their rifles as never before , the enemy found it difficult to get ammunition up , and one lines as far down as Givenchy and German prisoner says that three maintained it for five hours , using guns out of his battery were delarge numbers of gas shells , on ac- stroyed by direct hits . count of the east wind , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favor. , attacked troops assembling for an . d e ll e Sh Bridges advance on the forest of Lamotte Canal - and scattered them with machine-gun His guns shelled the bridges across fire , while other machine guns afterthe canal in the hope of preventing ward pounded them and broke up an the British supports going up . Then attack before it could start . This his troops came forward in waves wide front . They were in im a destructive fire has . been continuous on i for a week and beyond all doubt the mense numbers , as usual , with many German  --  troops engaged on this Mermixed battalions . One of the British ! ville front have been frightfully pununits today- took prisoners from ten ' ished. different regiments . There were ! ! The situation up north today has qwq site Givenchy and Festubert , east of battle is more secure than it has been Bethune , and for several hours this morning , which is the latest I know , the enemy 's efforts had failed against the wonderful resistance of the British troops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of different regiments , as I have said , and 109 men of the 468th Infantry Regiment were brought in from the ground about La Bacquerolles , where many of their dead are lying . We seem to have lost one advanced post , but the 17th German Division , who tried to stoxm the high ground of Givenchy itself , was raked by the British fire . It was ' in that place that the Lancashires of // its dead trees and the wreckage of battle , so it is not good for an advance of troops , and the enemy is wretched there . Prisoners taken here and further south are disconsolate and show no enthusiasm for a continuance of this offensive . They have been told by their officers that they are going to break through to Calais and the Channel ports , but they do not believe they will ever get there , and admit that their losses have been ghastly . Meanwhile an army of a different color is being revealed to them alongside that of Britain , and they know that on this road @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divisions against whom they have been fighting themselves out , but also through French troops who are now coming to the aid of their allies , after the latter have been sustaining such terrific smashes for nearly two weeks from masses of German divisons passing through each other in endless sequence in order to destroy the armies opposing them before these could get relief . The attack this morning from Robecq , below St. Venant , down to Givenchy is a serious effort to gain La Bassee Canal and form a strong defensive flank for the enemy while he proceeds with his battles further north and also to get more elbow room from the salient in which he is narrowly wedged below Merville . For this purpose he brought up several more divisions , including the 239th , which was in the Somme fighting of March , but not heavily engaged . This one attacked the British at Robecq , and up to the time of my last knowledge was repulsed with heavy losses . It was at a place called La ' Bacquerolles Farm , near Robecq , where after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outposts at 10 o'clock . In order to facilitate the attack this morning of German divisions north and south at 4 o'clock the German guns began a heavy bombardment of the British for several days past , , and , with the French co-operating , we may be justified in believing that the enemy May , at any rate , be held in his present positions , though he may yet concentrate further masses of men and guns on this northern sector . Even the German reserves are not inexhaustible , and for whatever the enemy gains he is paying , the price in blood . His mortality is so high that the path of his advance is one long graveyard , and his hopes must be dying with his lost men . That , at least , is the belief of the British troops , and they mean to make it so , however great their own sacrifice .                     