@@684372

txt Home-returning soldiers are inclined to find fault with the work of the Y. M. C. A. in France , and no doubt there has been mismanagement . However , it is not fair to indict and condemn this useful institution , which does so much good at home , because it has made mistakes in the field , particularly when some of those mistakes , which perhaps gave the most offense , were made by the subordinates who proved to be ill-fitted to perform their duties when in contact with the soldier . To find suitable agents for the work in France was at all times a difficult matter ; undoubtedly the wrong men were sometimes accepted , even when they showqd excellent credentials . The operation of the canteens , which the Y. M. C. A. took over from the army with the best intentions , seems to have proved unsatisfactory to the soldiers , not only because they expected lower prices than were charged , but because they had to deal , not infrequently , with " secretaries " and subordinates who were tactless or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comforts in some places and at some times seems to have been established . This may have been duo to bad business methods or to lack of enterprise in overcoming transportation difficulties . One of the great mistakes the Y. M. C. A. made was in assuming responsibility for conducting canteens , since it was not its general policy to furnish anything free . But did it charge too much for what was sold , after paying overhead and emergency expenses ? Soldiers say it did , but the Y. M. C. A. overseas must be heard in its own defense  --  it should have fair play . The obstacles to transporting its supplies on trains and on motors , and over roads congested with " rush " . orders , were always great . Moreover , it may be supposed that the men employed were not always experienced or resourceful . There must have been a good deal of confusion , no little blundering . Freight charges for goods billed to the other side , rents In France , sad salaries and wages paid to employes made a big hole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this country . This must be borne in mind when the complaint is made that prices asked at the huts were excessive . A criticism made of Y. M. C. A. enterprise in France by the soldiers is that the design to look after their morals was too conspicuous in the case of an army that had a very good name in France and England and was capable of taking care of itself . There was some warrant for this stricture , but were not the people at home in Part responsible when they insisted upon the value of the Y. M. C. A. Influence over the soldiers ? At the same time there were doubtless some busybodies among those selected to represent the association . in France . It could n't be otherwise .. On the other hand , there were some splendid men in the organization , a good many , no doubt , loyal , efficient , brave , sympathetic , and always The association is entitled to be heard on every count , to submit evidence that criticisms are often unjust , Ito show that enemies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mistakes , no doubt , but the balance . as friends in this country believe , will be largely in its favor . We are inclined to believe that some of the work undertaken by the Y. M. C. A. would have been better done by the War Department , , which sells supplies at cost and sometimes below cost without objection or censure . When sentiment Is mixed with . business , there is bound to be misunderstanding and complaint .                     