@@684812

txt " What an opportunity for clearing up international misunderstanding was offered at the Peace Conference , and what an opportunity was wasted ! Difficulties that were sometimes merely verbal remain exaggerated and rankling . There was a better feeling among the Allies before the conference than anything that exists now . How do vou account for it ? " We were walking through St. James Park in the general direction of the Houses of Parliament , and the speaker was a French publicist of rather more than national reputation who had graduated from newspaper work . In a previous acquaintance of a quarter of a century ago he had been the London correspondent of what is still one of the most conservative and influential of Paris dailies . He can both speak and think in English . A DISAGREEABLE FACT But what he said is true . It is impossible for any one in touch with men of affairs here and on the Continent to disguise it from himself . These men are thinking it and many of them are saying it , not in recrimination , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now , that they were cheated over the " fourteen points " laid down by Mr. Wilson in 1918 , incautiously accepted in principle then by some of the leaders of the warweary Allies . The Germans , as a London banker who was formerly a.member of the stock exchange expressed it , thought that Mr. Wilson had so protected them that they had a standing option of peace on the terms laid down ; a point where they could " cover their shorts " however the war eventuated . Even the best and most reasonable of them , so far as the German can ever be reasonable , are indignantly bitter , and for good reason . 110W THIS AFFECTED 7111E PEACE CONFERENCE Believing that they had this option , to quote a former member of the British Foreign Office , they embarked on the great offensive of March , 918 , with a lighter heart . They thought they might still win , and that if this last attempt failed , as it did in July , Mr. Wilson had guaranteed them against any loss greater than that reprbsented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meant at least a compromise , and this might be counted as half a victory . Even the granting of the armistice on November 11 ? remember that Mr. Wilson sailed io Europe on December 3 ? was taken as conciliatory by the Germans , in spite of the rigorous exactions of ? its terms . They considered that Mr. Wilson had saved them from the invasion of Germany , to say nothing of what foreign officers  --  French , British , American and even Dutch  --  have estimated to me as a surrender of at east 700,000 men who could never have been transported across the Rhine bridges by Germany , bottled np by Foch 's armies , with only the possibility of escape for a small number over the Dutch border . THE ARMISTICE CAME TOO SOON That the armistice came too soon , and that the terms should have been dictated in Germany is a general opinion . It is so general here that only the utterly war-weary and those pacifists who can not see why the saving of a relatively small number of lives could be bought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another case of political influences fettering the hands of generals in the field . There is not one of them charged with failure , or with partial and too costly success , who can not clear himself by pointing to imperative orders from politicians at home unable to grasp the military problems involved . Doubtless this is true of all wars , and those pacifists who say that there never was a good war or a bad peace can have no conception of the bad record peace treaties have made in the course of history , or how often they have only laid the seed of future wars . It is to be feared also that while in the early Summer foreign critics were disposed to blame the United States Senate for delay in the urgently needed ratification of the peace treaty , they blame Mr. Wilson now for specific reasons , such as an American here finds it hard to combat . WERE THEY DECEIVED ? It is all very well for us to say that the statesmanship of Europe should have been informed as to the limits of Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and , to put it mildly , Mr. Wilson did not enlighten them . The very fact of his coming in person was taken as an expression of the will of the American people by those who are accustomed to a change of ministry immediately following a defeat at the polls . The League of Nations was taken as an American idea , and there is probably not a statesman in Europe today , certainly not one the writer has met , who would contend that a satisfactory and workable peace treaty could not have been achieved in a relatively short time without the inclusion of the League of Nations . This is decidedly the opinion here , even with people deeply attracted by the idea of the league , but who know that the British Empire and France together already constitute in themselves a powerful league of nations . LEAVING , A Mtn IMPRESSION Criticism by the English and French press has been temperate and even reticent when the distortion and suppression of news and of American opinion adverse to the President 's plans , by his appointed censors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a kind to command the respect of the great European newspaper men , who have a powerful voice in the affairs of their respective countries , perhaps more powerful than anything which exists in America . Disraeli knew what he was talking about when he added to King . Lords and Commons , the newspaper press as - the fourth estate of the realm " . sun WILSON 'S RETURN And if this was the case during Mr. Wilson 's first visit to Europe , conditions had changed for the worse , so far as his influence was concerned , when he returned to Paris . " Why did you send him back ? " said an English Cabinet minister to me . We did not send him . lie came . There was nothing in our Constitution to cover the case if he chose to take his own way , and neither London nor Paris had been told what a powerful and sober voice in the American newspaper press and elsewhere had been raised in protest . even against his first visit . It is not too much to say , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realized the opposition Mr. Wilson had raised at home better than the Allies did . They thought , and think now , that he should have been in some sort their advocate at the Peace Table , but that he had betrayed them and that they had something to gain ? they could not well be worse off  --  from delay and the assertion of the powers of the United States Senate . IGNORANCIC OE AMERICAN LIMITATIONS As my French friend quoted to me , " To know all is to forgive all " . But Mr. Wilson 's colleagues at the Peace Table were deceived by false parallels . The King of England . for instance , exercising the royal prerogative , can make a treaty with another Power without the consent of Parliament and need not , in theory at least , make the terms public . The Commons , with the power of the purse , can of course make the treaty unworkable by declining to vote money to finance its obligations . Even French treaties are not subject to ratification by the French Senate . Is it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bill , or anybody , with perhaps the exception of Mr. Lansing , in his following to adjust the making of international law to the requirements of our Constitution , Mr. Wilson was credited with powers that Lord Bryce , for instance , could have shown to be nonexistent ? That he was so crenited , that he did nothing to remove the impression  --  intentionally or not makes little difference ? is a fact not to be gainsaid . The opposition of our Senate at the best seems to have been regarded in Paris as a demonstration of injured dignity rather than the assertion of constitutional principle . Europe wants to understand us , but the results of Mr. Wilson 's diplomacy have been in the last degree unfortunate . It is said here , privately of course , and with every effort to suppress causes of ill-feeling , that it will take an indefinite time for wise diplomacy to clear up misunderstandings which need never have been raised .                     