@@684053

txt Few people have opportunity to look under the surface and see the reformation in this country in knitting together capital and labor . The newspapers report strikes , demands for advanced wages , and later a few lines announce a settlement , and the public impression remains that labor has reached for something in the " profiteering . ' line and arbitration or settlement has made labor a winner . This is not the fact . SETTLING THE STRIKES The truth is that the demand for men , machinery , food and transportation , as inevitably in case of every war or sudden demand , has advanced wages and thereby advanced the Post of living . The cost of living is nothing r but a representative of wages . Henry B. Endicott has settled more strikes in Massachusetts than any other man . In that state 300,000 men are now working under his adjustments , and all sides unite in paying tribute to the fairness of his decisions . They were business decisions , given with despatch after both sides had presented the facts and figures of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ astonished when , after putting everything in his hands , the Endicott decision was that the strikers were in error . The public was surprised when he sharply advanced the wages of 3,500 Boston &; Maine machinists .. The fact was that one-half these men had been offered higher wages outside , and only the Union organization kept them in the ranks until decision could be reached . UNCLE SAWS JUSTICE A New England manufacturer , paying the highest wages , was recently astonished by a strike in his factory . Within 24 hours he was surprised by a visit from a United States official for adjustment of labor difficulties . After conferring with the officers . the strikers and their representatives , his decision was short and clear cut . He said to the men : " Your wages and hours appear satisfactory . Most of you are loyal American working men , but you are supporting several loafers and bums. . - . N-ow this-country has great work to dor-and the boys in the trenches have got to be backed up by efficiency in the factories . I want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to promise me now that you will increase your individual efforts and the output of this factory . What we want in American working men rod factories is efficiency . We must rely upon American efficiency to win this war . I shall make complaint to the proper authorities ccneerning the men . who misled you into unjustified demands and a strike without grievance , thus reducing our efficiency in the war . " In a few days the lost output of that factory was made up by the increased efficiency of tivs men . The head of the concern was dumfounded . He said : " Is this the thing the Government is doing over the country ? Are the representatives of Uncle Sam so adjusting matters as to increase efficiency ? " The reply was , " They are if they are doing their duty . I have settled every labor difficulty allotted to me except one . That has not been adjusted yet because the demands of the men were unwarranted . " EDUCATION MUST FOLLOW Instances like the above do not get into the daily press , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ columns concerning labor agitation , strikes and advertised inefficiency . This war is going to do more to educate the United States to efficiency , sound economics and common sense relations between labor and capital than could have been accomplished in a generation of sermon : : and speeches . And upon the education and organization of the country in sound lines for economic development depends our future after the war . Great as are the problems of this war , immeasurably greater arc the problems to follow . Seventy-three per cent . of the population of the earth is , by national declaration , now at war . The industry of every nation today is allied to the war . The work , income and profit of every man , woman and child is now more or less dependent upon war 's demands . AFTER Wen PROBLEMS Stupendous will be the problem when war ceases and the world turns to peaceful pursuits . Great as is the problem of millions to be returned from the field of war to the field of industry , greater is the problem of international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand for food , and for steel , for lumber and for labor , to follow in the wake of the war . The fact is that war has stimulated the production of food , and increased its waste . in consumption . The inevitable result must follow , t pine of peace ? an over-production of food . Millions of people will have tasted pleasure to muscle and palate from the home garden , the fresh home-grown cowl , peas , asparagus , radishes and cucumbers . These poem as nothing in commerce between states and flattens , but in the aggregate they mightily affect it . ? CONSUJIFTICiN MUST BE INCREASED All luxurk , s become necessities in the progress of eivilizatiefl ? Families can use twice or four times as much house ioom. and we may consume per capita many times the present output in lumber ; but food consumption can be expanded in only one way ? by first improving the food and the cheapening it and transporting it to nations who know it not . The financial resources of the world will be tremendously taxed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destruction to the field of production , where production has already been tremendously stimulated . Many millions more at home will find their output of coal , minerals , steel and lumber suddenly without demand . High wages will have made luxuries necessities , and men will be unable as before to compete individually with the hoe and the rake against machinery labor on the farm . In former days men at war could return to the forests and the fields , to plant and build . Today the successful building and planting and shipping is by machinery and capital . Noised : - will be contented to fight the battle of life with the hand hoc and the hand rake . TRUST SOCIALISM The highest form of trust socialism must guide the nations as sternly and strongly out of war as into it . The primary problem is whether the nation shall stand individualized with high revenue tariffs , and protection of home markets ; or whether nations exhausted and impoverished with war will be permitted to reach the markets and pull down the labor values in the richer countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade competition , we should immediately put up our tariff barriers while we are at war . Otherwise they may be menaces to peace after we have concluded terms of peace . A great problem will be not only the maintenance of brotherly trade relations between the Allies , but the absorption of the enemies of the Allies into such trade relations as will enable them to supplement the industry and production of the Allies and do their part in world restoration and repair of the damage and payment of the war debts . BREAD AND NUTTER rrtonr.r.ms It should be perfectly clear to any thoughtful man of international knowledge that wars are bread and butter problems and can be prevented only by world federation , which recognizes the bread and butter problem of every people and permits international trade relations beneficial Qt both ends of the trade . Armies and navies can not with safety be disbanded unless there is universal international alliance for the joint development of the undeveloped countries of the world . Every country is in a sense undeveloped . Each has something from soil , climate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need . How to trade the surplus productions of the nations , and maintain international peace , is a problem . greater than that of the world war itself . Not only must Europe be rebuilt , but South America , Africa , Asia , and even North America must be developed , and their production and consumption and exchange of surplus products tremendously augmented for the international safety of the world . POLICIES AND PRINCIPLES In this development wise statesmanship and the true principles of the Christian religion are more important than armies and navies , and wise policies and such principles can prevail only if the warring forces are united , gradually reduced , and placed under such principles and policies . It is , therefore , of the greatest importance that the United States Government is gradually placing its hand over both labor and capital , settling their industrial disputes , and promoting their efficiency . Already the capital of the world is under Government control . Labor must likewise come under that control and there must follow control of output and distrilution'lere is no other solution than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capitalism . Society must work for capital and its increase and capital must work for society and for labor and its uplift , not only individually , and collectively in nations , but internationally . ExrAxstves HUMAN DEVELOPMENT The result of the war in the future must be world wide capital in trust form promoting true human socialism . There must not be confiscation , or retardation either in human enterprise and energy , or the increment of capital by its wage development , or the opportunity for labor and its just reward both in wages and by share in human progress . Idleness of factory or farm , of capital or labor , must not be permitted , and the increased output must be transferred into a world wide human development . The salvation , redemption and regeneration of man is by labor . Capital , whether in farm or factory , bank or machinery , in individual or collective pocketbook , is only a physical aid to man 's individual progress and uplift In the finality there is no such thing as individual uplift or progress except as there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                 