@@683001

txt Fairfax Harrison , president of the Southern Railway . Co. , ' who was in New York Thursday for the monthly meeting of the company 's directors , is exceedingly optimistic over the outlook for the property . " Condition of the Southern Railway has never been better , " said Mr. Harrison . " Earnings continue to increase . Fortunately , - Southern Railway is one of those properties whose expenses have not begun to eat up all the gain in gross . And we have not suffered from congestion of traffic as have roads in some other sections . Our chart of earnings shows the curve steadily mounting . in every way the property is so improved that a trip over the road fairly exudes optimism . " Southern banks are ro prosperous that they arc able to take care of local needs without calling on New York for assistance . Deposits show large gains . " It is a little early yet to talk about prospective cotton acreage this year , but , if every man does what be says he will , there will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becoming worried about the approach of the boll weevil , but it has been combatted elsewhere and it will be overcome there too in the course of time . On account of that danger there may be more diversification of crops there . Through crossing of Hereford cattle with the large lean cattle of the cane brakes an improved medium sized animal has been produced which is a good meat-brazing animal . " There has been considerable construction of cotton mills and the requirements of lumber have helped the lumber industry . " Cotton growers are optimistic over the outlook . The known statistical position of cotton is very strong . When the normal foreign demand is restored and added to the enlarged home demand . the position of cotton will be still stronger . " In all the time I have been connected with the Southern Railway I have never been so optimistic over it . " In the Spring . Southern Railway expects to let contracts for construction of ' 75 miles of double tracking between Charlotte and Spartanburg , S. C. With the completion of this stretch , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have finished its double track line from Washington to Atlanta . So great has been the increase in prices of steel that in thirty miles 1f double track work through the north Georgia mountains the company found it cheaper to haul dirt and make fills than to set up steel work . This work through the mountains was of the heaviest character . The company also plans double-tracking of the New Orleans fa Northeastern , which it recently acquired . 