@@680562

txt Festus Wade , of St. Louis , in an address at its recent imnquet of the American Bankers ' Association at the Waldorf , urged the trust companies of the entire country to unite in urging Congress speedily to enact legislation by - which our monetary system may be perfected . He also called upon the leading bankers of the United States heartily to support the ' highly honorable purpose of Mr. Glass and his associates in Congress in their attempt to secure reliable and detailed information respecting banking and currency conditions and also respecting the best method of correcting the evils which lurk in the present system . As a. result of Mr. Wade 's address there will be speedily a united effort by American bankers not only to persuade Congress to enact desired legislation for the reformation of the banking and currency system , but many banker will gladly azzept , the invitation meat cordial:y given I y Mr. Glass and his ai.sociates to appear before the committee and give testimony that will convey information . It is usually the informal discussion and exchange of views @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which are , after all , of the greatest value . Our ' tankers have been told that many of these general discussions at the recent- gathering related to public sentiment as it prevails in various sections of the country respecting the reform of our banking and currency systems . A. -- cording to them views , the majority sentiment among intelligent people throughout the country strongly favors early remedial legislation . That was not the case a few years ago . Even as recently as the annual meeting of tha American Bankers ' Association at New Orleans three years ago many of the delegates , especially from the Southwest and the remoter Vest , reported that they could find no public sentiment In favor of remedial banking and currency legislation . That was tartly because the people had not given much , if any heed , to the subject and partly because there was apprehension that none but the Wall Street money powers , so called . cared for legislation , nor did these money powers care for legislation unless it was so flamed as to increase their control of banking credit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anywhere today . The opinion is unanimously expressed that the people  --  are ready for reformation provided  --  it can , be so framed as to prevent the centralization-of money power into the hands of a few New York city.bankers . When President . Wade declared in his speech that New York will soon become the banking center of the world he did no more than echo an opinion which was expressed by a governor of one of the leading joint stock banks of London a few years ago . This great English financier said at a public banquet that it was inevitable that the center of gravity , so far as banking influence is concerned and financial power , would in the course of a few years shift from London to New York . This , however , does not mean that the banks and bankers of New York are to have monopolistic control of bank credit and resources . For it is now beginning to be understood that if there be such reformation of banking and currency laws as will shift the reserves that are now held in reserve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ districts of the United States , and if by and by the national bank currency be retired and new currency issued through the ? eserve banks , this currency to be based upon general assets and high-grade commercial paper , then it will be impossible-so to centralize banking resources and credit in New York as to constitute this city a monopolistic banking center . This , however , will not prevent the great currents of world financing from ' concentrating , in obedience to economic laws , in New York city . What Mr. Wade meant when he said that New York city is soon to become the , banking center of the world was simply this  --  that New York is to hear the relation to great world financing which London now bears , and it is to become not a mere local municipality , but it is inevitably to have the same relation to the whole country , national in its character , which London bears to the United Kingdom . - Thia- is the first-time , that an opinion of this kind has been publicly expressed by one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ 