@@679514

txt The new AngloAmerican general arbitration treaty was the chief cause of discussion at to-day 's cabinet meeting , which was extended considerably beyond the hour when such meetings usually break up . It was not until almost 2 o'clock that the President 's advisers left the Cabinet room . Late this afternoon it was learned on the authority of the President himself that the pro , posed treaty had principally occupied the Cabinet . It was reported this morning in dispatches from London that what purported to be a forecast of the treaty had been published there . The dispatches asserted that the treaty was to run for a period of five years , and would contain provisions for the reference of questions arising subsequent to its negotiation to The Hague tribunal for settlement . It may be said on the - highest authority , however , that there has been no determination as yet as to the period during which the propsed treaty shall be operative , nor as to the tribunal which shall be employed in any arbitration that may develop out of the treaty . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tentative stage . Inasmuch as the proposition for such a treaty arose with this Government , it follows that the American parties in the negotiations submit the first definite pro ? salon . It was part of the draft of this preliminary proposal which the Cabinet discussed for so long to-day . Secretary Knox and the State Department officials who are working with him have been actively engaged for some time in the preparation of this draft , but the part submitted to the Cabinet to-day did not cover certain features , which will be included in the final draft before it is submitted to the British Ambassador . Formula for Future Procedure . In the talk at the White House this evening details as to the provisions of the treaty were not supplied , but the general character of it was clearly indicated . Broadly speaking , it is to be something in the nature of a formal declaration by both Governments of their desire and intention to submit to aribtration any question hereafter arising between them rather than a contract which seeks In terms to provide specifically for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather a formula for future procedure by the two countries , the particular action to be taken in each case to be deter1 mined in each instance for itself . Thus , , as far as this country is concerned , whenIever any question possible of arbitral 11 settlement arises between the United States and Great Britain , the treaty , would bind whoever might be President then to submit it to arbitration . In each such instance it would be necessary to formulate the terms of the submission ? that is. to " make up the case ; as cases are made up for submission to the judicial tribunals of each country . The general treaty would not only be binding upon the President to submit the question to arbitration , but upon the Senate also , in the view of President Taft , for its share in the arrangement of the terms of such special submission . The framers of the American draft of the treaty have not yet taken up the question of the tribunal to which arbitration cases shall be submitted under the treaty . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods or more , one of which might be adopted . First , the treaty may provide generally for the submission of all questions arising under it to The Hague tribunal . Second , it may provide for the creation of a special tribunal by Great Britain and the United States in concert . Third . it may provide that the compromise in each case as it arises shall cover the question of the tribunal to which the case shall be referred . Taft Pleased With Progress . President Taft was frankly pleased this evening with the progress being made on the treaty . He feels that once the American proposition is finally drafted for submission to Ambassador Bryce , the main part of the work will have been accomplished . The Ambassador is being kept informed as to what is going on , and , with his staff , is at work on his own expression for the ideas which are to be covered by the treaty . The President repeated this evening the expression of his hope that the treaty will be agreed upon in time to have it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is receiving petitions from day to day against the adoption of the proposed treaty . As far as can be gleaned from their contents they emanate entirely from the Irish and German element of the country . So far only about . a score have been received , most of them similarly worded , showing a common inspiration . They come chiefly from New York , Boston , and other New England towns . The Irish country clubs of Boston protest against " the bill now pending before the Senate and House of Representatives , " when , as a matter of fact , there is not even a completed treaty as yet . This same petition speaks of the bill as " having for its object the commercial and limited political union of the United States with Great Britain , " and states that such a treaty would be " odious and objectionable to our best  --  vIews and sentiments in our dual capacity of Irishmen and American citizens . " They thereupon expressly protest against any alliance or union between " the hereditary foe of our native land and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally used recalls the warning in Washington 's farewell address against foreign entaglements , and says the country has done very well in minding its own business , and should continue to do so . Another form of petition takes it for granted that the proposed treaty is for the purpose of offending Germany .                     