@@679812

txt The brothers to-day entered San Quentin Penitentiary , where James B. is condemned to spend the rest of his life for his confessed crime of murder , and John 3 . , Secretary of the International ' Association of Bridge and Structural Iron Workers , is sentenced to fifteen years ' imprisonment for dynamiting . It was James B. who blew up The Los Angeles Times Building on Oct. 1 , 1910 , with the loss of twenty-one lives , and John J. who abetted in wrecking part of the Llewellyn Iron Works in Los Angeles on last Christmas Day . The pleas of guilty entered by these men closed these two cases and opened up a nation-wide investigation by two Federal Grand Juries into a series of dynamiting reaching from coast to coast and perpetrated generally where labor differences existed to a marked degree . The men entered the prison , it is fairly authenticated , believing that they had achieved much for the cause of union labor , and bad been misunderstood in their efforts and the results they obtained . Whirled from Los @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken at Sunrise to-day , put on a little river steamer and landed two and a half hours later at ban Quentin Prison wharf on the shores of San Pablo Bay . The shackles which bound them together on the boat trip were slipped off , and they toiled up the prison hill beside Sheriff William A. Hammel of Los Angeles County . Only Numbers Now . As the prison clock struck 10 John J. , ' preceded by Warden John Hoyle , stepped over the threshhold of the jail door , with his brother directly behind him . In five minutes James B. had become Convict 25,314 , and John J. 25,316 . They were measured for jail clothes , photographed in two positions , given a carbolic-tinctured bath , put into stripes , shaved and cropped , and rephotographed within an hour and turned over to John Murray , Lieutenant of the yard , who took them to Cell 18 in a stone tier looking out over the prison 's " upper yards , " at great flower garden . ? IS adjoina.the bet of tens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside is cut off by a little- gate ; Further down , the , ifON , , toward the.other , end , Is the cell of Abraham aluef , ' who is serving a fourteen-year sentence ' for bribery in connection with the San Francisco graft cases . Ruef is in Cell 3 . In Cell 11 of the tier is Henry Dalton , for seventeen years Assessor of Alameda County , and recently convicted of accepting a bribe . Soon after the men entered the jail the prison band began to play and continued until 1 P. M. At 2 o'clock Sunday dinner was served . The Mcreamaras were furnished with a prison-made ' dinner card , done in three colors and marked , San Quentin Grill . " The prisoners who devised it had taken occasion to point out the attractions of the place . Waggish Over Prison Fare . " Never since the opening in 18 ; 12 has the San Quentin Grill enjoyed a better reputation or greater partonage than under the present management , " wrote the wag in stripes . " There ' are at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Grill . The cuisine and service are unsurpassed . Some of the boarders return six , eight , and even ten times after trying other establishments . The location and climate are the finest in the world . Situated at the foot of Mount Tamalpais , basked in the grand and glorious California sunshine , fanned by the breezes of San Pablo Bay , the Grill is an ideal resort the year round . " A list of house rules , likewise jesting , fills the back page . The dinner the ate consisted of corned beef , brown gravy , steamed potatoes , boiled beans , stewed dried fruit , coffee cake , bread , and coffee . The brothers passed the-rest of the day in their cells . To-morrow they will begin work in the jute mill , Warden Hoyle said , but James B. , on the advice of Sheriff Hammel , will be examined for tuberculosis , and , if he shows symptoms of it , he will do other work . Half a dozen passengers , : raning their neck " from car windows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the aleNamaras as train companions . Scores more had walked through the combination observation and compartment car without a hint that the brothers were within reaching distance . At Carquinez Straits station the men . handcuffed together . were slipped from the rear platform of the observation car , with Sheriff Hammel on one side and Under Sheriff Robert T. Brain on the other . Chief of Police Sebastian of Los Angeles followed , and a cluster of Deputy Sheriffs hovered about the party , which included Detective Bernard Flood of the New York force . The men were hurried to the little steamer Caroline , a hundred yards away . Capt . William Lesle , who makes the daily trip from the Straits to the prison , took them into the saloon . Names.on Boat 's Visitors ' List . At his request the men wrote their names in the visitors ' book , and then John J. read this motto at the top of the page : And where we love is home Home , that our feet may leave , but not our hearts ; The chain may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without a sign that it had made an impression on him . For the most part of the trip the men stood handcuffed together on the afterdeck . Sheriff Hammel pointed out to them the entrance to Mare Island Navy Yard . the boats of duck hunters scattered across the water , a seal which rose close to the boat , and leisurely dived again , all without eliciting any comment from the men , and when he was encouraged to tell some of his feats as a marksman , the brothers contemplated him gravely , but without any particular interest . The sinht of the penitentiary failed to nave them , and when they passed the giant powder works where James B. bought dynamite for the bombs which he placed at the homes of Gen. Harrison Gray Otis , proprietor of The Los Angeles Times , and Felix Zeehandelaar , Secretary of the Merchants and Manufacturers ' Association of Los Angeles , the brothers ' backs happened to be turned the other way . Although the men were silent to-day , John J. lay fn his stateroom berth last night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cathers , to whom he took a great liking during his imprisonment . To Cathers he showed his plain gold cuff links . John J. Philosophises . " One of my brothers gave me these , " he said . " I value them more than anything . It seems to me that life 's little kindness , things which we know are behind them , should mean more to us . " When he was searched at the penitentiary , he handed the links to George Collins , a convict , who used to be a San Francisco attorney . " I do n't care about the other things , " he said , " but please be sure to save these for me . " Men who have talked with John J. say he has developed a view of life which not only fortified him in the ordeal which he underwent to-day , but convinced him that the dynamiting which he and his-brother did was inevitable . From his youth a reader of sociological works , admitted to the bar as an attorney , the dynamiting theory as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was adopted by the elder brother , it is said . Not until The Times explosion , with its loss of twentyone lives , all wage earners , did he realize the frightful possibilities of his academic position . The trip of the men from Los Angeles , where they . were put on a train last night after it had left the regular city station , to Carquinez Straits , was little different to them from their days in the jail , where they have lived since April 26 . Anxious to begin their sentences , their trip to the prison was accepted with sombre relief . Each slept from midnight until awakened shortly before 7 o'clock for the boat trip to the penitentiary.                     