@@679523

txt At the trust companies ' banquet Senator ALDRICH and Mr. HEPBURN approached similar problems from different angles , and yet with a close similarity of treatment which suggests that both , and therefore the country , must be traveling the right road toward financial - reforms . Mr. HEPBURN 'S object Is to get the local independent financial institutions within the jurisdiction of the Clearing House . Senator ALDR/CH also sees that the stability and success of his Reserve Association for National banks would be advanced greatly by some check upon banking institutions of whatever name operating under State laws . Animated by such similar motives they propose similar remedies . They want the independent associations to modify their independence by conformity with regulations imposed by common consent . Both want the independent associations to make reports hi common form , to submit to common rules of administration , and to allow oversight to make sure that these engagements are fulfilled . The requirement is so reasonable that whoever withholds assent is put on explanation and justification of a course contrary to public ) interest . And this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House are more severe than any which could be imposed by law . The examinations under forms of law are light compared with those conducted under experts employed in the common interest by the institutions subject to examination . And the remedies for any discovered defects are mom drastic . An examiner under forms of law is confined to the law itself . Disci -- -pline exercised upon the banks by the banks extends to correction of errors which would defy legal formulation . A bank which defies the Clearing House might as well understand that salvation through good conduct would be the only alternative to eventual collapse . . This reform the various financial institutions have it in their power to accomplish for themselves and their customers without any legislation , and with immediate results . It is both easier and more necessary for the local than for the National institutions , and therefore it is to be urged upon them particularly by the application of unceasing pressure upon the institutions ' Which impede progress . Similar and concurrent action by many Clearing Houses . New York following where others - have - already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dissimilarity of laws on a National scale . This ought to be done regardless of progress with the movement which ... Senator - iiklenwcsr has under his , SpielaW , care , ; **30;743;TOOLONG , , rather ! thair oppose each-other . Progress with either is no excuse for neglecting the other , since the fortunes of legislation are so uncertain . In his remarks Mr. HDPBURN cited statistics to show that the Clearing House is asking from the trust companies no more than they voluntarily do by way of maAnts.ining reserves . His - figures might be right without his conclusion following . The deposits which the trust companies now keep in the banks are active accounts , performing a useful service . The same amount of bank deposits kept by the trust companies after entering the Clearing House would be converted into accounts performing no active service , since the trust companies would then clear their own checks instead of clearing through their bank accounts . The trust companies are expected to do this to relieve the banks from the inconvenience of collecting their credits on the i rust companies over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legitimate and real trust company business , against which it is not right to expect the companies ' to maintain reserves such as are moderate for characteristic bank business . Up to a certain point the full force of public opinion ought to be put behind the overtures of the banks to induce compliance on the part of the trust companies . But it ought to be remembered that It is only possible to induce , not to compel , them . For that reason public opinion can also exercise a useful influence in inducing the banks to make their terms to the trust companies worthy their acceptance by modification so as to allow for the varying characters of the businesses done by them . In the proportion that the trust companies do a banking business they ought to keep a banking reserve . But a demand for a banking reserve against trust business is another matter                     