@@679028

txt Every new law for the hamstringing of corporations is , through some incurable propensity of its authors , headed straight for the chamber of the Supreme Court . President TAFT insists that the new railroad law shall make provision for Federal control over future issues of stocks and bonds by inter-State carriers . The very first at : tempt to assert this control will result in bringing the statute before the Supreme Court for determination of the question whether the Federal Government has any power over the issue of securities by corporations deriving their charters from States . It is a doubl question . In the course of the debate in the Senate on one 1 upon Senator Ratt.v:r 's amendment to the Railroad bill forbidding Inter-State carriers to transport commodities manufactured , mined , or produced by them , Senator Boxers remarked that he hoped the Supreme Court would sustain this amendment because " when they do , we will have such control over all corporations created by a State that we can control the capitalization and everything else when they are engaged in inter-State commerce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made this comment : I do not regard the issue of stocks and bonds as inter-State commerce ; and therefore the power to regulate that commerce does not confer any power over them . The Senator and myself may be called upon to debate that question hereafter . The Texas Senator may be moved to debate " that question " if the Presidential recommendation is accepted by the Conference Committee . If the stock-and-bond provision has been accepted by either the Senate or the House it may properly be restored to the bill in the conference . In view of the known attitude of the Democrats and the regular Republicans of the Senate its acceptance is very doubtful . The Supreme Court has never directly passed upon this question , but upon more than one occasion it has used expressions which lawyers quote in support of the belief that the court would declare void any such provision as Mr. TAFT demands . The court has many times declared that the power the Constitution has conferred upon Congress does not operate upon matters essentially local in their nature ; its intent is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commercial rights " ; the " regulations must be regulations of commerce , supervisory powers over manufactures and production remain in the States . " That was decided , of course , in the Knight case . If the word " commerce " can be stretched to include supervision and control of the issue of securities by a corporation , then there is no reason why it should not be Made to embrace within its scope pretty much every form of mental and physical activity of which man is capable .                     