@@679724

txt According to Controller PRENDERGAST the estimates of the departments indicate an increase in the budget of 23 per cent. , to an unprecedented total of C3215,000,000 . There will be no such calmness in the receipt of this intelligence as there was in the announcement of the tax valuations , and there Ought not to be . The valuations were increased in a workmanlike manner , in marked contrast to the similar operation in Mayor Low 's time . Then there was merely a horizontal increase , falling on overvaluations and undervaluations alike , the increase in Manhattan being fourfold the increase In some other boroughs . The crudity of this method of getting a credit to spend was masked by the fact that the tax rate fell from 22.73 to 14.13 .. There Will be no such happy sequel to the recent increases . All that is left to break the blow this year is the fact that the increases of this year and last have been availed of to make the burden bear more evenly . There has been both intelligence and equity in an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this year because of the appreciation that an effort was made for justice as well as for a mere increase of debtmaking capacity . If the announcement of the budget is not to be followed by vain recriminations it is necessary to study every step by which it is made up , to apply a check to all avoidable expenses , and to make a debit against all responsible for the inclusion of them . The item of four millions for the direct State tax payable by the city is a matter of State administration necessitated by Republican extravagance , the burdens of which are felt under a Democratic ' Government . There are certain mandatory salary increases for which the city administration Is not responsible , although it must find the cash . There are eight millions of uncollected taxes which must now be funded , and there are certain current expenses which hereafter are to be included in maintenance instead of being defrayed by bonds . Horse feed and band concerts and pavements are expensive when bought by bonds on which the interest charge is larger than the price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expensive to be straightforward in matters of accounting . Those now in responsible positions are to be praised rather than blamed for correcting the excesses and errors of their predecessors , but they should be held to strict responsibility for their own acts , and it is easy to indicate how they are making the ways of the taxpayer rougher than is necessary . An example is afforded by the proposal broached yesterday to condemn the Steinway Tunnel by proceedings to be begun in a week . If the tunnel shall be bought forcibly under the forms of law it will cost unnecessarily dear , and the city can not put it to the best use . Proposals have heretofore been made by which this tunnel might be put to the best use it 4s capable of without cost to the city or to the taxpayers , and it is the rejection of these proposals that now leads to a plan to swell the city 's financial burdens . In principle the same thing is true regarding the entire subway project which is now under way on a plan that commits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on which it takes all the risk . It seems hardly credible that this plan shall be proceeded with in the condition of the city 's finances when a better plan might be had without a cent 's cost to the city . The city is immeasurably the gainer by the present subway contract . By the time that the road comes to the city as a freehold possession for nothing its cost will have been equaled by the increase of taxes which the city has collected because of the Subway . A billion of dollars has been added to the tax valuations , with a rate rising to the old burdensome figures , and only a beginning has been made on a plan to prevent the repetition of our fortunate experience under Rapid Transit Contract No. 1 . No taxpayer should forget this addition to his woes . And no farepayer should forget that the accommodations thus to be furnished will be incurably defective . No lavishness by taxpayers can cure an irremediable - defect of route . And this road to trouble is being taken without any binding obligation that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defects . There is room for endless complications at every step of this way to swell the taxes , Those pressing this plan are making every effort to postpone and evade the inevitable crisis . The response should be an equally vigorous effort to precipitate the crisis , or at least to perfect the plan . No credits should pass unchallenged until the route /s perfected and the contracts are made . If there is any trouble about those points now is the best time to face them . It will be a blessing in disguise if the mounting of the valuations and the budget and the tax rate should compel attention to these points . It has been said that the art of taxation consists in gathering the most feathers from a goose with least squawking . If the squawking becomes intolerable the bungling of the city 's finances will not have been wasted .                     