@@683025

txt President Wilson 's plan to lay before Congress his decision that the interests of the United States and the safety of its Pcb- ? pie and ships on the high seas demand the arming of merchantmen , and to ask for full authority to act in whatever way he deems necessary for the security of the nation after Congress adjourns on March 4 , formed the chief topic of interest in connection with the German-American situation today . The leaders of both parties in Congress are expecting the President to address them within the next few days , and ? the attitude which Congress will take toward the proposal is occupying the centre of attention . From the opinions expressed by promlnent Republicans and Democrats alike today , there seems little reason to doubt that Congress eventually will grant Whatthe President asks . The amount of op : ' Position will depend entirely on the specific nature of the authority which he requests . There unquestionably will be debate on the question , especially on the exact manlier in which power is to be granted . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is expected that in the end the majority of both parties will stand solidly with the President , believing his mime thoroughly justified . One of the main questions which will be raised will be the amount of restriction to be placed on the expenditure of whatever money is considered necessary to appropriate for the President 's use in case of emergency . Some of the Congressional leaders who recognize frankly the necessity of giving the President full power to act in defense , of the country 's interests after Congress has adjourned feel acutely " at the Same time that they should not give him such complete power as to delegate to him Congress 's exclusive constitutional power to make war . There may be some insist= ence. therefore , that in voting money for his use Congress should state explicitly the limits within which It is to ; be expended . There is a general feeling . however , that in making his request the President will himself state his purposes so definitely as to guarantee Congress 's exclusive prerogative and remove most of the uneasiness from this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no legal restrictions be placed on the appropriation which would dangerously hinder the President 's freedom of action . ? Danger of Calling Extra Session . Most of the leaders feel the force of the argument that should the President call an extra session in the present condition of affairs , it might easily be construed abroad as an indication that he considered a declaration of war inevitable and was keeping Congress expressly for that purpose . In this situation , therefore , they will readily admit the wisdom of ' permitting Congress to leave , and ? in the meantime of providing the President with ' sufficient resources to take care of any emergency that may arise until Congress can again be called together . Added to this is the force of purely personal distaste for being compelled to stay in Washington and mark time waiting for a development that might not come . rt is felt that in any event should Congress . wait here with nothing to do , It might prove an embarrassment to the President during a trying time . - While most of the members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on their legislative prerogative , the majority is ready to recognize the necessity for yielding something of the letter of the law In the face of an my= usual situation and to leave the matter to the President 's discretion . Many ' of them will insist on some definition of Congress 's position before it follows him ' , if the President does not make his request for unusual authority sufficiently , explicit , but , the net result will be a suf ficiently full acquiescence in his desire .. This does not mean that there will not ; be , bitter opposition to the President's. ' proposal in a certain . group in both houses of Congress. - There is a. small . faction in the Senate and a relatively ' larger one in the House which regards any move by the President further than , the severance of diplomatic relations.as equivalent to a declaration of war , ' no matter how conservatively it- may , be stated , and they will oppose any arms- : inent to the end . As voiced by one member of the Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it went na further than : to , approve the arraa ; naaat ' of liners. - is - regarded , by . ' theta so Aisr . only . making mar. certain-tini.14.4'ilseie rifice of popular rights by giving the President a virtual dictatorship . ' This group includes not only certain ones of the five Senators who voted against the resolution approving the break in relations two weeks ago , but several others who voted for the reso-. lution to avoid the danger of misinterpretation of American sentiment in Germany and yet would hesitate long before giving the President what they would regard as absolute freedom to determine the nation 's course in the future . It is not believed by the senate leaders , however , , that this group will be powerful enough to disturb the essential solidarity of the vote at this time . The group in the . House known best perhaps as the " Bryan element " is larger , but the strict nature of the House rules , with the consequent limitation on debate , always gives an Administration measure tremendous advantage , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in some quarters the final vote will be decisive . It is recalled that at the time the alcLeMore resolution to keep Americans off belligerent ships was pending , the sentiment in favor of it seemed at one time sufficient to carry it through , but when the final vote was taken it was defeated overwhelmingly . Sentirnnt in Congress on the German situation has crystallized greatly since that time , and at the time diplomatic relations with Germany were severed it appeared , on the surface at least , to be remarkably unified . The Senate 's vote of 78 to 5 in support of the President ' upheld that view . it is expected that the President 's great person &I; influence , especially in the light of his re-election , I will serve to keep in line at the last mofnent some of the Democrats , at least , who might at first glance seem inclined to bolt on the present question . It has not been disclosed just what immediate steps the President will outline in his address . The chief measure , it is believed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for merchantmen of . ' the Entente Powers to enter American ports with guns fore and amidship as well as aft . It has been suggested that an American fleet of destroyers might be sent to European waters , especially to the submarine zones , as a special protection to American vessels , . but It is not believed that such a demonstration will be carried out , as , aside from the Unfriendliness that would be manifest in it , the belief is entertained that Germany would construe it as an act of war , and that it would bring about immediate hostilities . It would also have committed the United States to a policy of sending its navels forces to the scene Of European operations and make it appear ignominious if they should be withdrawn to this side of the Atlantic in event of actual war . It was said by a high official that whatever measures were put into effect they would not include reprisals . He expressed the conviction that the United States would not act aggressively or with the appearance of doing anything other than to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he declared , that the navy would be in a state of preparedness for any eventuality , but warlike acts , he said , would have to be initiated by the German commanders . Germany is " jockeying for position " in the present situation , in the opinion of some Administration officials . Persons who were in the confidence of Count von Bernstorff , dismissed German Ambassador , recalled today that he often declared it to be his belief that , should war develop from the d:sputes between the two countries , it would be upon the initiative of the United States , and that Germany would not , even under provocation , be first to recognize a state of war with America . Count von Bernstorff impressed all to whom he made these declarations with confidence that the German Government was determined to do its utmost in defense of the empire , and that there would not be in any measure decided upon by it any intent to injure the United States or its interests . But Germany could be no respecter of persons ? of nations even ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were intimations today - that the Austro-Hungarian Government has taken offense at the treatment accorded to its Ambassador , Count Tarnow von Tarnowski , by the United States , and that critical developments In the Austro-American situation were at hand . Austria , it was indicated , desired that the United States should make the decision as to the severance of diplomatic relations , but it was hinted today that the ' Vienna authorities felt that in its treatment of the Imperial Ambassador the United States has given a direct affront to Austria-Hungary. , It was learned today that the German sea operations were interfering seriously with the shipment of war supplies to Russia and that the Petrograd Government was suffering some embarrassment because of the fact that it had given to British firms contracts for munitions which Japanese Wins had expected and for the manufacture of which they had expended many millions of dollars in constructing and equipping plants and in engaging labor . The Japanese firms , it was said , convinced now , because of the initial success of the submarine operations , that Russia could not obtain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japan or to the United States , were raising their prices on war supplies of all kinds as a reminder to Russia of Japanese resentment at the transfer of war orders from Japan to England . It is understood also that Japanese shipping lines , upon which Russia would be somewhat dependent should she order the bulk of her supplies from the United States , contemplate an increase in their ocean rates so as to force the Petrograd authorities to deal with Japanese firms . A military authority , discussing tiday the recent German success in the Champagne in a new offensive , expressed the belief that Germany would be unable to prosecute this or any other offensive with the vigor and dash that characterized her first ' military successes . This authority said : " Only two European powers engaged In the war have kept their first line troops . Those of all the other belligerents have been destroyed . England and Italy , the latter because she has done comparatively little important fighting , have preserved their first lines . Germany can afford to hurl the best of her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her first line also . But Germany must fight on the defensive against the British , for they have just now , after two and one-half years , put their first line , composed of the best products of the English race , into the . field . They are thoroughly trained , hardened , equipped. ; They are prepared for every kind of work , and are in a mood for testing their fighting qualities . " The opportunity will come soon . When the fresh British forces collide . with the Germans , the battle to be developed is expected to become one of the greatest , if not the greatest , of the war , and upon it the fortunes of the Allies will be revealed . This battle , which will take months in the fighting , will decide whether the German line can be broken through by sheer shock and ' force or whether the Allies must compose themselves to the knowledge that attrition , slow but formidable and constant , must effect the necessary end . " But the problem for the Allies is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be decided by the new British army  --  and in all likelihood it will be the British army that must make the breach . " 