@@680146

txt Two refuges , conducted by the Vice Trust for its members and for persons whose presence in the city might prove embarrassing to them , have been discovered by the District Attorney 's office . These places are maintained ' at considerable expense by the trust , solely that it may have hiding places to which witnesses wanted by the police or the District Attorney 's office may be spirited . The location of both places is known now to District Attorney Whitman . One is within this State . The other is just across the river , in Hoboken , N. J. , and in more serious cases it is this one es which witnesses or principals in cases concerning the Vice Trust are hustled , since extradition proceedings are thus made necessary before the fugitives , even when found , can be forced into a New York court . This place is a hotel , patronized liberally by persons who have no knowledge of the character of other guests , and it is this good reputation which increases the worth of the place as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second place is in Centreville , in Sullivan County , and there the Vice Trust maintains four cottages which have the appearance to the innocent of eimple boarding houses ? Ledgers there never ray : board , hoiVisver . These cottages are conducted by employee of the Vice Trust . All the bills are paid from the headquarters of the trust here , and no one is admitted to any of the cottages ' without credentials from the trust . Refugees Live Well . The discovery of these places was made by members of Mr. Whitman 's staff after an investigation resulting from the observation that witnesses in disorderly resort cases seemed frequently to disappear , even when there was good reason to believe that they had not the money to carry them even on a ferry ride across the river . The frequency with which persons apparently on the verge of poverty were able to leave town whenever toe exigencies of a case concerning the Vice Trust seemed to demand their de ' Parture made Mr. Whitman 's investigators morally certain that somewhere the trust must be maintaining a refuge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persons who the District Attorney had reason to believe might have been hustled out of the city . These investigators , in their reports of the discovery of the two refuges , declared that inmates of the Centreville cottages lived lives almost of luxury . There were frequent automobile rides , and they were so plentifully supplied with money that they found It an easy matter to take part in trip affairs of the Summer resert It was clearly the purpose of the Vice Trust to keen its guests happy , so that they might not weary of their sojourn before it should be deemed safe for them to reappear in their old haunts . The identity of many persons who have lodged at Centreville and in the Hoboken hotel has been discovered , and these discoveries have explained , in several instances , the absence of persons much wanted in various cases . Although there appears to be no way in which the District Attorney can close these refuges , It is kown that they are being watched now and will be watched , at least until the District Attorney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and corruption which practically is only about to begin with the John Doe inquiry which Supreme Court Justice Goff will Institute to-day . Hoboken Now Headquarters . The sudden disappearance of the men Involved In the attempt to discredit members of the District Attorney 's staff by false affidavits is explained in the discovery of these refuges . It is believed now by the District Attorney that when they fled from town last Saturday they went immediately to the hotel in boken , and there it is that the District Attorney expects the next steps in their plan of defense will be discussed and I prepared . The purpose of the Vice Trust members in striving to cause the District Attorney to abandon his crusade against organized vice is not because of any fear of prison sentences for themselves , nor is it because they fear the revelations of graft between organized vice and the police which Mr. Whitman's'Investigation has been disclosing . Theirs is a purely financial concern . The members of the Vice Trust have thousands of dollars invested in resorts , and in hotels which are little different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this money invested ? of their hotel licenses and their liquor licenses . But though the Vice Trust so far has been moved solely by financial motive. ? , its members shortly will find themselves facing criminal prosecutions and . jail am-. tenets . For a thorough investigation of the Vice Trust has become a matter which will receive first consideration in the John Doe inquiry , and the Vice Trust by its . $50,000 fund to corrupt or to defame the District Attorney 's office has called the investigation on its own head . When Assistant District Attorney James E. Smith conducted the midnight raids of last Aug. 15 against eighteen of the thirtytwo houses operated by the Vice Trust , he did so under orders , not because Mr. ' Whitman wished to terminate the existence-of such houses  --  that was incidental ? Mr. Smith acted because he wanted to lay hands on persons who could expose the connection of the police with organized vice . Raids Made for Evidence . These persons were caught and the information was obtained . Their trials will be moved in Special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be moved the trials of several hotels raided as resorts , among them Mochs Hochstines Hotel Lincoln . Had the Vice Trust been content to take such punishment as might be meted out to it in these cases . the John Doe inquiry probably would have concerned itself only slightly with them and mostly with the situation as regards corruption . But with the raising of the $50,000 fund and the effort by means of false affitit+ to blacken the character of some of Mr. Whitman 's assistants , the Vice Trust menbers laid themselves open to prosecution on the charge of conspiracy , a celony , as against the misdemeanor charge of conducting a resort .. From the instant that District Attorney 11 pitman learned of the conspiracy , . ( and that was when the meetings of the conLpirators first t ? egan on last Aug. 16 , ) his men have been gathering evidence against them , until to-day the District Attorney possesses sufficient evidence to convict al Pollee C't ; tain and a politician who no longer holds office , but who is a power in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Whitman is understood to have much evidence ? and to he acquiring more daily  --  against two men attached to the staff of an Inspector and against another policeman attached to a second Inspector 's staff . These four are trio only members of the police force who have been connected so fat- with-the conspiracy to corrupt or defame the District Attorney 's office . In addition to them , however , b re the rix members of the Vice Tryst , the tro Oolitic.ans , and four men who run hotels of low character . All told , serve seventeen men are known to have bee ' , concerned in the conspiracy , and it is predicted now that not one of the , seventeen will escape . But for the tip which scattered the conspirators last Saturday , when they were to have completed the details of their plans , several of them would be under ' , arrest now . Mr. Whitman 's men , cog-1 nizant from the first of their meetings , had planned to take them with the false affidavits in their possession , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Saturday . At present the conspirators , with the exception of the policemen , are out of town , but every one of them ie under ! surveillance , and they can be brought ' track to the city whenever they are wanted . The failure to trap them with the false affidavits in their possession has decided Mr. Whitman , however , to take up an investigation of the affair at the John Doe Inquiry , and it may be several , weeks before their phase of the general inquiry is reached . It was asserted yesterday , however , on ! behalf of the District Attorney , that when the time comes every conspirator will be arrested , and it was asserted with equal confidence that every one of them , i including the policemen , would be convicted .                     