@@679153

txt The strike of 70,000 cloakmakers which began early in last July ended yesterday with the acceptance by both the strikers and the employers of a peace protocol , based principally upon the agreement suggested by Louis D. Brandeis of Boston in the last days of July , when he conducted a series of conferences between employers and strikers . In all but a few of its provisions the peace agreement also is a duplicate of that arranged by Louis Marshall and rejected by the strikers last week . Yesterday 's settlement was reached after a conference between Julius Henry Cohen , counsel for the Cloak , Suit , and Skirt Manufacturers ' protective ASSOCiaj.ion , and Meyer London , attorney for the unions , in Mr. Marshall 's office , 37 Wall Street . The agreement was ? signed by Mr. Cohen on behalf of the manufacturers and by Mr. London and the Executive Committee of the unions on behalf of the strikers . The principal change in the present agreement and the rejected one of last week is that the strikers accept the " preferential shop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " closed shop ' which they had demanded while the employers accept the principle that those who desire the benefits of unionism should share In its burdens . In announcing the settlement , Mr. Marshall said : " Although the principle of the union shop has been adopted , it has been accompanied with such limitations-and conditions as will minimize those features of the system which ordinarily have proved objectionable to employers , while at the same time the existing obligations of employers , including those to present employes are to be respected . The terms " union standards " and " preferential employment of union men " have been defined carefully and definitely . " I have been impressed with the conciliatory attitude and the apparent desire to act justly displayed by the employers . " Mr. Cohen issued a statement giving credit to Mr. Brandeis and Mr. Marshall for ending the eight weeks ' strike , and calling attention to the few important changes In the agreement of a week ago on which the present settlement was reached . " The most important change is that instead of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each side has yielded a little , and has settled upon definite terms . No principle has been surrendered by the manufacturers , yet the unions may truly claim that they have won a great victory for their people . " The protocol provides for the installation of electric power for the operation of machines by next Dec. 31 without charge for power by the employers and also for the institution of a uniform deposit system of $1 in each case where employes receive tools or implements from the employers . Time contracts with individual employes are done away with as 1- the old custom of giving work to employes to be done at home . The ten legal holidays recognized by the State are to be observed with full pay for operatives employed by the week and provision is made that piece workers shall fix upon their prices by a conference between a committee of employes and the employer in each shop . Hours of labor are limited to fifty weekly , nine hours constituting a day 's work for five days in the week , with five hours ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work is limited , and when performed must be paid for at double the usual pay . A minimum scale of wages , which is slightly higher in some instances than the scale proposed by the manufacturers and in others slightly lower than that suggested by the strikers , will be maintained hereafter . Section 14 of the agreement defines the attitude of the employers toward the unions . It reads : Each member of the manufacturers is to maintain a union shop ; a " union shop " being understood to refer to a shop where union standards as to working conditions , hours of labor , and rates of wages as herein stipulated prevail , and where , when hiring help , union men are preferred , it being recognized that since there are differences in degrees of skill among those employed in the trade . employers shall have fteedorn of selection as between one union man and another , and shall not be confined to any list nor bound to follow any prescribed order whatever . Three boards are established by the agreement  --  a sanitary board , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nominees of the unions , and three representatives or the public , to he selected by counsel for both sides . This board is to establish standards of sanitary conditions to which the manufacturers and the unions shall be committed and shall , obligate themselves to maintain to the best of their ability . An arbitration board will consist of a member from the employers , one from the unions , and a representative of the public , and to it " shall be submitted any differences hereafter arising between the parties hereto , or between any members of the ' manufacturers and any members of the unions . " The third board will consider and pass upon all grievances of a minor nature which arise between ' employers and employes and Will consist of two members each from the manufacturers and the unions . An important provision of the agreement states that there shall be no strike or lockout in the future because of differences between employers and men until the questions involved shall have been submitted to the Arbitration Committee . The settlement of their difficulties was hailed alike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their headquarters in the Hoffman House and there was rejoicing in striko headquarters , at 161 West Thirtyfourth Street . Mr. Cohen voiced the sentiments of employers and employes alike when he declared that the protocol - furnished " a great opportunity to build up a strong working relation between . the unions and the manufacturers . Nothing is accomplished by large groups of men except by strong organization . Trades unions are not only necessary , but must be guided and strengthened . " In Jefferson Market Court several cloakrnaker strikers were arraigned before Magistrate House . most of them charged with loitering in front of cloak houses . The Magistrate discharged all but those who had committed a specific act of disorder . In discharging them he said : " These strikers in the act of picketing have committed no crime , although they may be punishes ' by the Supreme Court . This court can take notice - only of acts that constitute a crime-or a breach Of the peace . " Employers ' to Maintain " Preferential " Shops , , Grant More Pay , Shorter Hours , @ @ @ @ 