@@683860

txt To the newcomer from Paris to the French Army the first impression is the extraordinary absence of what is called public opinion about the war . There are no fluctuations of attitude according as the news is good or bad , no doubt or hesitation . The army has its work to do and does it unquestioningly . In the best sense of the word the soldiers of France are a professional army . The first thing asked of a new arrival is , " Well , how is Paris taking it ? " One never thinks of the reply , " How is the army taking it ? " because from the outset it is evident that the army is taking it ( no matter what that implies ) as part of the day 's work . Forain hit the right nail when he drew his famous cartoon of a pollu saying . " We will hold , but what about the civilians ? " Throughout this battle the French Army has been perfectly calm . Men have confidence , in their chiefs and in themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have had to fight to the death , but those who are left of them are as confident as ever ? ? upremely confident . They know that they are better than the Germans . Before this drive there had been three great German offensives  --  from Charleroi to the Marne , on the Yser , and at Verdun . In- the first the French were outnumbered and outgunned , and in the-second also . At Verdun the enemy , by a momentary concentration , broke down smaller forces , In all three the French bore the brunt of battle , yet they were victorious . Now they have the support of the British and the gigantic promise of America behind them , and in addition an equality of guns , materials and transport . Their one weakness , as compared with the Germans , the lack of a united command , has been repaired . They know that the end is now sure . However great Germany 's effort is , it is only the " death flurry " of . the harpooned leviathan . The Timm correspondent talked yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the line at a moment 's notice north of Neale at the time of the heaviest German attack . Through lack of the co-ordination . now insured by Foch's. appointment they were left without supports on the right and left . For six long days and nights without sleep and worn out by the terrible fighting they stood off the attack of ten German divisions which were constantly replaced by new units , brought up to the front line by automobiles . Thanks to the skillful use of cavalry and armored automobiles , since thirtysix of the latter held the roads until the enemy was near enough to attack with grenades without losing a single unit , the General commanding was able to retreat step by step until relieved . At Roye he learned that the troops on the left were unable to withstand pressure . He set off alone for the front line and personally led his men to a victorious counterattack . Their forei:s dwindled continually until divIfflonel instruction units and schools of half-r ( . - covered wounded and engineers were fighting in the front line . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus : " At the end we had the impression that the German blood had reached its high-water mark . " They did not seem to want to attack any more , " was the laconic phrase used . of the ultimate failure of the attempt of 100,0(X) men to break 10,000 . That Is what I mean by saying that the French Army is professional . It possesses to the utmost degree that dispassionate judgment which marks efficient business all the world over and which refuses to be influenced by the incidentals , however unpleasant these are to individuals , in their consideration of big affairs . It must not be thought that this means that the French lack humanity or tenderness . On the table of those very staff officers was a bunch of Spring flowers , and the new graves that were being dug daily nearer the front are decked with flowers also . Tears came into an officer 's eyes as be described the heroism of one of his comrades , who was decorated with the Legion of Honor on the battlefield for serving a mit  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He added , " What was finer still In my opinion was that he carried men wounded , while serving his piece , to shelter on his own shoulder . It was only when the others had to retreat that he himself began firing . By a miracle he escaped slightly wounded . " In another sector a Sergeant today told me how with seventy comrades he repelled the assaults , ten times rereated , of a German battalion on Mont Renaud . He concluded , smiling : " We were sorry to be relieved because most of my men come from the invaded districts and had not had a chance to kill so many boches before . " This same Sergeant had a homeless puppy in his dugout and talked proudly of a thrush which he had trained to whistle patriotic airs and taken beet to his mother in Paris . In short , the French soldiers from highest to lowest are doing the work they know must he done . Their officers have been trained to war during the last forty years and are equal to every emergency . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also . The French know enough to make allowances and have great faith in the bulldog tenacity of the Britons . They have even greater faith in America . " ' When will the Americans be here ? " " How many Americans are there in France ? " are the questions asked in every front line sector of the present battle . France is putting her trust in America . It is our duty to see that France is not disappointed . Where They Fought Hand to Hand . THE TIMES correspondent has ViSIted one of the less active sectors of the great battle  --  between Lassigny and Noyon . The configuration of the ground resembled the country above Long Island Sound ' in Connecticut  --  low , wooded hills with steep sides , broken by occasional stretches of valley . The weather was dull and clouded , which hampered the view but permitted me to overlook the German position from hill tops instead of being compelled to peer through narrow slits of observation posts under pain of being sniped or treated to a shell burst by the enemy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visible , and on the left were the hills toward Lassigny . In the valley below the opposing front lines were established . A boyish officer of a regiment holding the sector , who explained with pride that despite the battle on Mont Renaud the previous week against ten times their number his comrades had been allowed to stay in the front line , dedared that while they did not expect boche attack in force at that point , because the defensive position was too strong , yet infantry activity , especially at night , was incessant . Of what the artillery was doing I had unceasing evidence . The roar of explosions  --  French " departs " and boche " arrivals " ? was tremendous . The officer said : It can hardly be said that the trenches are yet fully established . All night long patrols go out from both sides and fight hand to hand , or rather knife to knife , for both dare not fire lest they bring down a hail of quickfirer bullets , in swampy brushwood bordering the Divette rivulet down there , 14ow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attack with half a battalion or so . Word comes to our batteries before they have hardly started , and at once a storm of 75 shells drives them back . " Unless my study of American milltary.history is faulty , the geographical position is much the same as at the battle of Chickamauga , where , as here , there was abundant cover for advancing troops . But we have the aid of telephones in repelling attacks and , - above all , 75s , which upset the Germans even worse than quickfirers . We can check all of his attempts , and at night out ' patrols often get close enough to drop grenades upon them . " Your fellows would have an opportunity to ' hunt big game ' without risk of trouble . Tell them we are waiting for them eagerly , and they will have good sport when they come . "                     