@@684055

txt It is always dangerous to underestimate the fighting quality of the enemy , and there have been too many occasions when statements about the declining morale of the German soldiers have been followed by fiercer and resolute attacks . At the present time I have nd doubt whatever that Prince Rupprecht of Bavaria , who commands the armies confronting us , has available for instant use a large number of divisions of highly trained men , strong in physique and stout of heart , who will obey any orders to attack with the same determination as on March 21 , when they believed they were beginning the battle which would lead to final victory with the same determination , though not , perhaps , with the same hope , because , after all , the German Army has been disillusioned since that day of desperate endeavors . So far as physique goes , the prisoners taken by the Australians with detachments of Americans among them on July 4 were as sturdy a crowd of men as I have seen since prisoners first came back from our battlefields @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But when that has been said with sufficient emphasis to prevent any- misunderstanding or false optimism , one may allude to certain signs of weakness among some of the troops now in line along our front . Germans Show Strain . of Waiting . They are men who have been put in to hold the line while other German divisions are resting and reorganizing in the back areas before a new assault . They are men who have had to stand the strain of the British gun fire for several weeks , ' and who have been kept in a state of nervous apprehension day and night by the constant raids that are made upon them from this side of No Man 's Land . Influenza and other epidemics have ' helped lower their vitality and weaken their fighting spirit , so that in some sectors of the line the British have been able to keep them very tame . The Australians in their , sectors north and south of the Somme have established the initiative down there in a remarkable way by that aeries of progressive operations which led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed since then without any resolute counterattack . Up to the time I write this message there has been no other action to record . . ? Up in Flanders also there has been violent shelling of the British tracks and roads around the Scherpentierg , which is the outer bastion of the allied defense , but farther south other bodies of Australians advanced their line beyond the German outpost positions near Merris to a depth of 200 yards on a front of 1,200 , taking sixteen prisoners and a machine gun . There also the Australian boys have kept the enemy tame .. As one of their officers told me some time ago up there , " We have taught them to feed out of - our hands , " and they stay a long way off in ' their main trench systems by keeping a wide No Man 's Land between them and the Colonial troops , with small outposts thrust out in front of them . As I said in my message yesterday , the Canadians have been playing fierce games with the Germans around Neuville Vitasse , near @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so that they live in a constant state of terror , and exactly the same thing has been happening on another sector where London troops have put great fear into the hearts of a Prussian division in front of them . Londoners Favor Daylight Raids . " We have made rabbits of them , " said one of their officers yesterday , and there is no doubt that these young Londoners , boys from city offices and warehouses and little suburban homes , have established mastery over those Prussians in spite of all their pride . The Londoners ' method of raiding is rather different from that of other troops . They prefer daylight raids , and every time lately they have gone over to the enemy 's trenches after ' dawn or before sunset . They like to see the ground in front of them to avoid the barbed wire and shell craters and other snags . Several times during recent days they have caught the enemy napping and brought back prisoners after fierce work in the trenches . The Queen 's Westminsters , the Kensingtons , and the London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Kensingtons  --  the Peter Pan boys  --  did a fearful amount of damage to the enemy in a recent attack , when they brought back twenty-two prisoners as samples of a most miserable and terror-stricken crowd of men . London gunners have supported the infantry during these weeks of trench warfare , and one day turned their fire onto some old gun pits where I once took shelter , In which a German regimental commander had established his quarters . After the last battle this officer was killed , and very few of his staff escaped from that deathtrap . ' German Guns Killed Prussians . The German gunners earned the curses of their men one day when the infantry tried to retaliate for the daylight raids of the Londoners . Two companies of Prussians advanced , but before they could do any damage they were shattered by the fire of their own artillery , which had made a frightful error in its barrage lines . Quiet Sector for Some Londoners . London regiments of the glorious 3d Division and the 15th Scottish were the heroes of the great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the most stubborn courage and wonderful self-sacrifice . Since then the Londoners have held quiet ground , and the new boys among them , the younger brothers who come out to fill up the gaps , have done well and gallantly in their first lessons of war . They live a long way from old London Town , where the shop windows lured them between Kensington High Street and the Strand , with the murmur of great traffic in their ears like the tide of life . Now they live in little narrow ditches cut out of chalk in a long , wide stretch of fields below hills from which the enemy looks down , where there is a tangle of weeds and wild flowers growing between bits of ruin and broken strands of wire left from old battles , and shell craters , new and old . It is very quiet there when the guns are not firing , and at night when the London sentries stand by the parapet , staring over No Man 's Land , the only lights are the rockets that rise and fall above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , so that through the darkness and mist they look a little like the lamps on the Thames Embankment and give the sentry an ache in the heart to be walking there with his best girl as the taxis whirl past . Yes , it is a long way from London , but many of these London boys keep their accent and cockney wit and humor , and the spirit of the men whom Dickens knew as Mark Tapley and gam Weller , making the best of ' things , however bad the business .. Young David Copperfield is in the trenches as a subaltern  --  it is his turn to raid tonight ; and all the characters of the great historian of London life may be found around him . I am sure , because I have met them about the roads of war ' and know them as my own folk .                     