@@681527

txt One Commissioner of Interstate Commerce is said to be writing the Commission 's decision upon the railways ' application in favor of advancing their rates . Another Commissioner is quoted to the effect that the Commission will not favor the advance . It might be rash to accept either report unquestioningly , but the arguments advanced may be considered on their merits . The railways argue that their necessities justify the advance they ask . The Commission 's qwq Mi ..  - -  13RAINEtras , is that " the ? need has been proved . The only question is regarding the method of the increase , and the effect of events subsequent to the Commission 's finding of necessity . Reference , of course , is. to the war and to the finances of the rail ' ways . The argument is that the war has no special effect upon the railways , and that they have no standing to ask for special relief . In reply it may be said that the railways p .. ek for no Special relief . All that they ask is that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not free to adjust themselves to the war situation as other industries do . Their income and outgo are both beyond their control . Other industries can stop until the clouds roll by . The railways must run under all conditions . Other in- ' dustries can raise or readjust their prices . The railways can not alter their rates without permission , or rather without forty-nine permissions . The Interstate Commerce Commissioners contend that it is no concern of theirs whether or not the roads are solvent Their business is to regulate rates strictly according to the light of reason . This contention might be admitted if it were true that railway rates are regulated according to reason . Of this there is doubt . Railway rates were originally fixed in the same way that rates are now being fixed through the Government 's Panama Canal , that is according to commer , cial considerations . If business did not move the rates were wrong , and they were readjusted . If it was thought that lower rates would pro , duce more profits they were lowered . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raised . If the readjustments were disappointing they were readjusted . This method has its defects and inconveniences , as well as its merits . One of them was the lowest rates and the highest wages and the best service in the world . The railways steadily grew , the community was ' constantly better served , but there were complaints , and now we are trying regulation by theory instead of practice . There is a billion of invested dollars that are disappointing the expectation of their owners , and yet we are told that the railways are really earning too much rather than too little money . This is particularly true of the period since the war . Since July this year the roads have earned $110,342,970 , against $103,759,144 in 1913 . Therefore the Commission will not allow them to raise their rates . Particularly the Commission will not allow a horizontal advance , the proper procedure ' being a readjustment of individual rates . The Commissioners might be presumed to know that the reason the railways are showing better net earnings is that they must or go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' crew wages . and to pay interest . It is even necessary to pay dividends- if they are to be trusted with people 's ' lendings . The railways are not al-1 lowed to earn larger incomes , and are compelled to spend more money , therefore they are skimping wherever a dollar can be saved for unavoidable disbursements . It is darkest before dawn . The end of that sort of regulation is near . Perhaps railways ought to be run as the Commission says . The fact is that they can not be run that way . When the demonstration is sufficiently complete to convince the sufferers  --  meaning everybody  --  practical men will be allowed to take charge and make the railways solvent , safe , and serviceable .                     