@@684007

txt The Department of Justice announced tonight that First Lieutenant James C. Staley of the Quartermaster Department of the Army was arrested at 8:80 o'clock this morning at 8 Whitehall Street , New York , on the charge of accepting money in connection with a contract that was expected to be awarded to Rosenthal de Wener , proprietors of a plant at 810 Broadway , for the manufacture of the Truefit raincoat . Rosenthal &; Wener , it - was stated by Department of Justice officials , had been working in co-operation with the department , and members of the firm had come to Washington several times to consult officials in regard to the case . The amount of money alleged to have been paid to Staley was not stated , but it was alleged that the cash was handed to him in sight of two Department of Justice officials and he was heard to remark that he expected more money when the . contract was finally awarded . The manufacturers had put in a bid to supply 50,000 raincoats , and Staley , according to what was said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inspect the samples and determine if they came up to Government requirements . This he had done , as in other cases . This morning , just before his arrest , he had completed the inspection , according to officials here , and had informed the members of the firm that he would recommend that a contract be awarded to them . How the Firm Co-operated . . The firm consists of J. Rosenthal and Louis Wener . They are not implicated in the criminal aspect of the matter . The statement was made by an official of the Department of Justice that the members of the firm , believing that Staley was expecting to be paid for enabling them to get the contract , decided to disclose to the Department of Justice all the information that had come- into their possession and place their services at the disposal of the Government . It was said that they . went on with the deal on the advice of the department officials and played their part to fhe end . It was stated at the department that a number of other firms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the department in cases where officers who have charge of contracts for war supplies are under suspicion of wrongdoing . The department officials were disinclined to say how much money was alleged to have been paid to Staley by Rosenthal &; Wener , but they said that the contract amounted in the aggregate to $250,000 , and the bribe charged was I probably to be up in four figures . Lieutenant Staley is an Ohio man , 50 years of age . He joined the army at Camp Sherman , Chillicothe , Ohio , in June last year , and was soon thereafter sent to the training camp at Fort Snelling , Minn. , near St. Paul , where he was in training for three months . He was commissioned in September and sent to Camp Dodge at Jacksonville , Fla. , to attend the Quartermaster School . In December , on requisition of the Adjutant General 's office , he was selected for duty as inspector in connection with the Quartermaster Department at the Army Building in Whitehall Street , New York . Department of Justice officials said tonight that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the department much valuable information of what is going on in the line of profiteering in the military service and out of it . Other Commissions Traced . The arrest of Lieutenant Staley followed the seizure on Monday afternoon by agents . of the Department of Justice of the books of between fifty and sixty firms engaged in army contracts in Manhattan , Brooklyn , and Queens . The seizures were directed by Dr. John E. De Mund and Sidney B. Pfeiffer , special agents of the Treasury , who were sent from Washington , to take charge of the investigation of profiteering . The special agents refused to give the names of . the firms whose books had been seized , and explained that no presumption was necessarily raised against a contractor because his books were seized for examination . Contractors on Government work are under obligation to allow their books to be inspected at any time by agents of the Government . It was stated that the books of all firms engaged on Government contracts probably would undergo examination . Dr. De Mund said evidence had been traced in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who pretended to be in a position to influence the placing of contracts . District Attorney Swann said that he discovered two months ago a plot in this city to get control of great spruce interests on the Pacific Coast . and that capital was enlisted through the representations made by a man that he could command the influence of a member of the Cabinet . District . Attorney Swann said he turned over all the facts he discovered to ' the Department of Justice . 