@@680230

txt The American Telephone and Telegraph Company and its associated companies s ill announce this morning the availability on Jan. 1 Of a fund of $10,000,000 for pensions , sick benefits , and life insurance for the 173.000 employes of the Bell System and associated interests and their families and dependents , amounting altogether to a total of more than 250,000 persons . The fund will be created from year to year by annual appropriations by the American Telephone and Telegraph Company and its associated companies , the Western Union Telegraph Company and the Western Electric Company . Persons who have seen the plans for the distribution of the fund describe them as among the most liberal and comprehensive ever inaugurated . President T. N. Vail has provided combined benefits for superannuation , EickneSs , and accident for every employe . This provision has been made entirely at the expense of the various companies interested , without contributions of any sort from the employes themselves . The plan also admits of the free change of an employe from one company to another with full credit for combined terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made for the needs of age , illness , accident , and death , as summarized in the official state , ment of the companies to be made public to-day , are as follows : PENSIONS . Male employes who have reached the age of JO years , and who have been twenty years or more in service , may retire on pensions . They may be retired at the option of the company when they have reached the age of 55 years , and have been twenty-five years or more In service . The pension age of female employes is in each case five years younger than that of male employes . Any employe who has been thirty years in service , regardless of age , spay be pensioned on the approval of the President of the ' company . The amount of the pension Is automatically based on the years of service and the amount of pay , and will be 1 per cent . of the average annual pay for ten years , multiplied by the number of years of service . Therefore . a man who had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . of the average salary which he had been receiving during his last ten years of service . No pen ' sion will hs less than $20 a month . ACCIDENT DISABILITY BENEFITS . In the case of accidents occurring In and due to the performance of work for the company , the employe will receive for total disability full pay for thirteen weeks , and half pay for the remainder of disability up . to six years . If the disability is temporary , he will receive full pay for thirteen weeks , and half pay until able to earn a livelihood , not exceeding six years . SICKNESS ' DISABILITY BENEFITS . Employes who are disabled by sickness or accident outside of the regular course of duty after ten years or more in service will receive full pay for thirteen weeks and half pay for thirty-nine weeks ; if from five to ten years in service , full pay for thirteen weeks and half pay for thirteen weeks ; if from two to five years in service , full pay for four weeks and half pay for nine weeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two years in service , heads of departments will be permitted the same discretion as heretofore , in continuing pay during temporary illness . LIFE INSURANCE . In the case of death resulting from accident in and due to performance of work for the company , an insurance amounting to three years ' pay will be paid to the dependents of the employe , the maximum payment being $3,000 . In the case of death resulting from sickness or from accident outside of business , the payment will be one year 's pay for employes who have been ten years or more in service , and one-half of one year 's pay for employee who have been from five to ten years in service , the maximum payment being . $2,000 . If any State statutes provide for more liberal compensation than is provided under the benefit plan , the statutory provision will prevail . Where the employes have legal rights , as In some accident cases , they will have the option of exercising such rights or accepting the company 's benefits . The American Telephone and Telegraph Company has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those whom it di . rectly employs , and also provides a reserve , upon which , under certain conditions , the associated companies may draw . This fund Is supplemented by funs set aside by each company . The total appropriations will aggregate something more than $10,000,000 . The benefits , it is estimated , will cost annually about $1,000,000 more than the present payments on this account . The administration of the funds will be in the hands of employes ' benefit committees of five , to be appointed by the Board of Directors of each company . The committee of each associated company will have jurisdiction over the benefits of employes of that company . The Employes ' Benefit Committee of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company will have general jurisdiction over the plan for the entire system and specific authority as to the American Telephone and Telegraph Company 's employes ' benefits , The total yearly pay of the 175,000 employes amounts to about $115,000,000. 