@@683080

txt The Associated Press has been placed in posiiession of a review of the first six weeks of the German unrestricted submarine campaign . The figures given are . from the Board of Trade reports , and the conclusions are those of a highly competent authority . " The German submarine campaign , reported to . have assumed enhanced vigor on Feb. 1 , must be singularly disappointing to the Germans themselves , " says the review . " At the beginning ' of January . 1917 . Great Britain possessed approximately 3,731 vessels of 1,600 tons and over . Many others of I lesser tonnage are not taken into consideration , owing to the importance of restricting the question to overseas traffic and cargo , judging the results carefully and looking to possible future developments . " From Feb. 1 until March . 14 the losses of British ships or over 4,600 tons-t -- were . approximately 78 , : which number deducted from the total leaves , the British mercantile marine with 3 , -1 653 ships of over 1,600 tonb after weeks ' German submarine Warfare . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proportion of tonnage is on the stocks building for the British mercantile marine , and a fair percentage of the total ' is being turned out monthly.1 In the total above mentioned no account I is taken of ships completed or bought in neutral countries . . No Ships Held in Port . " During the period from Feb . I . tol March 10 po British shine have been in any way blockaded in harbOr . Every Opportunity of carrying out their plans ' has been at the disposition of the Germans after their declaration of unre- , stricted submarine warfare . It is extremely improbable that the German authorities will ever have the same opportunity , for the following reasons : " First ? A large number of old tramp , steamers , slow of speed , have been sunk , as they afforded easy prey . " Second  --  Their errorts would be ' directed for the first six weeks or two months toward producing the most considerIble results by careful organization " and administration , with a view to affecting the morale of neutral nations . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British naval authorities , and anti-submarine measures have been adopted , which , as the out- I come of experience , have attained a large measure of success . " Third  --  The arming of merchant vessels is rapidly taking place and it Is capable of proof that a submarine takes particular care in attacking armed vessels , a large percentage of Vi ? hich always escape . " Fourth  --  Anti-submarine devices are being daily perfected , but a little time must necessarily elapse in order that they should receive a proper trial . " PIM-I ? The German naval authorities are bound to find some difficulty in replacing the trained personnel , of which they have lost a considerable portion . It should be remembered that there is considerable difference between the efficiency of individual commanders , and the greatest losses have been incurred through the action of a few German submarine commanders , who by their skill and training stand far above the average U-boat officers who leave Germany on missions of destruction . Losses Steadily Reduced . " The losses Of the British mercantile marine are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tWentynine pave been sunk , as opposed to forty-eight sunk in the first two weeks . " The vessels engaged in the coastal trade are continually exposed to German submarines , and are naturally included In a German commander 's report . " The most serious aspect of the German submarine warfare is that reflected by consideration of post-bellum conditions with regard to shortage-of world tonnage . Besides affecting the whole worldoit is likely to affect most seriously the smaller nations , : Who have no mercantile marine of their own to rely upon , and are dependentupori that of other nations for their sea traffic . However much the Germans may desire to force neutrals to lay up their vessels and close neutral harbors , such a state of things can not exist long , because the neutrals themselves must obtain certain necessaries in order to avoid the intense economic situation , which at present obtains in Germany . This fact is necessarily better known . to the neutrals themselves than to those not immediately concerned . As regards the general situation of the submarine warfare , it may thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect upon European neutrals than upon belligerent mercantile marine . The continual losses of ships will seriously affect post-bellum ? trade . The losses of British mercantile vessels in the first six weeks represent a percentage of 2.3 , while the average daily movement of vessels in United Kingdom ports is 710 . This figure excepts fishing and local craft . " If the same rate of destruction were to continue at this average it would take at least a year to reduce the British mercantile marine by one-half , Itith : - out taking into consideration additional tonnage procured from building or purchase . " Food restrictions in Great Britain are very necessary , and have been imposed in order to avoid the effects of the war pressing too hard upon the poorer classes . of the country , and they further curtail lavish expenditure and the . waste.of . provisions . ? ' r It is the . custom of the German authorities ' to issue official criticisms of measures adopted by the Allies as regards the control of foodstuffs and re.strictiOns On ' imports , ' and these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neutrals and are an attempt to impress their own population with the efficiency of what they term their submarine blockade . " It is only to he expected that we are bound to take precautions in order to avoid within the next two years economic stress which might then exist here , as it actually does in Germany today . The passage of troops and munitions continues without any dimunition , and only the neutral countries of Holland . Denmark , and Sweden are experiencing a temporary reduction In the amount of exports from England . Apart from butter , . the import of foodstuffs in February had been very satisfactory , and ' it should not be forgotten that in the statistics showing the quantity of foodstuffs imported in the month of February to . ' British ' - Ptitith a ? consider-c Elfin quantity ? which would normally reach them has been diverted to French ports for the use of the British Army . " Despite this , however , the position regarding home imports themselves is satisfactory . Flour and grain for February are above the average . Meat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the average of the last seven years . Margarine is coming in greater quantities than in any previous year , and this provides for the falling off In butter . Rubber Is increasing slowly each month . and the February average was above that of January . Trott ore shows onethird increase over 1915 and 1016 . " If anyconclusion can he drawn from the Board of Trade statistics of the import of necessities into Great Britain during the month . of February , a vary different result would have to be shown by the German submarine blockade . for up to the present time there has been no falling off except in sugar , wood , and butter . " 