@@681326

txt J. P. Morgan C Co. whose arrangements with the Bank of France and the Bank of England have broken the deadlock in foreign exchange and brought nearer the reestablishment of customary eo-nrneleial and financial relations with France and England . explained yesterday that the proposal to lend money to the French government was simply another step in efforts to find a market for American products abroad and establish a method of payment for them . The plan for a French loan , a was pointed out , did not contemplate any shipment of gold abroad for war purposes . or . for that matter . any gold shipment whatever . but was solely concerned with sale of American products to France and payment for the-n here . Already a method for the purchase of a moderate amount of our ; roods has been arranged by the der ostt of 812. ( a.0,000 by the French government with the Morgan banking houses in Paris and this city . The suggestion of a French government loan ass merely designed to augment these facilities . A statement by J. P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " We have not been asked by the French government to make a loan , but . we have been approached by private interests to know whether we would entertain negotiating a loan for the French Government , in case the government should desire such loan . " It was stated to us that if the loan should he made , it would be for the pu  --  pose of creating a credit in the United States , the proceeds of which would be used to buy American product . for the French people , and that no part of the credit would he used for gold exphrt . " Immediately upon receipt of this inquiry we communicated the fact to the State Department , saying the : we were not at all clear that , if asked , we should desire to negotiate the loan ; but that , in any event , we would not give the matter consideration without first acquainting the department with the facts , and ascertaining their attitude in regard to foreign loans at this time . " We advised them that irrespective of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ care to consider the subject if the Administration should have the slightest doubt in the matter . We have not as yet been advised of the attitude of the Department and can quite understand that possibly they may desire to rafrain from expressing any opinion . " If they should not express an opinion , we shall he governed entirely by the interests of the general situation as we see them , should an application be made for the loan , which is not yet the case . " ' Washington  --  Notwithstanding the traditional friendship of the United States . for France , it was foreshadowed in administration circles that this Government will not encourage a loan by J. P. Morgan d , Go , to France . It is - believed by officials that the request of the bankers will not be answereed at all . Administraticn ( Aims. ; b " Leve that the Morgan banking house has the right to make the loan to the French Government if it so desires , and there jr no reason why the American Government should take part in it in any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on such a loan , internationad lawyers assert such a loan wouia not be a violation of this country 's neutrality . A number of precedents have been established in former periods which at the time were not considered violations of neatrality conventions . ' During the Franco-German War in 1870 , J. P. Morgan took $50,000,000 French bonds through its London office and at the same time English bankers raised a large loan for the North German Confederation and neither of these operations was regarded as violating the established neutrality .                     