@@680637

txt A committee of six members of the United Real Estate Owners ' Association has sent to United States Senators James A. O'Gorman and Elihu Root and to Senator Simmons , Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee a protest against the adoption of certain of the income tax provisions of the Tariff bill , and it urges that they be amended . The committee objects strongly to these parts of the bill : 1 . That which provides that all persons including tenants , lessees , or mortgagors of real property , having the payment of interest , rent , ac. , of another person , exceeding *4,000 per year , shall deduct and withhold sufficient to pay the normal tax . 2 . That the owner of the premises shall not he entitled to the benefit of the exemption of $4,000 unless he shall , not less than thirty days prior to the clay on which the return of his income is due , file with the tenant an affidavit claiming the benefit of such exemption . 3 . That which provides that the owner shall file @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ annual gains , profits , and income from all other sources and also the deductions , &c.; 4 . That portion of sub-division Section G on Page 147 , which provides " that a corporation may only deduct interest accrued and paid within the year on its indebtedness to an amount of such indebtedness , not exceeding its paid-up capital stock outstanding at the close of the year . The committee says the foregoing are objectionable , especially to the real estate interests , for these reasons : 1 . That the Government , by requiring the tenant to withhold any part of the rent , exhibits a want of confidence in the landlord that Is most offensive . the2 . That neither the Government nor owner would have any redress if the tenant absconded with the money withheld by him . 3 . That it is not reasonable to believe that the owner would not make a true and proper statement of the rents and income from his property . 4 . The proposed law provides a penalty for non-compliance with its provisions . It should therefore not be necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claiming the exemption . nor should the owner be required to file with the tenant a statement showing all sources and amount of his income . and thus enable a. total stranger to know the personal and confidential affairs of the owner . ii . If the owner is to make statement of his affairs , there is no reason why the statement should not be made directly to the Government instead of to a tenant , lessee , or mortgagor. 6 . By having the owner or his agent or direct representative make the report directly to the Government , instead of to the tenants , there will be no necessity for the tenant to make any return . The members of the committee are Harold M. Phillips . Chairman ; Isaac Hyman , Ira J. Ettinger , and Dr. Abraham Korn , ex-officio.                     