@@681303

txt A fateful Cabinet council wherein England 's part in the Armageddon was to have been decided began at 6:30 o'clock last night and finished at 8:15 . An earlier one had met at 11 A. M. and sat until 1:55 P. M. At the second meeting , though no official statement was issued , it was indicated that Great Britain was still not involved . The Cabinet will meet again , it was announced , this , Monday , morning , and Premier Asquith ; will make an announcement of England 's position hi the House of Commons . Toward midnight a report was issued that the Government would apply to Parliament for a war loan of $250. - 000,000 . The swiftness and apparent success of the German plans have created surprise even in quarters where the efficiency and thoroughness of the German General Staff 's preparations are most clearly realised . All local trains have been held up for many hours by Government operations on the railroads . The British Government has established a censorship on all dispatches going out of the country . even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neutrality of Luxemburg and Belgium will be found to have played a most important part in shaping the policy of the British Government in the present crisis . Only last Friday the British Ambassadors In Paris and Berlin were instructed to ask the French and German Govern- , ments. respectively . whether they would respect Belgian neutrality in the event of war . The French Government immediately declared that it would respect Belgian neutrality , and the French Minister in Brussels was instructed to give assurances to that effect to the Belgian Government In behalf of the German Government Dr. von .. Tagow , the Foreign Secretary , replied to Edward Goschen , British Ambassador to Berlin , that he was unable to say whether Germany would respect Belgian neutrality , adding that assurances on this point would prejudice Germany from a military standpoint . Lord Kitchener , who was to have started for Egypt tomorrow , has postponed his departure . Events have moved so rapidly that his journey across France and thence by a British cruiser to Egypt is no longer conisidered practicable . A different route May be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lord Kitchener 's services are required in the meantime for purposes other than those originally intended . Die Cast , Says London Times . The London Times says today in an editorial : The die is cast . The great European struggle , which the nations have so long struggled to avert , is begun . " Germany declared war upon Russia on Saturday evening , and yesterday her troops entered Luxemburg , crossed the French frontier from Lor ; raine without any declaration at all . I It is Idle to dwell upon events such as these . They speak for themselves in a fashion which all understand . " They mean that Europe will be the scene of the most terrible war she has witnessed since the fall of the Roman Empire . The losses of human life and the accumulated wealth of generations which such a contest I must involve are frightful to think of . " That it should come about despite the zealous efforts of diplomacy and against the wishes of almost all the nations whom it is destined to affect is a grim satire upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who have plunged the Continent into its miseries and calamities . " The blame must fall mainly upon I Germany . She could have stayed the plague had she chosen to speak to Vienna as she speaks when she is in earnest . " She has not chosen to do so . She preferred to make demands upon St. Petersburg and Paris which no Government could entertain and defeat the last efforts of this country and others for mediation . By irrevocable acts she has lived up to the worst ' principles of the Frederican tradition , which disregards all obligations of right or wrong at the bidding of immediate self-interest . Violation of Traditions . " She believes her admirable military organization has enabled her to steal a march upon her rivals . She has been mobilizing in all but the name while their mobilization was retarded by conversations . She continued until her moment bad come , then she flung the mask aside while her Ambassador was still in Paris . While by customs traditional among all civilized peoples she was still at peace with France she sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It Is hard to say which of these acts was the grosser . In the infringement of public right with Luxemburg she makes no pretense of a quarrel . She herself was party to the guarantee of its neutrality contained in the treaty of 1867 . The other guarantors are Great Britain , France , Russia , Italy , Austria-Hungary , Belgium , and Netherlands : She solemnly pledged herself with some of them , including France and ourselves , to respect this neutrality . How Germany Keeps Her Word . " The world sees how Germany keeps her word . She has been weak enough , or cynical en . ugh , to issue an explanation of her breach of faith . Let Englishmen who have been disposed to trust her judge it for themesvles . She has not , she says , committed a hostile act by crossing the frontiers , by forcibly seizing ' Government offices , and by forcibly interrupting telephonic communication . These are merely measures to protect the railways from possible attack by the French . For her sudden invasion of France no excuse has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be of about equal ? worth . " " Thy whole situation was revolutionized by the events of yesterday . Doubts which many of us tried hard to cherish as to Germany 's real intentions were dispelled by her highhanded contempt of public law and government , and the nations now realize that she is bent on a European war , to be waged in the first instance against France and through those neutral States across those narrow seas whose safety we have bound ourselves to defend because it is indispensable to our own . " The Cabinet , which had been sitting ralmost uninterruptedly since Saturday morning , reached a decision at an early hour yesterday , which shows they know what is before us . " Now that Germany has shown her hand she is resolved to crush France and trample on the rights of those who happen to stand in her way . Yesterday it was Luxemburg , today it may be Belgium or Holland , or she may treat us as she treated our French friends and assail us Without a declaration of war . She @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the far-off dominions . The sure instinct of our people teaches them taht the ruin of France or the low countries ' would be the prelude to our own .                     