@@679860

txt With the official statement issued from the Palace this evening , the conference of the President with the Veteran leaders has resulted in the latter promising to abandon entirely their anti-traitor campaign . The conflict seems ended , although the more radical Veterans assert privately that they will continue . their agitation , which they call patriotic . Gen. Nunez , President of the Veterans ' Association , Col. Coronado , Secretary , and the editor of La Discusion , the recognized organ of military circles , had a three hours ' conference with the President of the Republic to-night . At to-night 's conference it was agreed that Gen. Nunez should address the Veterans throughout the Island by a circular directing them to cease the agitation , and transform their circles into benefit institutions for charitable purposes to better the condition of needy compatriots and families in reduced circumstances through the sacrifices of the war for Independence , co-operate with - Gomez 's Administration to improve industrial conditions , develop resources , maintain order , sustain the Constitution , and avoid all warrant for intervention . President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and others who took part in the August outbreak . All are disposed to second the Veterans ' project for pacific solution . The Presidential Secretary , Senor Remirez , says Gomez , will then take action calculated fully to reassure the Washington authorities . Consul General Rogers regards the crisis as over . El Diario de la Marina and other Spanish organs criticise Gomez for cabling THE NEW YORK TIMES and utilizing the columns of the American press . Gen. Nunez , while yielding , is most bitter over the result of last night 's meeting , which practically kills the Veteran movement and him politically . The general opinion is that the Deputies exceeded their legislative powers , encroached on the Constitutional reserve , and virtually defied the American military when they undertook to annul the Civil Service law , which Gomez signed . It is counterclaimed for the President , in forbidding the military to attend the Veterans ' meetings , that his order was Constitutional , in that it only applied to army men when they were uniformed . The Veterans of Batabano , in view of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compatriots to a like action . Pino Guerra , General of the August revolt , which brought Taft and Magoon on the scene as Governors , has organized 1,000 former followers , who are drilling near Wajay , and propose to support President Gomez , in accord with the American intimation , against the Veterans , should the latter revive in their menaces against the Government . La Prenza , the Spanish daily , whose attacks and persecution recently contributed to the recall to Madrid of the Spanish Minister , now demands that President Gomez declare the United States persona non grata , and hints that Gomez requested Washington to threaten intervention to save him from the Veteran movement . Vice President Zayas 's organ , La Opinion , in a leading editorial says it Is impossible to believe that Mr. Taft 's mere admonition will suffice to convert Gomez from his essentially evil ways of governing . Many Americans condemn the note as premature , saying that it merely prolongs the agony , whereas had the movement been permitted to progress , permanent intervention would have been inevitable , bringing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country . They say too , that the note will have an unfavorable effect on prospective investors in Cuban capital , who are being scared by Washington 's official recognition of intolerable political conditions in Cuba , which have heretofore been explained away as merely sensational newspaper exaggerations . Spanish merchants almost universally deplore that the intervention is postponed . Exciting rumors were rife this afternoon that Washington would send an ultimatum to Gomez unless the Knox memorandum was answered in forty- ' eight hours . send a fleet and land men at Guantanamo and blockade ports . Secretary of State Sanguilly denied the rumor . The Knox warning was merely an unsigned memorandum , not asking an answer . President Gomez is preparing a reply , which he will send after a conference with the Generals of the War of Independence . ' Speaker Ferrara and Lieut . Rey , who resigned from the army , have had a fight . ' Ferrara in the House had charged Rey with military disobedience in participating in Veteran politics . In a duel this morning Ferrara 's bullet grazed Rey 's forehead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious . It is said that Rey on leaving for the field , told a friend that he intended to kill Ferrara . At the word both fired , Rey missing . He fired again , and again missed . At the third shot Rey 's pistol snapped . Ferrara , who might easily have killed Rey , refused to fire after the first shot which grazed- Rey . Other duels are likely                     