@@678919

txt The budget for the next Conference of State Governors , as apportioned among the forty-eight States and Territories , will shortly be announced by Gov . WiLLsox of Kentucky . A small appropriation , say $40,000 , should suffice for the prosecution of a most important work . Gov . HUGHES justified this work last Winter , when he said in his speech to the Governors : If it can be deemed to be of advantage that we should secure greater uniformity of State action and better State Government  --  and who shall deny this ? it would be difficult if not impossible to suggest any better means for generating the necessary motive power ' than may be supplied through conferences of Governors . 1 Senator ROOT had expressed the belief that the Governors ' meetings were " merely evolutionary , " and would be superseded by meetings of State Commissions . Gov . HUORES expressed a contrary belief . " A Conference of Governors cart be expected to accomplish much more than conferences of legislative committees or of appointed Commissioners , " he said . Accord @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " can not fail to be of enormous inrfluence " ? for the following reasons : We are but few in number and represent the entire people of our respective States . We come to these meetings equipped with official experience and we have emerged from contests in which the people have dealt with questions of State policy with respect to legislation as well as administration . Then follows the exposition of what may be fairly called the Hughes Doctrine with respect to the power of State Governors : Executive recommendations grow in effectiveness because the Chief Executive represents the people at large and not a particular community or district , and there is an increasing tendency to regard him , and to hold him accountable , as the - spokesman of the prevailing sentiment . No legislative leader represents such a constituency , and even a legislative majority rarely rests upon so broad a base of public opinion . Against the scattered exponents of local interests , the State Executive represents in the public mind not simply administrative power , but legislative initiative , and in a peculiar degree , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State policy . As the exponents of State policy , therefore , the Governors will meet at some State . Capital in December . The Governors-elect will be present . A Secretary will have been appointed , " whose office by force of tradition might easily become permanent , and thus preserve desirable continuity , " and the Governors will begin to have the benefit of " an accumulation of material of inestimable value to the States . " Such , in brief , is the outline-of the scope and purpose of the Governors ' conferences , formally ratified by the Governors in session on Jan. 20 last . A budget appropriation of $40,000 would not be too large for the maintenance of permanent offices , for the salaries of the Secretary and his staff , for " neighborhood meetings " of the Governors , and for the annual conferences of all the Governors . Apportioned according to population among forty-eight States and Territories New York 's share would be less than $4,000 ; only a bagatelle need be provided by each of the others . But the ease with which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the States when urged to concurrent action . An effort will be made in the near future to interest the grown Prince in a concerted movement to have the Reichstag and the different State Governments of the empire pass laws for a more rigid inspection of the vivisection evil. ? Press dispatch from Berlin . So Germany , the home not only of " evil vivisection. " but of controlled longevity ? of a revolution in preventive medicine and therapeutics traceable alinert exclusively to experiments upon nnirna.ls ? is to go the way of Great Britain . The British medical scientists , te-achiove anything , have long resorted to the Continent for their experimental work . Now the Continent Is invaded by meddlesome people , intent upon " restricting " the labors of the grave professors .                     