@@683344

txt Bonar Law 's replies to several questions put in the House of Commons today relative to the coming Stockholm conference have tended to increase the dissatisfaction aroused by yesterday 's debate over Henderson 's trip to Paris 4n company with Ramsay . The Government leader emphasized the somewhat obvious ' fact that no representative of the British Government would attend a conference sitting under purely socialist auspices , but in regard to the point whether the Government would allow anyone to attend the conference Ile indicated that no decision had yet been taken . The probability , he indicated , was against British representatives being given passports . Speculation as to whether in that case Henderson will remain in the War cabinet is reviveu . There are two strongly marked currents of opinion at Westminster on the subject of participation in the conference . On the one nand is the party which holds that peace with uerman'y can culy be negotiated on the battlefields of France and Flanders . This section for political purposes puts its Own interpretation on the importance of Ramsay and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 1. t is pointed out that Herr Erzberger , who wants to settle the war by a chat with Balfour , wished two years ago that Zeppelins Would utterly destroy London , with all its inhabitants , young and old women , and children . How , it is asked , can the Britisn trust German pacifists of that kidney ? Would Placate Itumminna . The other school of opinion emphasizes the fact that the Stockholm conference is called by the Russian democracy , which holds the theory that the war is the result of the old dynastic methods and that peace can be restored y a union of workers in the countries at war . If Britain blocks the methods which the Russians advocate , runs the argument , she will incur a great deal Of odium and throw obstacles in the path of those who are trying to steady the situation in Russia and shape it ' for the good of all the Allies . The grounds upon which members of the British Labor Party , who were at first opposed to participate in the conference , accepted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : The Russian Socialists are convinced that the German working class organizations arc ready to overthrow Prussianisin , democratize German political institutions , and support the idea of a league of nations to insure peace , and that they seek the support of the international labor and Socialist movement to achieve their ends . These revolutionaries claim to be the dominant party in Germany today and they are even ready to discuss the restitution of Alsace-Lorraine . British workers are asked to put the matter to a test by being represented at Stockholm . Might cause Ferme.a in Germany . It is believed that whether they w1911 it or not the Germans will be forced to accept the ' findings of the conference . Russian leaders , who have been in consultation with the Germans , say that if the German Socialists can be convinced that the democracies of the Entente countries are sincere in their repudiation of conquests , the Scheidemann group in the Reichstag will force the Kaiser 's Government to make peace on terms satisfactory to the Allies . This prospect seemed too attractive to British labor men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therefore recommend that a special conference , which is about to meet , shall allow representation at Stockholm . There are indications , however , of a growing storm of opposition , and it is possible that the conference may reject the Henderson policy , but best judges consider this unlikely . The Government 's difficulties in the matter are obvious . If the labor conference should vote for participation at Stockholm and the Government should take the course which Bonar Law said was probable of withholding passports , Ministerial reconstruction would become necessary , and the loss of the labor representatives in the Cabinet would weaken it considerably . In the other event , the Government 's acquiescence in a policy of participation would create a storm among some of its strongest supporters . Neither side views the outlook with approval , and to complicate the situation there is a strong third party which charges the Cabinet with lacking a clearly defined policy .                     