@@683639

txt WAR NOT INEVITABLE . World Peace Possible with Germany Out of the Way . Recently a flagrant illustration of the danger of loose thinking came under my notice . It seems worth recording as loose thinking is at the bottom , alike of bad politics and of unsuccessful wars . I was discussing post bellum social conditions with a good pro-ally and responsible leader of political thought in this city when he casually remarked , as though it was not disputable , that we must always allow for the fact that wars would never cease ; wars must , he said , continue as long as human nature continues . For a moment I wondered if I was standing on my head ; everything seemed upside down , for surely this Is the German standpoint concerning war . . And are not America and her allies fighting against this very doctrine of militarism ? Or are we , after all , only fighting against the application of militarism to ourselves ? For if we do n't believe in the feasibility of universal peace and of liberty which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have we to the German ideal of universal militarism and of tyranny which is the inevitable corollary of militarism ? If we are not convinced that our ideal of universal peace and liberty is attainable , what force will . there be behind our thrust for that : ideal ? And here we . are evidently at a great disadvantage with the Germans . For they have no doubt whatever as to the feasibility of their ideal . Is it , . then , or is it not , true that , as the Germans assert and as my friend yesterday assumed , war is a biological necessity of human nature ? Germany 's own wars of 1864 , 1866 , and 1870 , against Denmark , Austria , and France , respectively should have cleared our minds of all illusions on that point For these ware which made the German Empire were not due to the animal passions of soldiers unable to restrain their lust for bloodshed ; they owed their origin to the intellectual ponderings of Bismarck , who , in his study , during hours of serene composure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the accomplishment of his political aims . And again , in this war of 1914 , the Germans have shown us by their elaborate preparations that war is a political weapon , deliberately used by those in power for the expansion of that power . War is obviously therefore not a biological necessity of human nature . War is not a natural instinct , it is not due to animal passions , which are always liable to erupt . War is an intellectual crime , which can in the future be stopped by intellectual means . Therefore our ideal of universal peace and of liberty , which can only result from universal peace , is a practical ideal , but until we are convinced of the feasibility of our ideal there will be no cohesion of aim , no vital force behind our fighting arm . For we must remember that the German alternative ideal of universal militarism and tyranny which accompanies militarism is also a practical ideal end that the Germans have no misgivings on that point . And until we are as convinced of the possibility of attainment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of attaining theirs the united Germans will have the advantage over their disunited enemy . And there is , alas , today only one way of attaining our ideal and that is by conquering ? by the only argument which she understands , physical force  --  the only nation that stands in the way of our attainment of our ideal of peace on earth and good-will to men . Captains of Industry " in War Why not take on the General Staff of the army some of the splendidly experienced and reputable business men who are being commissioned in the national army ? The General Staff works through committees . The problems before the General Staff are now matters of supply and organization . Even the beet of the military members of the fine staff that we now have will benefit by the breadth of view and celerity of decision with which our " captains of industry " will take up and decide matters put before them . President Wilson has said that the three divisions . ? of our army  --  the regulars , the National Guard , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportunity . With conditions as they are , does not that decision of the Commander in Chief suggest and make appropriate placing some of our distinguished men right in the General Staff ? Talk of Peace , Plan for War . To the Editor of The New York Times : what is the sense of talking about peace with Germany ? A peace entered into now would only be a truce . At the present time the Germane are seriously debating the necessity of plural marriages in order to enlarge their sadly depleted army . That does not look very much as if they were . sighing for universal and lasting peace . AMERICAN .                     