@@678814

txt The significant feature in the answer of Senator ALLDS to Senator CONGER is that it widens the field of inquiry . It flees so directly and indirectly . Directly it accuses CONGER of having made a Statement at the Ten Eyck conference that he himself was the giver of the bribe ALLDS was alleged to have de-manded , received , and accepted . In-directly it challenges CONGER to name the bribe giver , and it brings in sundry circumstances of the conference in such U. way that the Senate can not consistenly refuse to go into the whole matter . ALLDs also challenges CONGER to designate the measure for the defeat of which the money was alleged to have been paid , and an inquiry on that point would under skillful guidance lead far . Such guidance should not be wanting . It is not sure to come from the counsel of either side , though it may . But if it do not come it will be the duty of every Senator who wishes to get at the facts to clear the reputation of the Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we think  --  adopted the rules of a court of record as to the admission of evidence , but even these rules can not prevent the asking of Searching questions , the refusal to answer which may be as significant as any answer . Whatever rules it may adopt . the Senate is not a court of record . and in this matter is not conducting a trial . It is conducting an inquiry involving its own honor and the highest interests of the people of the State . This inquiry extends logically beyond the men mutually accused to conditions revealed by the terms and implications of the various accusations It is the duty of the Senate and of each of the members of the Senate to follow up any line of investigation that may lead to the exposure of corruption or attempted corruption or to the disclosure of the conditions making these evils possible . If the inquiry be made technical and narrow and react in a negatively favorable verdict the public will believe that this is due not to the innocence of the accused or to the purity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and there wii ; be no injustice in such a belief . So far as concerns the political effect of the matter nothing could be worse than a dodging mode of investigation . Were the whole case thoroughly gone into , the truth brought out , and blameworthy men properly denounced and punished , the majority would gain by the process . By any other they are bound to lose .                     