@@679739

txt Goerek Street shortly before 7 o'clock last night , carrying two packages of money aggregating ? i3,000 in bills of from $1 to $20 . It was pay night , and Schiff had just returned from his bank . As he started up the stairs a man sprang from the shadowed hallway and started after him . Schiff turned at the sound of his steps . The man lunged at the manufacturer , and Schiff let out a yell . A second man sprang down the stairs at him . He apparently had been hiding at the top of the flight . He struck Schiff with such force that all three were tumbled to the bottom of the stairs just as a third man ran in from the street . He joined the others in beating Schiff . who clung tightly to his money and called for help at the top of his lungs . Above stairs his work people , men and girls , heard him , and ran to the stairs , but they seemed afraid to go to hie assistance . The manufacturer struck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into a corner where he slipped behind a heavy ash can , still clinging to his money and still calling for aid . Then he yelled to his em-ployes : " Help , quick . TVs your wages he is after . " The cry startled some of the men into action . They bounded down the stairs and the rob/Sers , seeing the reinforcements coming , released Schiff with a few parting blows and darted out the door . Schiff was only a moment or two behind them , still yelling loudly , but the men ran to East Houston Street and escaped in the crowd . Schiff reported the attempted robbery to the Union Market Station and detectives were sent to his factory . They found him handing out the wages for nhich he had fought . His head and face were cut and there were marks on his throat , where the robbers had tried to choke him . Otherwise he was not hurt and he declared proudly that he would have fought harder had he had to . The detectives could get little description of the robbers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dark hallway to get a good look at them . It is supposed that they followed the manufacturer to his bank and after seeing him draw the money hastened ahead of him to trap him in the hall . JUDGE APPEALS TO THIEF . Begs That a Watch Given Him by His Wife , Lost at Sea , Be Returned , Ex-Judge John F. Dillon , now 50 years old , and long a commanding figure among American jurists , having been a member of the Supreme Court of Iowa . and on the bench of the United States Circuit Court , made yesterday an almost tearful appeal that the thief who last Sunday night entered his country home In Far Hills , N. . T .. return the gold watch which , among other things , he took . No earthly treasure , Judge Dillon said yesterday , could have bought this watch , and he told whY . His wife and his daughter , Mrs. Oliver , sailed for Europe in July , 1893 , in the French litter Bpurgogne , to spend the Summer . The ship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including Mrs. Dillon and her daughter . When the news of the disaster came Judge Dillon was confined to his bed with a broken leg , but he started immediately for Halifax , where he chartered a steamer and began a search of the seas for the bodies of his wife and daughter . For days his vessel sailed over and about the spot where La Bourgogne went down , but the sea retained its dead . The most precious memento of his wife was a watch which she had given him forty years ago on his fortieth birthday . It is inscribed , To my husband on his fortieth birthday . " This is the watch the thief got on Sunday night , and Judge Dillon hopes that even a burglar will understand why its owner values this watch more than it can ever be worth to any one else , and will return it . In addition , he offers a liberal reward for it .                     