@@678835

txt Eight persons were killed , five fatally injured , and more than twenty more or less seriously hurt b ? a head-on collision on the Georgia Southern &; Florida Railroad , which occurred eighteen ' miles south of here about S o'clock - to- night . The trains which came together were the southbound No. 5 and the ndrthbound No. 2 , and both were crowded with passengers . The wreck was caused by the crew of No. 2 disregarding orders and running by Bonaire. a small station , where the train had been ordered to meet No. 5 . The trains met at full speed , and the crash was terrific . Both locomotives and the baggage and express cars were torn to pieces , and the paasenger coaches were . piled in a ' great heap . Great trouble has been experienced in getting the dead and injured out of the wreckage . The dead are badly mangled. and so far only A. R. Johnson , a business man , of Macon , and Conductor Dupree of Kathleen , have been identified . Relief work proceeds slowly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information is difficult to get , as it is about five imiles from . a telegraph station . Two relief trains carrying doctors and nurses have left here for the scene of the wreck . I EGGS ARRIVING FROM EUROPE . The Paraffine-Coated Brand Disturbs Speculators with Eggs in Storage . For the first time in five years , European eggs are being imported into this country . Their arrival in the wholesale grocery district of the west side worries speculators who have been holding domestic eggs in storage in the hope that prices would go up in the first part of Lent . The foreign eggs began to arrive at the piers several days ago , and are still coming . They are all shipped by brokers from Hull , England , but were gathered originally from Austria , France , and Germany . Up to yesterday the total receipts of the foreign eggs amounted to 900 cases . Tile cases are larger than those used here for packing , and each holds from 60 to 120 dozens of eggs . The 900 cases held upward of 80,000 dozens . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dealers expect that the importations continue for a month or so . All the foreign eggs are coated on the outside of the shell with a secret compound of paraf fine . Arrangements for the movement of European eggs to New York were begun several weeks ago , when fresh eggs were bringing a0 a dozen at wholesale in this city . Since then prices have been steachly declining , and yesterday the finest fresh eggs were quoted at 28 to 2.5% cents at wholesale , while the first grade of eggs in warehouses could be bought at 22 to 22 cents . The foreign eggs are sold at wholesale for a cent or so more a dozen than the price of the domestic stored eggs , or from 23 to 24 cents . The duty on the foreign eggs is S cents a dozen , and the shipping charges average .1 cents a dozen .                     