@@684433

txt The Constitution of the League of Nations does not forbid alliances between groups of its members . It provides that all treaties making such alliances must be published , that no engagement shall be made which conflicts with the provisions of the Constitution . There seems to be aonle vagueness as to who shall decide whether a given treaty does or does not so conflict , which might conceivably lead to trouble ; but presumably none of these objections will apply to the grouping of nations in Southeastern Europe which is called a new Balkan League , and whose formation is credited chiefly to Mr. VENIZELOS , the principal organizer of the old Balkan League of 1912 . That alliance included Serbia , Bulgaria , Montenegro , and Greece . A year later Bulgaria attacked her allies , and Rumania associated herself with them without formal compact , more or less as we entered the general war in 1917 . All that was left of the old Balkan League when that war broke out was a defensive alliance between Greece and Serbia , which CONSTANTINE refused to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State which has grown up around Serbia , Rumania , and the Czechoslovak Republic  --  altogether some forty million people .. The last two Powers are certainly not Balkan . ' States , and much of the area of Greece and Jugoslavia will lie outside the Balkan peninsula , so the namei is hardly appropriate . But the four peoples are united in sympathy roused by the struggles of the war , and by the common interest of defense against ill-disposed or dangerous neighbors . Presumably their alliance may bind all four to war against the enemy of one , in a case when the League of Nations might leave it to individual Governments to decide on their - action against an offender . The States against whom this-alliance , unquestionably purely defensive , is designed to protect its members are presumably Bulgaria , Hungary , and Bolshevist Russia . Bulgaria has shown even less realization of the lesson of the war than Germany , and for the next few years must be regarded . with some ' suspicion by neighbors who have had experience of her methods . Hungary ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her people dp not accept the trahsfer of the Slovaks and Transylvanians to a. new allegiance the Czechs and Rumanians have a common interest in watching her . Germany , if she retains imperialistic ideas , will , of - course , be dangerous to these States , but so she will to the rest of the world . A more immediate threat is in Russia . The Red Crusaders in theory know no truce with bourgeoisie wherever found . Rumania and the Slovak country are protected from them only by the uncertain buffer of a Ukraine which is being fought over as desperately now as in the sixteenth century , and the League of Nations has not yet given much indication of its efficacy as a protection against militant Bolshevism . That the alliance has in view'any other dangers is unlikely . The Czecho-Polish controversy , which should never have been allowed to lead to fighting , will certainly be settled by the Peace Conference . The disagreements between Greece and Italy have apparently been adjusted , and the Peace Conference will have the task of adjusting the trouble between Italy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring a more conciliatory mind than a few months ago . In any event , it is inconceivable that the Rumanians and Czechoslovaks would join an alliance which might involve a remote possibility of conflict with Italy . Hungary and Bulgaria need watching , but the Bolshevist danger may very likely have furnished the chief reason for the alliance .                     