@@680988

txt List of Wilson Activities Issued by National Committee . Spacial to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , Feb . G. ? The first big gun in the Democratic political campaign of this year was fired to-day when the Democratic National Committee distributed a pamphlet entitled " A Record of Achievement  --  The First Ten Months of Woodrow Wilson 's Administration the Most Remarkable for Deeds in the Entire History of the Nation . " The pamphlet is understood to have been prepared by Thomas J. Pence , who is in charge of the branch headquarters of the National Committee here . Mr. Pence was one of the ante-convention Wilson workers and is now assistant to the Chairman of the National Committee . The pamphlet is intended to furnish the keynote for Democratic campaign speakers and editors in the Congressional and State campaign to be waged this year . In the list of achievements of the Wilson Administration these items are included : The tariff law . The currency revision act . " Elimination of the lobby from the halls of Congress and the seat of Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the election of Senators by the people . The peace programme of Secretary Bryan . " The action of the President in bringing together representatives of capital and labor resulting in the prompt passage of the Industrial Employes ' Arbitration act . " The President 's " constitution of peace " policy which the pamphlet says has resulted in breaking up interlocking directorates " which all admit have been the backbone of the trust system . " The action of the Secretary of the Treasury In depositing $50,000,000 of Government funds with banks to assist in the movement of crops . The President 's action in forcing the necessity for a farm credit system on the attention of the nation . The granting of modified self-government to the Filipinos . " The foreign policy of the Administration which divorced the Government from affiliation with the New York financial interests which were parties to the six-power loan to China . " The President 's " programme of co-operation with the business interests of the nation resulting in the elimination of the American Telephone &; Telegraph Company from control of the Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " diplomatic postponement " in connection with the Mexican and Japanese question and the Panama Canal tolls question , " which , has been supported by public opinion , not only in America . but in Europe as well , because it is based upon morality and not upon expediency . " The " action of the Postmaster General in making the postal service self-sustaining for the first time in the history of the Government . " The development and extension of the parcel post system . The ending of " Cannon methods " in Congress , The extension of the Pure Food act to meat inspection . The Department of Agriculture 's " system of markets . " The action of the Secretary of the Navy " in forcing the Armor Plate Trust to submit to competitive bids . " An extension of the rural free delivery system to the parcel post . Extension of work of the Department of Agriculture to the home life of the farmer . The action of the Indian Commissioner in giving the protection of the law to Indian children . A new land policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the proper use of lands of our national domain . " The enactment of a law for farm extension work . The President 's proposal of the selection Of Presidential nominees through primaries . The sending of representatives to the " Safety at Sea " conference in London . The early enactment of the Alaskan Railway bill . The action of the Secretary of the Navy in putting into effect on shipboard a system of academic , vocational . and technical instruction for enlisted men . The dissolution of the Union PacificSouthern Pacific merger which " at the same time caused the surrender by the Pennsyl-. vania Railroad of its large holdings in its competing rival , the Baltimore &; Ohio . " The final achievement noted on the list is the prosecution of combinations by the Department of Justice .                     