@@683834

txt L-S-dcr'etarY Baker has placed a ban on any information being made public in Washington , or in fact , in this country , officially dealing with the American Expeditionary Force . in France . Matters affecting the forces at home may be announced by the War Departmeat , but nothing regarding the forces In the field in Europe , other than through General Pershing 's headquarters In France . The new ban is being applied so literally that announcement was made by the War Department tonight that no more casualty lists would be issued until further notice . A casualty list was given out today . General March , , the acting Chief of , Staff , and General McCain , the Adjutant General , interpreted the instructions from Secretary Baker to forbid the further publication of casualty lists and announced that no casualty list would be issued tomorrow . The establishment of this new ban was disclosed when the following official announcement was issued : The War Department has been notified by cable that the Secretary of War has prescribed the following rules for handling publicity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All matters pertaining to events , persons , policies , or opera , tions abroad will only be officially given out from the headquarters , American Expeditionary Force In France . Second  --  Similar matters affecting forces at home will be given out from the War Department . The reason for this action on the part of Secretary Baker has not been disclosed . Official Information Scanty . Very little official information has been disclosed regarding the American forces abroad . The information given out has consisted mostly of routine statements listing the casualties day by day . These were first announced through the Committee on Public In. formation . As thus issued , the emergency addresses were given . This was pot satisfactory to those identified with the expedition , and General Pershing recently cabled urging that the publication of emergency addresses of soldiers killed or wounded be discontinued . Chairman Creel of the Committee on Public Information regarded the lists as useless if issued without addresses , and refused longer to handle them in his office . The War Department then began issuing the casualty lists through - the office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the name , rank , and how the casualty occurred , addresses being withheld . Until the American forces reached the verge of entering the great battle now in progress in France no announcements regarding the use of the expedition were made by the War Department . The battle has been in progress thirteen days , and all that has been given out about it have been paraphrases of a few dispatches from General Pershing , giving information that had already been published in the cable dispatches from abroad to American newspapers . There have been weekly war statements issued by the War Department , but these did not disclose as much information as ? had been sent In news dispatches from General Pershing 's headquarters in France . American forces have now been in France since last Summer and some of our men have been on lhe fighting front , occupying trenches for six months . No daily communiqu ? s , regarding the employment of American forces have been issued , although every other nation ? having forces engaged in the war has been issuing communiques , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several official statements regarding military operations daily . Newn nt Second Hand . A peculiar feature of the situation appears to be that high officials in the War Department have been obtaining their first news regarding the recent vital developments as to the more immediate use of American forces on a large scale from the newspapers or from published reports of French ana British announcements , If the War DepartMeta has been taken fully into the confidence of the Administration , or of General Pershing or Secretary Baker , that fact has not been admitted at . the department . The announcement of General Pershing 's offer of the unlimited use of American forces was first made in a Parisian newspaper and was later confirmed . Responsible officials of the War Department denied absolutely that they had any knowledge of the offer , beyond what they read in the press . Sim ilarly , when General Foch was named to co-ordinate the allied forces , the first intimation on this side of the water came when the President 's congratulatory message to General Foch was made public . Then it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to congratulate General Foch on the fact that he had been intrusted with the unity of command over all the forces on the western front involved in the battle . General March , when asked about the appointment of General Foch , said he had no advises on the subject . For three days responsible officials of the War Department have insisted that they were without knowledge of the fact that American troops were already on the move toward the battle front , although their movement has been characterized by the greatest enthusiasm and has been dealt with in considerable detail in censored dispatches from abroad . The ' announcement that American troops were to be rushed to Europe as rapidly as possible from now on also came from abroad in an official statement issued at London , and concerning which the War Department today professed to have no official confirmation .                     