@@681075

txt Dean of New York University 's Law Department Calls Association 's Action Unjust . THEIR STUDENTS EXCEL Higher Average Is Maintained in Night Classes Than in Those Held in the Day , Dr. Ashley Says . The action of the American Law School Association in barring from membership law schools giving night coursed on the ground that such courses tended to lower educational standards is denounced by Dean Clarence D. Ashley of the School of Law of New York University in a report to Chancellor Elmer g . Brown of the university , made public to-day . He calls the action of the association Unjust in itself and unwarrapted by the facts , inasmuch as a higher average of excellence is maintained in the evening classes than in the day classes . In support of his statement he quotes private records of his school . The action to which Dean Ashley objects was embodied in this resolution adopted by the American Law School Association : Whereas , The maintenance of regular courses of Instruction In law at night parallel to courses in the day tends inevitably to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy Of the association shall he not to admit to membership hereafter any law school pusuing this course . This resolution , according to Dean Ashley , was proposed without el:04114-tion , and was adopted without debate . Furthermore , he points out , no school represented had any evening division or any special Interest in the question , and , apparently , no previous investigation was made . " Believing that the association did pot fully realize the effect of this action. ? Dean Ashley says , " and that its members would not knowingly sanction an Injustice , we request , with some confidence , either the recession or modification of the preamble and resolution . The arguments and facts which follow seem to us to warrant this request . But , first . let it be understood that this school makes no complaint because of its exclusion from the association . Membership , although pleasant , Is not essential to our welfare . We rely upon the strength of our Faculty , the soundness of our curriculum , the severity of our standards , and the professional ideals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ division is detrimental to the highest aims of the profession , and we shall discontinue it at once . There Is no financial gain in continuing this work , and we maintain it solely because we believe that our duty to the community calls for it . " Dean Ashley puts in evidence figures which show that evening men have maintained a better average grade than day men in the New York University Law School for the last fourteen years . Of the 1,876 graduates of the school in that period , he says , 1,352 took day work , and 554 work in the evening . Of the day men , aa per cent . attained an average mark above 70 , while of the evening men 86 per cent . attained that average . Some of the men who have the least time for study , according to the Dean , accomplish the best work . As a further proof that there is no lowering of the educational standards in New York University Law School , he points out that the men who enter from other law schools invariably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local school . " Moreover , " says Dean Ashley , " every experienced lawyer knows that he does his best work under pressure . These men know the importance of systematizing every moment , compelling their attention to the subject on hand , and putting a steam-power force of energy , determination and pluck into their work . They are the very men who develop into our cultured lawyers . " True , it is not aristocratic to earn one 's own living . and pay for one 's own education , but those who are able to do this possess an element of strength and of character which makes of them strong and liberally educated lawyers . " Dr. Ashley cites as illustrations two poor boys who. because of evening law schools were enabled to get an education and became eminent in their profession . He asserts that this is true of thousands , and that evening law schools can be special servitors of these people . The idea underlying Dean Ashley 's report is that if evening schools were abandoned as the American Law School Association desires , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their living would either be prevented from entering the legal profession or compelled to obtain their legal training entirely through clerkships in offices . The evening law schools . he insists , are uplifting the educational standards of the profession by affording such men the opportunity to study in a law school where a thorough and systematic training is given , and thus enabling them to have one more choice than the law office , in which , the Dean adds , only a superficial smattering of law can be obtained . Five of Dean Ashley 's colleagues on the law faculty join him in commending the advantages of evening law work and its relative merit , as do also several men distinguished in the legal profession who are graduates of New York University Law School . Dean Ashley tells of a conversation with the late Dean Ames of the Harvard Law School , in which Dean Ames expressed the belief that evening law schools have distinct advantages , and he accordingly gave preferential standing to graduates of the New York University Law School who had pursued the regular three-year evening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  