@@680829

txt President Wilson 's expected message relative to Mexico is awaited here with the Leenest interest There is reason to believe that the British Government is becoming anxious to retreat from a position which some of its strongest supporters regard as unfortunate , and If Mr. Wilson 's proposals offer an opportunity for doing so with grace and dignity . they will be warmly welcomed in Downing Street . Inquiries made yesterday tend to Show that in suggesting that Huerta 's failure to abide by his promises has left all the Powers which previously recognized his de facto Government free to consider their position , The Westminster Gazette was reflecting an argument which is being seriously weighed in official quarters here . One point which has been strongly pressed upon the Foreign Office , is that British interests in Mexico are not confined to those enterprises connected with Lord Cowdray and other English firms which have concessions in Mexico , but also includes a considerable amount of British capital which is invested in American companies , as for instance , in Mexican railway stock . President Huerta 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unlikely to be able to carry on the Government much longer , is also exercising some effect on the British official view . In The Daily Telegraph this morning is an article by Capt . Granville Fortescue , who was ' Military Aid to President Roosevelt , presenting the American case against Huerta and an editorial comment thereon , which resolves itself into a mild defense of the British position ; on the ground , that under the circumstances England could not do otherwise than it has done . " For us , " says The Telegraph , " the problem does not turn on Huerta 's character , but on the chances of securing some permanency in the Government . We have large commercial interests in Mexico , and it is of the highest importance to us that the country shall not be perpetually rent by revolutions and civil war . If there is any possibility of peace and tranquillity under Huerta , we can hardly avoid , on strictly practical and financial grounds .. recognition of an admintration , worked by one who at all events is the de @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be de jure . " What else are we to do ? Mexico is not a European State , as Servia was , when we refused for some time to recognize a monarchy founded on bloodshed . " We do not live close to its borders . We only ask such conditions as will enable our merchants to carry on their commercial activities , and inasmuch as peace is the greatest of our interests , we naturally accept a settlement of ? Mexico 's internal conditions which ; looks as if it might lead to peace . " The Telegraph , however , goes on ; to admit that it is not clear that the I present provisional arrangement real- ; ly does lead to peace and adds : " In the present circumstances it appears a prudent course to wait on events , and we believe we are right in saying that both Germany and ; France , as well as ourselves , are quite ' prepared to refrain from any decided step until the situation becomes clearer . or until some sort of conclusion is I attained by means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain re- I considering its position is referred to by The Daily Graphic which says that if it is not possible " to retrace our steps it would be deplorable . if through a blunder , for a blunder it assuredly is , Anglo-American relations were to suffer . " The Graphic lays stress on the fact that American public opinion has ground , and even justification , for believing that the British policy is calculated to embarrass the United States . It adds : " It is disingenuous on our part to assume that the inspired statements of a reassuring kind , issued in London in regard to the relations between Sir Edward Grey and Ambassador Page and Sir Lionel Carden 's criticism of the American policy dispose Of the American grievances . "                     