@@683583

txt Far off in Flanders the fighting was going on , but ' along this quiet sector things had been for many months almost as peaceful as home . A raid now and then , just to remove the impression any one might have gained that it ? was an armistice . There was a perfect galaxy of reasons why nothing was to be expected . For one thing , this was the strongest part of the Hindenburg line ; it was impregnable . If the British were ever to attack it , they would need all their strength ; they could not be slamming away in Flanders at the same time . They would need so much preparation that all Hindenburgia would be on notice weeks ahead , and have time to get armies there , if . necessary . For another , this war had demonstrated the fact that no attack could be made without extensive notice by artillery , and very little notice would be enough to brace up the . Hindenburg. line , at Cambrai . . Upon a line impregnable in itself , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and long acknowledged to be invincible both by British repose in front of it and British activity elsewhere , fell the eye of a German General considering from what point it would be safest to remove artillery . He wanted to send guns to Italy . Of course he decided that this was the point above all others from which it would be safest to take them . He took them . That , doubtless , explains why the German artillery fire was so weak when the storm burst . The Hindenburg line was protected by infinite barbed wire , which can not be removed except by artillery . The whole situation bristled with impossibilities . The impregnable line was broken , the barbed wire was removed without artillery , the British did not give the inevitable notice , the absolutely essential barrage was not made , cavalry attacked artillery and beat it , there was no air reconnoissance , infantry rescued tanks from cannon  --  in short , if there was a single impossibility that did not become fact within the first forenoon of the British advance , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not equip a fleet of submarines with stilts and snake them walk at the head of his army , but lovers of the impossible will have to be satisfied with that : nearly every other impossibility ceased to be . The part the airplanes usually play was omitted entirely . In place of a barrage there was a charge , but a charge of massed tanks . With all the tanks have done , this massing of them into an army to take the place of artillery and almost of infantry is something new under the sun . " The " Tank Corps expects every tank to " do its damnedest " was the watchword of its commander at the outset of what must be called the first tank battle ever fought . They came surging out of the mist at 6:20 A. M. , and although the Germans are used to the sight of tanks , they never saw a tank army before . The correspondents record that in their bewilderment the Germans stood still and let the tanks waddle over them and crush them into the ground . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jeer of our infantrymen in the great American war was never answered until SHERIDAN rose to answer it . There has been the same feeling in this war , but some British Sheridan has spoiled the joke for all time . " Sabering the gunners at their pieces " ? there is something incredibly ancient and far off in the sound of that phrase , and to find it in today 's dispatches makes us rub our eyes ; it seems to belong back somewhere in the Crimea , or in the War of 1S12 . Finding their mission at last , an liking it , the cavalrymen exceed thei instructions , like the infantry a Missionary Ridge , and go dashin ahead with the work laid out for th infantry ; they conduct the charg proper , and their greater speed leave the infantry in the rear while th cavalry take villages all by them selves . Impossibility of impossibilities , th Hindenburg line is smashed , smasher at its strongest point , smashed at th one place where friend and foe caller it not merely strong but impregnable All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vanished barbed wire tha no shell had struck , the cavalry a infantry work , all shrivel in size be side that . Not only is the line itsel smashed , but its supporting line i smashed , and the British army riot on in the rear of both , redeemin ; French territory that France neve expected to see except after the sick ening devastation of another " stra tegic retreat . " In one day Si JULIAN BYNG made nonsense of al the military lessons of the war proved the continued existence of th old-fashioned warrior , and establishes himself as the artisan of all tha ca n't be done                     