@@680774

txt The State Convention of Republicans to be held in Carnegie Hall this evening has no standing in law . The delegates assembled may . if they please , act as a designating committee , and may recommend to the State Committee of the party a candidate for Chief Judge of the court of Appeals , in place of Chief Judge CULLEN . and a candidate for Associate Judge of the same court , in place of Judge GRAY . The State Committee probably will accept these designations , but it has full power to make the nominations itself . Acting as a council of a party , the convention , of course , may accept resolutions and declare policies . Probably the Republicans of the country look with interest and hope to the action of this convention , the first to be held in an important State since the great schism and defeat of last year . To draw up a satisfactory declaration of party policies will be a work of great delicacy and difficulty for this convention . There are signs which inspire the hope , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Progressive Party is in dissolution . , The showing it has made in primaries here and in other States has been one of weakness approaching insignificance . But the Progressive leader has recently shown signs of recurrent activity and of the old ambikip Republican : would . be so foolish as to suppose that Mr. RoosEvEr .. , r is not to be reckoned with . A Republican platform dictated by intelligence and foresight must take account of whatever is sound and reasonable in the Progressive demands . Upon the other hand , it would be wholly foolish to persist in what have been called the reactionary tendencies of the party . The convention can not very well adopt a standpat platform , and the party can not make Itself the citadel of privilege . The revision of the tariff , now so nearly accomplished , is an emancipation not only for the industries of the country , but for the Republican Party . The old party of protection can now take a step forward . The path before it is in plain view . Nothing could be more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make political capital by assaults upon business . A sound and acceptable policy for the Republican Party , for any party . would he one that should demand the enforcement of the law , the punishment of proved offenses , but beyond that an assurance to honest men that they may carry on an honest business without molestation . There has been a great deal of molestation in the last dozen years , and it has been visited alike upon the just and the unjust . Men who have been not only trying to do business in obedience to the law , but who have so done it . have suffered with the violators through the confusion , uncertainties , and disturbance due to the ' continual mixing up of politics with ' business . All over the country it has become a profession , eagerly fol- ' lowed by demagogues , to seek political preferment by continually proclaiming war on business . There are abundant indications that the country is at the beginning of a period of great prosperity . It wants peace , not peace at the price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ justice and the abstention of politicians from activities that are purely selfish and pestiferous . If the Republicans In Carnegie Hall can prepare a platform that will promise peace with justice , the fruits of their labors will be widely welcomed                     