@@683433

txt It is learned from authoritative source 's that the effect of the Lansing disclosures in Swedish governmental circles has been that of a bombshell . Furthermore , the Government of Sweden . by which is meant the court circles , military chiefs , and the pro-German elements in the Conservative Government as distinct from the Swedish people . are annoyed with the Washington State Department , which they think has sought to exercise influence upon the domestic affairs of Sweden by publiehing the documents in the midst of a Swedish general election . Other motives that may have actuated Washington are thought immaterial by Stockholm pro-Germans in comparison with the damage which they may suffer in consequence . America 's action in a critical juncture of a general election is regarded by the pro-German clique as not only an unfriendly act but an unwarranted interference in Swedish affairs . The electoral situation is a critical one for the Swedish Government . In the old Riksdag the Conservatives had about eighty seats , the Liberals about fifty , and Branting 's Socialist Party about eighty . A Liberal-Socialist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , covering about one-seventh of the country , and with the Lansing disclosures a landslide for the opposition candidates is expected . The election will not be over until Sept. 21 , and it hoped here that the result will be so ever vhelming that a Emitting Ministry will be inevitable , although Swedish Ministers are nominated by the King , not dependent on a Riksdag majority . Since the double dealing by Sweden was fully realized here early in the war the question has been raised why Great Britain refrained from drastic . action then . The answer given by a high authority reveals how valuable America 's entry in the war has been to the Allies . Her diplomatic independence enables her to take strong measures which clear the air . England was held flack from putting pressure on Sweden by many considerations . Her only speedy communication with Russia was through Sweden . Sweden borders on Finland , which always has been discontented with Russia . So long as it was hoped that Russia would conduct : an important offensive against the Central Powers it was impossible for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ join Germany and create a diversion by aiding rebellion in Finland . Russia 's internal conditions have deprived many of these considerations of force . There is no definite announcement of British policy yet but it is believed that strong steps are in contemplation and already the passage of Swedish diplomatic cyphers has been stopped . LONDON , Sept. ** like the whole of Europe . was anxiously awaiting today what Sweden would have to say regarding Washington 's revelations of the use of her diplomatic service for forwarding dispatches from the German Legation in Argentina . Count Wrangel , the Swedish Minister at London , had not received any advices from his Government this morning , but Intended nevertheless to visit the Foreign Office during the day , for what purpose was not stated , but probably to make sonic personal explanation . He told The Associated Press that he had no advices concerning the Argentine affair and had " nothing whatever to say about the matter . " In Swedish circles in London the view is expressed that the revelations come just in time to insure a big victory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are now under way and will continue ' until Sept. 21 . This should be followed by the fall of the present Conservative Government as soon as Parliament reassembles in January and its replacement by a Cabinet headed by Kalmar Emitting , the Socialist leader . Although under the Swedish law the Government does not necessarily fall except on an adverse vote by both houses ( and the upper house will continue Conservative owing to the peculiar method of its election ) there has been a tacit agreement between the parties to abide by the result of the present election , and failure on the part of the Conservatives to comply with this agreement might , in the belief of some Swedes here , result in a revolution . The Conservatives . who are regarded as pro-German , have lost five seats in the pollings already . It is believed in some quarters that when Sweden learns that its Government has acted as a German agent the Cabinet will be forced to resign without awaiting the result of the elections and give way to a Ministry which will otter apologies and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neutrality . It had been supposed , because of the silence at Stockholm , that possibly the news of the disclosures was suppressed there , but last night 's dispatches showing that the facts have been published by the Swedish press give satisfaction and cause the hope that the Swedish Government will make prompt explanations . 