@@682847

txt It was fortunate that a little Oklahoma railway was In a Federal receivership . That fact eased the way for a speedy Federal decision which might be accepted as the basis of an appeal in the Adamson law case . Otherwise there could not fall to be difficulty in deciding what railway or what lawyers should be chosen to make the test . There can be no jealousy about the selection of the Oklahoma road , and the lawyers needed not to give themselves too much trouble about it . The court needed little assistance to make a decision merely as a basis of appeal . As a formality for that purpose Judge HOOK decided that the law is unconstitutional , and directed that every railway in the United States should have opportunity to be heard before ' final decision . In any other way than this the alternative would be that each of nearly 200 railway systems should proceed independently . That would make necessary thousands of cases , for each system has mileage in several Federal jurisdictions , to say nothing of State courts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be sustained . That depends upon the higher court . It will be difficult for the Supreme Court to annul the law without saying what it means . That would he a great gain , whatever the effect upon the law . The best thing about it is that the decision is possible at a time when Congress is in session , and can consider the subject anew . Generally speaking , it I , is better that an issue should be de ( sided aright than that it should be decided quickly . This controversy Is an exception . Elven the Supreme Court can not decide this issue by itself without making new law . That is the function of Congress . The outstanding fact is that the law has few friends . Even those responsible for tt are reduced to saying in its defense that their intentions should be enacted , since the law is not clearly expressive of them . This law begins with an obscurity which baffles interpretation , and enacts contention which can not be ended within any known future . It leads up a blind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of it . The door through which pass 400,0(1) trainmen , millions should pass threugh , or the trainmen should not pass . Such a fire has been lighted that everybody , all who hope to receive the eight-hour day and all who must pay fir it , must wish that the proposal ei.oeid be considered on its merits , without prejudice created by legislation under threat . The only chance of that is to make a fresh start : perhaps with provision that the railway portion of the controversy should be settled finally in accordance with the main settlement . The brotherhoods ought to be content to receive their current wages , under anl engagement that the wages they demand under the new proposal should he set aside to await the ultimate outcome . That is provided for in Judge HOOK ' S decision . It is a promising beginning toward untanglement.                     