@@682238

txt Slapped on one cheek by the city coup ell and on the other by the Methodist ministers ' meeting , Corporation Counsel Ettelson yesterday stood by his ruling that " wet " restaurants need not close their doors at 1 a. m . And he sidled all the time . " I do n't understand the exact cause for'all the excitement , " lie said , " but our written opinion on the question probably will be put in its final form tomorrow and made public . " In effect it will agree with our oral opinion given in connection with New year 's eve and will hold that the la w does not compel a restaurant to close Its doors at 1 o'clock simply because intoxicating liquors are sold there during the day . " Of course there may be some qualifications in addition to those stated in our , earlier opinion : but , in general , we find that the law permits a restaurant to keep its doors open If It is securely shut oft from all bars and if intoxicating liquors are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bar and if nothing more than a reasonable amount of intoxicants remains on the tables at the closing hour , " Council Begins Inquiry . The council passed four orders relative to restaurants , cabarets , and fox trot . teries . Three of them came from Robert M. Buck . They directed the following : That the corporation counsel submit his restaurant , opinion at the neat meeting . That Second Deputy Funkhouser Investigate all cabarets anti present week . ly reports upon conditons to the council . That the corporation counsel report the status of the ordinance prohibiting Public dancing In restaurants , Aid . John N. Kimball had the fourth order passed . That directed City Prosecutor Hairy .1-3 . Miller , who has before him the reports of Morals Inspector Hanna on conditions at the Fox Trot club at the Hotel Morrison , to report in writing at the next council meeting " the reasons for his failure to prosecute . " Ministers See Evasion . The Methodist ministers ' meeting passed a resolution presented by the Rev. A. T. Stephenson of Calvary church , reading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of opinion relative to the Interpretation of the letter of the law , yet : there Is no question in our mind that this interpretation of the ordinance is a violation of the spirit of the law , and that any explanation afforded by a literal into . pretation of the . law is In our minds a poor apology when the original spirit and purpose of : he law has been violated . " The Rev. W. ' S. Fleming defended Slayer Thompson . " He is the only m en who has been in he mayor 's etialr " , for Pony years w .. c ins treated the ' Methodist ministers right , " he said . " We ought to go very ; low in slapping Mayor Thompson . "                     