@@681785

txt When the Dusitania sailed from New York May 1 The Wall Street Journal was informed that the /Washington administration was more alarmed over the German situation than at any time since the war started Government officials admitted that the situation was undeniably serious , according to international hankers whc are close to the sources of information . Germany will get the strongest note she has yet received , and one that will contain a suggestion of threatening statements . The government wants no more affairs like that of the Gulflight and the Lusitania . In this connection it is of extreme interest to hear of the reports that have been brought to New York bankers from Turkey at the end of April by an American who conversed with the German officers who are directing 1he defence of the Dardanelles and of Constantinople . The American had stated to the German officer that United States would under all conditions keep its finger out of the pie . " Ah ! " replied the high German officer , " but we do not intend that you shall stay nut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who wins this war , we will all be economically exhausted , both victor and vanquished . If America can keep out , she will when peace is declared have the world 's trade in the palm of her hand , and all the nations of Europe will be too exhaustel to compete against her . That is the reason America must come in and will be forced in . We do not fear her as an opponent . It makes little difference to us now whether there are fifty or a hundred more war vessels opposed to us , and it is quite impossible that America can get at us with her army , or at least an army of such a size as to he an important factor . " Rut it is important to us that America must undergo an industrial and economic paralysis such as would be brought about by her entrance into the war . She can not equip an army or a navy soon enough to do Germany any great amount of harm . but when peace is declared , all the nations of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cm an equal footing . and we do not propose that America shall have ten years ' start of the rest of us . We will force her in . " This conversation took place early in April . It might possibly be the idle vaporing of a conceited German General , but the American took the trouble to check up . He found that other German officers held the same view . Was the Gulflight incident intentional or accidental ? Do all the reasons for the Lusitania 's sinking appear on the surface ?                     