@@679624

txt Cy De Vry went deer hunting in Wisconsin yesterday to get new specimens for his Lincoln park zoo . By D:30 o'clock a. en . he had twenty-seven of the white tailed variety . Perhaps it will detract from the glory of the feat to announce that the deer were upon the farm of John J. Mitchell at his summer residence at Lake Geneva . All the herd but one was raised there . The deer were supposed to be half tamed . All the north side animal expert had to do was to put them In crates . It . looked easy . But long before the twenty-seven were in their snug wooden cages Cy and his three perspiring assistants . with their clothing torn nearly to ribbons by the hoofs of the frightened deer , were breathless and sick of their Jobs . Mr. Mitchell Tires of Animals . Mr. Mitchell became ' tired of seeing the deer around and gave them to the Lincoln park board . He thought it would be a simple matter , to transfer the animals to the north shore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to the difficulty of the undertaking . Early yesterday morning as he was walking down the driveway toward the pen where the animals were kept , he re-marked : " It 's going to be a tough job . I 'd rather handle forty lions than these crazy deer . " The forty-four animals in the herd went all directions but toward the corral . They eluded the drivers with sudden bursts of speed that made them resemble brown blurs to the eye . But with the aid of a net . two does and five fawns were driven Into the amallinclosure . Battles with Crazed suck , De Vry and two strong helpere entered the corral . Then things livened up . The deer shied at the trap door , which led into a cage . Instead they milled around and around , working themselves into a frightened frenzy . With blind fear they leaped repeatedly at the tough wire mesh . Finally the animals were cornered and worked into the trap . Several of the fawns were caught by Fred Hawkins with his hands and carried bawling to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Among them was an antlered buck that came titer sending the zoologist to the hospital . The crazed animal struck at him with its sharp fore feet . Ills left trousers leg was slashed from hip to heel . The undergarment was also torn , but Cy got away without a scratch . His clothing was ripped later on and at the close of the exciting work it was fit only for the ash can . After it was over Cy was a most satisfied man . Seventeen more will be caught today .                     