@@680386

txt An armed truce prevailed between ' the Federals and the revolutionists all day . Gen. Diaz still held the arsenal and had practical control of all the heavy artillery . He is equipped with rifles and machine guns and has an unlimited supply of ammunition . According to reports , he is arming and drilling several hundred men in the arsenal . A conference was held this morning between Gen. Dias , two of his suporters , and Cabinet Ministers at a cafe in the centre of the city . What occurred at the conference was not made public , but ' after it was over a red flag was raised on the arsenal , and war without quarter was declared . Several cannon were taken from the arsenal last night to the suburbs . They were placed where they would command the ChapuItepec Castle . Officers in the castle say they will raze it if necessary to save it The movements of President Madero are kept secret . It is reported that he went to Cuernavaca last night and returned to the city at dawn this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is said . is at Contreras. twelve miles south of the capital , with about a thousand Madero troops . Gen. Angeles . it is said , has some heavy artillery . The populace is maintaining neutrality . -A small riot in the Colonia del Carmen early this morning was stopped by mounted police . The number of dead has not been reported , as it is impossible to pass the lines . Genovevo de la Il 2nd Felipe Neri. rebel leaders from the State of Mexico . occupy a position within ten miles of the capital at Tlalpam and Xicpimilco , awaiting the orders of Gen. Diaz to enter the capital . Tlalpam is five miles beyond the Country Club . Foreigners are leaving that place . Messengers were sent to Gen. Diaz this morning , protesting loyalty to him and asking permission to enter and join his forces . He sent an officer with instructions to take the positions and . waih further orders . Higinio Aguilar and Gaudencio de la Liave , former army men , no wrebels , are said to be near Guadalupe , ten miles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Government is expecting troops from the north to-night . Many messages passed between the hostile forces during the day . Gen. Diaz spent the  --  day placing cannon at the arsenal , preparing to resist an attack . He issued a statement this morning saying that he hoped to avoid further bloodshed , but would fight if Madero refused to resign . The Government papers throughout the day printed extras minimizing the trouble and promising a quick solution in favor of the Madero regime . It is impossible to obtain anything from official sources . The papers deny a report that Madero will resign . Diplomatic pressure has been brought to bear to force the resignation of Madero . No protection is given to foreigners , but thus far nb anti-foreign demonstration has occurred . Foreign flags are floating from many residences . Foreign business houses to-day did no business . Tension has increased . The public is not informed as to what is really going on . The streets are picketed for two blocks in either direction from the headquarters of the rival forces . Water has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been shut off . This afternoon the people began to throng the streets in the vicinity of probable scene4 of trouble . The barrooms were allowed to open to-day , and did a rushing business . This is believed to be the cause of the rioting to-night . Further executions of minor officers took place to-day at the National Palace , including those of four cadets . It is rumored that Francisco de la Barra , the ex-President , will be asked to organize a provisional Government . Emiliano Zapata 's attitude is doubtful . The Maderistas say that he will back Madero ; others saythat he will join rorces with Diaz . The damage to the El Pais building , 1 the quarters of the Catholic organ of Mexico , is not as serious as at first re- I Ported . Only a small part of the building was burned , and it was stated by the general manager of the paper to-night that repairs would be made within a couple of days , and that publication would be resumed . 