@@679967

txt Our readers will recall some interesting articles by HILAIRE BEr.r .. oc , published recently in THIS TIMES comparing some elements of the condition of the French and German armies . A partial reply to these is presented in the current number of The Infantry Journal of Washington . It is prepared by a former German officer who is understood to have had access to high official sources of information . We shall not undertake to pass judgment on the statements of fact by the two writers , flatly opposed as they are , but there are points made by the German which are well worth noting . One Is the principle which he says guides all German military policy : One of the leading principles of the German army is never to underestimate your enemy either in regard to armament , skill , efficiency , or in leader : ship . The Germans base every preparation for war and the whole education of their soldiers upon the premises-that all modern armies are absolutely equal in ordnance , equipment , discipline , and training ; that consequently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tactical and strategical ability of the respective leaders , can alone decide the fortunes of war . always bearing in mind that a genius may also lead the smaller army to victory . There is no symptom of unpreparedness or of overconfidence in this statement . It is a sweeping one , and obviously it would be difficult to show specifically that it is always acted on . But so far as it is , it is calculated to have a decided effect on the character of the German people . Practically every healthy German passes from two to three years in the army and is subject to a considerable military control for a long time afterward . If the Government consistently aims at keeping his " moral qualities " at the highest level , a constant and powerful force is exerted in ' time of peace as well as of war , and must have its influeride on the temper of the people at all times . Our German friend believes that this influence is wholly good . On that point there is room for difference of opinion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany can not afford to ignore . Our own impression is that they are not ignoring it . The writer in The Infantry Journal maintains that as the German Nation becomes more and more military it becomes in consequence more commercial . That is true in a certain degree . The universal military training develops some qualities that are valuable in commerce and industry , especially the qualities that fit men to work within - and under organization . There are , however , other qualities which are not , developed in this training , - and Which are valuable and even essential . The question is too big for more than reference. ? But apart from this phase of the German policy there ' is the .. nla4I'lal the ' direct athrindirect ccist'lpf , the ' system , the drain on the earnings:of , the peopleirthe check to the , accumulation of savingi makes the eapital that is indispensable . It may be said that Germany 's ? great advance in wealth in the last forty years is an answer to this suggestion . . It is , but not a complete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be unavoidable as a means of defense against possible aggression , but in its effect it is an economic waste and a. national burden . It will hardly be denied that if Germany could have been sure of peace without her heavy military expenditure she would have advanced still more rapidly and further In prosperity . And there are political effects no less important than the economic . The vital problem of Germany to-day is taxation . The Government finds it increasingly hard to secure the money it must have from the Reichstag . Expenditures are voted so far pretty freely , but the mode of meeting them is a more knotty problem every year . The Germans have a right to be proud of their military system and their superb armed force , but the price they pay and must pay for it is not negligible .                     