@@679129

txt A good day was the substance of the stories brought from Mayor Gaynor 's bedside yesterday , and with them came no word to discourage the hope for his recovery that has been born among the watchers at St. Mary 's Hospital , in Hoboken . As another day passed with the development of no untoward symptoms , every one became more cheerful , except , perhaps , , the Mayor himself , who seemed not quite so prone to greet his attendants with quaint remarks , calculated to lighten or banish their anxiety . It is thought that as lie gains strength , his confinement is beginning to pall on one so given to activity . At midnight this bulletin was issued : No change since the last bulletin , Symptoms continue to be favorable . WILLIAM J. ARLITZ , M. D. CHARLES N. DOWD , M. D. At 9:30 o'clock last night the Mayor 's physicians gave out this bulletin : The Mayor continues to improve . He has passed a comfortable day , and Is steadily gaining in strength . WILLIAM J. , ARLITZ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ D. STEWART , M. D. CHARLES N. DOWD , M. D. JOHN W. PARRISH , M. D. This morning at 10 o'clock will mark the close of the sixth day , and the passing of the maximum point in the danger period of blood poisoning . . Robert Adamson , the Mayor 's secretary , said he understood that if the fifth and sixth days passed with no ranger signs all might breathe far more freely , although it was said last night that the full period of danger from blood poisoning runs on to the end of the tenth day . The bacilli of septicaemia , it was explained yesterday by a consulting surgeon in one of the big New York hospitals , are divided into two groups . The first has an incubating period of forty-eight hours and is capable of activity for ten or twelve hours thereafter . The second has an incubating period of five or six days , followed t v one or two days of activity . Last it ' rest - rorsabl e . In their first morning bulletin yesterday the doctors reported that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same cheering news after the examination which Dr. Sullivan made yesterday evening just before 7 o'clock . Some of the watchers saw significance in the fact that Dr. Brewer , the surgeon who will operate if need be , selected yesterday , the sixth day , as his first 4o take up the watch at the Mayor 's bedside . Dr. Brewer was asked last night when the operation would take place . It would be better to wait until the Mayor gets thoroughly well , he said , and went on to tell of men who went around for years undisturbed by bullets lurking inside them . He assured the reporters that the bulletins were genuine and faithful reports from the bedside . " To-say has been without a setback , " he added , as he left for New York . The Mayor awoke yesterday morning at 4:30 , and when Mrs. Gaynor went into his room at 7 o'clock he affected great surprise and disapproval to learn that she had not yet breakfasted . " Why , in here we 've had breakfast , and have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . Ca n't Sleep All of the Time . He admitted that he had not slept as long as the night before , but explained , in his own defense , that even a Mayor could n't sleep all day and all night , too . His cough , he said , was much better . Ho announced with some triumph that he had devised a way to hold his head on the pillow so that it would not pester him Tne first bulletin of the day read : 8:30 A. M. ? The Mayor spent a restful night . Improvement continues . Pulse , OS ; respiration . 17 ; temperature , 09 3-5 . Last blood examination also satisfactory , W. J. ARLITZ , M. D .. GEORGE D. STEWART , M. D. At noon the doctors gave forth the following : Tho Mayor has had a comfortable morning . The wound , which has been dressed , looks geed . WILLIAM J. ARLITZ . M. D .. GEORGE E. BREWER , m . D. , JOHN W. PARRISH . M. D. Visitors and telephoned inquiries came to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dawn to hurry down from Stamford , and Acting Mayor Mitchel. closely guarded by Lieut . Kennel , rode over in an automobile with President Finley of the City College , but none of them was allowed to see the Mayor . ? As the feeling of relieved anxiety spread through the watchers at the hospital and those who came to get the tidings , ' their chief interest turned to the marvelous nature of what they now feel will prove to be an escape . Doing 46 Miraculously " Well . " I understand from the doctors that he is doing miraculously well , " Mr. Mitchel said as he rode away , and miracle is the word that some of the doctors are using to deseribe the case , which they feel will be an historical one , aside from the fact that the patient is the Mayor of New York . When I think of the course that that bullet took , fairly weaving its way througn the nerves and blood vessels , which it might have torn with such um .. happy consequences , I am @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Last night , when I got home , I took down a. skull and studied it all over again , it was so exceptional . " Although the turn of the patient 's mind was not quite so humorous yesterday , he was anything but morose and silent , and one . of his doctors would no sooner show his face in the door than he would be bombarded with all manner of conversation . The Mayor talked away on every subject , scientific , civic , and philosophical , from the proportion of wine drinking here and abroad to the latest reports from the bedside of Mel Smith 's dog . He had been tickled to hear that the dog was able to be up and about . " Eats All the Food Ile Can Get . The Mayor ' continued to be deeply interested in his food , and was quite willing to take all the doctors would give him . He could not disguise his . elation yesterdp.y when solids were added to his menu in the form of farina and ice cream . He developed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operating room is not far from his , and he must needs hear all about a - case of appendicitis that was tcken there yesterday afternoon . He enjoyed the services in the chapel of St. Mary 's Hospital , where ten children , orphans from the home near the hospital , took their fitst communion yesterday afternoon , and the door of his room was set ajar , that he might hear more cleanly the chorus of young voices . He is not told of half the cheering messages that pour evdry hour into the hospital . nor have they time to show him all the dainty dishes that are sent , some of them by people whose very names are strange to him . His eyes twinkled yesterday when he learned that some one naa sent a dozen bottles of champagne , and suggested that they be distributed where they would be most . useful . The reporters were thwarted in their effort to communicate to him that they were hanging around down stairs , with nothing particular to do . It was said . that swelling in his th @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was much better . The cough , it was explained , was due to a partial and temporary paralysis of the uvula , causing it to hang farther down than is normal . The uvula is a pendent from the posterior part of the soft palate . Powder Burns on His Neck . It was learned for ' he first time yesterday that the Mayor had been badly powder burned about the wound in the neck . This could.not be discovered at first because of the blood , which hid the traces . This letter was received at the hospital yesterday from the Board of Trade of Pittsfield , Mass. : We oppreciate the marvelous amount of good you have accomplished for better conditions in ' your own city and in every city in the country by your noble stand for civic righteousness . We do hereby express our loval and sympathy for you and hope that you may speedily recover your usual health and vigor and carry your work to completion . Last night was Dr. Dowd 's turn to stay at St. Mary 's Hospital with Dr. Arlitz . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after 12 it is adjourned 10 the street for the closing law cf the hospital is more inexorable than that which governs the neighboring saloons . The front steps of the building are not particularly inviting . and Commissioner Thompson made himself immensely popular Saturday night by leaving ' his big car , with its soft seats , standing till morning in front of the hospital . Unemployed Extend Sympathy to - Mayor . J. Eads How , Chairman of the Brotherhood Welfare Association , came to New York yesterday and presided at the regular weekly meeting of unemployed men in Oddf-pllows ' Hall . 98 Forsyth Street . It was decided to send a letter to the family of Mayor Gaynor expressing sympathy and the hope thathe would have a complete and quick recovery . It was also decided to suggest that a provision for , providing work for all unemployed men ? would act as a deterrent oh future attempts at assassination of public officials .                     