@@681754

txt Counsel for both Controller of the Currency John Skelton Williams and the Riggs Na-. tienal Bank put in a busy day - getting ready for the hearing in the District Supreme Court on Friilay , when the Riggs Bank officials will ask for a lcontinuance of the temporary injunction to prevent the conversion into the general fund of the Treasury of $5,000 alleged to be due the Riggs Bank as interest on Government bonds  --  the point on which the great fight legally hinges . Both Joseph W. Bailey , attorney for the bank , and Mr. Williams Lid they thought they would be prepared tor the battle by Friday , but the Controller afterward qualified his statement by saying that he had not asked Louis D. Brandeis , special counsel for the Department of Justice , whether he would seek a postponement in order to complete preparation of his case . It became known today that a deti.rmined effort would be made by a Republican Senator at the next session to induce Congress to abolish the office of Controller of the Currency , or at least to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It has b &en; argued that the creation of the Federal Reserve Board , with its corps of examiners , made the Controller 's office unnecessary . When Mr. Williams was asked about this report he laughed . " I have been told by two persons who. ought to know that they could get $1,000,000 from certain bankers in return for my resignation , " he said . The Controller was non-cominittal. - in regard to the statement that ' he was preparing to ask for critiiinal indict. ; ments against three . officials of the Riggs Bank on the ground that they had violated the National Banking act . It was learned that this matter was being discussed with Mr. Brandeis , who had not yet had time to go through the great niass of papers turned over to him by the Controller 's office , and that it would depend entirely upon his decision , to be reached after conferences with Attorney General Gregory and Jesse C. Adkins , an ex-Assistant Attorney General engaged for this case , whether the evidence would justify criminal charges . Mr. Brandeis took up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where a room was set apart for his use , and was closeted a long time with Mr. Gregory , Mr , Adkins , Assistant Attorney General Warren and District Attorney Laskey . Mr. Lackey 's arrival at the Department of Justice created a stir , as he would be the official in charge should criminal proceedings grow out of the case . Much interest is being taken in the efforts of the Riggs to align other national banks in the fight to curtail the powers of the Controller , which - have been considerably broadened by the present incumbent . Copies of The News Leader , published in Controller Williams 's home town . Richmond , Va. , which reached Washington today , contained an interview with the Controller 's brother , Langbourne M. Williams of the firm of John L. Williams C. Sons , in which he said that in his opinion the Riggs National Bank officers were putting up the cry of persecution to anticipate any possible action the Government might take against them . 