@@681262

txt Fol ? ' lowing the arrival in Belfast yesterday ' of Sir Edward Carson , the Ulster Unionist leader , the so-called Provisional Government held its first formal Meeting and authorized Sir Edward to take whatever steps were deemed necessary to enforce opposition to Hcane Rule control in Ulster . Nothing sen-sational developed . The ' lister question , however , has provoked at least one lively war  --  a newspaper one . As a rule each Lon don morning paper professes  --  to ignore the existence of competitors . The recent circulation controversy between The Times and The Daily Telegraph was a notable exception . Now The Daily Mail is at loggerheads withtThe Chronicle and Daily News . Papers Accuse One Anotixer . The Mail this morning accuses the Liberal papers of suppressing news about Ulster . while the Liberal organs declare that the Northcliffe section of the Tory press is deliberately creating a " scare " which has no ' basis in facts . The Mall has completely ' altered Its Usual make-up in order to feature the Ulster situation . " Ready for Action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No Subjection to Home Rule , " are some extracts from the headlines to an article , to which the most prominent position on the editorial page is given . The Mail 's usual leading news page Is given up to photographs showing " Ireland Under Arms . The War Preparations . " Several of these pictures are devoted to the women of Ulster , who are described as being as full of the fighting spirit as are the Men . Editorially The Mail replies to the charges of the Liberal papers that it is-concocting scare news by charging that the Liberal press is suppressing news from Ireland . " Nobody would imagine , " says The " from glancing at the average metropolitan Radical daily newspaper , ri ? withl r teleph-ne reach of the In : - tropoll.4 l to exi:ls in these realms what practically is a state of war . For reasons that are not far to seek , few of the Liberal papers have had the courage to send competent and truthful special correspondents . " If their correspondents had told the truth they would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for most of our Radical contemporaries from the outset have underestimated and ridiculed the intentions of the Ulster loyalists , and as a result are now ashamed to present the facts to their readers they have thereby duped . " Says Readers Are Deserting . The Mail goes on to say that new readers from the Liberal ranks are flocking to its standard because it does not suppress the news , and that " figures shortly will be published of the great net increase in the sale of the newspaper during the past few weeks , which will serve as a lesson to the Liberal newspaper conductors and warn them that they can not perpetually burke a great public issue by trying to cover their misrepresentations by silence . " The Liberal papers seem ready enough to take up the challenge thrown to them . The Daily News , after describing yesterday 's proceedings at Belfast as a fiasco , " Carson 's great day ending in an empty farce , " says editorially : " A glance at the newspapers of Lord Northcliffe yesterday revived memories of the eve of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Liberal journals to suppress news about the gravity of things in Ulster , these stern disciples of truth have resolved to open the eyes of the English people to the horrid facts . A corps of war correspondents has been dispatched to the scene of carnage , and we may look for such an avalanche of thrilling incident as should make our flesh creep  --  that is , if we do n't remember the past exploits of these Veracious chroniclers. " t7e can only say that Judging from yesterday 's proceedings they will find it difficult to disturb the equanimity with which the country throughout has watched the theatrical proceeding in Ulster . " 6 , Thunderbolt Pell  --  Plat . " ? The Chronicle takes much the same line . It says : " On the eve of Orangemen 's day the Ulster Provisional Government met . All the world waited all day for news of its tremendous decrees . At evening the thunderbolt fell  --  flat " A Belfast dispatch M the same journal says : - .. " I do not wish to minimize the gravity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rifles is serious . They are anxious to take over the Government province at once , but at'present they are under control and there:is no menace to peace . : . , ! This . has been the situation for some weeks . We have had ominous declarations by the Unionists press that Ulster was reaching the breaking point , but Ulster has maintained herself admirably at the breaking point for six months and seems to love it , so she will not break loose just yet . In fact , Dublin last summer and Tonypandy a few years ago were more dangerous than Belfast is today . " The historic meeting of the Ulster Provisional Government at Ulster Hall naturally was attended by memorable scenes . The impudent illegality of the whole business could not fail to impress any detached spectator . When the yacht bringing Sir Edward Carson to Belfast cast anchor , armed volunteers lined the approaches to the landing stage . Revolver shots were fired In the air , traffic was at a standstill , and the police waved an approving hand toward the volunteer officers as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ o'clock when the volunteers arrived , but King Carson , sleeping comfortably in his yacht , was not to appear until 8:30 . When the great man appeared a corps of well-to-do dispatch riders armed and on motor bicycles formed an escort along the processional route to Craigavon . In passing he very graciously inspected his troops and waved his hat in response to cries of ' Three cheers for King Carson ! ' His motor car bore a horseshoe emblem of orange lilies . Ammembling of the Senate . " It was about noon when the Senate assembled in Ulster Hall . In twos and threes the Lords of Ulster arrived for the historic meeting . They are said to be 500 strong . Eighteen failed to answer to their names . Among the notables were the Earl of Londonderry , the Duke of Abercorn , Viscount Helmley , Viscount Castlereagh . and a number of Ulster Unionist M. P. 's . At last came King Carson . Again he inspected some volunteers , including those who sloped arms wrongly and had mistaken sundry other commands . " When the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of foreboding that the city would be under martial law within a few hours : After hours of deliberation the Senate dissolved and the public waited through the long afternoon for an announcement of its decrees . Late in the evening these were handed to the press at the old Town Hall , and when they were generally known a feeling of frank disappointment began to perVade , The Belfast revolution had been postponed . " In another article The Chronicle cites various Irish papers to show that they , seem , ! / oblivious a what a section of the Tory press would have us believe to be a fact , viz. , that Ireland Is absolutely on the verge of internecine war . " It adds : " If there is any deliberate suppression of news , it is shared by the Irish press of both sides of opinion . It is rather surprising , too , that the discovery of the imminence of disaster made by the Sorthclif Fes ' papers is not shared by such organs as The Morning Post , The Telegraph , and The Standard @ @ 