@@683928

txt Let us now , ladies and gentlemen , take up the strange . odd and peculiar case of Mr. and Mrs. Potts , between whom a $100,000 divorce suit impends , but who , nevertheless , each vicw it so calmly that they are still living peacefully in the same house , and discussing the matter nonchalantly over the long distance . Mrs. Olive Potts is the wife of Charles 12 . Potts . Mr. Potts is a member of various clubs and has much money . He is a stockholder in the Inland Steel company , owning many shares in the concern , of which he is superintendent at Indiana Harbor . The Pottses reside in a pretentious bungalow in Indiana Harbor , and Mr. Potts is a vestryman Of St. Alban 's Episcopal church . They have an 18 year old son and two married daughters . They go in the best society of Indiana Harbor and Hammond . They belong to the Hammond Country , club . Her Second Suit . But , withal , Mrs. Potts declares Mr. Potts is cruel and unusual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon that declaration by suing for a divorce , asking 8100,000 alimony . This , court records show , is the second time she has asked a divorce . A reconciliation following the suit flied in 1914 was effected by mutual friends , it is said . When " ' Sirs . Potts was asked over the telephone about the latest action hut night , she confirmed the report . Before she had completed her conversation . it was doubly confirmed  --  this time by Mr. Potts , over the same wire . " Yes , it is true I have applied for a ' divorce , ' Mrs. Potts said . " I have tried marriage this long time and it ! stet a success . As soon as I get my livorce I intend to travel . I think I ; hall like that better . " She gave a list of cities she expected ' .0 visit . among them Los Angeles , New fork , Washington , Atlantic City , and ' i'ewport . Mr. Potts Takes Phone . " My husband has a most ungovern6ble temper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason I 'm leaving him . No . I ca n't tell you what form his cruelty has taken . It is bad enough to have to tell it in court . Excuse me a moment , please , here he is now . " And Mr. Potts stepped to the phone . " Is it true that Mrs. Potts is suing you for divorce ? " he was asked . " That 's what I hear , " he replied . " I did n't know about it till I came home tonight . " " What about your wife 's allege , tlons ? " " She says I 'm cruel and have a beastly temper , " he said and laughed , " but I shall discuss that with the judge . Good-by . " In her bill Mrs. Potts avers that 180 shares of Inland Steel that Mr. Potts has rightfully belong to her .                     