@@683977

txt It is generally recognized that roast pork is too expensive if obtained by burning down a house to make a fire . Those capable of seeing that point may also see that it is a poor way to get child labor by abolishing the Supreme Court . That is the way of Senator OWEN of Oklahoma . The ideas that the Supreme Court can be abolished by statute , and that the constitutionality of statutes can be declared by the President and Congress , are original with him , and he thinks that they would be effective if Congress should pass the law which he proposes . Any Executive or judicial officer who shall question the constitutionality of the child labor law officially shall be considered by that act to have vacated his office . No Judge of any inferior court shall allow the question . to be raised in his court , and the Supreme Court shall not entertain any appeal . This is the answer of the Senator to the decision of the Supreme Court referring the question of child labor legislation to the several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their various communities . The Senator feels called upon to make this reply because the decision of the court in effect declares that " the " members of Congress who passed " it , and the President who signed it , " violated their oaths of office . " It is probably safe to say that the Senator is alone in this view of the purpose or effect of the action of the Supreme Court . It is not so sure that he is alone in thinking that the short way to child labor reform is to abolish the Supreme Court by act of Congress . He may have company in thinking , like the Bolshevik ' , that anything can be done by a viva voce vote . But there will be those who recall that a President once defied the Supreme Court because he thought it impossible for the court to enforce its decisions . Just so now there will be those who will think that the Supreme Court will challenge Congress to make good its edicts , if it should see fit to pass the Senator 's unique @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator an additional offense to remark that the Supreme Court is given independent powers and functions by the Constitution , and that it is beyond the power of Congress to take over the power to decide any question of law whatever . It is common sense , as well as constitutional law , that legal questions should be decided by impartial authority , and that the Congress would be so prejudiced in deciding questions regarding its own action that it should see its unfitness for the duties which the Senator proposes for it . There are those who see some reaFens for liking the British system of a national legislature with unlimited powers . But even those of that way of thinking can see the impropriety of substituting the British system of government for our own by indirection , as a sort of addendum to a question of policy about another unrelated matter . Attempts at nullification of Federal statutes have failed . So also should fail attempts to nullify the powers of the Supreme Court by assuming to control its discretion in matters intrusted to it for independent action . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Imperative that the framework of our Government should be made over to attain it . Or , if so , at least the . procedure should be in the manner provided by the most solemn popular referendum it is possible to have .                     