@@679815

txt Charles H. D. Knowles attracted considerable attention to himself last Tuesday by publicly announcing that he was not the hired farm manager , but the husband of Miss Mary D. Winner member of an old Trenton family . Considerably more attention was attracted to him to-day when it became known that not only had his wife left him , but that she had put her brotherin-law , Albert Nelson , In charge of her farm . Mrs. Knowles is the daughter of the late Rev. J. 0 . Wimmer and granddaughter of the late Bishop Wimmer , and owns the Elmwood Farm , one of the largest in this part of the country . She is nearly 50 years old , and had been living alone on the farm for several years when Knowles applied at the farm for work two years ago . Knowles does not seem to know just what has happened to him but Mr. Nelson is not at all loath to explain the situation . Knowles formerly was manager for Miss Winner , but on Feb. 10 , 101.0 , he married his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objection to Knowles , though , Mr. Nelson says , they had been displeased for a year at the manner in which Knowles neglected his work . Still nothing was done about it until the young man made the announcement of his marriage . Mr. Nelson admits that this caused considerable displeasure to the other members of Mrs. Knowles 's family , and resulted in a conference of relatives to decide what best might be done . The conference resulted in the determination of Mrs. Knowles to separate from her husband , it Is said . She left immediately for New York without the knowledge of Knowles , who was away from the farm temporarily . The young man learned of her departure yesterday and hurried home to find Mr. Nelson in charge of the farm , which is the property of Mrs. Knowles . Mr. Nelson conceded that Mrs. Knowles had gone away , but he refused to tell where she had gone , and Knowles could get no information out of him . Finally he appealed to the police , though the latter are not clear as to what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain to-night that Mrs. Knowles will not come back . He says that there has never been the least objection to Knowles except that he failed to attend to the farm properly . The young man had a good opportunity in life . said Mr. Nelson , and simply failed to appreciate it . TWO MAIDS CATCH A THIEF . Chase Him from Mrs. Schermerhorn 's and Hold Him Fast in Fifth Avenue . Persons in lower Fifth Avenue yesterday afternoon saw two maids in caps and aprons run up behind a young man walking swiftly toward Eleventh Street . One threw her arms around his neck . The other clasped his arms from behind , and Loth screamed for help . To Policeman O'Connell of the Mercer Street Station , who ran up , the girls said they were Takla Lindberg and Lena Weyman , maids for Mrs. Alfred E. Schermerhorn of 24 West Eleventh Street . They said they had seen the man they held escaping from Mrs. Schermerhorn 's house and had chased him . O'Connell led the man back to the house , and in the lining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ snuff box , a silver watch and fob , a silver tray , two silver spoons , a silver violin ornament , and four silver jewel boxes . Mrs. Schermerhurn said the things were worth about $200 , but were heirlooms , and for that reason priceless . Coal men were putting coal into the Sehermerhorn house yesterday , and it is supposed the thief slipped through the basement door while the men were at work . Mrs. Schermerhorn and the maids were on the floor above the parlor floor and noticed him when a noise caused them to lean over - the banisters . The man said he ' was George Shields , a chauffeur. of 925 West Fourteenth Street . He was locked up .                     