@@683286

txt THE RED CROSS RULING . Loyal Supporters of the Allies Hurt by Their Stand . Born in America over fifty years ago of German parents , who became Americans over seventy years ago , and who died over forty years ago , with no relatives owing allegiance to Germany , a strong partiSan from the beginning of the cause of the Allies and an earnest worker in their behalf long before ? our entry into the war , a not unsubstantial contributor to the relief of suffering in Prance , Britain , and Belgium , and a not ungenerous giver , both directly and indirectly , to the Red Cross Fund , I find Myself suddenly proscribed by those hitherto believed by me to be friends and whom I have sought to aid . After my first sensations of astonishment and resentment had passed I began to see that the British and French , maddened by German cruelties , were really unmindful of the enormity of their action , which is none other than the imputation of the basest kind of betrayal , betrayal under the mask @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose help , moral , financial , military , and philanthropic , has been eagerly given and as eagerly accepted . This surely is not their intention . I have too many friends among them to believe this . I am confident that we shall soon have a reversal and an apology , but even if a reversal and an apology be I not forthcoming , let us not therefore be the cause of " one more devil 's triumph and sorrow for angels " by discontinuing relief work and financial or other support . Let us go on giving aid in the sad but confident belief that they know not what they do , and that before the . war is ended they will " receive the new knowledge " and that they will then feel a humiliation far deeper even than that deep humiliation which they have inflicted . ? New York . June 29 , 1917 . A Letter from Baden . To the Editor of The New York Times : In view of the present difficulty of obtaining direct and " unofficial " news from Germany concerning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have just received , under date of May 24 , from a relative in Pforzheim , Baden ; may prove of interest . The writer of the letter , let me add , is a rare old German gentleman who has always , even in this war , managed to keep unimpaired a calm and judicial point of view , frankly conscious alike of the good and bad both in his own country 's and its opponents ' causes . ? For the rest , he is a man of very modest means , with two sons in the German Army and two naturalized in England and serving there . Pforzheim is the one city in Germany where , as a place devoted almost exclusively to the manufacture of jewelry , unemployment has been at its worst since the war . The old gentleman writes : Even if the political horizon brings further dark clouds , the sun of our friendship shines on , and will eventually shine visibly . Gladly will we let all suffering humanity partake , and will not first ask who is guilty and who not ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pity and patience . ( But for her , it is a great good fortune that she Is so far from the firing and out of range . Otherwise ? ) ? ? Want we da not suffer , and the administration of order is here , even as everywhere in Germany , really amazing . Equally refreshing is the considerate and sympathetic deportment of the populace among themselves . In this " there ' appears a rejoicing Sense of solidarity ' which will make its good effects felt later as well . That cancerous growths also flourish is not to be wondered at . In general it may be said , therefore , that in German-Sodom there are still enough of the just to justify its further existence in spite of wishes to the contrary , and the hope is also justified that the most hostile peoples may soon come to have faith in existence side by side . The road is here ; only the coachmen were blind , and the coach is still sticking in the dirt . D. H. J. New York , July 2 , 1917 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York Times : I note with approval the communication of G. A. Blumer , " The German Press Here . " I believe the number of German readers who can not also read English is negligible , and as a war measure it might be well for the German press to be printed In English while the war lasts . The German idea that " ho who , not belonging to the armed forces of the State , unrecognizable as such , is a pirate and franc-tireur if he commits hostile acts against the representatives of an armed power and under the laws of God and man Is a fit subject for the gallows , " is not new . The German mind should turn it over and look at the reverse side . He would find this to read that the representatives of an armed power who commit wanton attacks upon peaceful . noncombatants , women and children , many of whom are not even citizens . of belligerent countries , are Main , ordinary murderers , for whom hanging is too good . 