@@679069

txt The collision between a first-class liner and a " tanker " illustrates that the chief remaining perils of the sea are those in which two vessels are concerned . Shipwreck from the elements is almost out of the question , perhaps altogether so unless the element is fog . No Captain of a boat in the Baltic 's class thinks about foundering from a storm . The landsman may think that the ship will never rise again as she rides a descending swell , and looking out of the hollow may think that the overwhelming waves will engulf him forever . The Captain is thinking of other things , and mostly in darkness or fog of whether or not another vessel is anywhere near , and if so what it is doing . No ship is so well found in itself or so well officered that it is not in danger from a vessel far its inferior . A pigmy may wound a leviathan steamer in its vitals , and a sleepy lookout or bad commander is as dangerous on one boat as on the other . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Darkness through fog or night impedes sight however keen , or watchfulness however great . The mishap of the Baltic will emphasize the demand that the resources of modern science shall supply aids to these human faculties and remove them as far as possible from being factors of disaster . Two possible aids are not mentioned in connection with the Baltic disaster . The Baltic 's wireless system would have warned another similar system better than any whistle or bell , but would have been of no use to itself unless both vessels were equipped for aerial telegraphy . The submarine telephone also might have given a warning if both vessels had been equipped with It . Just as vessels with telephones below water communicate with lighthouses , so they might be made to communicate with each other in a manner not subject to interruptioh by fog or storm . The requirement of such equipment is an obvious suggestion . The throb of the " tanker 's " propeller might have been made audible to a submarine ear with a keenness and precision the unaided human ear can not rival @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost useless without such aids . Not the least benefit of such appliances ought to be to produce greater confidence among Captains and passengers alike . The fog whistle is a sign that the officers can not see or hear , and of course the conditions are similar for both the colliding vessels . Even a single set of submarine and aerial signals would more than halve the danger . A double system ought to make collision as remote as sinking from the effects of storm .                     