@@680098

txt Mayor GAYNOR must see that something like a crisis , and a very serious one , fur his administration is involved in the present police situation . No one can know it better than he , and none can feel more deeply the necessity of meeting it with every resource at his command . It has been generally understood that : Mayor GAYNOR was more particularly concerned for the purity and integrity of police management than for anything else , that , for example , it was not of so much consequence , in his opinion , that gambling should be done away With as that gamblers should not gain protection , for a consideration , from the Police . The events and disclosures of the past week bring that matter startlingly to the attention , the amazed and indignant attention , of the people of New York . A gambler who has given Information as to alleged police protection and who is known to be about to give more is murdered , and the murderers are allowed to get away in circumstances that make police intervention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the opinion of the class to which the murderers and their victim belong is that the murderers felt in no serious danger from the police . The arrests that have since been made , and the stories that have become public , connect the crime more or less remotely with a prominent member of the police force , who has been relieved from his responsible duties and detailed to an outlying police station . This is a. very ugly condition of things . It does not stand alone . It is but one of a number of indications that the criminal classes of the city , growing in number with the growth of the city , and constantly recruited from the younger part of the population , are getting out of hand . There is not in the minds of those prone to lawlessness the definite fear of the police that there should be . There is not in the minds of the decent and orderly citizens the sense of security that there should be . Suspicion and apprehension are spreading , and with only too much reason . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sees that it is his plain duty to go to the bottom of this last affair , and especially to follow relentlessly traces of complicity among the police . It is encouraging to know that he has at length exerted his influence to expedite the work of his subordinates . We are aware that his powers in that direction are not all that would be useful , but if he exhausts them and convinces the people that he has done so , and especially if he sees to the punishment of those found responsible , his powers will undoubtedly be increased as need demands . One point we beg to call to his careful attention . He has a deep dislike to anything approaching persecution by the police , to any abuse of their powers to the harm of innocent persons . It has been generally felt , and felt particularly in the police force , that he has carried this sentiment too far , and that his known inclination has to some degree hampered the energy and enterprise of the police . There is an opportunity now , and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is at heart more concerned with rooting out evil than with protecting innocence . The situai ion that exists is not of yesterday or the day before . It has taken time to develop it , and in the course of its deelopment it has involved necessarily men of importance , conspicuous men whom it should now be possible to detect and to punish . The people of the city look to the Mayor to do this . He is a man of extraordinary ability . He has had long experience in public life . He has been many years on the bench , and his mind is highly trained . He is fitted for the task , and the task confronts him .                     