@@679545

txt 1 The Mayor has several times announced his entire willingness to let all the credit for the good in the Charter that bears his name go to others and to " stand for " all that le not good In it . This Is in accordance with his chivalric disposition , but it is a little whimsical and does not work out well in practice . The fact is that so much of that curious scheme is questionable , or worse , and so little of it is really good , that this division of blame and credit is essentially unfair . It may be said , however . ' that Mr. GAYNOR is acting quite up to his altruistic announcement . since he expressly and warmly supports the plan for a paid Board of Education . which on the whole . we think , is about ' the worst thing that the new scheme contains and about as bad as anything could be . There is no doubt that the present board leaves much to be desired in point of efficiency , and it is quite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But there is not the slightest reason to believe that the substitution of a paid board of seven members would be any improvement in the matter of efficiency . while it would he likely , and practically sure , to bring about great evils . The one difficulty of supreme importance that we have to contend against in the educational department of this great city is the danger of the intrusion of sordid politics . There Is no other department in which this would be so perilous . It is not merely a question of the economical and honest administration of the immense sums expended on the schools . That would be bad enough if the politicians got the schools into their hands . But infinitely worse would be the degradation and corruption of the whole system . Since the consolidation of the greater city there has been unquestioned improvement in the character and capacity of the teaching force and of the inspecting and regulating force under the Superintendent . Whatever shortcomings may exist  --  and we have had to point out many  --  no one can truthfully say that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Superintendent MAXWELL have been influenced by partisanship , much less by the baleful influence of spoils-seekers . If the board were reduced to seven members , appointed as the other heads of departments are , and made a subordinate part or the City Government , there is no room for doubt that the worst elements of Tammany would instantly lay plans to capture the rich prize . Mr. GAYNOR may assume , quite reasonably , that he would successfully resist those plans . But on the one hand It is plain that , with his innumerable other duties ; even Mr. GAYNOR could not hope wholly to escape the pitfalls that would open before him , as he has not wholly escaped others . On the other hand we shall ' not always be under the protection of Mr. GAYNOR . and the powerful Incentive offered in the control of the schools would stir Tammany to see that a more manageable Mayor should succeed him . Considering what Mr. MURPHY has been trying to do and is doing with the State Government , it is not safe to infer that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the school moneys , and the Incalculable partonage involved . At the present time there is going on a very promising investigation into the entire question of the administration of the educational department . We have already noted the high character and extraordinary ability of the gentleman who has been selected to head this investigation , and who is to begin his task next week . Surely it would be better to await the outcome of this work before making a complete revolution in the management of the department . Let us get all the light we can before we make changes that will - be- monigntow3 in their-effgets end-may , easily prove disastrous . There is plenty of time . And it is no small argument in favor of prudent delay that . another year may see the grip of Mr. MURPHY on the State Government considerably relaxed if not wholly loosened . - -                     