@@681525

txt The question having arisen as to whether the affixing of a 25 cent stump on powers of attorney signed in blank for the transfer of certificates of stock is applicable when an official or clerk of the corporation is made the attorney of transfer , the department of internal revenue interprets its recent ruling to mean that the secretary of a corporation or an assistant secretary or an officer of the corporation duly authorized to perform the duties of secretary or to make such transfer is exempt from the tax . " Duly authorized by the board of directors of such corporation at a formal meeting . " This ruling will be formally promulgated in decision shape in a few days . Much confusion had arisen over the provision of the emergency tux act , which provides for a tax of 25 cents on each " power of attorney to sell or transfer any stock , bonds , scrip , " etc . It is the common practice in transfering stock for the seller to sign the power of attorney for transfer in blank , and for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stock is transferred to enter his own name as the attorney . In Treasury Decision 2056 , dated Nov. 1.1 , and signed by Robert Williams , Jr. , Acting Commissioner of Internal Revenue , the following ruling was made : this so-called power of attorney on the back of the certificate simply authorizes the secretary of the company to transfer the same on the books of the company , it is held not to be a power of attorney within the meaning of the internal revenue law . In that case the secretary of the corporation can not be said to be the agent or attorney for the transfer of stock , as the effect of the instrument is only to give the secretary authority to do an act which he is required to do by the by-laws of the organization when properly authorized , just as .1 cashier of a bank is required to pay a check when the check is properly signed and presented for payment- lii that case , therefore , this instrument would only be taxable as a transfer of stock . An instrument appointing an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ books of the company will require stamp as a power of attorney . " The fact that the ruling specifically spoke of the see -- rotary of a corporation , and did not cover the possibility that an assistant secretary or a clerk might be the one who filled out the blank in the certificate , has led transfer agents of many of the big corporations to insist en the Payment of the power-of-attorney tax when the secretary of the corporation does not actually enter his own name in the blank space . Neither , in the case of the illustration used in the ruling , does the cashier of a bank necessarily pass on the check . This is done by assistant clerks and paying tellers in the ordinary routine of the bank 's business . It would seem to be ordinary common sense that an assistant secretary or a cleric was just as much the agent of the corporation in affecting the transfer as the nominal secretary himself ; but in actual practice it would be impossible for the secretary personally to assume the duty of transfer attorney . The net @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ruling quoted above , that a tax which is seemingly not demanded by law is being exacted cn all transfers since December 1 . In addition , the point has arisen that although the authority to transfer the stock may have been signed by the original owner , weeks or months , or even years , before December 1 , the transfer agents arc insisting on the payment of the power-of-attorney tax whenever the stock is offered for transfer subsequent to December 1 , regardless of the date on which the certificate was signed . The new ruling forecasted in the Washington dispatch pointed out above would seem to afford a final solution of the problem . 