@@680029

txt The German answer to Mr. Balfour 's statement of the English point of view on German armaments , is contained in a statement given to TRIO Now YORK TIMES by Prof. Delbrueck , undoubtedly expresses the opinion held in responsible quarters regarding Mr. Balfour 's elucidation of the Anglo-German situation . Prof. Delbrueck said today ; " When you last visited me I asked the melancholy question whether war between England and Germany could still be averted . Since then conditions have improved considerably , but after reading Mr. Balfour 's letter pessimistic feeling has again gained the upper hand . " When a statesman of the importance of Mr. Balfour cherishes such inaccurate suspicions and conceptions of German policy the danger of a clash between ourselves and Great Britain is certainly very much increased . " Mr. Balfour accuses Germany , not realizing how England is menaced by the German tieet , not only in her policy but in her security , vital conditions , and national existence . We know that in Germany very well , but England itself nevertheless compelled us to build our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a great nation have gradually reached the determination not to permit the world to be divided up among other nations , but to demand their own share . " Since 1871 enormous and very productive territories have continually been seized by Great Britain , France , Russia , the United States , and Japan , such territbrieN , - moreover , being continually occupied ; the French bringing Morocco under their supremacy , Russia and England expanding in Persia , and Japan and Russia setting their foot in Mongolia and Manchuria . " That is a natural process , and Germany has no reason to oppose MI but she wants to participate in it . For this object she needs a fleet . " Neither England nor any other of these States would ever concede to us a share if we had not proceeded to create a fleet " It is true that the skill of Bismarck succeeded in acquiring a few small , comparatively worthless colonial territories for Germany without the employment of a fleet , but his son , Count Herbert , had almost to appear before Mr. Gladstone in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while all the arts and efforts of the elder Bismarck failed to abolish a situation intolerable for a great power , namely that an island like Heligoland , which blockaded all our great harbors , remained in the possession of England . That could only be accomplished by Bismarck 's successor through the sacrifice of a colony we already owned . " England and other powers still refuse to recognize the natural demands of Germany for full equality in world politics . That was proved afresh in the Morocco affair , when England supported France in order to reduce our compensation demands to a minimum , instead of recognizing their legitimacy and inducing France to meet us in an appropriate manner . " Germany 's natural answer has been again considerably to strengthen both the army and navy . Mr. Balfour repeats in his letter that Germany must not expect Englishmen to approve her Intentions in ? the direction of territorial acquisition . " What remains , then , for us is to expect to enforce the accomplishment of our purposes by increased armaments . If one puts the question , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be prepared to recognize Germany 's right to participate in colonial acquisitions to the same degree as other civilized nations . The peril of a great conflict would thereby be eradicated , but Mr. Balfour credits us with altogether other motives .. " He will not believe that our naval armaments are only directed to colonial acquisition , but suspects that we also seek territory in Europe . He admits that neither the German Government nor the German people cherish such intentions , but goes on to speak in a mysterious manner of strategic railways which we are supposed to have built and which are aimed at neutral States . I must confess that I do n't know what he means by this . " In an equally mysterious manner he discovers tendencies in Germany which must lead to such a policy of conquest There are , of course , political fools in Germany , obsessed with the fantasy that Germany must reconquer all the territories of the Holy Roman Empire . " In English magazines we also read articles advocating that England should without further delay proceed to destroy the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ away . " What ground , however , has Mr. Balfour for believing such tendencies will ever really prevail in the conduct of German policy if I assure him that this is absolutely impossible ? I realize that such an assurance from a mere individual does not suffice . I can , however , not only assure him of this , but can prove it . " Mr. Balfour himself intimates that the tendencies he fears in Germany would bring about a conflagration such as came to pass under Napoleon . Quite right , but what an end Napoleon suffered ! Does Mr. Balfour think that responsible German statesmen or the German Reichstag are so idiotic as not to see that the German Empire would inevitably crumble as France did under Napoleon if it attempted a similar policy ? " The German Empire is very powerful to-day , but , in comparison with other powers , it is not nearly so strong I as Napoleon was . Nevertheless , he finally succumbed when all ' the others I united against him . " Germany would experience the same fate if she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she already wields on the European Continent by the annexation of other territory . " Anybody who credits Germany with such plans is , from the very start , so blinded by passionate suspicion that sensible discussion hardly appears possible . When I observe no less a personage than Mr. Balfour now giving open expression to this suspicion I must confess that I see in it a new and rising danger of war . " But peril does not emanate in Germany . The world can rest assured that Germany , with her army and navy , seeks nothing but the maintenace of her position in Europe and fair participation when changes in the ownership of colonies are taking place elsewhere in the world . " As soon as England brings itself to realize this- and meets Germany in the right spirit , the danger of war Immediately disappears . False suspicions , however , have caused many a great war , and to my painful regret I note that , while German dnxieties regarding an English attack are considerably diminished , English anxieties with regard to adventurous German plans are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amount of suspicion are among the virtues of statesmen , but an exaggerated and groundless suspicion is the gravest error into which a statesman can fall . Mr. Balfour 's letter convinces me that this eminent man has really fallen a victim to such a mistake . " Prof. Delbrueck is a member of the Faculty of the University of Berlin , occupying a chair of history . Most of his writings have been on the subject of war and military strategy . His most important book is a " History of the Art of War ( Geschichte der Kriegeskunst ) in three volumes , which appeared successively in 1900 , 1902 , 1906 . He has also written books on famous military leaders , notably Frederick the Great , Napoleon , and von Moltke . He published a volume of memoirs in 1905 . Prof. Debrueck was ' born in 1848.                     