@@682953

txt Refusal to recognize a writ of habeas corpus in case Thomas W. Lawson should obtain one in possible contempt proceedings against him and great care to prevent the name of any representative of a foreign Government being publicly dragged into the investigation of the alleged " leak " on President Wilson 's recent peace note , are among the plans laid today by sub-committees of the House Rules Committee in preparing for resumption tomorrow of the leak inquiry . The whole committee will pass on the plans at an executive meeting before the hearings begin . Mr. Lawson will be called before the committee and presented with the list of written questions . a . suh-commietee has drafted for his reply . F " tellure , to anewervellIebe -followed-immediately by the inhauguration of contempt proceedings in ie House . Questions to be Asked . In substance the chief - questions of a dozen or more to be asked are these : Who is the Congressman than told you he had heard a Cabinet officer , a banker , and a member of Congress were engaged in a stock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ? What are the names of the Cabinet member , the member of Congress , and the banker ? If a citizen of this country , who is the " high official " whose name you formerly testified might be brought into the case if the name of the Cabinet officer were mentioned ? Committeemen have no clue to the identity of the " high official , " but as rumor and gossip have mentioned the name of the representative of a foreign Government with it they will take no chances of involving him in the public hearing . Representative ? Campbell of Kansas , who was appointed to draft a resolution touching on the possible habeas corpus phase of the case , made a careful study of precedents today , and prepared a tentative resolution to charge that Lawson , by his refusal to answer , had obstructed the business of the House , and therefore should be remanded to the custody of the Sergeant at Arms until he agreed to answer . While Mr. Campbell expects the committee to adopt his resolution , he said tonight that an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Attorney Marshall of New York , which may be decided by the Supreme Court ! tomorrow , might change the situa- I tion . A victory for the House in the Marshall case , however , he declared , certainly would be followed by adoption of his resolution . Cites Two Precedents . Mr. Campbell said he had found two cases which would warrant the House in following such a course as he had planned , one was the Kilbourne case , in which a man who declined to testify in the Jay Cooke failure was sent to jail . Eventually Kilbourne sued , and recovered damages from the Sergeant at Arms , but this , according to the records , was due to treatment he received In jail , and in no way involved the right of Congress to imprison him . The other precedent is found , Mr. Campbell said , in the case of Henry ** who declined to testify in the famous 1873 " leak- " case , when news of the contents of a President 's message became public prematurely through Wykoff . He capitulated after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Lawson will have two chances to reply to , the committee 's questions-before he is turned over to the Sergeant at Arms . if the case goes that far . once before the committee and agates before the bar of the House . Power to punish him under the plan to be followed by the committee would expire with the Congress on March 4 . Several other witnesses , including Chicago and New York bankers , are to be on hand tomorrow , and , if Lawson should unexpectedly anseter the questIons asked him , the entire hearing might be closed before night . Then a report on the Wood resolution to create a special Congressional committee to investigate the ' leak " probably would be made Tuesday . A report must be made not later than Wednesday , ley order of the House . LAWSON MAKES CONDITIONS . Will Give Names Only if " Leak " Inquiry Is Properly Staged . Special to The New York Times . PROVIDENCE , R ; I. , Jan. 14 . ? When Thomas W. Lawson left Washington last Thursday night believing that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he left with Robert L. Henry , Chairman of the Committee on Rules , a typewritten statement under the supposition , he says , that Mr. Henry would present the statement to the House or give it to the press . The . Chairman having failed to do so , Mr. Lawson tonight gave the document to The Providence Journal lor publications , saying he wanted to make clear before going on the stand again exactly what his position was . In the statement , which is addressed to Chairman Henry , Mr. Lawson repeats his original charges and declares he is ready to lay before a committee of Congress under certain conditions the names of Congressmen , bankers , big and little , and public officials and gobetweensi in connection with the alleged peace note leak . After asserting that in the last two years ? " the trick machinery of Wall Street " had flooded the ' country " with billions of bogus wealth , " Mr. Lawson says he " discovered a new form of stock gambling fraud , " and goes on : " People in Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War moves . in partnership with stock gamblers , could so ' run ahead ' of market events as to quickly and surely make great profit . As I watched I found that this new swindle had generated still another  --  the making to order of . Mexican and European ' leaks . ' " Mr. Lawson then refers to the present investigation and of his being summoned to Washington as a witness . Eleven Able Men Against One . My coming was disagreeable to me , " he says . " I was warned that if I took a hand in the exposure of the powers that be I would get hell . - Long experience in such matters assured me I would , . but I came . " At the outset your committee took the stand that it was to investigate me , not the ' monstrous wrongs . Its members attempted to insult , bulldoze , and humilate . me , and in an unfair and outrageous manner . Your committee was composed of eleven members , many able lawyers , all experienced in such affairs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I had no counsel , yet for hours and hours at A stretch for two days , one member stinting another , this commit , tee called me a four-flusher , a bluffer , a common stock gambler , and over and over again every trap known to able and experienced statesmen  --  politicians  --  for my undoing . ( I wish to qualify the above  --  some members were fair and courteous . ) " " Your investigation accomplished nothing , absolutely nothing , notwithstanding it had leakers and beneficiaries before it . In fact , it never asked of them a single pertinent question . If your committee had been a real one  --  I mean one with authority and with a Samuel Untermyer handling the examination  --  there would have been an explosion that would have shaken the country , perhaps the world , and compelled the greatest reform of a hundred years . What He Had to Reveal . " I intended to lay before the real investigation among other things : ? First  --  The name of the Congressman who mentioned to me the name . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " and . the names he mentioned and the amount . Second  --  The name of a great banker who conducted for himself , a Senator , and a Cabinet member " leak " stock gambling . ' Third  --  The banker who was told by the great banker to stand by while he called a Cabinet member from bed to Prove he controlled him .. Fourth ? The big banking house ft , Ifich did the huSiness and the member of a great official 's family and his partner who did the go-betweening . ? Fifth  --  The name of a great public I man who knew the leak machinery . Sixth  --  The name of the go-between for still another public official who received a large sum for " his bit . " " I refused to divulge any of these I names , because the only . result would ' have been the warning of the guilty and the giving them time and opportunity to destroy evidence , and get out of jurisdiction . Particularly did I refuse after witnessing the examination by the committee of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr , Lawson says in conclusion : " I do not believe Congress wants an investigation , but if it does , and will appoint a committee with full authority and will give the management of that committee 's investigation to , say , Samuel Untermyer , I will turn over to him in advance of the investigation all evidence I now have . " Under no circumstances will I give over my evidence involving many men of high standing unless I am absolutely assured ill advance that such evidence will be used to expose the guilty , and not to . discredit me by letting the guilty escape . " Mr. Lawson adds a postscript to make clear that he got no " leak information from " Congressman Jimmie Galvin of Massachusetts , an old friend , " with whom he had testified he had been chatting . 