@@681154

txt With the Constitutionalists out of the mediation movement because Gen. Carranza refused to agree to an armistice with Gen. Huerta , the A B C envoys find their undertaking reduced to an adjustment of the trouble between the United States and Huerta , growing out of the Tampico incident . It is supposed that at the Niagara Falls conference the envoys will endeavor to bring that limited phase of the Mexican situation to an amicable conclusion in the face of the widespread belief that the task is impossible of fulfilment . The United States Government never has abandoned its insistence that Gen. Huerta must surrender his control of Mexican affairs . Although one of the party accompanying the Huerta representatives to the Niagara Falls conference said on his arrival at Vera Cruz to-day that the Huerta delegation would never listen to any solution involving the elimination of Huerta , or any other attempt by foreigners to dictate as to the internal affairs of Mexico , some observers in Washington believe the Huerta delegates will ultimately consent to the consideration of such a proposal . This opinion follows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by counter-proposals , the Huerta delegation will offer to compromise on the basis that Gen. Huerta shall retire from the Presidency of Mexico if the United States Government will take charge of the administration of Mexican affairs and remain in control until normal conditions have been restored . Would Thwart Rebels . This opinion is backed by reports from Mexico that Gen. Huerta would not be averse to accepting some such settlement to prevent the Constitutionalists from establishing a government of their own with Mexico City as its capital . Huerta . Is said to realize that his downfall is near , and many persons believe this reported conviction was responsible for his agreement to accept the proposal of mediation , hoping thereby to prevent the Constitutionalists from driving him from power by force of arms . It is reasonable to suppose , therefore , say Washington observers , that Huerta will be only too willing to have the United . States take charge in Mexico and thus rob the revolutionists of the fruits of their long-sought victory which now appears to be in sight . It is said here that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incident shall be furnished by the Mexican Government through firing the salute to the Stars and Stripes on condition that the American Government withdraw its forces from Vera Cruz . What response this Government 's representatives will make to such a proposal is problematical . But it is believed that they will insist that the matters arising from the Tampico affair have assumed such importance that in addition to firing the salute . Mexico shall furnish assurance of full protection . to foreigners and better conditions in the republic . It would be the aim of the mediators to attempt to conciliate the two parties to the controversy , harmonize their different stipulations and generally endeavor to formulate a written undertaking to which both would formally assent . But if the mediators found this an impossible undertaking , as observers In Washington believe it will be , they probably would seek to fix the responsibility for their failure and announce to the world that either the United States or the Huertistas Government was so little devoted to the cause of peace as to be willing that the status quo should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of hostilities with much loss of life . Lamar and Lehmann Accept , Justice Joseph R. Lamar of the United States Supreme Court and Frederick W. Lehmann of St. Louis , former Solicitor General of the United States , to-day accepted appointment as the representatives of this Government at the Niagara Falls Conference . Justice Lamar and Mr. Lehmann called on President Wilson to-day and informed him that they would accept . It Is not likely that a third representative will be chosen . In asking the Governments of Mexico and the United States to send delegates . ito the conference the med &tors; did not Specify any particular number . ' While President Wilson has had other names Under consideration , he is understood to have reached the conclusion that two delegates will be sufficient . Gen. Huerta has appointed three delegates . Neither Justice Lamar nor Mr. Lehmann has had any experience in diplomacy . Both are distinguished lawyers , and , while both are Democrats , they were appointed to public office by President Taft . Carra.nza . Delegates Barred . The Constitutionalists will not be represented at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or that of the mediators . It was their understanding that they would be permitted to send unofficial representatives to Niagara Falls to serve in the capacity of observers on the theory that something might turn up that would give them an opportunity of explaining their position on the revolutionary cause , or perhaps afford the chance of assisting the mediators in a practical way . ? But this expected arrangement has been abandoned . Probably the Constitutionalists were apprised that until they agreed to armistice proposed by the mediators their representatives would not be welcome at the conference . The Constitutionalist junta in Washington to-night issued this statement : " The confidential agency in Washington of the Constitutionalist Government of Mexico desires to correct a statement published in some of the morning newspapers to the effect that the First Chief had decided to submit to the mediation of the Governments of Argentina , Brazil , and Chile certain of the internal affairs of Mexico , and that Mr. Rafael Zubaran would be named to attend the conference at Niagara " As a. matter of fact , the Erin insistence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people of Mexico themselves has undergone no modification whatsoever , and there is , therefore , no foundation for the assertion that Mr. Zubaran will be sent to Niagara for the purpose of participating in the deliberations of the Plenipotentiaries of the mediating Governments . " In the beginning of the negotiations the envoys realized that they were engaged in something even more important to the governments they represented then the restoration of order in ; Mexico . They saw an opportunity to lay a firm foundation for Pan-Americanism , the hope and desire of the republics of Latin-America . Pan-Americanism may be described as the spiritual unification of all the independent nations of the Western hemisphere for ' their common good . Heretofore the United States has dominated the affairs of the Western world . In its adherence to the Monroe Doctrine the Washington Government has occupied the position of a big brother to the republics to the south . On many occasions it has stood them in good stead when they were in danger of aggression from old world nations . This brotherly interest has been appreciated to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grown up in that part of the world a feeling that the republic ; of Central and South America were strong enough to stand alone or to attend to their own affairs Without outside help . Dream of Central America . This belief has been exemplified in the idea of a Central American union . Some of the Latin countries on this hemisphere have also developed wonderfully in recent years , commercially , industrially , and politically , and they feel that they should no longer be regarded as second-class or dependent nations . The idea that Latin-America is not . fully capable of self-government is deeply resented in that part of the world . This idea has grown up mainly , from the frequency of revolutions - in some of the smaller countries . Political turmoil appears to be perennial in a particular group of these countries , as witness the present civil conflicts in Haiti and Santo Domingo . Continental Latin-America resents , however , being classed with these republics , where the people are of a different race and character from those who inhabit the mainland . It has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the idea has been disseminated in this country that the troubles in the Island of Haiti are typical of the entire Latin.American territory . It is this idea that Central Americans and South Americans resent . They can ' point with pride to the fact that in isnany of their countries no revolutionary disturbance has occurred for years . There is little Costa Rica , for example , whose Government has been so stable ' that its Minister in Washington is the senior member of the entire diplomatic body in this capital in point of service . The feeling of chagrin and resentment is particularly felt by the foremost men of such great and prosperous nations as Brazil , Argentina , and Chile , whose , diplomatic representatives constitute the Board of Mediation that has undertaken the momentous task of endeavoring to stop the disorder and bloodshed in I Mexico . - Means Much to South America . The success of the mediation movement means much to Latin-America and particularly to the nations just mentioned . Its failure means the postponeent of that recognition in the eyes of the world for which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about through the efforts of the envoys , Latin-America might well claim . that it was entitled to be recognized as on a par with the United States in the settlement of purely American questions . That was the hope held out by Elihn Root , when on his tour of the Southern republics he preached the . gospel of Pan-American interest and , aroused the Latin-American people to a high state of enthusiasm . It is plain , therefore , that LatinAmerica feels It has cause to be angry with any faction failing to do its part In bringing about a solution of Mexico 's troubles . There has been much talk in Washington that the mediation undertaking ' has been entirely to the advantage of the United States and the Constitutionalists and the consequent disadvantage I of the Huerta cause . This criticism is based on the theory that with the United States forces still holding Vera Cruz , thus cutting off the Huerta . Government from its principal port of entry , and with the Huerta forces and those of the 1-nited States bound by a temporary ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better able to pursue their aggressive campaign . Gen. Carranza accepted the principle : of mediation in response to the tender , of good offices , but he declined to enter into an armistice . He also declined to agree to mediation as a means of settling the differences between Huerta and the Constitutionalists . He claimed ' . the right to participate in any mediatory adjustment of the Tampico incident , on the ground that he , and not Gen. Huerta , was the head of the Government of Mexico . The mediators rejected this contention and informed Carranza that if he did I not agree to the proposal for an armistice they would be obliged to withdraw their invitation for Constitutionalist participation in the mediation negotiations . And there the matter ended , leaving the United States and the Huerta governments the only parties to the peace movement , with the indignity offered to the American flag at Tampico and the capture of Vera Cruz by American bluejackets and marines the sole questions for adjustment . In the event of failure of mediation , the censure of the envoys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mediation and then refusing to agree to an armistice . State Department Secrecy Dissatisfaction over the policy of secrecy , that has marked the mediation proceedings has been strongly emphasized by the continued publication in THE New YoSiejnuss of the textual-con -- tents of the notes exchanged between the mediators and the Huerta Government , These notes were obtained in Mexico City , where the disposition appears to be that there is nothing to conceal . In Washington , however , there is a lack of frankness and an evident determination to keep from the public everything except the most meagre information as to what is being done in the cause of peace . Why this secrecy should be maintained is a mystery to persons here who have had experience in diplomatic methods . The practice is entirely contrary to the teachings of the present day school of diplomacy recognized by most of the great nations . Concealment in diplomatic negotiations was abandoned , years ago by the most advanced governments , which realized that the people of a country were entitled to know how their foreign relations were being conducted . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correspondent in Mexico City copies of the notes exchanged with the mediators Washington had to be satisfied with brief bulletins that said little and left much in uncertainty . For example , when it was announced that the mediators had invited the parties in interest to participate in the Niagara Falls conference information was refused at the State Depart ment as to whether Gen. Carranza had been included in the invitation . Even this bit of intelligence , highly important in one sense and not a matter of secrecy in another , was kept from the press and people as if It were something of great moment on which the fate of nations depended . Envoys Not at Fault . The announcements of the envoys have come through the State Department , and some , if not all , of the few lines of typewriting that have been vouchsafed from time to time have been prepared there . As for making public the texts of the notes exchanged be , tween themselves and the Mexican and American Governments , the mediators I may feel a delicacy in removing the seal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned in each case should have the right to determine what course should be foi1 lowed . The State Department has the same right as the Huerta Government to make public the notes it has exchanged with the mediators , but it has declined to go beyond the letter of the meagre and unilluminating announcements that have been forthcoming . This attitude is not unusual , however . It is in line with the present policy of the department with respect to news . Any idea that the State Department is being conducted on the principle that the people of the country are entitled to know how it conducts its affairs is entirely erroneous 