@@680063

txt The Republican platform raises but one issue between the Republican Party and the Democratic Party . It raises another between the followers of Mr. TAFT and those of Mr. RoosxvErer . The really National issue is , of course , the tariff . On this the Republican platform Vs timid , shifty , and indefinite . It declares the party 's continued belief In protection , " based on the American standard of wages " ; flings a sop to agriculture and mining by advocating protective duties for Abel ! , products ; it puts forward the long-exploded notion about the need of II defense against the cheap-labor prod ' ucts of foreign lands . Then , having committed the party to the underlying fallacies of protection , it admits that some duties are too high , and that they should be reduced in accordance with the conclusions of an expert board . With the committal to the broad - principle and the broad sophistries of protection , the Democratic Party will , of course , take prompt and complete issue . On the admission that duties are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and practical ground than the bewildered Republicans have dared to take . In substance the declaration of the Republicans is a promise to the favored interests that the party will do as little as possible to reduce their ill-gotten profits , and will take as long as possible in doing it . The position of the party is one a sullen obstruction modified by . fear of popular disapproval . None but hidebound protectionists and the pampered beneficiaries of the oppressive tariff will support the Republican candidate solely because of this ' part of his platform . The issue with the followers of Mr. RoosErvELT is more sharply drawn , the declarations of the convention have a note of greater sincerity , and will appeal to the sense and the conscience of thoughtful men . The general definition of the attitude of the party toward constitutional Government , toward orderly and just administration of the laws , toward the fundamental guarantees of liberty and personal rights , is dignified , direct , and sound . Especially clear and convincing is the reference to the courts , which , however , would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes in the method of removing Judges for misconduct . The references to the anti-trust law and the prosecutions under it are confused , which is not to be wondered at when we consider that the committee had a strong desire to win back as many as might be of the supporters of Mr. RoosEvrer . There are a dozen , more or less , of other topics treated ih. the platform , and treated in that , vague , facing-both-ways fashion which politicians seem to think is the perfection of prudence or cunning . These matters will influence no great number of voters , but the habit of serving them up appears to be ineradicable . After all , Mr. TAFT is his own platform , as the Democratic candidate will bo his , and Mr. ROOSEVELT , ' should he venture to run , will be his . The country will pass upon each in accordance with the opinion formed of the ideas and policies he represents , the tendencies by which he is affected , the character and force he possesses . It is but just to Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely to be that he is very much better than many of his supporters and that he will be wiser , more courageous , and-more loyal to the best interests of the Nation than the politicians at Chicago . He has shown that in his career . His chief errors have been made out of a mistaken sense of fidelity to his party and an exaggerated notion of the need of keeping his party together . He will suffer from these errors , as he ought to , but his efforts to do better than his party will not be forgotten .                     